CITY CODE
of
FARMINGTON CITY, UTAH
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-32, passed 6-17-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Farmington City, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 2025-32, passed June 17, 2025. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
CITY COUNCIL STAFF REPORT
To:       Mayor and City Council
From:    Lyle Gibson – Assistant Community Development Director   
Date:     6/3/2025
Subject:    Zone Text Amendment to Chapter 11-35 – Home Occupation Permitted
Uses.
RECOMMENDED MOTION
Motion to approve the included enabling ordinance modifying Chapter 11-35.
Findings:
1.   The proposed text amendment clarifies that a home occupation may conduct
business off site like in the case of a handyman or landscaping business.
2.   The amendment allows for more efficient processing of low impact home
occupations.
 
BACKGROUND
The Planning Commission recently reviewed a Conditional Use application for an
office building in a detached structure. The Commission directed staff to
consider a text amendment that would make this type of proposal a permitted
use, saving time for reports, reducing time in meetings, and providing a more
efficient and predictable process for applicants.
The Planning Commission unanimously recommended the enclosed ordinance as
written.
 
Respectfully submitted,                                Review and concur,
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/                      
96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/IMAGES/0-0-0-  
4690_4819x1132.jpg]                                     
                                                        
Lyle Gibson                                            Brigham Mellor
Assistant Community Development Director               City Manager
 
Supplemental Information
1.   Enabling Ordinance
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025 - 37
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING MULTIPLE SECTIONS OF TITLE 11, PLANNING AND ZONING AND
SECTION 12-6-010 OF TITLE 12, SUBDIVISIONS TO CORRECT INCONSISTANCIES AND
PROVIDE CLARIFICATION TO THE CODE. (ZT-11-25)
   
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing in which the text
changes proposed to the Zoning Ordinance were thoroughly reviewed and
recommended that this ordinance be approved by the City Council; and
 
WHEREAS, the Farmington City Council has also held a public meeting pursuant to
notice and deems it to be in the best interest of the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of Farmington to make the changes proposed;
 
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF FARMINGTON CITY, STATE
OF UTAH:
 
   Section 1.   Amendment.  The specific sections identified in Exhibit A
attached hereto are amended as identified
 
Section 4.   Severability.   If any provision of this ordinance is declared
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder shall not be
affected thereby.
 
   Section 5.   Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect immediately
upon publication or posting or 30 days after passage by the City Council,
whichever comes first.
 
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of Farmington City, State of Utah, on
this 15th day of July, 2025.
   
                  FARMINGTON CITY
 
 
                                                                                                                Brett
Anderson, Mayor
ATTEST:
 
___________________________
DeAnn Carlile, City Recorder
Exhibit A:
11-3-045: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS:
    A.   A special exception is:
       1.   An activity or use incidental to or in addition to a principal use
permitted in a zoning district;
       2.   An adjustment to a fixed dimension standard permitted as an
exception to the requirements of this title;
       3.   A transfer of development right (TDR), or rights, established
because of blight which results in an additional lot, or lots, or a dwelling
unit, or units;
       4.   An adaptive reuse of a building or structure eligible, or that may
be eligible, for the National Register of Historic Places so long as the
adaptive reuse does not compromise such eligibility; or
       A special exception requires careful review of such factors as location,
design, configuration and/or impacts to determine the desirability of
authorizing its establishment on any given site. This section sets forth
procedures for considering and approving special exceptions to the provisions
of this title.
 
 
11-10-020: SCHEDULE OF USES:
The following table identifies permitted uses by the letter “P” and conditional
uses by the letter “C”. The letter “X” indicates that the use is not allowed.
Uses not listed shall not be allowed, except as provided in subsection 11-4-
050F of this title:
      
                                                                          Agricultural
Use                                                                       Zones
                                                                          AA A AE
Accessory dwelling unit                                                   P  P P
Accessory living quarters                                                 C  X X
Agriculture                                                               P  P P
Boarding kennel                                                           X  C X
Class A animals (small animals)                                           P  P P
Class B animals (large animals)                                           P  P P
Class C animals (commercial farming)                                      P  P C
Class D animals (dangerous animals)                                       X  X X
Daycare, preschool (16 students or less)                                  X  C C
Fruit and vegetable stands for sale of produce grown on the premises      P  P P
Home occupations complying with provisions of the home occupation chapter P  P P
of this title, except as specified in section 11-35-040 of this title
Home occupations specified in section 11-35-040 of this title           C  C C
Internal accessory dwelling unit                                          P  P P
Public school                                                             X  C C
Public uses                                                               X  C C
Public utility installations (not including lines and rights-of-way)      C  C C
Quasi-public uses                                                         X  C C
Radio, television and telephone transmission and relay towers and         C  C C
facilities, except as specified in section 11-28-190 of this title
Residential facilities for the elderly                                    X  C C
Residential facilities for the disabled                                   P  P P
Signs complying with title 15 of this Code                                P  P P
Single-family dwelling                                                    P  P P
Sportsman’s kennel (3 to 5 dogs for noncommercial use)                  C  C C
Trails and parks                                                          C  C C
Uses customarily accessory to an established conditional use              C  C C
Uses customarily accessory to an established permitted use                P  P P
Veterinary clinic                                                         C  C C
 
 
11-11-020: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in all single-family residential zones. No
other permitted uses are allowed, except as provided by subsection 11-4-050F of
this title:
    Accessory dwelling unit.
    Agriculture.
    Class A animals.
    Class B animals (except in the R Zone).
    Home occupations complying with the home occupation chapter of this title,
except as specified in section 11-11-030 of this chapter.
    Internal accessory dwelling unit.
    Residential facilities for the disabled.
    Signs complying with title 15 of this Code.
    Single-family residential dwellings.
    Uses customarily accessory to an established permitted use.
 
11-12-090: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
D.   Yard Regulations: The builder or developer of a conservation subdivision
may consider variations in the principal building position and orientation, but
shall observe the following minimum standards for buildings within a
conservation subdivision. Exceptions to these minimum setback regulations may
be approved by the City, in its sole discretion, during plat approval process
when deemed appropriate and desirable under the circumstances.
       1.   Front Setback: The minimum front yard setback for main buildings in
a conservation subdivision shall be twenty feet (20'). Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the minimum front yard setback for front-loaded attached garages
which extend past the front of the dwelling toward the front property line in
any conservation subdivision shall meet the required front setback of the
underlying zone.
       2.   Rear Setback: The minimum rear yard setback for main buildings
within a conservation subdivision shall be thirty feet (30').
       3.   Side Setback: The minimum side yard setback for main buildings
within a conservation subdivision shall be ten feet (10') for lots within the
S, LS, AE and AA Zones, and a minimum of five feet (5') for lots within the R
and LR Zones, but the total of both side setbacks in the R and LR Zones shall
be no less than thirteen feet (13').
       4.   Side Corner Setback: The minimum side corner setback for main
buildings within a conservation subdivision shall be fifteen feet (15') from
the property line in compliance with clear vision standards set forth in
section 11-28-150 of this title.
       5.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings on lots less than one-half
(1/2) acre in size shall be located at least six feet (6') to the rear of the
dwelling, shall not encroach on any recorded easement, shall not occupy more
than twenty five percent (25%) of the rear yard, and shall be located at least
fifteen feet (15') from any dwelling on an adjacent lot. Such buildings may be
located within one foot (1') of the side or rear property line. Accessory
buildings shall, without exception, be subordinate in height and area to the
main building.
       6.   Animal Shelters: Animal shelters, hay barns, coops, corrals or
other similar buildings or structures shall be located not less than ten feet
(10') from any side or rear property line and fifty feet (50') from any public
street or from any dwelling on an adjacent property.
       7.   Detached Garage: A detached garage, or other architecturally
compatible structure as approved by the planning commission, may be located in
the side yard of a lot, providing that a six foot (6') separation is maintained
from the residence and all front, side and rear setbacks are provided as
specified in section 11-11-050 of this title.
       8.   Double Frontage Lots; Accessory Buildings: On double frontage lots,
accessory buildings shall be located not less than twenty five feet (25') from
each street upon which the lot has frontage.
 
11-13-020: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in multiple-family residential zones. No other
permitted uses are allowed, except as provided by subsection 11-4-050F of this
title:
    Accessory dwelling units (only in the R-2 Zone).
    Agriculture.
    Class A animals.
    Home occupations complying with the home occupation chapter of this title,
except as specified in section 11-13-030 of this chapter.
    Internal accessory dwelling units (only in the R-2 Zone).
    Residential facilities for the disabled.
    Signs complying with title 15 of this Code.
    Single-family dwellings.
    Two-family dwellings.
    Uses customarily accessory to an established permitted use.
 
 
11-14-020: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in the BP zone after a conceptual development
plan has been approved as provided in this chapter. No other permitted uses are
allowed, except as provided by subsection 11-4-050F of this title:
    Agriculture.
    Business and professional offices.
    Commercial testing laboratories and services.
    Data processing services.
    Daycare/preschool.
    Funeral home.
    Internal accessory dwelling unit (in conjunction only with detached single-
family dwellings in a Planned Unit Development (PUD)).
    Printing/publishing.
    Public or quasi-public administrative offices (excluding temporary or
portable buildings).
    Public park.
    Public utility lines and rights of way.
    Research services.
    Residential facility for the elderly.
    Residential facility for the handicapped.
    Seasonal fruit/produce vendor stands.
    Signs complying with provisions of the sign ordinance.
    Uses customarily accessory to an established permitted use.
 
11-14-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in the BP zone. No other conditional uses
are allowed, except as provided by subsection 11-4-050F of this title:
    Any development which includes multiple buildings or is proposed on a site
which is over one acre in size.
    Athletic or tennis club.
    Commercial outdoor recreation, minor (family reunion center, outdoor
reception facilities, picnic grounds, tennis courts, etc.).
    Light manufacturing uses (fabrication, assembly, treatment or packaging
operations conducted in a totally enclosed building using previously prepared
materials).
    Outside storage.
    Public and quasi-public uses, other than administrative offices, developed
on an undeveloped site (excluding those not specifically listed as a permitted
or conditional use) and material additions or modifications on a developed
site.
    Public utility substations, wireless transmission towers, except as
specified in section 11-28-190 of this title, generating plants, pumping
stations and buildings.
    Restaurants (traditional sit down only).
    Storage/warehousing, as an accessory use, as necessary to maintain a
principal use.
    Temporary uses.
    Uses customarily accessory to an established conditional use.
 
11-15-020: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in the BR Zone subject to site development
review. No other permitted uses are allowed, except as provided by
subsection 11-4-050F of this title:
    Residential facility for the disabled.
    Single-family dwelling.
    Two-family dwelling.
Uses customarily accessory to an established permitted use.
 
11-15-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in the BR Zone. No other conditional uses
are allowed, except as provided by subsection 11-4-050F of this title:
    Athletic/fitness center.
    Business and professional offices.
    Convenience store (sale of grocery items, nonprescription drugs and/or
gasoline from building with less than 5,000 square feet gross floor area).
    Daycare, preschool, that are not home occupations.
    Fast food establishments, attached (walk in service only, no exterior walk
up or vehicle drive-through service).
    Funeral home.
    Greenhouse/garden center (retail or wholesale).
    Hotels, motels and bed and breakfasts, all not to exceed five thousand
(5,000) square feet in size.
    Mixed use development, as defined in section 11-18-030 of this title.
    Museums.
    Neighborhood grocery (grocery store not exceeding 15,000 square feet in
gross floor area).
    Neighborhood service establishments (low impact retail and service uses,
such as bakery, bookstore, dry cleaning, hairstyling, pharmacy, art supply/
gallery, craft store, photocopy center, etc.).
    Pet store or pet grooming establishment.
    Public and quasi-public uses, except the following prohibited uses:
correctional/detention facilities, halfway houses, drug or alcohol
rehabilitation facilities, facilities for the treatment or confinement of the
mentally ill, homeless shelters, domestic violence shelters, and other similar
facilities, including those which may allow or require that clients stay
overnight or longer.
    Reception center.
    Residential facility for the elderly.
    Restaurant (traditional sit down).
    Small auto dealership.
    Temporary uses as set forth in subsection 11-28-120H1 of this title.
   Uses customarily accessory to an established conditional use.
 
11-16-020: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in the C zone. No other permitted uses are
allowed, except as provided by subsection 11-4-050F of this title:
    Agriculture.
    Business and professional offices.
    Commercial outdoor recreation, minor (family reunion center, outdoor
reception facilities, picnic grounds, tennis courts, etc.).
    Commercial testing laboratories.
    Data processing services.
    Fast food establishments, attached (walk in service only, no exterior walk
up or vehicle drive-through service).
    Funeral home.
    Neighborhood service establishments (low impact retail and service uses,
such as bakery, bookstore, dry cleaning, hairstyling, coin laundry, pharmacy,
art supply/gallery, craft store, photocopy center, etc.).
    Printing/publishing services.
    Public or quasi-public administrative offices in an existing building
(excluding portable/temporary buildings).
    Public park.
    Public utility lines and rights of way.
    Research and development activities.
    Research services.
    Seasonal fruit/produce vendor stands.
    Signs complying with provisions of the sign ordinance.
    Uses customarily accessory to an established permitted use
 
11-16-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in the C zone. No other conditional uses are
allowed, except as provided by subsection 11-4-050F of this title:
    Athletic or tennis club.
    Auto, truck, recreational vehicle and equipment sales and rental.
    Automobile and truck repair, not including bodywork.
    Car wash.
    Commercial complex (commercial center).
    Commercial indoor recreation (movie theater, video arcade, bowling alley,
etc.).
    Commercial outdoor recreation, major (miniature golf, batting cages, go-
kart tracks, drive-in theaters, etc.).
    Convenience store (sale of grocery items, nonprescription drugs and/or
gasoline from building with less than 5,000 square feet gross floor area).
    Daycare/preschool center.
    Department store.
    Fast food establishments, detached (may include vehicle drive-through
facilities).
    Fuel sales and/or storage.
    Greenhouse/garden center (retail or wholesale).
    Hotels and motels.
    Lumberyard.
    Neighborhood grocery (grocery store not exceeding 15,000 square feet in
gross floor area).
    Pet store or pet grooming establishment.
    Public utility substations, wireless transmission towers, except as
specified in section 11-28-190 of this title, generating plants, pumping
stations and buildings.
    Reception center.
    Restaurants (traditional sit down).
    Self-service storage facilities.
    Supermarkets.
    Temporary uses.
    Uses customarily accessory to an established conditional use.
    Veterinary hospital.
 
11-17-020: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in the OTR Zone. No other permitted uses are
allowed, except as provided by subsection 11-4-050F of this title:
    Accessory dwelling unit.
    Agriculture.
    Class A animals.
    Class B animals (as provided herein).
    Home occupations complying with the provisions of section 11-35-030 of this
title.
    Internal accessory dwelling unit.
    Residential facility for the disabled.
    Single-family dwellings.
Uses customarily accessory to an established permitted use.
 
11-17-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in the OTR Zone. No other conditional uses
are allowed, except as provided by subsection 11-4-050F of this title:
    Class D animals.
    Daycare center.
    Greenhouses, private with no retail sales.
    Home occupations requiring a conditional use permit under section 11-35-
040 of this title.
    Private school.
    Public uses (as provided herein).
    Public utility installations, except lines and rights-of-way (as provided
herein).
    Quasi-public uses (as provided herein).
    Residential facilities for the elderly.
Uses customarily accessory to an established conditional use.
 
11-19-040: ALLOWABLE USES:
The CMU zone provides for a broad variety of land uses. The purpose of the CMU
zone is to provide for a mix of uses rather than a single type of use. The
specific uses that will be allowed in a CMU zoned area will depend on the
location and character of the property to be zoned, the mix and intensities of
the uses proposed, and on the character of the surrounding neighborhoods and
land uses, and will be determined through the review and approval of either a
planned unit development pursuant to chapter 27 of this title, or as a planned
center development pursuant to the conditional use permit process. Among the
uses that may be considered for approval in the CMU zone as part of a planned
center development are the following:
Agriculture.
Athletic or tennis club.
Bed and breakfasts.
Business and professional offices.
Class A auto sales.
Class A self-storage.
Commercial complex (commercial center), with a maximum floor area of eighty
thousand (80,000) square feet for any single tenant.
Commercial indoor recreation (movie theater, video arcade, bowling alley,
etc.).
Commercial outdoor recreation, minor (family reunion center, outdoor reception
facilities, picnic grounds, tennis courts, etc.).
Commercial testing laboratories.
Convenience store (sale of grocery items, nonprescription drugs and/or gasoline
from building with less than 5,000 square feet gross floor area).
Data processing services.
Daycare/preschool center.
Department store.
Dwelling, multiple-family (minimum density: 5 units per acre; maximum density:
14 units per acre).
Fast food, detached, with drive-through.
Funeral home.
Greenhouse/garden center (retail or wholesale).
Hotels and motels.
Medical clinics, offices and outpatient surgical facilities.
Neighborhood service establishments (low impact retail and service uses such as
bakery, bookstore, dry cleaning, hair styling, coin laundry, pharmacy, art
supply/gallery, craft store, photocopy center, etc.).
Printing/publishing services.
Private school or hospital.
Public and quasi-public uses, except the following prohibited uses:
correctional/detention facilities, halfway houses, drug or alcohol
rehabilitation facilities, facilities for the treatment or confinement of the
mentally ill, homeless shelters, domestic violence shelters, and other similar
facilities including those which may allow or require that clients stay
overnight or longer.
Public park.
Reception center.
Research services and development activities.
Restaurants (traditional sit down).
Specialty retail stores.
Temporary uses.
Uses customarily accessory to an established allowable use.
Veterinary hospital (no outdoor kennels).
 
11-20-040: ALLOWED USES:
The NMU zone provides for a broad variety of land uses. The purpose of the NMU
zone is to provide for a mix of uses rather than a single type of use. The
specific uses that will be allowed in an NMU zoned area will depend on the
location and character of the property to be zoned, the mix and intensities of
the uses proposed, and on the character of the surrounding neighborhoods and
land uses, and will be determined through the review and approval of either a
planned unit development pursuant to chapter 27 of this title, or as a planned
center development pursuant to the conditional use permit process.
    A.   Specified: Among the uses that may be considered for approval as part
of a planned center development are the following:
Agriculture.
Athletic or tennis club.
Bed and breakfasts.
Business and professional offices.
Church, temple, synagogue or other place of worship.
Convenience store (sale of grocery items, nonprescription drugs, no gasoline
sales).
Daycare, preschool.
Dwellings, multiple-family with no more than four (4) units.
Fitness center.
Funeral home.
Home occupations as identified in section 11-35-040 of this title.
Medical or dental clinic.
Neighborhood grocery.
Neighborhood service establishments (low impact retail and service uses such as
bakery, bookstore, dry cleaning, hairstyling, coin laundry, pharmacy, art
supply/gallery, craft store, photocopy center, etc.).
Nursing home, convalescent center.
Pet store or pet grooming establishment.
Private school.
Public or quasi-public uses, material additions or modifications on a developed
site.
Reception center.
Research services.
Residential facilities for the disabled.
Residential facilities for the elderly.
Restaurant.
Single-family dwellings.
Temporary uses.
Two-family dwellings.
Uses customarily accessory to an established allowed use.
 
11-22-020: PERMITTED USES:
Agriculture.
Class A animals.
Class B animals.
Home occupations complying with the home occupation chapter of this title,
except as specified in section 11-22-030 of this chapter.
Park.
Uses customarily accessory to an established permitted use.
 
11-22-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
Uses enumerated hereunder are principal uses. The location of these uses shall
be subject to review and approval by the planning commission as provided in
chapter 8 of this title and the requirements of this chapter:
Athletic or tennis club.
Class C animals.
Greenhouses, private with no retail sales.
Home occupations as identified in section 11-35-040 of this title.
Outdoor recreation, including such things as picnic grounds and excluding
higher impact activities, such as water parks or miniature golf courses and any
commercial recreation amusement ride of any type.
Reception center.
Restaurant that provides traditional sit down service (as opposed to fast
food).
Seasonal fruit/produce vendor stands.
Single-family dwelling.
Sportsman kennel (3 to 5 dogs for noncommercial use).
Temporary uses.
Two-family dwelling.
Uses customarily accessory to an established conditional use.
Any use which the city considers to be similar to the other uses of this
section and compatible with the description of the B zone as set forth in
section 11-22-010 of this section.
 
 
 
11-28-020:RESERVED:
 
12-6-010: DESIGN STANDARDS:
    A.   Preparation: Standards for design, construction, specifications and
inspection of street improvements, water distribution systems, storm drainage
and flood control facilities shall be prepared by the city engineer. Standards
for fire hydrants shall be prepared by the fire department. Standards for
sewage disposal facilities shall be prepared by the Central Davis County sewer
improvement district. Standards for pressure irrigation systems shall be
prepared by the applicable irrigation district. All such standards for design
and construction of public improvements and amendments thereto, which are under
the control of the city, shall be approved and adopted by the city council
before becoming effective. All subdividers shall comply with the approved
standards required herein.
    B.   Streets, Blocks, Etc.: The design of the subdivision in relation to
streets, blocks, lots, open spaces, and other design factors shall be in
harmony with design standards recommended by the planning commission and other
city staff and approved by the city council. 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025 - 38
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTERS 11-13, MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES, AND 11-
18, MIXED USE DISTRICTS, OF TITLE 11, PLANNING AND ZONING, TO ADDRESS WHEN
MODERATE INCOME HOUSING IS REQUIRED, AND CHANGES TO THE BLOCK SIZE IN THE RMU
ZONE. (ZT-12-25)
   
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing in which the text
changes proposed to the Zoning Ordinance were thoroughly reviewed and
recommended that this ordinance be approved by the City Council; and
 
WHEREAS, the Farmington City Council has also held a public meeting pursuant to
notice and deems it to be in the best interest of the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of Farmington to make the changes proposed;
 
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF FARMINGTON CITY, STATE
OF UTAH:
 
   Section 1.   Amendment.  The specific sections identified in Exhibit A
attached hereto are amended as identified
 
Section 4.   Severability.   If any provision of this ordinance is declared
invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder shall not be
affected thereby.
 
   Section 5.   Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect immediately
upon publication or posting or 30 days after passage by the City Council,
whichever comes first.
 
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of Farmington City, State of Utah, on
this 15th day of July, 2025.
   
                  FARMINGTON CITY
 
 
                                                                                                                Brett
Anderson, Mayor
ATTEST:
 
___________________________
DeAnn Carlile, City Recorder
Exhibit A
 
11-13-035: MODERATE INCOME HOUSING:
 
A.   Minimum Requirement: In the event an application for development is
accompanied by a request for a Planned Unit Development (PUD), or exceeds
density standards for five- to eight-family dwellings considered under Section
11-13-030 of this Chapter (Conditional Uses), a dDevelopers must provide or set
aside dwelling units equal in number at least to ten percent (10%) of the total
number of dwelling units approved for the development for moderate income
housing subject to recording a deed restriction(s) to ensure the required
number of lots or units are available for a qualifying moderate-income
household; unless, at the sole discretion of, and by agreement with the City,
the developer provides:
1.   Open space;
2.   A fee in lieu thereof determined in consideration of factors set forth in
Section 11-28-270 of this Title;
3.   Some other public benefit; or
4.   A combination of 1, 2, and 3 above.
 
B.   Exemption: Developments resulting in two (2) or fewer additional units are
exempt from the minimum moderate-income housing requirements of this Section.
 
C.   Additional Dwelling Units: The City Council may approve additional
dwelling units than what is conventionally allowed in the underlying zone as an
incentive to a developer to provide moderate income housing.
 
 
11-18-040: REGULATING PLAN:
 
D.   Street Network Design: The street network, street standards and street
type hierarchy form the basis of the regulating plan. The street network is
designed to provide connectivity and adaptability throughout the mixed-use
districts as the area develops over time. New development shall follow the
street network design; however, if minor realignments are necessary due to
environmental and/or physical conditions, they will be evaluated during the
development plan review process. Major alternative alignments or flexibility
with the street network design may be proposed through the project master plan
process; provided, that the following provisions are met:
 
1.   Maximum Block Size: The maximum perimeter of any block may not exceed one
thousand fifty-six feet (1,056') in the Office and Residential Mixed-Use
Districts, two thousand feet (2,000') in the Residential, General and Transit
Mixed Use Districts, and two thousand eight hundred feet (2,800') in the Open
Districts. Each block face may not exceed two hundred sixty-four feet (264') in
the Office Mixed-Use Districts and seven hundred feet (700') in the Open Space,
Residential, General, and Transit Mixed Use Districts. Block faces may be
defined by any of the street types, including pedestrian walkways, that are
dedicated public rights-of-way or easements, with the exception of alleys.
However, if a pedestrian walkway is used to define a block of the maximum size
then the right-of-way for the walkway must be equal to that of the neighborhood
(local) road including the width of side treatments, and the City shall find
that there is appropriate consideration, in the form of benefit to the City or
the public, from the proposed exception and/or other appropriate reasons that
justify the determination of the City to allow for pedestrian walkways to be
used as a block face, and the applicant must obtain City approval as part of a
Development Plan Application set forth in section 11-18-070 of this chapter.
 
11-18-045: MODERATE INCOME HOUSING:
 
A.   Minimum Requirement: In the event an application for development is
accompanied by a rezone or zone text amendment request, or is considered under
Section 140 of this Chapter (Alternative Approval Process; Development
Agreements), a dDevelopers must provide or set aside dwelling units equal in
number to at least ten percent (10%) of the total number of dwelling units
approved for the development for moderate income housing subject to entering
into an agreement with the City; unless, at the sole discretion of, and by
agreement with the City, the developer provides:
1.   Open space;
2.   A fee in lieu thereof determined in consideration of factors set forth in
Section 11-28-270 of this Title;
3.   Some other public benefit; or
4.   A combination of 1, 2, and 3 above.
 
B.   Exemption: Developments resulting in two (2) or fewer additional dwelling
units are exempt from the minimum moderate-income housing requirements of this
Section.
 
C.   Additional Dwelling Units: The City may approve additional dwelling units
than what is conventionally allowed in the underlying zone as an incentive to a
developer to provide moderate income housing.
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2016-34
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF FARMINGTON CITY, UTAH, ADOPTING THE REVISED
AND CODIFIED ORDINANCES OF FARMINGTON CITY.
   WHEREAS, the city council of Farmington City has determined that it will
promote the public interest to revise and codify the ordinances of the city, in
their entirety, as prepared by Sterling Codifiers; which revision compilation
and codification contains a compilation of all ordinances of the city; and
   WHEREAS, the city council, pursuant to the authority set forth in Utah Code
Annotated sections 10-3-707, 10-3-709 and 10-3-710 hereby desires to enact,
adopt and codify the ordinances of the city as set forth in the compilation of
Sterling Codifiers of the date of this ordinance;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF FARMINGTON CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of Farmington City prepared by Sterling Codifiers dated as of the date of
this ordinance, and as amended, containing the compilation of all ordinances of
a general nature together with the changes made to said ordinances, under the
direction of the governing body of the city, shall be accepted in all courts
without question as the official code and law of the city as enacted by the
mayor and city council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catch-line and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the city recorder, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: Effective Date. This ordinance, for the protection of public
health, safety and welfare, shall be effective immediately upon its passage.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF FARMINGTON CITY, STATE OF UTAH,
THIS 6TH DAY OF DECEMBER, 2016.
         FARMINGTON CITY
         By: /s/   
          Mayor H. James Talbot
ATTEST:
/s/       (seal)
Holly Gadd, City Recorder
Voting by the City Council:
         "AYE"   "NAY"
Councilmember Bilton                     
Councilmember Anderson       X          
Councilmember Ritz       X          
Councilmember Mellor       X          
Councilmember Young       X          
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TITLE 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL CITY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-1-010: Incorporation
1-1-020: Classification
1-1-030: City Seal
1-1-040: Annexation
1-1-050: Boundary Adjustment
1-1-060: Disconnection
1-1-010: INCORPORATION:
Farmington City was incorporated as a municipal corporation on November 21,
1892. Farmington City is a political subdivision of the state of Utah and may
be referred to as "Farmington City, a municipal corporation". (Ord. 2012-08, 2-
21-2012)
1-1-020: CLASSIFICATION:
Farmington City is classified as a fourth class city under Utah Code Annotated
section 10-2-301, as amended, as it has a population of more than ten thousand
(10,000) and less than thirty thousand (30,000). Any change in classification
of the city shall be made pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 10-2-301
through 10-2-306, as amended. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-1-030: CITY SEAL:
The corporate seal of Farmington City, established and declared to be the seal
of the city, is circular in form with a pair of balances held by a woman's
hands pictured in the center and the words "Farmington City Seal" inscribed
around the outer edge, "Davis County, Utah" inscribed around the lower edge,
and the words "Incorporated November 21, 1892" in a smaller circle. (Ord. 2012-
08, 2-21-2012)
1-1-040: ANNEXATION:
Farmington City may annex any contiguous, unincorporated area that is
contiguous to the existing city corporate boundaries in accordance with the
procedures and requirements set forth in Utah Code Annotated sections 10-2-401
through 10-2-428, as amended. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-1-050: BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT:
Farmington City may adjust its common boundary with an adjacent municipality in
accordance with the procedures and requirements set forth in Utah Code
Annotated sections 10-2-419 through 10-2-428, as amended. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-
2012)
1-1-060: DISCONNECTION:
Any proposed disconnection of area within the corporate boundaries of the city
shall comply with the procedures and requirements set forth in Utah Code
Annotated sections 10-2-501 through 10-2-510, as amended. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-
2012)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL CODE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-2-010: Title
1-2-020: Citation
1-2-030: Amendments
1-2-040: Updates To Code
1-2-050: Recodification
1-2-060: Accrued Rights
1-2-070: Reserved
1-2-080: Omission Of General Law Not Waiver
1-2-090: Severability Clause
1-2-010: TITLE:
The ordinances set forth herein shall be known and may be cited as the
FARMINGTON CITY MUNICIPAL CODE. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-2-020: CITATION:
Any provision of state law adopted herein by reference as a city ordinance
shall be cited by adding the number of the title in this code in front of the
section number assigned in Utah Code Annotated. For example, Utah Code
Annotated section 76-1-101 adopted by reference in title 13 of this code shall
be cited as 13/76-1-101. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to its appropriate chapter and title
heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the
section itself, when reference is made to this code by title in any legal
documents. This code, as adopted by the city, including any amendments hereto,
shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage and legal publication of
such ordinances, as of the effective date of adoption, in all courts and
administrative proceedings. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-2-030: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinances adding to, deleting from, or altering any part of this code
shall constitute an amendment thereto and shall be adopted by ordinance of the
city council. Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title,
chapter and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and shall
contain and be substantially in the form set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-704, as amended. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-2-040: UPDATES TO CODE:
The city recorder should implement appropriate procedures to provide
replacement pages and updates for official copies and electronic versions of
this code. Any person having custody of an official copy of this code shall
make every effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent
ordinances passed and shall follow all instructions for immediate insertion of
replacement pages. Copies of official code books, while in actual possession of
officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the
city and shall be returned to the office of the city recorder when directed to
do so by the city. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-2-050: RECODIFICATION:
Any amendment, revision, recodification and compilation of this code shall be a
repeal of all ordinances in conflict with the amendment, revision,
recodification and compilation, provided, all ordinances then in effect shall
continue in force after the amendment, revision, recodification and compilation
for the purpose of all rights acquired, fines, penalties and forfeitures and
liabilities incurred and actions therefor. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-2-060: ACCRUED RIGHTS:
Unless otherwise provided, the repeal, amendment or recodification of any
provision, section, chapter or title of this code shall not affect suits
pending or rights existing immediately prior to the effective date of the
revision; impair, avoid or affect any grant or conveyance made or right
acquired or cause of action now existing under any revised provision; affect or
impair the validity of any bonds or other obligations issued or sold prior to
the effective date of the revision; nor shall the repeal, amendment or
recodification of any ordinance hereby have the right of reviving any
ordinances already repealed or superseded, unless the ordinance containing the
amendment or repealer specifically indicates otherwise. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-
2012)
1-2-070: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-2-080: OMISSION OF GENERAL LAW NOT WAIVER:
The omission to specify or enumerate in this code those provisions of the
general law applicable to all cities shall not be construed as a waiver of the
benefits of any such provision. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-2-090: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any title, chapter, section, subsection, sentence or provision of this code
or application thereof is held to be unconstitutional, invalid, void or
unlawful by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this code. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-010: General Definitions
1-3-010: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this code, all ordinances of the city, and any
amendments thereto, the following words and terms shall have the meaning
indicated, unless such definition or construction would be inconsistent with or
contrary to the context of the ordinance:
CITY: Farmington City, Davis County, Utah.
CITY COUNCIL: The Farmington City council.
CODE: Farmington City municipal code.
COUNTY: Davis County, Utah.
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES: Officers and employees of Farmington City.
ORDINANCES: The ordinances of Farmington City.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
organization, association, trust, partnership, governmental entity, or any
other legal entity.
STATE: The state of Utah. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
CHAPTER 4
RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
1-4-010: Rules Of Construction
1-4-020: Common Usage
1-4-030: Use Of Numbers
1-4-040: Use Of Gender
1-4-050: Verb Tense
1-4-060: Mandatory Language
1-4-070: Headings
1-4-080: Computation Of Time
1-4-010: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
In the construction or interpretation of this code, all ordinances of the city
and any amendments thereto, the following rules of construction shall be
observed when necessary or applicable, unless such construction would be
inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council or contrary to the
context of the ordinance. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-4-020: COMMON USAGE:
All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common
use and understanding of the language, but technical words and phrases as may
have acquired a particular meaning in the law shall be construed and understood
according to such particular meaning. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-4-030: USE OF NUMBERS:
Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, whenever any provision of this
code refers to the plural number in describing or referring to any matters,
parties or persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be
included, and vice versa. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-4-040: USE OF GENDER:
Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, whenever any provision of this
code refers to the masculine in describing or referring to any matters, parties
or persons, the feminine shall be deemed to be included, and vice versa. (Ord.
2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-4-050: VERB TENSE:
Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, the use of any verb in the
present tense shall be deemed to include the future and past tense of such
verb, when applicable, and vice versa. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-4-060: MANDATORY LANGUAGE:
The term "shall" as used in this code is mandatory and the term "may" as used
herein is merely permissive. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-4-070: HEADINGS:
Title, chapter or section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to
govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of
the provisions of any title, chapter or section of this code. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-
21-2012)
1-4-080: COMPUTATION OF TIME:
Unless otherwise provided, the time within which an act is required to be done
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last day. If the
last day is a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, then the last day shall be the next
following business day. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
CHAPTER 5
VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
1-5-010: Violations
1-5-015: Criminal Enforcement Action
1-5-020: Criminal Penalties
1-5-030: Civil Penalties
1-5-040: Continuing Violation
1-5-050: Other Relief
1-5-010: VIOLATIONS:
Unless otherwise specifically provided herein or provided by law, any person
who violates any provision of this code may be guilty of a class B misdemeanor,
subject to fines, forfeitures, penalties and/or imprisonment as provided
herein. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-5-015: CRIMINAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION:
Any criminal enforcement action regarding the violation of this code shall
comply with applicable provisions of the Utah code of criminal procedure, as
set forth in Utah Code Annotated title 77, and the Utah rules of criminal
procedures, as adopted by the supreme court of Utah. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-5-020: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
   A.   Class B Misdemeanor: Persons found guilty of a class B misdemeanor
shall be subject to fines, forfeitures, penalties and/or imprisonment as
provided by law for class B misdemeanors, including, but not limited to, Utah
Code Annotated sections 76-3-204 and 76-3-301, as amended.
   B.   Class C Misdemeanor: Persons found guilty of a class C misdemeanor
shall be subject to fines, forfeitures, penalties and/or imprisonment as
provided by law for class C misdemeanors, including, but not limited to, Utah
Code Annotated sections 76-3-204 and 76-3-301, as amended.
   C.   Infractions: Persons found guilty of an infraction may not be
imprisoned but shall be subject to fines, forfeitures and/or penalties as
provided by law for infractions, including, but not limited to, Utah Code
Annotated sections 76-3-205 and 76-3-301, as amended.
   D.   Corporate Penalties: Corporations, associations, partnerships or
governmental instrumentalities shall be subject to fines and sanctions for
violations as set forth in Utah Code Annotated sections 76-3-302 and 76-3-303,
as amended. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-5-030: CIVIL PENALTIES:
The city may establish and impose a civil penalty for various violations of
city ordinances to the extent permitted by and in accordance with applicable
provisions of state law, including, but not limited to, Utah Code Annotated
sections 10-3-703 and 10-3-703.7, as amended, and 10-9a-803, as amended. In
accordance with such provisions, the city has adopted a civil enforcement
program, including civil penalties for code violations, as more particularly
set forth in chapter 6 of this title. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-5-040: CONTINUING VIOLATION:
In instances where the violation of this code is a continuing violation, a
separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day in which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-5-050: OTHER RELIEF:
This chapter shall not limit the authority of the city or any court of
competent jurisdiction to impose any other sanction or order or any other
relief as may be appropriate and lawful under the laws of the state of Utah.
(Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
CHAPTER 6
CIVIL ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
1-6-010: Purpose
1-6-020: Scope
1-6-030: Enforcement Action
1-6-040: Civil Liability
1-6-050: Definitions
1-6-060: Notice Requirements
1-6-070: Investigation And Inspection
1-6-080: Notice Of Violation
1-6-090: Warning Period
1-6-100: Immediate Enforcement
1-6-110: Civil Citation
1-6-120: Civil Penalties
1-6-130: Request For Administrative Hearing
1-6-140: [Reserved]
1-6-150: [Reserved]
1-6-160: [Reserved]
1-6-170: [Reserved]
1-6-180: [Reserved]
1-6-190: [Reserved]
1-6-200: Collection
1-6-010: PURPOSE:
The city council finds that the enforcement of this code is an important public
service and is vital to the protection of the public health, safety, welfare
and quality of life. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-703, the city
council is authorized to impose a minimum criminal or civil penalty for the
violation of any municipal ordinance. The city council finds that it is in the
best interest of the city to establish and provide an enforcement system that
allows for a combination of criminal and civil enforcement remedies and
penalties. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-6-020: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter may be applied to any and all violations of this
code, excluding violations of the provisions of titles 13, "Criminal Code", and
14, "Traffic Code", of this code. The provisions of this chapter are intended
to provide additional remedies for the city to use to achieve compliance with
city ordinances. The remedies, penalties and procedures set forth herein are
not intended to limit or waive any right or remedy provided by law. The
provisions of this chapter shall not invalidate any other chapter, section or
provision of this code, but shall be read in conjunction with and in addition
to such chapters, sections and provision, as an additional remedy for
enforcement of violations. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-6-030: ENFORCEMENT ACTION:
The city shall have the sole discretion in deciding whether to pursue a
criminal or civil enforcement action for the violation of any ordinances or
applicable code requirements. The provisions of this chapter shall not be
construed to limit the city's right to prosecute any violation as a criminal
offense. In accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-703.7, as amended,
the city may not impose a civil penalty for a civil violation that occurs in
conjunction with another criminal episode that will be prosecuted in a criminal
proceeding. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-6-040: CIVIL LIABILITY:
By establishing performance standards or by establishing obligations to act, it
is the intent of the city council that city employees and officers are
exercising discretionary authority in pursuit of an essential governmental
function and that any such standards or obligations shall not be construed as
creating a ministerial duty for purposes of tort liability. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-
21-2012)
1-6-050: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words shall be defined as set forth
herein:
CIVIL CITATION: A citation issued to a responsible person which gives notice of
a violation and the civil penalty for such violation.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: Any person authorized by the city to enforce violations
of this code, including, but not limited to, code enforcement officers, zoning
officers, police officers and building inspection officials.
HEARING OFFICER: A person appointed, contracted or hired by the city to conduct
administrative hearings and to issue administrative orders as provided in this
chapter.
NOTICE OF VIOLATION: A written notice that informs the responsible person of
code violations and orders certain steps to correct or remedy the violations.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, joint venture, partnership, association,
club, company, corporation, limited liability company, business trust, firm,
organization, or any other entity that is recognized by law.
PROPERTY OWNER: The record owner of real property as shown on the records of
the Davis County assessor or recorder's office.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: Any person(s) who is responsible for causing or maintaining
a violation of this code. The property owner, tenant, person with a legal
interest in the property, or person in possession of the real property may be
liable for any violation maintained on the property. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-6-060: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Methods: Whenever notice is required to be given under this chapter,
the notice shall be served by one of the following methods, unless different
provisions are otherwise specifically stated to apply:
      1.   Personal service;
      2.   Certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, to the
last known address(es) of the responsible person(s);
      3.   Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property, if
inhabited; if the property is uninhabited, the notice must be personally
served, mailed or published as provided herein; or
      4.   Published in a newspaper of general circulation when the identity or
whereabouts of the person to be served are unknown and cannot be ascertained
through reasonable diligence, where service is impracticable under the
circumstances, or where there exists good cause to believe the person to be
served is avoiding service.
   B.   Failure To Receive Notice: Failure of a responsible person to receive
notice shall not affect the validity of any action taken hereunder if notice
has been served in the manner set forth above. Service by certified mail shall
be deemed served on the date signed for on the return receipt. (Ord. 2012-08,
2-21-2012)
1-6-070: INVESTIGATION AND INSPECTION:
An enforcement official may investigate any purported violation of city
ordinances and take such action as is warranted under the circumstances in
accordance with the provisions and procedures set forth in this chapter. An
enforcement official is authorized to enter upon any property or premises to
ascertain whether the provisions of city ordinances are being obeyed and to
make any reasonable examination or survey necessary to determine compliance.
This may include the taking of photographs, samples or other physical evidence.
All inspections, entries, examinations and surveys shall be done in a
reasonable manner and with prior notice and approval from the property owner.
If a property owner or responsible person refuses to allow an enforcement
official to enter property, the enforcement official shall obtain a search
warrant before entering the property. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-6-080: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
If an enforcement official determines that any provision of this code is being
violated or continues to exist and immediate enforcement action is not
necessary under the circumstances, the enforcement official shall provide a
written notice of violation to the property owner or other responsible person.
Such written notice of violation shall indicate the nature of the violation,
the action necessary to correct the violation, the warning period established
before further enforcement action or penalties, and the potential enforcement
action and/or penalties to be imposed for failure to cure the violation within
the established warning period. Such notice of violation shall be served in
accordance with section
1-6-060 of this chapter. Such notice of violation shall serve to start the
warning period. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-6-090: WARNING PERIOD:
Unless otherwise determined by an enforcement official, in his or her sole
discretion in accordance with the provisions of section
1-6-100 of this chapter, the warning period for correction of violations set
forth in the notice of violation shall be ten (10) days from the date of
receipt of the notice of violation. If the violation remains uncured after
expiration of the warning period, the enforcement official shall pursue further
enforcement action as deemed appropriate in accordance with the provisions
provided herein. The enforcement official is authorized, in his or her
discretion, to extend the warning period if the enforcement official determines
that good cause exists for such extended warning period and the extension will
not create or perpetuate a situation imminently dangerous to life or property.
Any such extension shall require written agreement by the property owner or
person responsible for the violation to remedy the violations within a set time
frame and to comply with any and all conditions of extension as required by the
enforcement official. A request for extension shall be filed in writing by the
property owner or person responsible for the violation prior to the expiration
of the ten (10) day response period. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-6-100: IMMEDIATE ENFORCEMENT:
In the case of a violation involving public safety, continuing construction or
development, storm drainage, an emergency situation, multiple or repeated
violations, or for any other reason as reasonably determined by the enforcement
official, the enforcement official may use the enforcement powers and remedies
available to it under this chapter, including issuance of a civil citation,
without prior notice or notice of violation. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
1-6-110: CIVIL CITATION:
If any violation remains uncured after issuance of a notice of violation and
expiration of the warning period set forth therein, a civil citation may be
issued to the property owner or other responsible person for the violation and
civil penalties imposed for such violation. The civil citation shall be served
in the manner set forth in section
1-6-060 of this chapter. Each civil citation shall include the date and
location of all violations, the code sections violated, the amount of the civil
penalty imposed for each violation, an explanation of how the civil penalty
shall be paid, the consequences for failure to pay, an explanation of the right
to and the procedures for requesting an administrative hearing, and the
signature of the enforcement official issuing the citation. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-
21-2012)
1-6-120: CIVIL PENALTIES:
Civil penalties to be imposed for a civil citation shall be imposed in
accordance with the civil penalties fee schedule adopted by the city. Pursuant
to Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-703, the city council may prescribe a
minimum civil penalty for code violations by a fine not to exceed the maximum
class B misdemeanor fine, which is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00); provided,
that civil penalties for a violation of the land use ordinances of the city
shall not exceed the maximum fine for a class C misdemeanor. Civil penalties
shall be due and owing to the city within ten (10) days from the date of
service. The civil penalty shall be double if paid after ten (10) days but
within twenty (20) days of service. The civil penalty shall triple if paid
after twenty (20) days but within thirty (30) days of service. After thirty
(30) days, unpaid civil penalties shall accrue interest at the rate set forth
by the state of Utah for unpaid judgments. Payment of any civil penalty shall
not excuse any failure to correct a violation or the reoccurrence of the
violation, nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the city. A civil
citation and civil penalties may be imposed for each and every day a violation
occurs or continues to exist. Additional civil penalties may be imposed for
reoccurring offenses on the same property within one year from the imposition
of a civil penalty. Civil penalties may not be imposed for a civil violation
that occurs in conjunction with another criminal violation as part of a single
criminal episode that will be prosecuted in a criminal proceeding. Civil
penalties shall be paid to the city finance department. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-
2012)
1-6-130: REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
Any responsible person served with a civil citation or notice of violation
shall have the right to request an administrative hearing before the
administrative hearing officer by filing a written request for hearing with the
city recorder within ten (10) calendar days from the date of service of the
civil citation or notice of violation. The appeal shall be conducted in
accordance with chapter 3-7 of this code, with the administrative hearing
officer hearing such appeals. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-
14-2023)
1-6-140: [RESERVED]:
1-6-150: [RESERVED]:
1-6-160: [RESERVED]:
1-6-170: [RESERVED]:
1-6-180: [RESERVED]:
1-6-190: [RESERVED]:
1-6-200: COLLECTION:
The city may use any lawful means available to collect any unpaid civil
penalties imposed under this chapter, including costs and reasonable attorney
fees. (Ord. 2012-08, 2-21-2012)
TITLE 2
GOVERNMENT
CHAPTER 1
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
2-1-010: Governing Body
2-1-020: Powers And Duties
2-1-030: Meetings
2-1-040: Open Meetings Law
2-1-050: Notice Of Meetings
2-1-060: Agenda
2-1-070: Minutes And Recordings
2-1-080: Mayor Presides
2-1-090: Quorum
2-1-100: Voting
2-1-110: Reconsideration
2-1-120: Summary Action
2-1-130: Rules Of Order And Procedure
2-1-140: Attendance
2-1-150: Disorderly Conduct
2-1-160: Required Attendance Of Witnesses And Production Of Evidence
2-1-170: Council Committees
2-1-180: Utah Retirement System
2-1-010: GOVERNING BODY:
The governing body of Farmington City shall be a six (6) member council form of
government consisting of six (6) members, one of whom shall be the mayor and
five (5) of whom shall be council members, which council is hereinafter
referred to as the "city council". (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-020: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The city council is the legislative body of the city and shall exercise the
legislative powers and perform the legislative duties and functions of the city
and may perform such other functions as may be specifically provided or
necessarily implied by law. The city council may also exercise any executive or
administrative power and perform or supervise the performance of any executive
or administrative duty or function that has not been given to the mayor in
accordance with and subject to the provisions set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3b-303, as amended. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-030: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall hold regular meetings to
conduct the business of the city at least once each month and shall prescribe
by ordinance the time and place for holding its regular meetings. In general,
regular meetings of the city council shall be held on the first and third
Tuesdays of each month at the offices of Farmington City, 160 South Main
Street, Farmington City, Utah. The city council shall prepare and provide
notice of its annual meeting schedule in accordance with section
2-1-050 of this chapter.
   B.   Special Meetings: If at any time the business of the city requires a
special meeting of the city council, such a special meeting may be ordered by
the mayor or any two (2) council members. Notice of the special meeting shall
be provided in accordance with the provisions of the Utah open and public
meetings act and Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-502, as amended. The order of
the special meeting shall be entered into the minutes of the city council.
   C.   Closed Meetings: The affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of
the city council present at an open meeting for which notice is given and a
quorum is present may call a closed meeting to discuss certain items as
provided under Utah Code Annotated section 52-4-205, as amended. The reason or
reasons for holding a closed meeting and the vote, by name, of each member of
the city council, either for or against the motion to hold the closed meeting,
shall be entered on the minutes of the meeting. No ordinance, resolution, rule,
regulation, contract or appointment shall be approved at a closed meeting.
D. Electronic Meetings: The city council may convene and conduct an electronic
meeting in accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 52-4-
207, as amended. The city council shall establish and adopt written rules and
procedures governing such electronic meetings. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-040: OPEN MEETINGS LAW:
All meetings of the city council shall be open to the public, except closed
meetings, and shall be conducted in accordance with the open and public
meetings act as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 52-4-101 et seq., as
amended. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-050: NOTICE OF MEETINGS:
The city shall give public notice at least once each year of its annual meeting
schedule and shall give not less than twenty four (24) hours' public notice of
the agenda, date, time and place of each of its meetings, other than emergency
meetings, in accordance with Utah Code Annotated sections 52-4-202, as amended,
and 63F-1-701, as amended, regarding postings on the Utah public notice
website. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-060: AGENDA:
A written agenda for each regular meeting shall be prepared by the city manager
or his or her designee and approved by the mayor or mayor pro tempore in the
mayor's absence. Any member of the city council may request that one or more
items be placed on the agenda; provided, the request is received by the agenda
cutoff dates established by the city at the start of each year to ensure
adequate preparation time for researching items and preparing staff reports.
Each agenda shall provide reasonable specificity to notify the public as to the
topics to be considered at the public meeting and topics discussed at the
meeting shall comply with applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated section
52-4-202, as amended. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-070: MINUTES AND RECORDINGS:
Except as otherwise provided by law, written minutes and a recording shall be
kept of all meetings of the city council in accordance with the provisions set
forth in Utah Code Annotated sections 52-4-203 and 52-4-206, as amended, and
shall be presented to the city council for review, correction and approval. The
city council shall establish and implement procedures for approval of written
minutes of its meetings. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-080: MAYOR PRESIDES:
The mayor shall be the chairperson and preside at the meetings of the city
council. In the absence of the mayor or because of his or her inability or
refusal to act, the city council may elect a member of the city council to
preside over the meeting as mayor pro tempore in accordance with the procedures
set forth in chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-090: QUORUM:
No action of the city council shall be official or of any effect except when a
quorum of the council members are present; provided, that fewer than a quorum
may adjourn a meeting. The number of council members necessary to constitute a
quorum is three (3), excluding the mayor. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-100: VOTING:
   A.   How Taken: A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all
ordinances, resolutions and any action which would create a liability against
the city and in any other case at the request of any member of the city council
by a "yes" or a "no" vote. Every resolution or ordinance shall be in writing
before the vote is taken.
   B.   Number Required: The minimum number of "yes" votes required to pass any
ordinance, resolution or to take any action by the city council, unless
otherwise prescribed by law, shall be a majority of the voting members of the
city council without considering any vacancy in the city council. Any
ordinance, resolution or motion of the city council having fewer favorable
votes than required herein shall be deemed defeated and invalid.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a council meeting may be adjourned by a majority
vote of the council even though the majority is less than required herein, and
a majority of the council members, regardless of number, may fill any vacancy
in the council as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510, as
amended.
   C.   Mayor Voting: Except as provided herein, the mayor is a nonvoting
member of the city council. The mayor may vote as a voting member of the
council on each matter for which there is a tie vote of the other council
members, when the city council is voting on whether to appoint or dismiss the
city manager, or as otherwise provided by law, as more particularly discussed
in chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-110: RECONSIDERATION:
Any action taken by the city council shall not be reconsidered or rescinded at
any special meeting unless the number of members of the city council present at
the special meeting is equal to or greater than the number of members present
at the meeting when the action was approved. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-120: SUMMARY ACTION:
When two (2) or more agenda items for a city council meeting are determined by
the city manager to be of a routine nature, such items may be placed upon a
summary action calendar on the agenda. The summary action calendar may be voted
upon by the council as one matter and shall have the same effect as if a
separate vote on each summary action calendar item was taken. Prior to a final
vote on the summary action calendar, any member of the city council may request
to take any or all items on the summary action calendar off the summary action
calendar for discussion, debate or question. Any question, debate or discussion
regarding an item on the summary action calendar, except in the nature of
clarification or brief explanation of the content of an item, shall require a
request to remove the item from the summary action calendar. No items requiring
a public hearing shall be placed on the summary action calendar. (Ord. 2012-10,
3-20-2012)
2-1-130: RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-606, as amended, the city council
hereby adopts the following rules of order and procedure governing public
meetings of the city council ("rules of order and procedure"). All public
meetings of the city council shall be conducted in accordance with the rules of
order and procedure. The rules of order and procedure shall be made available
to the public at each public meeting of the city council and on the city
website.
   A.   Parliamentary Order And Procedure: The city council meetings shall be
conducted in general accordance with "Robert's Rules Of Order". The city
council may adopt by resolution additional rules of order and procedure for the
proper conduct of its meetings.
   B.   Ethical Behavior: Members of the city council are elected officers
within the meaning of the Utah municipal officers' and employees' ethics act,
as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1301 et seq., as amended. City
council members shall comply with the provisions of the ethics act in all
matters pertaining to the city and in public meetings of the city council.
   C.   Civil Discourse: Remarks and comments made in public meetings of the
city council should be relevant to the matters before the city council.
Speakers should speak in an audible and clear tone and refrain from attacking
city council members or others or their motives. City council meetings should
be conducted in a courteous manner to promote an atmosphere in which all points
of view may be expressed and heard. Council members should not interrupt other
members during discussion and debate. Remarks should be addressed through the
mayor, who shall allow reasonable opportunity for all points of view to be
expressed. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-140: ATTENDANCE:
The city council shall have the power to compel the attendance of its own
members at its meetings and to provide penalties it considers necessary for the
failure to comply with an exercise of authority to compel attendance. (Ord.
2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-150: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
The city council on a two-thirds (2/3) vote of its members may expel any person
who is disorderly and/or disruptive during the meeting of the city council. The
city council may also on a two- thirds (2/3) vote of its members expel or fine
any council member for disorderly and/or disruptive conduct. This section or
any action taken by the governing body pursuant hereto shall not preclude
prosecution under any other provision of law. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-160: REQUIRED ATTENDANCE OF WITNESSES AND PRODUCTION OF EVIDENCE:
The city council may require the attendance of any person to give testimony or
produce records, documents or things for inspection, copying or examination
necessary or useful for the governance of the city. The city council may issue
subpoenas in its own name in the manner provided in the Utah rules of civil
procedure or may by ordinance establish its own procedure for issuing subpoenas
under this section. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-170: COUNCIL COMMITTEES:
   A.   Generally: The city council may from time to time delegate portions of
its authority by resolution to committees composed of at least two (2) members
of the city council.
   B.   Authority: Committees of the city council shall be limited in authority
to the specific assignment of the city council and shall exercise their
authority subject to a standard specified by the council in making the
delegation.
   C.   As A Whole: The authority delegated to any committee of the council
must be exercised by vote of the committee as a whole and no individual
committee member may exercise the delegated authority independently.
   D.   Administrative Directives Limited: A committee of the council may not
issue instructions or recommendations to the city manager or other city
employees other than for routine support services without express delegation of
authority to do so by the city council.
   E.   Reporting: The committee may return any recommendation or suggestions
to the city council which may at any time extend, restrict or otherwise alter
the delegation of authority to the committee.
   F.   Designation Of Chair: The assignment of a committee chair shall be made
by the city council when delegating any portion of its authority to a committee
of the council. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-1-180: UTAH RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
For purposes of determining eligibility under the Utah retirement system and
provisions of the Utah state retirement and insurance benefit act, as set forth
in Utah Code Annotated title 49, the city hereby certifies that all elected
official positions of the city are part time. Unless otherwise provided by law,
any elected official taking office for the first time on or after July 1, 2011,
shall not be eligible for participation in the Utah retirement system. (Ord.
2012-10, 3-20-2012)
CHAPTER 2
MAYOR
SECTION:
2-2-010: General Powers
2-2-020: Administrative Powers
2-2-030: Presiding Officer
2-2-040: Voting Authority
2-2-050: Veto Authority
2-2-060: Mayor Pro Tem
2-2-070: Restrictions
2-2-010: GENERAL POWERS:
The mayor shall have such duties as set forth in Utah Code Annotated 10-3b-104,
as amended, and such additional duties, powers and responsibilities as the city
council may, by ordinance, resolution or directive, prescribe to the extent
permitted by law. Any changes in the powers and duties of the mayor shall
comply with applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3b-303, as
amended. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-2-020: ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS:
The ceremonial functions and administrative powers, authority and duties of
Farmington City are vested in and/or delegated to the mayor, except as
otherwise delegated to the city manager. The mayor is the chief executive
officer of the city to whom the city manager reports. All other employees shall
report to the city manager. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-2-030: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The mayor shall be the chair of the council and preside at the meetings of the
city council. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-2-040: VOTING AUTHORITY:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the mayor is a nonvoting member of the
council. The mayor shall vote as a voting member of the council: a) on each
matter for which there is a tie vote of the other council members present at
the meeting; b) when the council is voting on whether to appoint or dismiss the
city manager; c) when the council is voting on an ordinance that enlarges or
restricts the mayor's power, duties or function; and d) as otherwise provided
by law. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-2-050: VETO AUTHORITY:
The mayor shall have no power to veto any ordinance, tax levy, appropriation or
act of the city council. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-2-060: MAYOR PRO TEM:
In the absence of the mayor or because of his or her inability or refusal to
act, the city council may elect a member of the city council to preside over
the meeting as mayor pro tempore. The election of a mayor pro tempore shall be
entered in the minutes of the city council meeting at which he or she is
elected. The mayor pro tempore shall preside at the council meeting and
perform, during the mayor's absence, disability or refusal to act, the duties
and functions of the mayor. Any member of the city council elected as mayor pro
tempore shall still retain his or her power and authority as a member of the
council and shall be entitled to vote as a member of the city council on all
matters. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-2-070: RESTRICTIONS:
The mayor may not serve as the city recorder or the city treasurer. (Ord. 2012-
10, 3-20-2012)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTION AND QUALIFICATION
SECTION:
2-3-010: Elections
2-3-020: Declaration Of Candidacy
2-3-030: Nomination Petition
2-3-040: Residency And Registered Voter Requirements
2-3-050: Term Of Office
2-3-060: Vacancies
2-3-070: Oath Of Office
2-3-080: Bond
2-3-090: Salaries
2-3-100: Transfer Of Records
2-3-110: Campaign Finance Statement
2-3-120: Ethics Act
2-3-130: Political Activities
2-3-010: ELECTIONS:
Consistent with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-202, as
amended, the offices of mayor and council member shall be filled by election of
the registered voters of Farmington City in an at large municipal election held
on the Tuesday after the first Monday in November in odd numbered years.
Municipal elections for the offices of mayor or council member shall be
conducted in the manner provided in the Utah election code, set forth in Utah
Code Annotated title 20A, and applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-201 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-3-020: DECLARATION OF CANDIDACY:
Any eligible and qualified person desiring to run for the elected municipal
offices of mayor or council member shall file a declaration of candidacy with
the city recorder in accordance with the filing requirements set forth in Utah
Code Annotated title 20A, chapter 9. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-3-030: NOMINATION PETITION:
Any resident of the city may nominate a candidate for elected municipal office
by filing a nomination petition with the city recorder in accordance with the
filing requirements set forth in Utah Code Annotated title 20A, chapter 9.
(Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-3-040: RESIDENCY AND REGISTERED VOTER REQUIREMENTS:
Persons eligible to file a declaration of candidacy or to be nominated for the
elected office of mayor or council member shall be a registered voter of
Farmington City, shall have resided in Farmington City for the twelve (12)
consecutive months immediately before the date of the election, and shall meet
the residency and filing requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-203,
as amended. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-301, as amended, each
person elected to the office of mayor or council member shall maintain
residency within the boundaries of the city during his or her term of office.
If a person elected to the office of mayor or council member establishes his or
her principal place of residence outside the municipality during his or her
term of office, the office is automatically vacant. If a person elected to the
office of mayor or council member is absent from the city anytime during his or
her term of office for a continuous period of more than sixty (60) days without
the consent of the city council, that person's elected office is automatically
vacant. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-3-050: TERM OF OFFICE:
Persons elected to the office of mayor or council member shall begin their term
of office at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the first Monday in January
following their election, and shall continue in office for four (4) years
thereafter and until their respective successors are chosen and qualified,
except in case of death, resignation, removal or disqualification from office.
(Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-3-060: VACANCIES:
Vacancies in the offices of mayor or council member shall be filled in
accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510, as
amended. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-3-070: OATH OF OFFICE:
   A.   Required: All elected officials shall take, subscribe and file the
constitutional oath of office before entering upon the duties of their
respective offices. Elected officials shall take their oath of office at twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon on the first Monday in January following their election or
as soon thereafter as is practical.
   B.   Administered: The oath of office shall be administered by the city
recorder, any judge or any notary public.
   C.   Filed: All oaths of office shall be filed with the city recorder.
   D.   Failure To Comply: No official act of any officer shall be invalid for
the reason that he or she failed to take the oath of office. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-
20-2012)
2-3-080: BOND:
   A.   Required: Elected officers of the city before taking office shall
execute a bond with good and sufficient sureties payable to the city or shall
be included within public employee blanket bonds, in the amount of not less
than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned for the faithful
performance of the duties of the respective officers and the payment of all
monies received by such officer according to the law and the ordinances of
Farmington City.
   B.   Approval: The bonds of council members shall be approved by the mayor,
and the bond of the mayor shall be approved by the city council, at the first
meeting of the city council in January following a municipal election. All
bonds of elected officers shall be filed with the city recorder.
   C.   Premium Charge: The premium charge by a corporate surety for any
official bond shall be paid by Farmington City.
   D.   Additional Bonds: The city council may at any time require further and
additional bonds of any elected officers of the city. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-3-090: SALARIES:
Elected officers shall receive such compensation for their services as the city
council may fix or amend by ordinance in accordance with the notice and hearing
requirements set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-818, as amended. The
compensation of elected officers shall be paid at least monthly. City staff, as
part of the regular budget process, may review the appropriateness of the
compensation received by the mayor and city council members and recommend
adjustments thereto as deemed appropriate, taking into consideration the impact
of inflation, consumer price index and the compensation of elected officials in
nearby cities of similar size. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-3-100: TRANSFER OF RECORDS:
Every officer of the city upon expiration of his or her term for any cause
whatsoever shall deliver to the city recorder all books and records which may
be the property of the city. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-3-110: CAMPAIGN FINANCE STATEMENT:
   A.   Statement Required: Each candidate for municipal office shall file with
the city recorder a campaign finance statement disclosing his or her itemized
and total campaign contributions and expenditures in accordance with the
procedures and requirements set forth herein and in Utah Code Annotated section
10-3-208, as amended.
   B.   Time For Filing: Each candidate for municipal office who is eliminated
at a municipal primary election shall file with the city recorder a campaign
finance statement no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the
municipal primary election. Each candidate for municipal office who is not
eliminated at a municipal primary election shall file with the city recorder a
campaign finance statement no later than seven (7) days before the date of the
municipal general election and another campaign finance statement no later than
thirty (30) days after the date of the municipal general election. A campaign
finance statement required under this section is considered filed if it is
received in the city recorder's office by five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the date
that it is due.
   C.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following words shall
have the meanings set forth:
    CONTRIBUTION: All monies, in-kind contributions and contributions of
tangible things given to the candidate or to the organization(s) representing
the candidate, for the purpose of enhancing the candidate's campaign.
   EXPENDITURE: The monetary, in-kind payment or payment of tangible things to
any person or entity, by the candidate's campaign.
   REPORTING DATE: Ten (10) days before a municipal general election (for a
campaign finance statement required to be filed no later than 7 days before a
municipal general election) and the day of filing (for a campaign finance
statement required to be filed no later than 30 days after a municipal primary
or general election).
   REPORTING LIMIT: Any contribution or expenditure in an amount equal to fifty
dollars ($50.00) or more.
   D.   Campaign Finance Statement: Except as provided in subsection E of this
section, each campaign finance statement shall:
      1.   Report all of the candidate's itemized and total campaign
contributions, including in-kind and other nonmonetary contributions received
before the close of the reporting date, and for each contribution that exceeds
the reporting limit, identify the name and address of the donor, the date the
contribution was received, and the amount of the contribution or the estimated
value and type of the in-kind contribution;
      2.   Report all of the candidate's itemized and total campaign
expenditures made through the close of the reporting date, and for each
expenditure that exceeds the reporting limit, identify the name of the
recipient of the expenditure, and the date, purpose and amount of the
expenditure; and
      3.   Report the aggregate summary of the total campaign contributions and
expenditures received or made to date, i.e., totals from previous reports and
the current report.
   E.   Alternative Statement: If the candidate receives five hundred dollars
($500.00) or less in campaign contributions and spends five hundred dollars
($500.00) or less on the candidate's campaign, the candidate shall be required
to merely report the total amount of all campaign contributions and
expenditures.
   F.   Notice To Candidates: The city recorder shall, at the time a candidate
for municipal office files a declaration of candidacy with the city, and again
fourteen (14) days before each municipal general election, notify the candidate
in writing of:
      1.   The provisions of state statutes and city ordinances governing the
disclosure of campaign contributions and expenditures;
      2.   The dates when the candidate's campaign finance statement is
required to be filed; and
      3.   The penalties that apply for failure to file a timely campaign
finance statement, including the statutory provisions that require removal of
the candidate's name from the ballot for failure to file the required campaign
finance statement when required.
   G.   Failure To File: Except as provided in subsection H of this section, if
a candidate fails to file a campaign finance statement in accordance with the
provisions of this section and applicable provisions of state law, the city
recorder shall inform the appropriate election official who shall, if
practical, remove the candidate's name from the ballot by blacking out the
candidate's name before the ballots are delivered to voters; or if removing the
candidate's name from the ballot is not practicable, inform the voters by any
practicable method that the candidate has been disqualified and that the votes
cast for the candidate will not be counted.
   H.   Inadvertent Omissions: Notwithstanding subsection G of this section, a
candidate who timely files a campaign finance statement seven (7) days before a
municipal general election is not disqualified if: 1) the statement details
accurately and completely the information required herein, except for
inadvertent omissions or insignificant errors or inaccuracies; and 2) the
omissions, errors or inaccuracies are corrected in an amended report or in the
next scheduled report.
   I.   Public Records: Financial disclosure reports filed pursuant to this
section are considered public documents open to inspection in accordance with
Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-208, as amended, and the Utah government
records access and management act, as amended. The city recorder shall make
each campaign finance statement filed by a candidate available for public
inspection and copying and post an electronic copy of the same in accordance
with applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-208(5), as
amended. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-3-120: ETHICS ACT:
All elected officers shall comply with the provisions, conditions and
requirements of the Utah municipal officers' and employees' ethics act as set
forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1301 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 2012-
10, 3-20-2012)
2-3-130: POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Officers: Municipal officers shall comply with and be subject to the
political activities provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1108, as
amended.
   B.   City: The city shall comply with the terms and conditions of the
political activities provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1108, as
amended. Pursuant to the political activities of public entities act, as set
forth in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-11-1201 et seq., as amended, unless
specifically required by law, the city may not make expenditures from public
funds for political purposes or to influence a ballot proposition. (Ord. 2012-
10, 3-20-2012)
CHAPTER 4
LEGISLATION
SECTION:
2-4-010: Ordinances
2-4-020: Resolutions
2-4-030: Public Records
2-4-010: ORDINANCES:
   A.   Legislative Power: Except as otherwise specifically provided, the city
council shall exercise its legislative powers through ordinances.
   B.   Extent Of Power: The city council may pass any ordinance to regulate,
require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity, business, conduct
or condition authorized by law.
   C.   Form: Any ordinance passed by the city council shall contain and be in
substantially the order and form as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
10-3-704, as amended. No ordinance shall be void or unlawful by reason of its
failure to conform to certain provisions of said law.
   D.   Effective Date: Unless otherwise provided in the ordinance, ordinances
shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty
(30) days after final passage by the city council, whichever is sooner.
Ordinances may become effective at an earlier or later date after publication
or posting if so provided in the ordinance.
   E.   Signed: Ordinances passed or enacted by the city council, before taking
effect, shall be signed by the mayor, or if the mayor is absent, by the mayor
pro tempore or by a quorum of the council members as required by law.
   F.   Publication: Except as otherwise provided by law, all ordinances,
before taking effect, shall be posted and/or published in accordance with
applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-711, as amended.
   G.   Recording: The city recorder shall record, in a book used exclusively
for that purpose, all ordinances passed by the city council. The city recorder
shall give each ordinance a number, if the city council has not already done
so. The city recorder shall make or cause to be made a certificate stating the
date of passage and the date of publication or posting of the ordinance, as
required. All ordinances shall be recorded as provided herein before taking
effect.
   H.   Prima Facia Evidence: The record and certificate prepared by the city
recorder, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
contents, passage and publication or posting of the ordinance or codification.
In addition, the ordinances printed and published by the authority of the city
council, shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage and legal
publication of such ordinances, as of the dates mentioned in the publication in
all courts and administrative proceedings.
   I.   Proved Under Seal: The contents of all Farmington City ordinances, the
dates of passage and the dates of publication or posting, may be proved by the
certification of the city recorder under the seal of Farmington City. (Ord.
2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-4-020: RESOLUTIONS:
   A.   Administrative Powers: Unless otherwise required by law, the city
council may exercise all administrative powers by resolution.
   B.   Form: Any resolution passed by the city council shall be in a form and
contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
   C.   Effective Date: Resolutions may take effect on passage or at a later
date as the city council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage.
   D.   Publication: Resolutions may become effective without publication or
posting.
   E.   Limitation: No punishment, fine or forfeiture may be imposed by
resolution. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-4-030: PUBLIC RECORDS:
The ordinances, resolutions and any other books, records, accounts or documents
of the city shall be kept at the office of the city recorder. Approved copies
shall be open and available to the public during regular business hours for
examination and copying in accordance with the Utah government records access
and management act. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
CHAPTER 5
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES
SECTION:
2-5-010: Purpose And Intent
2-5-020: Constitutional Taking
2-5-030: Guidelines And Procedures For Review
2-5-040: Limitations
2-5-010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide advisory guidelines to assist the
city in identifying and reviewing actions of the city which may involve the
physical taking or exaction of private real property that may involve
constitutional taking issues in accordance with the advisory provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 63L-4-101 et seq., as amended. This chapter does not
apply when the city formally exercises its power of eminent domain. (Ord. 2012-
10, 3-20-2012)
2-5-020: CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING:
   A.   As used herein, "constitutional taking issues" means actions involving
the physical taking or exaction of private real property by the city that might
require compensation to a private real property owner because of:
      1.   The fifth or fourteenth amendment of the constitution of the United
States;
      2.   Article I, section 22 of the Utah constitution; or
      3.   Any recent court rulings governing the physical taking or exaction
of private real property by a governmental entity.
   B.   Actions by the city involving the physical taking or exaction of
private real property is not a constitutional taking if the physical taking or
exaction:
      1.   Bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest; and
      2.   Is roughly proportionate and reasonably related, on an
individualized property basis, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the
proposed development on the legitimate government interest. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-
20-2012)
2-5-030: GUIDELINES AND PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW:
Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a constitutional
taking of the owner's private real property by the city shall request a review
of the final decision of any official, employee, board, commission or council
of the city implicating such constitutional taking. The following guidelines
and procedures shall be followed in the event such review is requested:
   A.   Final Decision: The person requesting a review must have obtained a
final and authoritative determination, internally, within the city, relative to
the decision from which they are requesting review.
   B.   Time For Filing: The person requesting a review shall file his or her
request in writing to the office of city recorder within thirty (30) days from
the date of the final decision that gave rise to the concern that a
constitutional taking has occurred.
   C.   Date For Review: The city council or its designee shall immediately set
a time to review the decision that gave rise to the constitutional taking
claim.
   D.   Additional Information: In addition to the written request for review,
the applicant shall submit prior to the date of review the following
information. An application shall not be deemed "complete" or "submitted" until
the reviewing body certifies to the applicant that all the materials and
information required herein has been received. The reviewing body shall
promptly notify the applicant of an incomplete application.
      1.   Name of the applicant requesting review;
      2.   Name and business address of current owner of the property, form of
ownership and name and address of all principal shareholders or partners if a
business entity is involved;
      3.   A detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there has
been a constitutional taking;
      4.   A detailed description of the property alleged to have been taken;
      5.   Evidence and documentation as to the value of the property alleged
to have been taken, including any evidence of the value of the property before
and after the alleged taking, the name of the party from whom the property was
purchased and the relationship if any between the person requesting review and
the party from whom the property was acquired;
      6.   The nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such
as, but not limited to, fee simple ownership, leasehold, etc.;
      7.   Terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of a
full or partial interest in the property in the three (3) years prior to the
date of application;
      8.   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, including
financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the three (3)
years prior to the date of application;
      9.   The assessed value of and the ad valorem taxes on the property for
the previous three (3) years;
      10.   All information concerning current mortgages or other loans secured
by the property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest
rate, remaining loan balance and term of loan and other significant provisions,
including, but not limited to, right of purchasers to assume the loan;
      11.   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous three (3) years;
      12.   All studies commissioned by the applicant within the previous three
(3) years concerning feasibility of development or utilization of the property;
      13.   Itemized income and expense statements from the property for the
previous three (3) years for income producing property;
      14.   Information from a title policy or other source showing all
recorded liens or encumbrances affecting the property; and
      15.   Any other additional information requested by the city which is
reasonably necessary in its opinion to arrive at a conclusion concerning
whether there has been a constitutional taking.
   E.   Review: The city council or its designee shall hear all the evidence
related to and submitted in connection with the request for review to determine
whether or not the action by the city constitutes a constitutional taking, as
defined herein, including consideration of the following:
      1.   Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real property
bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest;
      2.   Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action
taken by the city; and
      3.   Whether the taking or exaction is roughly proportionate and
reasonably related, on an individual property basis, both in nature and extent,
to the impact caused by the activities that are the subject of the decision
being reviewed.
   F.   Decision: The city council or its designee shall render a final
decision on the review within fourteen (14) days from the date the complete
application for review was submitted to the city recorder. The decision of the
city council or its designee regarding the results of the review shall be given
in writing to the applicant and the official, employee, board, commission or
council that rendered the final decision that gave rise to the constitutional
taking claim. When determined to be necessary and appropriate, the reviewing
body shall make a recommendation to the official, employee, board, commission
or council that made the decision that gave rise to the constitutional taking
claim.
   G.   Failure To Render Decision: If the city fails to hear and decide the
appeal within fourteen (14) days, the acting body's decision or action is
presumed to be approved. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-2012)
2-5-040: LIMITATIONS:
The guidelines set forth herein and any decision rendered pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter are advisory only and shall not be construed to
expand or limit the scope of the city's liability for a constitutional taking.
The city shall have no legal liability to any person, firm or entity of any
nature whatsoever and a court may not impose liability upon the city for
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-10, 3-20-
2012)
TITLE 3
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
APPOINTED OFFICES
SECTION:
3-1-010: Appointed Offices
3-1-020: Appointment And Removal
3-1-030: Oath Of Office
3-1-040: Bond
3-1-050: Salaries
3-1-055: Utah Retirement System
3-1-060: Transfer Of Records
3-1-070: Conflicts Of Interest
3-1-080: City Manager
3-1-090: City Recorder
3-1-100: City Treasurer
3-1-110: City Attorney
3-1-120: City Engineer
3-1-130: Police Chief
3-1-140: Fire Chief
3-1-010: APPOINTED OFFICES:
The city council may create any appointed office deemed necessary for the
government of the city and shall prescribe the powers and duties to be
performed by appointed officials, including, but not limited to, the city
manager, city recorder, city treasurer, city attorney, city engineer, police
chief and fire chief. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-1-020: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL:
Appointed officers shall be appointed in accordance with the provisions of this
title and applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-901 et
seq., as amended, regarding appointed officials. Except as otherwise provided
herein regarding the appointment of the city manager, the mayor, with the
advice and consent of the city council, shall appoint and fill vacancies in all
appointed offices provided for by law or ordinance. Except as otherwise
provided herein regarding the dismissal of the city manager and unless
otherwise provided by law, appointed officers shall serve at the pleasure of
the city council and may be removed with or without cause by a majority vote of
the city council. Unless sooner removed as provided herein, all appointed
officers shall continue in office until their successors are appointed and
qualified. The city manager may provide written recommendation to the mayor and
city council regarding the appointment or dismissal of any appointed officer as
more particularly provided in section
3-1-080 of this chapter. Except as otherwise provided herein, the mayor and
city council will not recommend, suggest or require of the city manager the
appointment or removal of any other city employee except for appointed officers
as set forth in section
3-1-010 of this chapter and department heads as specified in section
3-2-020 of this title. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-1-030: OATH OF OFFICE:
   A.   Required: Before entering on the duties of their respective offices,
all appointed officers of the city shall take, subscribe and file the
constitutional oath of office as set forth in article IV, section 10 of the
Utah constitution.
   B.   Administered: The oath of office shall be administered by any judge, or
notary public or the city recorder.
   C.   Filed: All oaths of office shall be filed with the city recorder,
except that of the city recorder, which shall be filed with the city treasurer,
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 52-1-4, as amended.
   D.   Failure To Comply: No official act of any officer shall be invalid for
the reason that he or she failed to take the oath of office. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-
15-2012)
3-1-040: BOND:
   A.   Required: The city treasurer and the finance director shall be required
to furnish a bond in accordance with the provisions set forth herein. All other
appointed officers of the city may, by resolution or ordinance, be required to
furnish a personal bond with good and sufficient sureties or corporate surety
bond payable to the city in such sum as the resolution or ordinance may
establish, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their
office and the payment of all monies received by such officers according to
law, or such officers may be included within public employee blanket bonds at
such amounts as may be determined by the city council.
   B.   Treasurer And Finance Director's Bond: The city treasurer and finance
director's bond shall be in the amount established by the state money
management council pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 51-7-15, as amended.
   C.   Filed: All bonds shall be filed with the city recorder, except the city
recorder's bond, if required, which shall be filed with the city treasurer.
   D.   Premium Charge: The premium charge by a corporate surety for any
official bond shall be paid by the city.
   E.   Additional Bonds: The city council may at any time require further and
additional bonds of any or all appointed officers of the city by resolution or
ordinance. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-1-050: SALARIES:
   A.   Salary: Appointed officers shall receive such compensation for their
services as the city council may fix or amend by ordinance in accordance with
notice and hearing requirements set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-
818, as amended.
   B.   Monthly Compensation: The compensation of municipal officers shall be
paid at least monthly. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-1-055: UTAH RETIREMENT SYSTEM:
For purposes of determining eligibility under the Utah retirement system and
provisions of the Utah state retirement and insurance benefit act, as set forth
in Utah Code Annotated title 49, the city hereby certifies that any appointive
officer position requiring less than forty (40) hours of work per week shall be
considered a part time appointive officer position. Unless otherwise provided
by law, any appointive officer appointed for the first time to a part time
appointive officer position on or after July 1, 2011, shall not be eligible for
participation in the Utah retirement system. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-1-060: TRANSFER OF RECORDS:
Every officer of the city, upon expiration of his or her term for any cause
whatsoever shall, within five (5) days after notification and request to do so,
deliver to the city all books, property, keys and records which are the
property of the city. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-1-070: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
All appointed officers of the city shall conduct themselves in an appropriate
manner, including adherence to the conflict of interest and disclosure filing
provisions of the Utah officers' and employees' ethics act, set forth at Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-1301 et seq., as amended, hereby adopted by
reference as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-1-080: CITY MANAGER:
   A.   Appointment: The office of city manager has been heretofore created and
established under existing law and shall continue in force and effect as an
appointed office of the city. The city council shall appoint a qualified person
to act as city manager. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-3b-302, as
amended, the mayor shall have the right to vote in the appointment of the city
manager.
   B.   Term Of Office And Severance Pay: The city manager shall serve at the
pleasure of the city council and may be terminated at any time with or without
cause by a majority vote of the city council. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3b-302, the mayor shall have the right to vote in the dismissal of
the city manager. In any case where the city manager is removed without cause,
the city shall pay to the city manager severance pay equal to six (6) months'
salary and benefits at the current rate at the time of removal. The city
manager position is an at will position and is exempt from the protections of
Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1105(1)(a), as amended. As such, the city
manager may be terminated with or without cause and shall not be entitled to
due process appeal procedures as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-
1106, as amended.
   C.   Office: The city manager shall maintain an office in city hall and
shall spend such time in the performance of his or her duties as is necessary
or as may be required from time to time by the city council, but not less than
forty (40) hours per week. The city manager need not be a resident or qualified
elector of the city, but should maintain his or her residence within a
reasonable driving distance of the city.
   D.   Resignation: Before voluntarily resigning from the position of city
manager, the city manager shall give the city council at least thirty (30)
days' notice in writing of his or her intent to resign.
   E.   Other Employment: The city manager shall not accept any outside
employment in addition to employment by the city without prior annual written
approval of the city council.
   F.   Powers Of Mayor Not Delegated: The legislative and judicial powers and
ceremonial functions of the mayor, his or her position as chairman of the city
council, and any ex officio position he or she may hold, shall not be delegated
to the city manager. Any changes to the powers and duties of the mayor, as
delegated to the city manager, shall comply with applicable provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3b-303, as amended.
   G.   Duties: The city manager shall at all times be under the control and
supervision of the city council, and shall administer the day to day operations
of the city and its services according to the policies and programs established
by the city council. The following duties and the authority to perform them are
hereby delegated to the city manager. The city manager may delegate his or her
duties to department heads or other subordinates as deemed appropriate.
      1.   Appointment And Removal Of Employees: The city manager may recommend
to the mayor and city council the appointment or removal of appointed officers,
whose employment or appointment may be terminated only by the city council. The
city manager shall have authority to hire and terminate all other department
heads with the advice and consent of the city council. The city manager shall
have authority to hire and terminate all other city employees. The city manager
may delegate the authority to hire or terminate employees by authorizing the
head of a department to hire, suspend or remove subordinates in such department
in accordance with city personnel policies and procedures.
      2.   Interpretation Of Policy: The city manager shall, whenever a
question of the interpretation or operation of city policy arises, consult with
the mayor, who has full executive authority to interpret, apply and implement
city policy, subject to review, further direction and revision of policy by the
city council at its meetings. Whenever the mayor has been called upon to
interpret, apply or implement city policy, the city council shall be notified
thereof at or prior to the next meeting of the city council, in order that the
city council may consider city policy in light of its executive interpretation,
application, implementation and administration.
      3.   Supervision: The city manager has general supervisory authority over
all city employees and shall provide direct supervision to and have direct
responsibility over all department heads. The city manager shall manage, direct
or otherwise supervise the construction, reconstruction, maintenance or repair
of public works and related facilities and activities, such as, but not limited
to, the following: parks, playgrounds, cemeteries, waterworks, storm sewers,
drains, ditches, culverts, streets, watercourses, curbs and gutters, sidewalks,
alleys, lanes, bridges, garbage collection and municipal buildings.
      4.   Property: The city manager shall be responsible for the care and
custody of all real and personal property of the city, including equipment,
buildings, parks and all other city property which is not by law, city
ordinance or job description, assigned to some other department, employee,
office or body for care and control.
      5.   Buildings And Safety: The city manager shall oversee the issuing of
building permits; the inspection of buildings, plumbing, electrical, mechanical
and other installations; and supervise and oversee all functions of the public
safety department.
      6.   Purchasing And Claims: The city manager shall act as purchasing
agent for the city. As such, the city manager shall see that all goods
purchased by and for the city are received as per contract, shall approve all
claims before presentation to the city council for payment, and shall enforce
and carry out all provisions of the ordinances of the city relating to
purchasing.
      7.   Council Meetings: The city manager shall attend all meetings of the
city council and may take part in the discussion and to recommend to the city
council adoption of such measures as the city manager may deem necessary or
expedient.
      8.   Budget And Finances: The city manager shall act as the budget
officer for the city and shall perform or cause to be performed all of the
duties of such office as set forth in the Utah uniform municipal fiscal
procedures act. The city manager shall prepare the budget annually and submit
it to the city council, together with a message describing the important
features, and shall administer the budget after its adoption. The city manager
shall also exercise budgetary control over city departments and services,
preaudit claims and disbursements of city funds, keep the city council advised
as to the financial condition and needs of the city, and make such
recommendations to the city council as may be desirable.
      9.   Contracts: The city manager shall review and make recommendations to
the city council concerning all proposed contracts to which the city may be a
party and shall see that the terms of any contract to which the city is party
are fully performed by all parties thereto.
      10.   Policy Proposals: The city manager shall propose plans and programs
concerning the development, operation and needs of the city and submit such
plans to the city council to be approved and developed as policy.
      11.   Management Controls: The city manager shall set performance
standards and exercise managerial control to ensure that the city government is
functioning in the most efficient and effective manner.
      12.   Organization: The city manager shall recommend creation and
organization of all necessary departments, divisions, bureaus and offices
necessary for the government of the city to the city council for its approval
prior to implementation.
      13.   Records: The city manager shall examine the books, records and
official papers of the city departments and offices.
      14.   Emergencies: The city manager shall serve as emergency services
director with duties as prescribed under the Farmington City emergency
preparedness plan.
      15.   Emergency Notification: The city manager shall notify the mayor
immediately upon the city manager's cognizance of any emergency situation
existing in any department or office under his or her supervision where the
emergency threatens to interrupt normal city operations. The city manager will
then inform members of the city council of the emergency as soon as is
reasonably possible.
      16.   Utility Billing Disputes: The city manager shall settle disputes
regarding utility billings and fees in accordance with policies and procedures
as set by resolution or ordinance of the city council.
      17.   Other: The city manager shall have such other powers and shall
perform such other duties and obligations as may be required of him or her by
state law or by ordinance or resolution of the city council.
   H.   Duties Of Mayor Relative To City Manager: The duties of the mayor
relative to the city manager shall be as follows:
      1.   Appointment And Removal Of City Manager: The mayor shall recommend
the appointment or removal of the city manager, with or without cause, to the
city council, and may vote on the appointment or dismissal of the city manager
as provided by law.
      2.   Appointment Of Appointed Officers: The mayor shall appoint appointed
officers of the city, with the advice and consent of the city council, as more
particularly provided in section
3-1-020 of this chapter. The city manager may recommend the appointment or
removal of appointed officers to the mayor and city council.
      3.   Boards And Committees: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the
city council, shall appoint persons to fill openings on city boards, committees
and commissions.
   I.   Duties And Powers Of City Council Relative To City Manager: The duties
and powers of the city council relative to the city manager shall be as
follows:
      1.   Appointment And Removal Of City Manager: The city council shall
appoint and remove, with the participation of the mayor as provided by law, the
city manager by majority vote thereof. The city council may conduct annual
performance evaluations of the city manager.
      2.   Policy: The city council shall pass upon and determine all questions
of policy unless such policies relate to the administrative duties of the city
manager as defined in this section, in which case the city manager may create
policies as needed to perform his or her defined duties.
      3.   Appointments: The city council shall give advice and consent to the
appointment of all officers and the appointment of persons to city boards,
committees and commissions, as more particularly provided by law and in these
ordinances.
      4.   Administration: The city council shall create new departments and
organize the city's administration. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd. 2016 Code)
3-1-090: CITY RECORDER:
   A.   Appointment: On or before the first Monday in February following a
municipal election, the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council,
shall appoint a qualified person to the office of city recorder. The city
recorder position is an at will position and is exempt from the protections of
Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1105(1)(a), as amended. As such, the city
recorder may be terminated with or without cause and shall not be entitled to
due process appeal procedures as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-
1106, as amended.
   B.   Office: The office of the city recorder shall be located at city hall
or at some other place convenient thereto as the city council may direct.
   C.   Supervision: The city recorder shall be supervised by the finance
director under the direction of the city manager.
   D.   Corporate Seal: The city recorder shall keep the corporate seal. When
certified by the city recorder under the corporate seal, copies of all papers
filed in the city recorder's office and transcripts from all records of the
city council shall be admissible in all courts as originals.
   E.   Meetings Of City Council: The city recorder, or his or her designee,
shall attend the meetings and keep the record of the proceedings of the city
council.
   F.   Actions Of City Council: The city recorder shall record all ordinances,
resolutions and regulations passed by the city council.
   G.   Contracts: The city recorder shall countersign all contracts made on
behalf of the city or to which the city is a party and shall maintain a
properly indexed record of all such contracts.
   H.   Fiscal Procedures: The city recorder's duties under the uniform fiscal
procedures act for Utah cities have been delegated to the finance director in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-157, as amended.
   I.   Elections And Appointments: The city recorder shall manage all
municipal election procedures and requirements as provided in Utah Code
Annotated title 20A, as amended, and shall keep a record of all persons elected
or appointed to any office within the city, including the date of appointment
or election, term of office, date of death, resignation or removal, and name of
person appointed to fill any vacancy. Election duties may be performed by Davis
County pursuant to agreement between the city and county.
   J.   Records Of The City: The city recorder shall keep all of the books,
records, accounts and documents of the city at the recorder's office. Such
records shall be open for public inspection pursuant to the provisions of the
Utah government records access and management act.
   K.   Limitations: The city recorder shall not serve as the city treasurer.
   L.   Warrants: In the event the city is without funds on deposit to pay any
lawfully approved claims, the city recorder shall draw and sign a warrant upon
the city treasurer for payment of the claim, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
section 10-6-140, as amended.
   M.   Additional Duties: The city recorder shall perform such other and
further duties as the city council may provide by ordinance, resolution,
regulation or directive. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-1-100: CITY TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: On or before the first Monday in February following a
municipal election, the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council,
shall appoint a qualified person to the office of city treasurer. The city
treasurer position is an at will position and is exempt from the protections of
Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1105(1)(a), as amended. As such, the city
treasurer may be terminated with or without cause and shall not be entitled to
due process appeal procedures as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-
1106, as amended.
   B.   Custodian: The city treasurer shall be the custodian of all money,
bonds or other securities of the city.
   C.   Collections: The city treasurer shall collect and receive all monies
payable to the city, including taxes, assessments, licenses, fines,
forfeitures, service charges, fees and other revenues of the city. The city
treasurer shall keep an accurate account of all monies received hereunder and
shall promptly deposit all such monies in the appropriate bank accounts of the
city.
   D.   Receipts: The city treasurer shall give or cause to be given to every
person paying money to the city treasury, a receipt or other evidence of
payment therefor, specifying the date of payment and the account paid. The city
treasurer shall file the duplicate of such receipt, a summary report, or other
evidence of payment in the office of the finance director.
   E.   Checks: The city treasurer, or other person designated by the city
council, shall sign all checks prepared by the city and shall, prior to
affixing said signature, determine or cause to be determined that sufficient
funds are on deposit in the appropriate bank account of the city to honor such
check.
   F.   Warrants: In the absence of appropriate monies, the city treasurer
shall pay all warrants in the order in which presented and as money becomes
available for payment thereof in the appropriate funds of the city. The city
treasurer shall note upon the back of each warrant presented the date of
presentation and the date of payment, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section
10-6-144, as amended.
   G.   Special Assessments: All monies received by the city treasurer on any
special assessment shall be applied to the payment of the improvement for which
the assessment was made.
   H.   Accounting: The city treasurer shall keep an accurate and detailed
accounting of transactions, receipts, collections, disbursements and other
matters within the treasurer's charge as provided by state law or as the city
may by ordinance or resolution direct.
   I.   Limitations: The city treasurer shall not serve as the city recorder.
   J.   Supervision: The city treasurer shall be supervised by the finance
director.
   K.   Investments: The city treasurer shall invest the city's idle funds with
qualified depositories as determined by the standards set forth by the Utah
money management council and under the supervision and direction of the finance
director.
   L.   Payroll: The city treasurer shall prepare the city payroll.
   M.   Additional Duties: The city treasurer shall perform such other and
further duties as the city council may provide by ordinance, resolution,
regulation or directive. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-1-110: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment: The city may contract with, retain or appoint an attorney
licensed to practice law in the state of Utah to the office of city attorney to
provide such legal assistance to the city as may be necessary. The city
attorney shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the
city council. The city attorney shall act as legal advisor to the city in all
matters pertaining to contracts with or by the city or questions of legality
arising out of any law, ordinance or otherwise, and shall advise all city
officers in relation to their official duties.
   B.   Criminal Prosecutor: The city may contract with, retain or appoint an
attorney or attorneys licensed to practice law in the state of Utah for the
performance of criminal prosecutorial legal services.
   C.   At Will Position: If the city hires or appoints a person to act as city
attorney or criminal prosecutor, such positions are deemed at will positions
and are exempt from the protections of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1105(1)
(a), as amended. As such, any person hired or appointed to act as city attorney
or criminal prosecutor may be terminated with or without cause and shall not be
entitled to due process appeal procedures as set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-1106, as amended. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-1-120: CITY ENGINEER:
   A.   Appointment: The city may contract with, retain or appoint an engineer
licensed to practice engineering in the state of Utah to the office of city
engineer. The city engineer shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the city council. Any person appointed or retained as city engineer
shall be a registered professional engineer under Utah Code Annotated title 58,
chapter 22, as amended. If the city hires or appoints a person to act as city
engineer, such position is deemed an at will position and is exempt from the
protections of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1105(1)(a), as amended. As
such, any person hired or appointed to act as the city engineer may be
terminated with or without cause and shall not be entitled to due process
appeal procedures as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1106, as
amended.
   B.   Records: The city and/or the city engineer shall maintain all maps,
plans, plats, profiles, drawings, final estimates, specifications and contracts
which in any way relate to the public improvements and engineering affairs of
the city and the holder of such records shall ensure public accessibility to
the same as required by law.
   C.   Recording: The city engineer shall record and file all drawings and
documents pertaining to public lands and improvements of the city, and shall
maintain such records and files in good condition allowing no alteration,
mutilation or changes to be made. The recording or filing of any drawing or
instrument with the city shall not conflict in any way with the recording or
filing of the same in other offices of record.
   D.   Fees: The city engineer shall not record any drawings or instruments,
file any papers or notices, furnish any copies, or render any service connected
with his or her official duties, until the required fees for the same are paid
or tendered as required by law or city ordinance.
   E.   Seal: The city engineer shall have a seal for his or her use, which
seal shall be affixed to every certification approval.
   F.   Additional Duties: The city engineer shall perform such other and
further duties as the city council may provide by ordinance, resolution,
regulation or directive. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-1-130: POLICE CHIEF:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor shall, with the advice and consent of the city
council, appoint a qualified person to the office of police chief. Pursuant to
section
3-1-080 of this chapter, the city manager may provide written recommendation to
the mayor and city council regarding the appointment or dismissal of the police
chief. The police chief position is an at will position and is exempt from the
protections of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1105(1)(a), as amended. As
such, the police chief may be terminated with or without cause and shall not be
entitled to due process appeal procedures as set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-1106, as amended.
   B.   Supervised By City Manager: The police chief shall be under the
direction, control and supervision of the city manager, as delegated from the
appointing authority, and shall exercise and perform such duties as may be
prescribed by the city council.
   C.   Hiring: Pursuant to city personnel policies and procedures, the police
chief may hire police officers as may be authorized in the budget by the city
council. The appointment of any assistants to the police chief shall be made
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-918, as amended, requiring the
consent of the person or body who appointed the chief of police.
   D.   Duties: The police chief shall have the same authority and
responsibilities as sheriffs and constables of Davis County, Utah, as provided
by law, and shall, in addition to other statewide authority as otherwise
provided by law:
      1.   Suppress riots, disturbances and breaches of the peace;
      2.   Apprehend all persons violating state laws or city ordinances;
      3.   Diligently discharge his or her duties and enforce all ordinances of
the city to preserve the peace, good order and protection of the rights and
property of all persons;
      4.   Attend court when required, on behalf of the city; and
      5.   Exercise and perform such other and further duties as the city
council may provide by ordinance, resolution, regulation or directive. (Ord.
2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-1-140: FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor shall, with the advice and consent of the city
council, appoint a qualified person to the office of fire chief. Pursuant to
section
3-1-080 of this chapter, the city manager may provide written recommendation to
the mayor and city council regarding the appointment or dismissal of the fire
chief. The fire chief position is an at will position and is exempt from the
protections of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1105(1)(a), as amended. As
such, the fire chief may be terminated with or without cause and shall not be
entitled to due process appeal procedures as set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-1106, as amended.
   B.   Supervised By City Manager: The fire chief shall be under the
direction, control and supervision of the city manager, and shall exercise and
perform such duties as may be prescribed by the city council.
   C.   Hiring: Pursuant to city personnel policies and procedures, the fire
chief may hire firefighters as may be authorized in the budget by the city
council.
   D.   Duties: The fire chief shall have the authority and responsibility of
fire prevention and suppression within the city and shall perform such other
duties as may be prescribed by the city council or as provided by law. (Ord.
2012-18, 5-15-2012)
CHAPTER 2
DEPARTMENTS AND DIVISIONS
SECTION:
3-2-010: Departments
3-2-020: Department Heads And Deputy Department Heads
3-2-030: Public Works Department
3-2-040: Public Works Director
3-2-050: Community Development Department
3-2-060: Community Development Director
3-2-070: Parks And Recreation Department
3-2-080: Parks And Recreation Director
3-2-090: Finance Department
3-2-100: Finance Director And Deputy Finance Director
3-2-110: Police Department
3-2-120: Police Chief
3-2-130: Fire Department
3-2-140: Fire Chief
3-2-010: DEPARTMENTS:
The city council may create any department, division or section deemed
necessary or appropriate for the administration of the city and shall prescribe
by resolution or ordinance the organization, powers and duties of such
departments, divisions or sections. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-2-020: DEPARTMENT HEADS AND DEPUTY DEPARTMENT HEADS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by law, the city manager, with the advice
and consent of the city council, shall appoint a qualified person to direct and
administer each department, to be known and referred to as "department heads."
   B.   The city manager may appoint deputy department heads to assist
department directors.
   C.   Unless otherwise provided by law, department heads shall serve at the
pleasure of the city council and may be removed by the city manager, with the
advice and consent of the city council, with or without cause. Department heads
shall be under the direct control and supervision of the city manager.
Department heads shall obtain annual written approval from the city manager
prior to accepting or pursuing employment outside his or her duties as a city
department head.
   D.   The powers and duties of the department heads and deputy department
heads shall be prescribed by ordinances, resolutions, regulations and job
descriptions approved and adopted by the city council, or as delegated from the
city manager.
   E.   All department head positions described in this chapter shall be deemed
to constitute a "head of a municipal department" as such term is used in Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-1105, as amended. All deputy department head
positions described in this chapter shall be deemed to constitute a "deputy
head of a municipal department" as such term is used in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-1105, as amended.
   F.   All department head and deputy department head positions are deemed at
will positions and are exempt from the protections of Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-1105(1)(a), as amended. As such, department heads and deputy
department heads may be terminated with or without cause and shall not be
entitled to due process appeal procedures as set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-1106, as amended, or the provisions of chapter 3-4 of this code
related to employee appeals. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-20, 4-9-
2024)
3-2-030: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby created and established a public works department within the
city which shall be responsible for maintaining public properties of the city,
including, but not limited to, streets, storm drain facilities and water
facilities of the city. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-2-040: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
There is hereby created the position of public works director who shall act as
the department head of the public works department. The public works director
shall have such powers and duties as designated and assigned to him or her by
the city council. The public works director position is an at will position and
is exempt from the protections of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1105(1)(a),
as amended. As such, the public works director may be terminated with or
without cause and shall not be entitled to due process appeal procedures as set
forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1106, as amended. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-
15-2012)
3-2-050: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby created and established a community development department
within the city which shall be responsible for the administration of planning
and zoning policies of the city and which shall oversee and regulate all
building, construction and development activities within the city. (Ord. 2012-
18, 5-15-2012)
3-2-060: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR:
There is hereby created the position of community development director who
shall act as the department head of the community development department. The
community development director shall have such powers and duties as set forth
in title 11 of this code and as otherwise designated or assigned to him or her
by the city council. The community development director position is an at will
position and is exempt from the protections of Utah Code Annotated section 10-
3-1105(1)(a), as amended. As such, the community development director may be
terminated with or without cause and shall not be entitled to due process
appeal procedures as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1106, as
amended. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-2-070: PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby created and established a parks and recreation department
within the city which shall be responsible for developing, maintaining and
managing public properties of the city, including, but not limited to, city
parks, trails and cemetery. The parks and recreation department shall also
develop, manage, plan and implement activities, programs and policies regarding
recreation, cultural and leisure opportunities within the city. (Ord. 2012-18,
5-15-2012)
3-2-080: PARKS AND RECREATION DIRECTOR:
There is hereby created the position of parks and recreation director who shall
act as the department head of the parks and recreation department. The parks
and recreation director shall have such powers and duties as set forth in city
ordinances and as otherwise designated or assigned to him or her by the city
council. The parks and recreation director position is an at will position and
is exempt from the protections of Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1105(1)(a),
as amended. As such, the parks and recreation director may be terminated with
or without cause and shall not be entitled to due process appeal procedures as
set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1106, as amended. (Ord. 2012-18,
5-15-2012)
3-2-090: FINANCE DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby created and established a finance department within the city
which shall be responsible for maintaining and managing all accounts and
investments, preparing financial reports and budgets, monitoring expenditures
and advising the city council on financial matters. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-2-100: FINANCE DIRECTOR AND DEPUTY FINANCE DIRECTOR:
   A.   There is hereby created the position of finance director who shall act
as the department head of the finance department. The finance director shall
perform all the financial duties and responsibilities of the city recorder as
set forth in the uniform fiscal procedures act, pursuant to the provisions of
Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-157, as amended, and shall have such powers
and duties as set forth in city ordinances and as otherwise designated or
assigned to him or her by the city council.
   B.   Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-157, as amended, the
finance director shall be appointed and removed by the mayor, with the advice
and consent of the city council. The finance director may not assume the
statutory duties of the city treasurer.
   C.   A deputy finance director may be appointed and removed by the city
manager.
   D.   The finance director and deputy finance director positions are at will
positions and are exempt from the protections of Utah Code Annotated section
10-3-1105(1)(a), as amended. As such, the finance director and deputy finance
director may be terminated with or without cause and shall not be entitled to
due process appeal procedures as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-
1106, as amended, or the provisions of chapter 3-4 of this code related to
employee appeals. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-20, 4-9-2024)
3-2-110: POLICE DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby created and established a police department within the city
which shall be responsible for enforcing the traffic and criminal ordinances of
the city and protecting the lives and property within the city. (Ord. 2012-18,
5-15-2012)
3-2-120: POLICE CHIEF:
There is hereby created the position of police chief who shall act as the
department head of the police department. The police chief shall be appointed
and have such powers and duties as set forth in chapter 1 of this title
regarding appointed offices. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-2-130: FIRE DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby created and established a fire department within the city which
shall be responsible for providing fire protection services within the city and
administering and enforcing applicable provisions of the fire code, as adopted
by the city. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-2-140: FIRE CHIEF:
There is hereby created the position of fire chief who shall act as the
department head of the fire department. The fire chief shall be appointed and
have such powers and duties as set forth in title 7 of this code. The fire
chief position is an at will position and is exempt from the protections of
Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1105(1)(a), as amended. As such, the fire
chief may be terminated with or without cause and shall not be entitled to due
process appeal procedures as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-
1106, as amended. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
CHAPTER 3
BOARDS AND COMMITTEES
SECTION:
3-3-010: Boards And Committees
3-3-020: General Rules For Boards And Committees
3-3-030: Reserved
3-3-040: Farmington City Historic Preservation Commission
3-3-050: Reserved
3-3-060: Farmington City Parks, Recreation, Arts And Trails Advisory Board
3-3-070: Farmington City Youth City Council
3-3-010: BOARDS AND COMMITTEES:
The city council may create any agencies, boards, bureaus, committees or
commissions deemed necessary or appropriate for the administration of the city
and shall prescribe by resolution or ordinance the organization, powers and
duties of such bodies. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-3-020: GENERAL RULES FOR BOARDS AND COMMITTEES:
Unless otherwise provided by law or these ordinances, such as title 11 of this
code regarding the planning commission, the following rules shall apply to city
agencies, boards, bureaus, committees or commissions, which are hereinafter
collectively referred to as "committees":
   A.   Advisory: Committees shall be advisory boards only unless otherwise
specifically authorized by ordinance or resolution.
   B.   Number Of Members: Committees shall consist of a number of members as
the city council shall provide by ordinance or resolution.
   C.   Removal Of Members: Committee members may be removed from office with
or without cause by a majority vote of the city council.
   D.   Residency Of Members: Committee members may not be appointed unless
they maintain a primary residence within Farmington City at the time of the
appointment. If a committee member establishes a primary residence outside of
the City during their term, then they will be deemed to have resigned their
position thirty (30) days after establishing that residence. The residency
requirement does not apply to an appointed administrative hearing officer.
   E.   Vacancies: A vacancy occurring on any committee for any reason shall be
promptly filled by a replacement appointed in the same manner as the original
appointment for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   F.   No Compensation: Committee members shall receive no compensation for
their services, but may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties, and except as otherwise provided, shall be deemed
volunteers for purposes of governmental immunity.
   G.   Funding: Committees may receive funds by an annual appropriation in the
city budget, by government, corporate or private grants or donations, and from
proceeds of approved committee functions, which funds shall be held and managed
as directed by the city council.
   H.   Council Liaison Member: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the
city council, may appoint a city council member to any committee to serve as
liaison between the city council and the committee. The selection of council
member shall be approved by the city council by resolution. The council member
shall serve in an advisory capacity only and shall have no voting or other
authority. The council member shall serve as a liaison for a term of two (2)
years.
   I.   Chairperson: The chairperson of each committee, or his or her designee,
shall give a report to the city council regarding the committee's activities
and proposals. Such reports shall be provided at least annually and more
frequently as requested or directed by the city council. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-
2012; amd. Ord. 2023-43, 7-18-2023; Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
3-3-030: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-3-040: FARMINGTON CITY HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
There is hereby created and established a Farmington City historic preservation
commission within the city for the purpose of encouraging and fostering the
preservation of the city's historical, architectural and archaeological
resources. The organization, powers and duties of the Farmington City historic
preservation commission shall be as follows:
   A.   Number: The commission shall be comprised of at least seven (7) members
appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council. These
members shall have a demonstrated interest, competence or knowledge in historic
preservation or architecture. To the extent available in the community, two (2)
commission members shall be "professionals" from the disciplines of history,
architecture or architectural history, as defined by the National Park Service
regulations.
   B.   Term: The members of the commission shall be appointed to staggered
terms of four (4) years; provided, that members may be appointed to terms
shorter (or greater) than(4) years when necessary to provide for staggered
terms. These terms are renewable.
   C.   Chairperson: The members of the commission shall appoint one of their
members as chairperson, subject to being ratified by the city council. The
chairperson shall serve for a term of one year, which term may be renewed. The
chairperson shall oversee the proceedings and activities of the Farmington City
historic preservation commission.
   D.   Meetings: The commission may hold meetings at such times as the
commission determines it is necessary and as properly called with notice given
to each commission member.
   E.   Rules: The commission may adopt reasonable rules and regulations in
accordance with the provisions of this section for governing the conduct of its
business and the establishment of subcommittees. Such rules and regulations
shall be adopted by resolution of the city council.
   F.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the commission to act in an advisory
and voluntary capacity to the city council and in accordance with title 11,
chapter 39 of this code, to help identify, preserve, protect and enhance
historic buildings, sites, monuments, streetscapes and landmarks within the
city deemed architecturally or historically significant. The commission's
duties shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Provide advice to city officials, departments and committees
regarding the identification and protection of local historic and
archaeological resources;
      2.   Conduct or cause to be conducted a survey of the historic,
architectural and archaeological resources within the city, which will be
compatible with the Utah inventory of historic and archaeological sites;
      3.   Establish and maintain a historic sites list and a historic landmark
register as provided in title 11, chapter 39 of this code;
      4.   Review and comment to the state historic preservation office on all
proposed national register nominations for properties within the boundaries of
the city, seeking expertise by professionals as necessary when an area of
expertise is not represented on the commission;
      5.   Help sponsor historic home tours and help educate citizens regarding
historic preservation and the community's history;
      6.   Assist with local preservation projects, including the creation of
historic districts, the creation of a historical magazine or newspaper, and the
creation of slide or video presentations about Farmington City history;
      7.   Support the enforcement of all state laws relating to historic
preservation, including, but not limited to, Utah Code Annotated section 9-8-
301 et seq., as amended, regarding the protection of Utah archaeological and
anthropological resources and antiquities; and Utah Code Annotated section 9-8-
401 et seq., as amended, regarding the placement of historic sites on the state
register or national register; and
      8.   Report activities of the commission to the city council annually,
and as otherwise requested by the city council. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd.
Ord. 2024-8, 2-6-2024)
3-3-050: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-3-060: FARMINGTON CITY PARKS, RECREATION, ARTS AND TRAILS ADVISORY BOARD:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created the Farmington City Parks,
Recreation, Arts and Trails Advisory Board to recommend and monitor the
establishment of public parks, recreation, arts, trails, related facilities,
programs and policies to meet the recreational needs of the citizens of
Farmington City.
   B.   Members:
      1.   Number: The committee shall be comprised of not more than nine (9)
but no less than seven (7) regular members who shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council.
      2.   Term: The members shall be appointed to staggered terms of three (3)
years, provided that members may be appointed to terms shorter than three (3)
years when necessary to provide for staggered terms. These terms are renewable.
   C.   Organization And Procedure:
      1.   Chairperson: The members of the committee may recommend one of the
members as Chairperson. The Chair of the committee shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. The Chair shall serve
for a term of one year, which term may be renewed. The Chair shall oversee the
proceedings and activities of the advisory board.
      2.   Rules: The advisory board may adopt reasonable rules and regulations
in accordance with this section for governing the conduct of its business. The
rules and regulations shall be adopted by Resolution with approval from the
City Council.
      3.   Meetings: The advisory board may hold meetings at such times as the
advisory board determines is necessary and as properly called and noticed
according to Utah Code Annotated Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings
Act.
   D.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the advisory board to act in an
advisory and voluntary capacity in monitoring the establishment and development
of parks, recreation, arts, trails and related facilities for Farmington City
residents, including but not limited to the following:
      1.   Recommend to the City Council and Planning Commission, in
coordination with the Parks and Recreation Director, a Parks, Recreation, Arts
and Trails (PRAT) Master Plan.
      2.   Review and recommend to the City Council and Planning Commission, in
coordination with the Parks and Recreation Director, appropriate changes and
updates to the PRAT Master Plan.
      3.   Recommend projects, legislation, policies, funding allocations and
other measures, programs or activities for the development of parks,
recreation, arts and trails opportunities for the benefit of city residents.
      4.   Carry out projects, programs or activities as directed by the City
Council and Parks and Recreation Director.
      5.   With the consent of the Mayor and City Council, create
subcommittees, if necessary, in the four (4) areas of parks, recreation, arts
and trails to help carry out the purposes of the advisory board.
      6.   Initiate, sponsor and promote involvement, activities and
contributions by the private sector for the development of parks, recreation,
arts and trails for the residents of the city.
      7.   Provide input in the planning and approval process for city
developments shown on the Parks, Recreation, Arts and Trails Master Plan. (Ord.
2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd. Ord. 2021-37. 1-5-2021; Ord. 2022-19, 4-12-2022)
3-3-070: FARMINGTON CITY YOUTH CITY COUNCIL:
There is hereby created and established the Farmington City youth city council
(FYCC) within the city for the purpose of initiating, recommending, planning
and implementing activities and programs authorized by the city council which
promote and enhance youth citizenship and volunteerism within Farmington City.
All activities and programs of the Farmington City youth city council shall be
supervised by one or more duly appointed adult advisors and conducted in
accordance with rules and regulations adopted by ordinance or resolution of the
city council. The mayor of the city may appoint and remove adult youth advisors
to assist with efforts of the FYCC.
   A.   Members: All members must reside within the Farmington City limits and
must be in at least the ninth grade. Members will be selected by vote of the
current FYCC according to the applicant's qualifications and the needs of the
FYCC. Members are sworn in during a city council meeting. Members may continue
to serve until March 1 of their senior year unless disqualified, and, and lose
their voting status once new officers and members have been selected and sworn
in.
   B.   Officers: The members of the FYCC shall appoint members of the FYCC to
the positions of youth mayor, director of volunteerism, historian, treasurer,
and secretary. In the absence of the youth mayor, the other officers listed may
serve as acting youth mayor in the order listed.
   C.   Bylaws: The FYCC shall adopt bylaws to govern the functions of the
FYCC. Amendments to the bylaws may be made by the FYCC by a two-thirds (2/3)
vote of FYCC members, and must also be approved by the City Council before they
are effective. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-07, 1-16-2024)
CHAPTER 4
HUMAN RESOURCES
SECTION:
3-4-010: Human Resources Manager
3-4-020: Personnel Policies And Procedures
3-4-030: Equal Opportunity Employer
3-4-040: Employee Appeals
3-4-045: Exclusions
3-4-050: Employee Appeals
3-4-055: Employee Appeal Proceedings - Burdens Of Proof
3-4-060: Volunteers
3-4-010: HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGER:
The human resource manager shall implement and maintain the provision of this
chapter and perform other duties as required by ordinance, resolution or policy
of the City Council. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd. Ord. 2021-11, 5-4-2021;
Ord. 2023-31, 6-6-2023)
3-4-020: PERSONNEL POLICIES AND PROCEDURES:
The city may establish and adopt personnel policies and procedures consistent
with state and federal laws and regulations for the administration,
organization, operation and conduct of its personnel. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012;
amd. Ord. 2023-31, 6-6-2023)
3-4-030: EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER:
Farmington City is an "equal opportunity employer" and it is the policy of the
city to comply with federal and state equal employment opportunity laws and
guidelines. It is the policy of the city to prevent discrimination in the
hiring, employment, promotion and other employment practices with respect to
its employees on the basis of race, color, national origin, religion, sex,
political affiliation, age, pregnancy, childbirth or pregnancy related
condition, disability, genetic information, status as a veteran, sexual
orientation or gender identity, in accordance with applicable state and federal
laws. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 6-6-2023)
3-4-040: EMPLOYEE APPEALS:
   A.   Except as provided in section
3-4-045 of this chapter, each employee of the city shall hold employment
without limitation of time, being subject to discharge, suspension of over two
(2) days without pay, or involuntary transfer to a position with less
remuneration only as provided herein.
   B.   If an employee other than an employee excluded under section
3-4-045 of this chapter is discharged, suspended for more than two (2) days
without pay, or involuntarily transferred from one position to another with
less remuneration for any disciplinary reason, the employee may appeal the
final decision to discharge, suspend without pay, or involuntarily transfer to
the employee appeal board in accordance with and subject to the procedures set
forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-1106, as amended. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-
15-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-31, 6-6-2023)
3-4-045: EXCLUSIONS:
Section
3-4-040 of this chapter does not apply to any officers, employees or positions
described herein, which positions are deemed at will and subject to termination
with or without cause and without appeal rights pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
10-3-1105, as amended:
   A.   Designated Positions: Section
3-4-040 of this chapter does not apply to a person who holds a position or
equivalent position described as follows:
      1.   A police chief;
      2.   A deputy or assistant police chief;
      3.   A fire chief;
      4.   A deputy or assistant fire chief;
      5.   A head of a municipal department or division;
      6.   A deputy head of a municipal department or division;
      7.   A superintendent;
      8.   A probationary or introductory employee;
      9.   A part time employee;
      10.   Seasonal, temporary or limited employees;
      11.   A person who works in the office of an elected official; or
      12.   A secretarial or administrative assistant support position that is
specifically designated as a position to assist an elected official or the head
or deputy head of a municipal department.
   B.   Appointed Officers: Section
3-4-040 of this chapter does not apply to any person appointed to a position
under Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-901 et seq., appointed officials and
their duties, including, but not limited to, the city manager, city recorder,
city treasurer, city engineer, city attorney, police chief and fire chief.
   C.   Layoffs And Reorganizations: Section
3-4-040 of this chapter does not apply to any employee who is discharged or
involuntarily transferred to a position with less remuneration if the discharge
or involuntary transfer is the result of a layoff, reduction in force,
reorganization or other nondisciplinary action.
   D.   Statutory Exclusion: Section
3-4-040 of this chapter does not apply to any officer, employee or position
that is excluded under and in accordance with the provisions of Utah Code
Annotated section 10-3-1105(2), as amended. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd. Ord.
2023-31, 6-6-2023)
3-4-050: EMPLOYEE APPEAL BOARD:
   A.   Appeal Authority: The Administrative Hearing Officer for Farmington
City is designated as the appeal authority for any appeal of an employee that
is terminated, suspended for greater than two days, or transferred into a
position with less remuneration, and which employee is not exempt under Section
3-4-045 of this Code. In the case of a conflict of interest or unavailability,
the City Manager may appoint a provisional hearing officer to oversee the
proceedings.
   B.   Filing of Appeal: An employee who is not exempt under section
3-4-045 who wishes to file an appeal of a disciplinary action described in
section
3-4-040 must submit a written notice of appeal, describing in detail the
grounds for the appeal with any supporting documentation, to the City Recorder
within ten (10) calendar days following the disciplinary action giving rise to
the appeal, or an employee will be deemed to have waived all appeal rights.
   C.   Proceedings: Hearings and decisions of the administrative hearing
officer shall be held and rendered as soon as reasonably practicable, with no
unreasonable delay.
      1.   Both the appealing employee and the city shall be entitled to appear
at the appeals hearing, to be represented by counsel, to have the hearing open
to the public, to confront witnesses whose testimony is offered during the
hearing, and to examine the evidence to be considered by the administrative
hearing officer.
      2.   The administrative hearing officer may request the appointment of
independent medical or other technical experts, in the administrative hearing
officer's sole discretion, if the administrative hearing officer believes that
the expert's opinion is necessary for the resolution of the case.
      3.   All documentation to be presented at the appeals hearing shall be
made available by each party upon written request of the party seeking the
documentation at least six business days prior to the scheduled hearing date;
all request for documents shall be considered to be ongoing up to and through
the time of the hearing.
      4.   Any party may, no later than four business days prior to the date of
the appeal hearing or cutoff date for a decision, submit to the administrative
hearing officer a written brief, no more than ten pages in length, with
supporting documentation, which articulates that party's arguments and position
regarding the subject matter of the appeal.
      5.   Copies of any written brief shall be concurrently forwarded to the
opposing party, and a reply brief may be submitted in response no later than
two business days prior to the hearing date or cutoff date for a decision.
   D.   Governing Rules: The Utah Rules of Evidence, Utah Rules of Civil
Procedure and Utah Administrative Code do not apply to administrative hearings.
Hearings are conducted to be fundamentally fair to the parties and to provide
due process. The administrative hearing officer may entertain objections in
order to maintain decorum and to address issues of relevance.
   E.   Hearsay Evidence: There is no rule against the admission or
consideration of hearsay evidence in appeal proceedings. A decision may not be
based solely upon hearsay evidence.
   F.   Pre-Hearing Motions: With the exception of a request for an order
requiring the release of documents which have been requested or scheduling
matters, no pre-hearing motions shall be entertained by the administrative
hearing officer.
   G.   Record: An audio recording of the hearing shall be kept and all
exhibits received in evidence at the hearing shall be maintained.
   H.   Decision: The administrative hearing officer shall, within fifteen (15)
calendar days of the conclusion of the hearing, transmit the decision to the
employee, the department director, the human resource manager and the city
recorder for certification. The city recorder shall certify the decision by
placing the city's official seal on the document, and the date of
certification.
   I.   District Court Appeal: The written ruling of the administrative hearing
officer shall be the final administrative decision of the city and the decision
may be appealed by either party to the Utah Court of Appeals within thirty (30)
calendar days from the date on which the administrative hearing officer's
decision is certified by the City Recorder. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd. Ord.
2023-31, 6-6-2023; Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
3-4-055: EMPLOYEE APPEAL PROCEEDINGS - BURDENS OF PROOF:
   A.   Appeals from disciplinary actions: The proceedings for appeals from
disciplinary actions are bifurcated. The disciplined employee may waive
challenge to either phase of the proceedings at any time. In the absence of a
clear, written waiver, or a waiver tendered in the presence of the
administrative hearing officer, the proceedings will proceed through both
phases.
      1.   During the first phase of the proceedings, the administrative
hearing officer considers evidence of the charges upon which the discipline was
based. Only evidence that relates to the reason for the discharge, suspension
or transfer may be heard by the administrative hearing officer. The burden of
proof to establish the charge is upon the City, and the administrative hearing
officer shall sustain the charge if it is supported by substantial evidence.
         a.   If the administrative hearing officer sustains all of the
charges, then it shall proceed to the second phase of the hearing, described in
subsection A(2).
         b.   If the administrative hearing officer sustains none of the
charges, then the administrative hearing officer shall overturn the
disciplinary action, as provided in subsection (C)(2).
         c.   If the administrative hearing officer sustains some, but not all,
of the charges, then the administrative hearing officer shall refer the
decision back to the department head or city manager who made the disciplinary
decision for reconsideration of the decision, in light of the findings. A
referral back to the department head or city manager is an interlocutory order,
and is not subject to appeal. The department head or city manager may decrease
the severity of, modify, withdraw, or retain the disciplinary decision
previously made. If the department head or city manager fails to respond to the
administrative hearing officer within three business days from the date of the
referral, then the administrative hearing officer shall proceed as if the
department director or city manager has not changed the disciplinary decision.
      2.   During the second phase of the proceedings, the administrative
hearing officer considers whether the misconduct warranted the sanction imposed
by the city. The administrative hearing officer gives broad deference to the
supervisor's choice of discipline and reviews that decision for an abuse of
discretion. The disciplined employee bears the burden of proving an abuse of
discretion by clear and convincing evidence.
         a.   A supervisor abuses their discretion if the sanction is
arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
         b.   When considering whether the sanction is arbitrary, capricious or
illegal, the administrative hearing officer considers whether the discipline
imposed is:
            (1)   Disproportionate in light of the circumstances; or
            (2)   Inconsistent with previous sanctions imposed by the
supervisor upon similarly situated employees pursuant to the department or
city's own policies.
   B.   Appeals from discharge or reassignment due to fitness for duty
determinations: In cases of discharge or transfer to a position of less
remuneration due to a determination that the individual is unfit to report to
duty due to a medical condition, the employee who is not exempt from appeals
under section
3-4-045 of this code has the right to appeal that decision.
      1.   In cases of fitness for duty appeals, the city bears the burden of
proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the circumstances warrant the
action taken.
   C.   The administrative hearing officer's final decision shall be in writing
and include factual findings supporting that decision. The hearing officer may:
      1.   Sustain the city's action; or
      2.   Overturn the city's action.
   D.   If the city's action is overturned:
      1.   The human resources manager, or a designee, shall remove the record
of the overturned action from the employee's personnel file and retain it
separately, which record shall be designated as private pursuant to Utah law.
      2.   The hearing officer shall reinstate any loss of pay associated with
an overturned action, but in the case where an employee has taken employment
elsewhere, the amount shall be reduced by any amounts the employee earned from
other employment during this period of time.
   E.   If a department director or city manager reduces the severity of the
disciplinary decision under subsection (A)(1)(c), then the hearing officer
shall reinstate any loss of pay which would not have been incurred, had the
reduced discipline been initially imposed. (Ord. 2023-31, 6-6-2023)
3-4-060: VOLUNTEERS:
   A.   Defined: "Volunteer" means any person who donates service without pay
or other compensation, except expenses actually and reasonably incurred as
approved by the city.
   B.   Status: All volunteers of the city shall be subject to the provisions
of the volunteer government workers act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 67-20-1 et seq., as amended. A volunteer may not donate any service to
the city unless and until the volunteer services are approved by the city
manager.
   C.   Government Employee: Except as provided in Utah Code Annotated section
67-20-3, as amended, regarding volunteer safety officers, an approved volunteer
is considered a government employee for purposes of:
   D.   Receiving workers' compensation medical benefits, which shall be the
exclusive remedy for all injuries and occupational diseases as provided under
Utah Code Annotated title 34A, chapters 2, workers' compensation act, and 3,
Utah occupational disease act, for any injury sustained while engaged in the
performance of any authorized service for the city;
   E.   The operation of motor vehicles or equipment if the volunteer is
properly licensed and authorized to do so; and
   F.   Liability protection and indemnification normally afforded paid
government employees.
   G.   Expenses: Volunteers may receive reimbursement for transportation,
meals, travel expenses, lodging, uniforms and supplies, in the discretion of
and when authorized and approved by the city manager. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012;
amd. Ord. 2023-31, 6-6-2023)
CHAPTER 5
GOVERNMENT RECORDS
SECTION:
3-5-010: Government Records
3-5-015: Records Officer
3-5-020: Retention Schedule
3-5-030: Records Requests
3-5-040: Fees
3-5-050: Fee Waiver
3-5-060: Appeal To City Manager
3-5-070: Appeal To Records Committee Or District Court
3-5-010: GOVERNMENT RECORDS:
All government records of the city shall be maintained, classified and accessed
in accordance with the government records access and management act set forth
at Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-101 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-
15-2012)
3-5-015: RECORDS OFFICER:
The city recorder is hereby appointed as records officer of the city to work
with the Utah division of archives and records service in the care,
maintenance, scheduling, designation, classification, disposal and preservation
of city records. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-108, as amended,
the records officer shall, on an annual basis, successfully complete online
training and certification from the state archives regarding government records
access and management. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-5-020: RETENTION SCHEDULE:
All government records of the city shall be retained in accordance with the
Utah municipal general records retention schedule, as created and retained by
the Utah division of archives and records service, which is hereby adopted by
reference as the Farmington City records retention schedule. The city may
classify or reclassify a particular record, record series or information in a
record at any time, in accordance with applicable provisions of Utah Code
Annotated section 63G-2-307, as amended. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-5-030: RECORDS REQUESTS:
Any person requesting a record shall file a written government records access
and management request form as provided by the city. Such request shall be
submitted and processed in accordance with the government records access and
management act. All government records requests shall contain the requestor's
name, mailing address and daytime phone number, if available, and shall provide
a description the record requested that identifies the record with reasonable
specificity. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-5-040: FEES:
The city may charge a reasonable fee to cover the city's actual cost of
providing a record. Fees for providing a record shall be adopted and set forth
in the city fee schedule, which fees may be amended from time to time, and are
adopted herein by reference. When the city compiles a record in a form other
than that normally maintained by the city in response to a records request, the
actual costs for compiling the record may include those costs set forth in Utah
Code Annotated section 63G-2-203, as amended; provided, no charge may be made
for the first quarter hour of staff time. The city may require payment of past
fees and future estimated fees before beginning to process a request if the
fees are expected to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00); or the requester has not
paid fees from previous requests. Any prepaid amount in excess of fees due
shall be returned to the requester. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-5-050: FEE WAIVER:
In accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-203, as amended, the city
may fulfill a record request without charge when it determines that:
   A.   Releasing the record primarily benefits the public rather than a
person;
   B.   The individual requesting the record is the subject of the record, or
an individual specified in subsections 63G-2-202(1) or (2) of the act; or
   C.   The requester's legal rights are directly implicated by the information
in the record and the requester is impecunious. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-5-060: APPEAL TO CITY MANAGER:
Any person aggrieved by the city's access determination made or fees imposed
under this chapter may appeal the determination within thirty (30) days to the
city manager by filing a written notice of appeal with the city manager in
accordance with the provisions set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-
401, as amended. The notice of appeal shall contain the petitioner's name,
mailing address, daytime phone number and the relief sought. The notice of
appeal should also contain a brief statement of facts, reasons and legal
authority in support of the appeal. The city manager shall make a determination
on the appeal within the time periods set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
63G-2-401, as amended. The city manager shall send written notice of his or her
determination to all participants, including notice of any right to appeal in
accordance with section
3-5-070 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-5-070: APPEAL TO RECORDS COMMITTEE OR DISTRICT COURT:
If the city manager denies a records request under section
3-5-060 of this chapter, the requester may appeal the denial to the state
records committee as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-403, as
amended, or petition for judicial review in district court as provided in Utah
Code Annotated section 63G-2-404, as amended. Any person aggrieved by a
determination of the city manager under section
3-5-060 of this chapter, including persons who did not participate in the
appeal proceedings before the city manager, may appeal the determination to the
state records committee as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 63G-2-402,
as amended. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
CHAPTER 6
PROCUREMENT AND SURPLUS PROPERTY
SECTION:
3-6-010: Compliance
3-6-020: Purchasing Agent
3-6-030: Budget Limitation
3-6-040: [Reserved]
3-6-050: Classification Of Expenditures
3-6-060: Bidding Procedures
3-6-070: [Reserved]
3-6-080: Additional Data
3-6-082: Retention Of Bids
3-6-084: Restrictions On Architect Or Engineering Services
3-6-090: Delivery
3-6-100: Surplus Property Definitions
3-6-110: Disposal Of Surplus Property
3-6-115: Use Of Recycled Goods
3-6-010: COMPLIANCE:
All expenditures of the city shall conform to the procurement policies and
procedures adopted by the city and all applicable provisions of state law,
including, but not limited to, the uniform fiscal procedures act set forth at
Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-101 et seq., as amended, and the Utah
procurement code as set forth at Utah Code Annotated section 63-56-101 et seq.,
as amended. Any expenditures of the city involving federal assistance funds
shall comply with applicable federal law and regulations. Any expenditures of
the city involving the construction, maintenance or improvement projects of a
class C road shall comply with applicable provisions of the state highway code,
including, but not limited to, Utah Code Annotated sections 72-6-108 and 72-6-
109, as amended. Included in this chapter is the designation of the city
manager as the purchasing agent of the city. This designation and powers are
contained herein. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-6-020: PURCHASING AGENT:
The city manager is hereby designated as the purchasing agent for the city. The
purchasing agent shall be subject to the direction and supervision of the city
council and shall have the powers and duties concerning procurement as
established in this chapter and the authority to delegate such powers and
duties, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Administer and interpret the procurement system provided herein, in
accordance with any rules and regulations established by the city;
   B.   Procure or supervise the procurement of all supplies, services and
construction needed by the city, including preparation of specifications and
negotiation of contracts connected therewith;
   C.   Exercise general supervision and control over all inventories or
supplies of the city and the inspection of and accounting for all such
inventories or supplies;
   D.   Prepare and maintain forms and reports as are reasonably necessary to
the operation of the chapter and other rules and regulations of the city;
   E.   Keep generally informed of current developments in the field of
procurement, including, but not limited to, market conditions and new products;
and
   F.   Recommend to the city council from time to time such new or revised
procurement rules and regulations as are desirable and in conformance with
other statutory requirements. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-6-030: BUDGET LIMITATION:
All expenditures or encumbrances made by the city for supplies, services or
construction shall be made in accordance with the uniform fiscal procedures act
for Utah cities, set forth at Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-101 et seq., as
amended. Except as provided in said act or herein, all expenditures or
encumbrances shall be made or incurred within the appropriate budget
limitations adopted or subsequently amended by the city. The city manager or
designee is authorized to approve certain transfers of funds from one
expenditure account to another within a department or an excess expenditure of
one or more line items, provided the total of all excess expenditures or
encumbrances do not exceed the total unused appropriations within the
department at the close of the budget year, in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated section 10-6-124, as amended. The city manager may not make
adjustments to capital funds budgets without prior approval from the city
council. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-63, 11-14-2023)
3-6-040: [RESERVED]:
3-6-050: CLASSIFICATION OF EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Large Expenditures: Except as otherwise provided herein, any
expenditure of the city of one-hundred twenty five thousand dollars
($125,000.00) or more shall be referred to as a "large expenditure" and shall
be made pursuant to formal bidding procedures set forth in the procurement
policies and procedures adopted by the city council.
   B.   Small Expenditures: Except as otherwise provided herein, any
expenditure of the city of greater than seventy-five thousand dollars
($75,000.00) but less than one-hundred twenty-five thousand dollars
($125,000.00) shall be referred to as a "small expenditure" and may be made
pursuant to either formal or informal bidding procedures set forth in the
procurement policies and procedures adopted by the city council. It shall be
unlawful to artificially divide a purchase or expenditure so as to constitute a
small expenditure under this section.
   C.   Exempt Expenditures: The following expenditures of the city shall be
referred to as "exempt expenditures" and may be made without formal or informal
bidding procedures, but should be made with as much competition as practicable
under the circumstances. Detailed explanations of each exempt expenditure shall
be provided in procurement policies and procedures adopted by the council.
      1.   Minor: Any expenditure amounting to less than seventy-five thousand
dollars ($75,000.00).
      2.   Sole Source: Any expenditure for goods or services which by their
nature are not reasonably adapted to award by competitive bidding.
      3.   Professional Services: Any expenditure for professional services
which by their nature are not reasonably adapted to award by competitive
bidding, which shall be authorized based on the evaluation of professional
qualifications, service ability, experience, cost of services and other
applicable criteria.
      4.   Emergency: Any expenditure made under the existence of an emergency
condition threatening the public health, welfare or safety.
      5.   State Contract: Any expenditure for which competitive bidding or
price negotiation has already occurred on the state level.
      6.   Interlocal Cooperative Agreement: Any expenditure made in
conjunction with an agreement approved by resolution of the city council
between the city and another city or governmental entity.
      7.   Special Sale: Any expenditure made in conjunction with any public
auction, closeout sale, bankruptcy sale or other similar sale when the
purchasing agent determines in writing that such purchase may be made at a cost
below the market cost for the same or similar goods.
      8.   Exchanges: Any exchange of supplies, materials, property or
equipment between the city and other public or private party made by mutual
agreement of the respective parties. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-
63, 11-14-2023)
3-6-060: BIDDING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Procedures for the soliciting and processing bids both formally and
informally shall be established in the procurement policies and procedures
adopted by this city council. Such policies shall be interpreted to conform to
applicable federal and state requirements and if found to be in conflict with
such requirements, the federal or state requirements shall be followed.
   B.   Bids shall be evaluated within a reasonable time by the purchasing
agent to determine the lowest responsible bidder based upon the following
objectively measurable criteria as set forth in the invitation for bids:
      1.   Price: The total price of the bid.
      2.   Quality: The overall quality of the goods or work to be provided
and/or the ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to provide any services or
work required.
      3.   Conditions: The number and scope of any conditions or qualifications
set forth in the bid.
      4.   Time: The time limit within which the bidder can provide the goods,
services or work.
      5.   Reputation: The character, integrity, reputation, judgment,
experience and efficiency of the bidder and the quality of previous goods,
services or work obtained from the bidder.
      6.   Compliance: The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with
laws and ordinances relating to the goods, services or work.
      7.   Financial Resources: The sufficiency of the financial resources and
ability of the bidder to provide the goods, services or work.
      8.   Future Service: The ability of the bidder to provide future
maintenance and service and the local availability of parts, materials, etc.
(Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-63, 11-14-2023)
3-6-070: [RESERVED]:
3-6-080: ADDITIONAL DATA:
Any additional relevant data pertaining to the selected bidder shall be added
to the purchase requisition or contract documents. If required by law, a
written contract shall be entered into between the city and the selected
bidder. Contracts involving construction work shall further provide for a bid
security in the amount equal to at least five percent (5%) of the amount of the
bid, which bid security shall be provided in a form specified by the purchasing
agent and/or the bid documents. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-6-082: RETENTION OF BIDS:
Whenever the city is required by state law to receive bids for purchases,
construction, repairs or any other purpose requiring the expenditure of funds,
the city shall keep on file all bids received, together with proof of
advertisement by publication or otherwise, in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated section 10-6-122, as amended. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-6-084: RESTRICTIONS ON ARCHITECT OR ENGINEERING SERVICES:
When the city elects to obtain architect or engineering services by using a
competitive procurement process and has provided public notice of its
competitive procurement process, the city may not award the contract for such
services solicited to a higher education entity or any part of one, in
accordance with and subject to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section
10-7-20.5, as amended. When the city engages the services of a professional
architect, engineer or surveyor and considers more than one such professional
for the engagement, the city shall comply with applicable provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-7-86, as amended. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-6-090: DELIVERY:
When supplies ordered are delivered, the purchasing agent, or the employee who
requested the supplies, shall inspect the supplies received to assure that the
correct quantity and quality have been delivered. If the supplies delivered are
satisfactory, the supplies shall be accepted and a copy of the packing slip,
invoice or other delivery document shall be stapled to the purchase order and
forwarded to the appropriate employee for review, payment and filing. (Ord.
2012-18, 5-15-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-63, 11-14-2023)
3-6-100: SURPLUS PROPERTY DEFINITIONS:
   A.   "Significant parcel of real property" shall mean a parcel of one acre
or more in size or a parcel having a value of more than one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) as determined by the city council.
   B.   "Reasonable notice" shall mean publishing a notice of the proposed
disposition and of a public hearing before the city council to consider such
disposition on the city's website and the Utah public notice. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-
15-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-63, 11-14-2023)
3-6-110: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PROPERTY:
   A.   Authority: The city shall have the authority to sell, lease, convey and
dispose of real and personal property for the benefit of the city as provided
by Utah Code Annotated section 10-8-2, as amended.
   B.   Requirements: Before the city may dispose of a significant parcel of
real property, the city shall:
      1.   Provide reasonable notice of the proposed disposition at least
fourteen (14) days before a scheduled meeting at which the city will hear
public comment; and
      2.   Hold a meeting at which the city council accepts public comment on
the proposed disposition.
   C.   Conditions, Limitations: All disposal, leases or subleases of such
property of the city other than a significant parcel of real property, shall be
made, as nearly as possible, under the same conditions and limitations as
required by city ordinances and state law for the purchase or sale of property.
   D.   Methods Of Sale: The city council may also authorize at its discretion
and under such terms and conditions as it may deem desirable, fair and
appropriate, considering intended use, property tax value and the interests of
the city, the sale of any surplus property, through public auction or other
method designed to best serve the interests of city residents and produce a
fair return; the trade or exchange or any surplus property; and the lease or
sublease of any surplus property. (Ord. 2012-18, 5-15-2012)
3-6-120: USE OF RECYCLED GOODS:
The procurement officer or other person responsible for purchasing supplies for
the city shall give recycled items consideration when inviting bids and
purchasing supplies in accordance with applicable provisions of Utah Code
Annotated sections 10-7-87, as amended, and 11-37-101, as amended. (Ord. 2012-
18, 5-15-2012)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS
SECTION:
3-7-010: Purpose; Due Process
3-7-020: Definitions
3-7-030: Administrative Hearing Officer
3-7-040: Powers
3-7-050: Request For Administrative Hearing
3-7-060: Scheduling Administrative Hearing
3-7-070: Administrative Hearing Process
3-7-080: Burdens Of Proof
3-7-090: Failure To Attend Administrative Hearing
3-7-100: Administrative Orders
3-7-110: Failure To Comply
3-7-120: Petition To Review
3-7-130: Matters Heard By Administrative Hearing Officer
3-7-010: PURPOSE; DUE PROCESS:
   A.   For municipal actions particularly defined and designated in this code
in which an adverse decision by a city official result in detriment to a
person, it is the purpose of this chapter to afford that person due process of
law by way of an administrative hearing.
   B.   Due process shall require notice of applicable hearings, the
opportunity to be heard, a hearing before a fair and impartial official, the
right to present evidence, the right to cross-examine any witnesses presented
by the city, the right to be represented by an attorney or other advocate, the
right to receive an adequate explanation of the reasons justifying the
administrative order, and the right to petition the district court for review
of the administrative order. In the context of an enforcement action, due
process also includes notice of alleged violations, served upon the responsible
person. (Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
3-7-020: DEFINITIONS:
BUSINESS LICENSE OFFICIAL: The city official described in Section
6-1-030 of the Farmington Municipal Code.
DISTRICT COURT: A district court of the State of Utah with jurisdiction over
Farmington City.
ENFORCEMENT ACTION: A citation, notice or order identifying a condition or
action in violation of any provision of the Farmington Municipal Code, which
either:
   1.   Imposes a monetary penalty upon the recipient;
   2.   Includes the city's intention to abate a nuisance; or
   3.   Orders the property owner to rehabilitate or demolish a structure
pursuant to the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code, indicated in section
10-2-100 of this code.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: Any city employee or official authorized by code or by
the City Manager to enforce provisions of the Farmington Municipal Code.
LAND USE APPLICATION: Has the same definition as provided in Chapter 10-9a of
the Utah Code, as amended.
LAND USE REGULATION: Has the same definition as provided in Chapter 10-9a of
the Utah Code, as amended.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The city official described in Section
11-4-030 of the Farmington Municipal Code. (Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
3-7-030: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   The administrative hearing officer shall be law trained or have
significant experience with the requirements and operation of administrative
hearing processes. The person shall be free from bias or conflict of interest
that might affect impartiality of decisions.
   B.   The administrative hearing officer for Farmington City shall be
appointed by the City Manager. In the case of a conflict of interest or major
scheduling conflict with the appointed administrative hearing officer, the City
Manager may appoint an administrative hearing officer on a provisional basis.
   C.   The administrative hearing officer shall serve for a term of two (2)
years, and during that two (2) year term, shall be subject to removal by the
City Manager only for cause. Provisional administrative hearing officers only
serve until the case for which they were appointed is completed.
   D.   The administrative hearing officer shall be compensated for time spent
preparing for hearings, conducting hearings and preparing orders. Rates of
compensation shall be established via written agreement. (Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-
2023)
3-7-040: POWERS:
   A.   The administrative hearing officer shall have authority to hold an
administrative hearing for any matter that comes before the officer. In cases
involving strictly legal interpretations, the administrative hearing officer
may render a decision based upon briefs filed by both parties.
   B.   The administrative hearing officer may continue a hearing for good
cause shown by one of the parties or if the administrative hearing officer
independently determines that due process has not been adequately afforded to a
party.
   C.   At the request of any party to an administrative hearing, an
administrative hearing officer may sign subpoenas for witnesses, documents, and
other evidence where the attendance of the witness or the admission of evidence
is deemed helpful by the administrative hearing officer to decide issues at the
hearing. All costs related to the subpoena, including witness and mileage fees,
shall be borne by the party requesting the subpoena.
   D.   The administrative hearing officer may modify civil fees or fines upon
a finding of good cause. The administrative hearing officer may reduce the
fines to what is just and equitable under the circumstances; however, in
connection with an appeal regarding an itemized statement of costs, the
administrative hearing officer may not order the responsible person to pay less
than actual costs incurred by the City and shall require the responsible person
to pay the administrative fees established in the consolidated fee schedule.
   E.   The administrative hearing officer shall have the authority to reverse
or modify the decision of any city official whose decision is within the
administrative hearing officer's jurisdiction.
   F.   The administrative hearing officer has continuing jurisdiction over the
subject matter of an administrative hearing for the purposes of: granting a
continuance; ordering compliance by issuing administrative orders; ensuring
compliance of that order; authorizing the city to enter upon private property
to abate a violation; authorizing the demolition of a dangerous structure;
modifying an administrative order; assessing costs of abatement; assessing
civil fines; or, in the case of extraordinary circumstances, granting a new
hearing.
   G.   An administrative hearing officer shall not make any order that would
require or allow a person to violate state law or city code. (Ord. 2023-65, 11-
14-2023)
3-7-050: REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   Where the right to an administrative hearing has been established under
this code, a person having that right may request an administrative hearing, if
the request is filed within ten (10) calendar days from the date of service of:
      1.   Administrative citations or Notices of Violation issued by an
enforcement official;
      2.   An itemized statement of cost; or
      3.   Notice of any other municipal action where the right to an
administrative appeal is provided under any provision of this code.
   B.   In all cases except enforcement actions, a person is required to file
their appeal within ten (10) calendar days from the date on which the party
received actual or constructive notice that an administrative decision has been
made. Appeals after that date are untimely and the person has waived any right
to appeal that decision.
   C.   Failure to request an administrative hearing within ten (10) calendar
days from the date of service of any of the notices in subsection A or B of
this section shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative
hearing and the right to an appeal.
   D.   The request for administrative hearing shall be made in writing and
shall be accompanied by a filing fee to be established in the consolidated fee
schedule. The fee shall not be waived, but the administrative hearing officer
may order the fee to be refunded in cases where the officer reverses the
administrative decision made by the city official.
   E.   The request shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Contain a legible, plain statement of the reason or reasons that the
person requesting the hearing is entitled to relief from the municipal action;
      3.   Be accompanied by a copy of the notice, citation or statement sought
to be appealed;
      4.   Contain the name of the person requesting the hearing, an email
address to which all notices and orders may be delivered, and a physical
mailing address;
      5.   Be dated and signed by the person requesting the hearing; and
      6.   Be filed with the City Recorder or an individual assigned by the
City Recorder to receive administrative appeals.
   F.   The City may initiate an administrative hearing by service and filing
of a notice of violation or other document that summons an individual to an
administrative hearing. (Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
3-7-060: SCHEDULING ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
   A.   Within ten (10) business days of receiving a request for an
administrative hearing or the service of a notice of violation requiring a
hearing, the administrative hearing officer shall schedule a date, time and
place for the administrative hearing.
   B.   Notice shall be provided using the email address provided by the
appellant. If no email address is available for a party, then mailing a copy to
the appellant's address shall be deemed served on the third day following the
date of mailing.
   C.   Hearings shall be scheduled as expeditiously as is reasonable, taking
into consideration the schedules of parties and witnesses and the complexity of
the matter to be considered.
   D.   Upon service of a notice of violation and summons, the person receiving
the service shall be required to attend the administrative hearing at the
appointed date and time.
   E.   No adverse action, except for emergency abatements, shall take place
pending the administrative hearing.
   F.   The administrative hearing officer may reschedule the hearing to a date
and time more convenient to the hearing officer or either party, in the hearing
officer's discretion. (Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
3-7-070: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCESS:
   A.   Administrative hearings are informal in nature. Formal rules of
evidence and discovery shall not apply. However, upon request made in writing
reasonably in advance of a hearing, the city shall provide to a person
requesting a hearing the opportunity to review documents, photographs or other
tangible evidence it intends to present at the hearing and shall provide a list
of the witnesses it intends to call at the hearing. Failure to request this
review shall not be a basis for a continuance.
   B.   If an administrative hearing involves a complainant for nuisance
violations, the complainant's information shall not be released or disclosed
unless the complainant is a witness at the hearing.
   C.   Parties shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and
present evidence in support of their position. A written declaration signed
under penalty of perjury may be accepted in lieu of a personal appearance.
Testimony may be provided by any witness or party via electronic means.
   D.   Administrative hearings shall be open to the public and audio-recorded.
   E.   All parties shall have the right to be represented by an attorney or
other advocate. If an attorney will be representing a responsible person at a
hearing, notice of the attorney's name, email, address, and telephone number
shall be given to the city attorney at least one day prior to the hearing. If
such notice is not given, the hearing may be continued at the city's request,
and all costs associated with the continuance shall be assessed against the
person requesting the hearing.
   F.   Administrative hearings may be held on Monday through Friday, excluding
holidays, between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:
00) P.M. Lengthy hearings may extend beyond nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. at the
administrative hearing officer's discretion, with consent of both parties.
   G.   The parties may stipulate to certain or all factual issues and present
purely legal questions to the administrative hearing officer. In the absence of
a written stipulation or stipulation made in the presence of the administrative
hearing officer, facts will be established through the presentation of evidence
by the parties.
   H.   Ex parte communication with the administrative hearing officer
regarding the substance of a matter pending before the officer is prohibited.
   I.   Parties may, at least three (3) business days prior to the scheduled
hearing, file a brief with the administrative hearing officer addressing legal
issues. Such briefs must be filed electronically via email and the brief shall
be provided contemporaneously to the other party. A party may file an opposing
brief in response to a brief filed by the other party, at least twenty-four
(24) hours prior to the hearing. (Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
3-7-080: BURDENS OF PROOF:
In administrative hearings, the burdens of proof and persuasion shall be borne
by the same party, unless otherwise indicated in the code. Burdens of proof in
an administrative review are:
   A.   For enforcement actions, including civil citations and notices of
violation, the burden of proof is on the City to demonstrate by a preponderance
of the evidence that a violation of the code exists and that the individual
given notice bears responsibility for it.
   B.   For abatements of nuisances, or the elimination of dangerous
conditions, the burden of proof is on the City to demonstrate by a
preponderance of the evidence that the nuisance or dangerous condition exists
and that the individual given notice bears responsibility for it.
   C.   For orders to rehabilitate or demolish a structure, the burden of proof
is on the City to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that the
conditions alleged in the notice exist and that the structure constitutes a
dangerous building, as provided in Section
10-2-100 of this code. If a responsible person is given an opportunity to
rehabilitate the property by the administrative hearing officer, then a review
hearing shall be scheduled, at which time the burden of proof is on the
responsible person to demonstrate that the building has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to the extent that it is no longer a dangerous building.
   D.   For reviews of City actions regarding land use applications, the
appellant bears the burden of demonstrating by a preponderance of the evidence
that the administrative action was arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
   E.   For variances, the burden of proof is upon the applicant to demonstrate
by a preponderance of the evidence that all necessary conditions justifying the
variance have been met.
   F.   For determinations of legal nonconformity, the burden of proof is upon
the applicant to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that the
nonconforming use or structure lawfully existed and was not abandoned by that
person or any predecessor in interest.
   G.   For reviews of other city administrative actions that have a right to
appeal within this code, the appellant shall bear the burden of demonstrating
by a preponderance of the evidence that the administrative action was
arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
   H.   For employee appeals, the burden of proof is as provided in section
3-4-055 of this code. (Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
3-7-090: FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
A person who fails to appear at an administrative hearing shall be deemed to
have waived all rights in connection with the hearing, including the right to
petition the district court for relief from the administrative order or action
that was subject to appeal. Provided that proper notice of the hearing has been
provided under section
3-7-050, an administrative order may be entered against a person based upon
their failure to appear. (Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
3-7-100: ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS:
   A.   Unless otherwise required by another provision of city code, within
fifteen (15) business days after all evidence and testimony are presented, the
administrative hearing officer shall issue a written administrative order that
affirms or rejects the violation, appeal or application. The administrative
hearing officer may modify an administrative action if the officer finds that
the city official's action was arbitrary, capricious or illegal in some
fashion.
   B.   The administrative order shall specify the evidence supporting the
administrative hearing officer's decision and the action required to satisfy
the order.
   C.   The administrative hearing officer may issue an oral ruling at the
hearing and assign the party who prevails at the administrative hearing to
prepare a draft order. If this is done, then the prevailing party shall send a
copy of the draft order to the opponent within seven (7) business days after
receiving the assignment, and the opponent shall have three (3) business days
after it is sent to raise an objection to the form of the proposed order. The
administrative hearing officer may enter an order without conducting a hearing
on the objection.
   D.   An administrative order may:
      1.   Order a person to cease violating this code and to take necessary
corrective actions;
      2.   Authorize city officials or their agents to enter the property and
abate all violations, including the removal of animals in violation of an
applicable code requirement. All abatement orders shall order the responsible
person to pay to the city the actual costs of the abatement and the
administrative fee associated with managing the abatement.
      3.   Authorize the demolition of a dangerous building;
      4.   Revoke any permit or license issued by the city;
      5.   Establish specific deadlines for payments of fees and costs, and
condition the total or partial assessment of civil fees on the responsible
person's ability to take necessary corrective actions by specified deadlines.
Such fees shall continue to accrue until the responsible person complies with
the administrative hearing officer's decision and corrects the violation;
      6.   Take any action reasonably necessary to obtain compliance with the
applicable city ordinances;
      7.   Impose civil fines for failure to abate a violation of city code by
a stated deadline, which shall continue to accrue additional fines until the
responsible person complies with the administrative hearing officer's decision
and corrects the violation, except that the accrued fine shall not exceed one-
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day; and
      8.   Schedule review hearings as necessary or requested by the city to
ensure compliance with an administrative order;
   E.   An administrative order is final on the date it is signed by the
administrative hearing officer.
   F.   The administrative hearing officer shall transmit the final order to
the city, which shall transmit it to all other parties within two (2) business
days of receiving it. A delay in transmission shall extend the deadline for a
petition for review by the number of days beyond two (2) days it was not
transmitted. (Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
3-7-110: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with the terms
and deadlines set forth in a final administrative order.
   B.   A violation of this section shall be a class B misdemeanor.
   C.   Upon failure of a person to comply with the terms and deadline set
forth in the administrative order, the city may use all appropriate legal means
to recover civil penalties and administrative costs necessary to obtain
compliance. (Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
3-7-120: PETITION TO REVIEW:
   A.   Any person adversely affected by a final administrative order made in
the exercise of the provisions of this chapter may file a petition for review
in the district court.
   B.   The petition shall be barred unless it is filed within thirty (30)
calendar days after the administrative order is final.
   C.   In the petition, the person may only allege that the administrative
order was arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
   D.   The reviewing court shall:
      1.   Presume that the administrative order is valid;
      2.   Review the record to determine whether the order was arbitrary,
capricious or illegal; and
      3.   Affirm the administrative order if it is supported by substantial
evidence in the record.
   E.   The party seeking judicial review is responsible for all costs of
record preparation. Within ninety (90) calendar days after submitting the
petition for review, the party filing the petition shall request a copy of the
record of the proceedings, including minutes, exhibits, findings, orders, and a
transcript of the hearing.
      1.   The city shall not submit copies of files or transcripts to the
reviewing court until the party petitioning for appeal has paid all required
costs.
      2.   The petitioning party's failure to request copies of the record, or
to pay the full costs for the record, within ninety (90) calendar days after
the petition for review was filed shall be grounds for dismissal of the
petition.
      3.   Upon receipt of the payment of all required costs, the city shall
arrange for the compilation of a true and correct copy of the administrative
hearing transcript and transmit it and all other record materials to the
reviewing court.
   F.   If a transcript of the administrative hearing cannot be prepared
because no such recording exists or is inadequate to prepare a transcript, the
district court may, in its discretion, remand the matter to the administrative
hearing officer for a supplemental proceeding to complete the record. The
district court may limit the scope of the supplemental proceeding to issues
that, in the court's opinion, need to be clarified.
   G.   If there is a record, court review is limited to the record of the
proceeding. The court may not accept or consider any evidence outside the
record unless that evidence was offered to the administrative hearing officer
and the court determines that the administrative hearing officer improperly
excluded it.
   H.   If there is no record of the proceedings, the court may call witnesses
and take evidence as a de novo review.
   I.   The filing of a petition for review with the district court does not
stay execution of an administrative order. Before filing a petition, a person
may request the administrative hearing officer to stay an administrative order.
Upon receipt of the request to stay, the administrative hearing officer may
order the administrative order to be stayed pending district court review if
the administrative hearing officer finds such stay is in the best interest of
the city. (Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
3-7-130: MATTERS HEARD BY ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER:
The administrative hearing officer is authorized to review the following
matters:
   A.   Violations of municipal code, including:
      1.   Civil citations;
      2.   Notices of Violation;
      3.   Abatement notices;
      4.   Orders to rehabilitate or demolish a dangerous building;
      5.   Storm water and illicit discharge violations; and
      6.   Costs and fees related to abatements;
   B.   Appeals from land use applications and administrative land use
decisions, including:
      1.   Conditional Use Permits;
      2.   Zoning interpretations;
      3.   Temporary land use or temporary use of structure;
      4.   Home occupation permits;
      5.   Preliminary and final subdivisions plats, both minor and major;
      6.   Sign permits;
      7.   Land disturbance permits;
      8.   Boundary line and lot line adjustments;
      9.   Final site plan reviews;
      10.   Project master plan interpretations;
      11.   Condominium plats, final and amended;
      12.   Development plan reviews;
      13.   Architectural compliance decisions;
      14.   Decisions by Planning Commission related to uses within the
commercial recreation zone;
      15.   Flood damage prevention decisions by zoning administrator;
      16.   Historic district decisions by the zoning administrator;
      17.   Building and fire code interpretations; and
      18.   Impact fee challenges;
   C.   Variances and applications for legal nonconformity, in which case the
administrative hearing officer conducts the sole administrative review on the
behalf of the city;
   D.   Business licensing decisions, including:
      1.   Denial of business licenses and permits;
      2.   Suspension or revocation of business licenses and permits;
      3.   Home occupation permits;
      4.   Regulatory fee challenges; and
      5.   Any decision rendered by the Business License Official having a
direct financial impact on the business owner;
   E.   Reasonable accommodations:
      1.   Related to land use barriers to individuals with disabilities;
      2.   Related to employees of the city; and
      3.   Related to public facilities;
   F.   Employee appeals, as provided in chapter
3-4 of this code;
   G.   Urban forestry orders; and
   H.   Administrative actions for which a right of appeal is indicated in this
code, and which is not designated as being appealed to another individual or
body. (Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
TITLE 4
JUSTICE COURT
CHAPTER 1
JUSTICE COURT
SECTION:
4-1-010: Justice Court; Contracted Services
4-1-010: JUSTICE COURT; CONTRACTED SERVICES:
Farmington City has entered into an interlocal cooperation agreement for
justice court services with Davis County whereby Davis County is authorized and
designated to provide justice court service, including criminal and small
claims matters, for the city. Any and all justice court services shall be
provided in accordance with the interlocal cooperation agreement for justice
court services entered into by the city and the county and in accordance with
all applicable provisions of state law. (Ord. 2007-17, 3-6-2007)
TITLE 5
REVENUE AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-010: Intent
5-1-020: Definitions
5-1-030: Budget Officer
5-1-040: Finance Director
5-1-050: City Treasurer
5-1-060: Unlawful Conduct
5-1-010: INTENT:
It is the purpose of this title to set forth accounting, budgeting and
financial reporting requirements and procedures of the city. It is the intent
of the city to comply with all applicable provisions of the uniform fiscal
procedures act for Utah cities, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-
6-101 et seq., as amended ("uniform fiscal procedures act"), and the uniform
accounting manual for Utah cities as prescribed by the state auditor ("uniform
accounting manual"). (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-1-020: DEFINITIONS:
To the extent used in this title, the words and phrases defined in Utah Code
Annotated section 10-6-106, as amended, shall have the meanings set forth
therein. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-1-030: BUDGET OFFICER:
The city manager is the budget officer of the city and shall perform all duties
required of such position as set forth in the uniform fiscal procedures act
and/or the uniform accounting manual. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-1-040: FINANCE DIRECTOR:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-157, as amended, the city has
created the position of finance director as set forth in title 3 of this code.
The finance director shall perform the financial duties of the city recorder as
set forth in the uniform fiscal procedures act and the financial administrative
duties of the director of finance as prescribed in the uniform accounting
manual. The finance director shall not assume the duties of the city treasurer.
(Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-1-050: CITY TREASURER:
The city treasurer shall perform such duties regarding revenue and finance
matters for the city as set forth in title 3 of this code and as otherwise set
forth herein and in the uniform fiscal procedures act and/or the uniform
accounting manual. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-1-060: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commingle city funds with his or her own
money and whenever it shall appear that the treasurer or any other officer is
making personal profit out of public money or is using the same for any purpose
not authorized by law, such officer shall be suspended from office and subject
to disciplinary proceedings, up to and including termination, in accordance
with the city's disciplinary procedures, as applicable. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-
2012)
CHAPTER 2
ACCOUNTS AND ACCOUNTING
SECTION:
5-2-010: Fiscal Period
5-2-020: Accounts
5-2-030: Accounting Records
5-2-040: Financial Reporting
5-2-050: Monthly And Quarterly Financial Reports
5-2-060: Annual Financial Reports
5-2-070: Independent Audit
5-2-010: FISCAL PERIOD:
The fiscal period is an annual period of accounting for fiscal operations of
the city which shall begin July 1 of each year and end June 30 of the following
year. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-2-020: ACCOUNTS:
The city shall maintain, according to its own accounting needs, funds and
account groups in its system of accounts as prescribed in the uniform
accounting manual. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-2-030: ACCOUNTING RECORDS:
Accounting records of the city shall be established and maintained, and
financial statements prepared from those records, in accordance with the
uniform accounting manual. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-2-040: FINANCIAL REPORTING:
The city shall comply with annual financial reporting and independent auditing
requirements as set forth in the uniform fiscal procedures act and the uniform
accounting manual. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-2-050: MONTHLY AND QUARTERLY FINANCIAL REPORTS:
The city finance director shall prepare and present to the city council monthly
summary financial reports and quarterly detail financial reports prepared in
the manner prescribed in the uniform accounting manual. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-
2012)
5-2-060: ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORTS:
Within one hundred eighty (180) days after the close of each fiscal period, the
city finance director shall present to the city council an annual financial
report prepared in the manner prescribed in the uniform accounting manual. Each
annual financial report shall contain the information required by Utah Code
Annotated section 10-6-150, as amended. The requirement under this section to
present an annual financial report may be satisfied by presentation of the
audit report furnished by an independent auditor if the financial statements
included are appropriately prepared and reviewed with the city council. Copies
of the annual financial report or audit report furnished by the independent
auditor shall be filed with the state auditor and shall be filed as a public
document in the office of the city recorder. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-2-070: INDEPENDENT AUDIT:
Independent audits of the city are required to be performed in conformity with
Utah Code Annotated title 51, chapter 2a, accounting reports from political
subdivisions, interlocal organizations, and other local entities act, as
amended. Within ten (10) days following the receipt of the audit report
furnished by the independent auditor, the city recorder shall prepare and
publish at least twice in a newspaper of general circulation published within
Davis County, and published in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 45-
1-101, as amended, a notice to the public that the audit of the city has been
completed. The city recorder shall make a copy of the notice available for
public inspection at the office of the city recorder and on the city's website.
(Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
CHAPTER 3
BUDGETS
SECTION:
5-3-010: Budgets
5-3-020: Tentative Budget
5-3-030: Budget Officer Estimates Expenditures/Revenue
5-3-040: Budget Message
5-3-050: Review Of Tentative Budget
5-3-060: Public Inspection
5-3-070: Notice And Public Hearing
5-3-080: Continuing Review
5-3-090: Final Budget
5-3-100: Filing And Public Inspection
5-3-110: Amendments To Budgets
5-3-120: Operating And Capital Budgets
5-3-130: Tentative Operating And Capital Budget
5-3-140: Budget Officer Estimates Capital Projects
5-3-150: Appropriations
5-3-160: Fund Balances
5-3-010: BUDGETS:
The budget officer, assisted by the finance director, shall prepare for each
budget period a budget for all required funds in accordance with applicable
provisions of the uniform fiscal procedures act and the uniform accounting
manual. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-3-020: TENTATIVE BUDGET:
The budget officer, assisted by the finance director, shall prepare for the
ensuing fiscal period, on forms provided or approved by the state auditor, and
file with the city council on or before the first regularly scheduled meeting
of the city council in May of each year, a tentative budget for each fund for
which a budget is required in accordance with applicable provisions of the
uniform fiscal procedures act and the uniform accounting manual. (Ord. 2012-30,
10-2-2012)
5-3-030: BUDGET OFFICER ESTIMATES EXPENDITURES/REVENUE:
   A.   Expenditures: The budget officer, assisted by the finance director,
shall estimate, on the basis of demonstrated need, the expenditures for the
budget year after a review of the budget requests and estimates of the
department heads. Each department head shall be heard by the budget officer
prior to making the final estimates, but the officer may revise any
department's estimates as the officer deems advisable for the purpose of
presenting the budget to the city council.
   B.   Revenue: The budget officer, assisted by the finance director, shall
estimate the amount of revenue available to serve the needs of each fund,
estimate the portion to be derived from all sources other than general property
taxes, and estimate the portion that must be derived from general property
taxes. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-3-040: BUDGET MESSAGE:
Each tentative budget filed by the budget officer with the city council shall
be accompanied by a budget message, which shall explain the budget, contain an
outline of the proposed financial policies of the city for the budget period,
and describe the important features of the budgetary plan. The budget message
shall also set forth the reasons for salient changes from the previous year in
appropriation and revenue items and shall explain any major changes in
financial policy. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-3-050: REVIEW OF TENTATIVE BUDGET:
The city council shall review, consider and adopt the tentative budget at any
regular or special meeting called for the purpose. The tentative budget may be
amended or revised in such manner as is deemed advisable prior to public
hearing; provided, that no appropriation required for debt retirement and
interest, reduction of any existing deficits, or otherwise required by law or
ordinance, may be reduced below the minimum required. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-3-060: PUBLIC INSPECTION:
The tentative budget adopted by the city council and all supporting schedules
and data shall be of public record filed in the office of the city recorder,
available for public inspection during regular business hours for a period of
at least ten (10) days prior to the adoption of a final budget. (Ord. 2012-30,
10-2-2012)
5-3-070: NOTICE AND PUBLIC HEARING:
At the meeting at which the tentative budget is adopted, the city council shall
establish the time and place of a public hearing to consider adoption of the
budget and shall order that notice thereof be published at least seven (7) days
prior to the hearing in at least one issue of a newspaper of general
circulation published in Davis County and on the Utah public notice website
created under Utah Code Annotated section 63F-1-701, as amended. The city
council shall hold a public hearing on the tentative budget at the time and
place advertised at which all interested persons in attendance shall be given
an opportunity to be heard, for or against, the estimates of revenue and
expenditures or any item in the tentative budget of any fund. (Ord. 2012-30,
10-2-2012)
5-3-080: CONTINUING REVIEW:
After the public hearing on the tentative budget, the city council may continue
to review the tentative budget and may insert new items or increase or decrease
items of expenditures that were the proper subject of consideration at the
public hearing; provided, that no appropriation required for debt retirement
and interest, reduction of any existing deficits, or otherwise required by law
or ordinance, may be reduced below the minimum required. The city council shall
increase or decrease the total anticipated revenue to equal the net change in
proposed expenditures in the budget of each fund. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-3-090: FINAL BUDGET:
The city council shall, by resolution, adopt a final budget for the ensuing
fiscal period for each fund for which a budget is required herein before June
22 of each fiscal period, or August 17 in the case of a property tax increase
under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 2, as amended. Upon final adoption,
the budgets shall be in effect for the budget period, subject to amendment.
(Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-3-100: FILING AND PUBLIC INSPECTION:
A copy of the final budget for each fund shall be certified by the budget
officer and filed with the state auditor within thirty (30) days after adoption
of the same by the city council. A certified copy of the final budget shall
also be filed with the city recorder and shall be available to the public for
inspection during regular business hours. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-3-110: AMENDMENTS TO BUDGETS:
The city council may, upon the written request of one of its members or upon
its own motion setting forth the reasons therefor, at any time during the
budget period, review the individual budgets of the funds of the city for the
purpose of determining if the total of any of them should be increased. If the
city council decides that the budget total of one or more of such funds should
be increased, it shall follow the public hearing procedures set forth in
section
5-3-060 of this chapter. After the public hearing, the city council, by
resolution, may amend the budgets of the funds proposed to be increased to make
the proposed increases or portions thereof which were the proper subject of
consideration at the hearing. Final amendments in the current period to the
budgets of any funds shall be adopted by the city council on or before the last
day of the fiscal period. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-3-120: OPERATING AND CAPITAL BUDGETS:
The city council shall adopt an "operating and capital budget" for each
enterprise fund for the ensuing fiscal period and shall adopt the type of
budget for other special funds as required by the uniform accounting manual.
For purposes of this chapter, "operating and capital budget" means a plan of
financial operation for an enterprise or other required special fund, that
includes estimates of operating resources, expenses and other outlays for a
fiscal period. All operating and capital budgets shall be prepared, adopted,
administered and amended in accordance with applicable procedures of the
uniform fiscal procedures act and the uniform accounting manual, including, but
not limited to, Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-135, as amended. (Ord. 2012-
30, 10-2-2012)
5-3-130: TENTATIVE OPERATING AND CAPITAL BUDGET:
The budget officer, with the assistance of the finance director, shall prepare
a tentative operating and capital budget for each enterprise fund and for other
required special funds for the ensuing fiscal period. The budget officer shall
file such budgets with the city council on or before the first regularly
scheduled meeting of the city council in May of each year. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-
2012)
5-3-140: BUDGET OFFICER ESTIMATES CAPITAL PROJECTS:
The budget officer, with the assistance of the finance director, shall prepare
estimates in cooperation with the appropriate department heads. Each department
head shall be heard by the budget officer before making final estimates, but
the budget officer may revise any department's estimates as the officer deems
advisable for the purpose of presenting the budget to the city council. The
city council may require each department head to submit a supplementary
estimate of all capital projects which the department head believes should be
undertaken within the next three (3) succeeding fiscal years. (Ord. 2012-30,
10-2-2012)
5-3-150: APPROPRIATIONS:
The city shall not make any appropriation in the final budget of any fund in
excess of the estimated expendable revenue for the budget period of such fund.
All unexpended or unencumbered appropriations, except capital projects fund
appropriations, shall lapse at the end of the budget period in accordance with
Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-130, as amended. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-3-160: FUND BALANCES:
   A.   All Funds: The city may accumulate retained earnings or fund balances,
as appropriate, in any fund in accordance with applicable provisions of the
uniform fiscal procedures act and the uniform accounting manual.
   B.   General Fund: Accumulated fund balances in the general fund are
restricted to purposes permitted by law. Any fund balance in excess of five
percent (5%) of the total revenues of the general fund may be utilized for
budget purposes. Except as otherwise provided in the uniform fiscal procedures
act or the uniform accounting manual, any accumulated fund balance in the
general fund may not exceed eighteen percent (18%) of the total estimated
revenue of the general fund. If the fund balance at the close of any fiscal
period exceeds the amount permitted herein, the excess shall be appropriated in
the manner provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-117, as amended.
   C.   Capital Improvement Fund: Within a capital improvement fund, the city
council may, in any budget period, appropriate from estimated revenue or fund
balance to a reserve for capital improvements for purposes set forth in the
uniform fiscal procedures act and the uniform accounting manual. (Ord. 2012-30,
10-2-2012)
CHAPTER 4
EXPENDITURES
SECTION:
5-4-010: Expenditures
5-4-020: Purchasing Procedures
5-4-030: Filing Of Bids
5-4-040: Emergency Expenditures
5-4-050: Transfer Of Appropriations Between Accounts
5-4-010: EXPENDITURES:
All expenditures by any department must conform with the department budget. No
appropriation may be encumbered and no expenditure may be made against any
department appropriation unless there is sufficient unencumbered balance in the
department's appropriation, except in the cases of emergency as provided in
this chapter or the uniform fiscal procedures act. City officers or employees
shall not make or incur expenditures or encumbrances in excess of total
appropriations for any department in the budget as adopted or subsequently
amended. Any obligation contracted by any such officer or employee shall not be
or become valid or enforceable against the city. No check or warrant to cover
any claim against any appropriation shall be drawn until the claim has been
processed as provided by the uniform fiscal procedures act. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-
2-2012)
5-4-020: PURCHASING PROCEDURES:
All purchases or encumbrances shall be made in accordance with the purchasing
procedures adopted by the city, including, but not limited to, the procurement
procedures adopted pursuant to title 3 of this code. All encumbrances reported
as outstanding as of the fiscal year end shall be supported by a purchase order
or some form of documentation authorizing expenditures issued on or before the
last day of the fiscal period and approved by the city. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-
2012)
5-4-030: FILING OF BIDS:
Whenever the city is required by state law to receive bids for purchases,
construction, repairs, or any other purpose requiring the expenditure of funds,
the city shall keep on file all bids received, together with proof of
advertisement by publication or otherwise, for at least three (3) years
following the letting of any contract pursuant to those bids or three (3) years
following the first advertisement for the bids, if all bids pursuant to that
advertisement are rejected pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-122, as
amended. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-4-040: EMERGENCY EXPENDITURES:
If the city council determines that an emergency exists, such as, but not
limited to, widespread damage from fire, wind, flood or earthquake, and that
the emergency necessitates the expenditure of money in excess of the budget of
the general fund, the city council may by resolution amend the budget and
authorize such expenditures and incur such deficits in the fund balance of the
general fund as may be reasonably necessary to meet the emergency. If the city
creates a local fund under Utah Code Annotated title 53, chapter 2, disaster
recovery funding act, the city shall expend monies for applicable emergencies
in accordance with the provisions of such act. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-4-050: TRANSFER OF APPROPRIATIONS BETWEEN ACCOUNTS:
Upon written consent of the budget officer, the head of any department may
transfer any unencumbered or unexpended appropriation balance or any portion
thereof from one expenditure account to another within the department during
the budget period; provided, the total of all excess expenditures or
encumbrances do not exceed total unused appropriations within the department at
the close of the budget period. Upon written consent of the budget officer, the
head of any department may permit an excess expenditure of one or more line
items, provided the total of all excess expenditures or encumbrances do not
exceed total unused appropriations within the department at the close of the
budget year. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
CHAPTER 5
PROPERTY TAX
SECTION:
5-5-010: Property Tax Levy
5-5-020: Computation Of Levy
5-5-030: Basis For Determining Levy
5-5-040: Apportionment Of Levy
5-5-010: PROPERTY TAX LEVY:
The city council shall by resolution set the real and personal property tax
levy for various municipal purposes before June 22 of each year, or August 17
in the case of a property tax rate increase under Utah Code Annotated title 59,
as amended; provided, the levy may be set at an appropriate later date with
approval of the state tax commission. The city recorder shall certify the
resolution setting the levy to the county auditor as required by state law.
(Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-5-020: COMPUTATION OF LEVY:
In computing the total levy, the city council shall determine the requirements
of each fund for which property taxes are to be levied and shall specify in its
resolution adopting the levy the amount apportioned to each fund. The combined
levies for all purposes in any year, excluding the retirement of general
obligation bonds and the payment of any interest, and taxes expressly
authorized by law to be levied in addition, may not exceed .007 per dollar of
taxable value of taxable property. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-5-030: BASIS FOR DETERMINING LEVY:
From the effective date of the budget or of any amendment enacted prior to the
date on which property taxes are levied, the amount stated therein as the
amount of estimated revenue from property taxes shall constitute the basis for
determining the property tax levy to be set by the city council for the
corresponding tax year, subject to the applicable limitations imposed by law.
(Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-5-040: APPORTIONMENT OF LEVY:
The proceeds of the levy apportioned for general fund purposes shall be
credited as revenue in the general fund. The proceeds of the levy apportioned
for special fund purposes shall be credited to the appropriate accounts in the
applicable special funds. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
CHAPTER 6
SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
5-6-010: Purpose
5-6-020: Sales Tax
5-6-030: Use Tax
5-6-040: Exemption From Tax
5-6-050: Tax Paid
5-6-060: Reserved
5-6-070: State Tax Collection Provisions
5-6-080: State Tax Commission Contract
5-6-090: Distribution Of Tax Revenue
5-6-100: Continuation Of Previous Ordinances
5-6-010: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide the city with an added source of
revenue to thereby assist the city in meeting its financial needs. The
provisions of this chapter are intended and shall be interpreted to be in
compliance with the local sales and use tax act, set forth at Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-201 et seq., as amended, and other applicable
provisions of state law. This chapter may be referred to as the SALES AND USE
TAX ORDINANCE OF THE CITY. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-6-020: SALES TAX:
There is hereby levied and there shall be collected and paid a tax upon every
transaction listed in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-103, as amended, made
within the city at the rate of one percent (1%) of the purchase price paid or
charged. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-6-030: USE TAX:
There is hereby levied and there shall be collected and paid an excise tax on
the storage, use or other consumption within the city of tangible personal
property or any items listed in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-103, as
amended, made within the city at the rate of one percent (1%) of the purchase
price paid or charged. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-6-040: EXEMPTION FROM TAX:
The city may not impose a tax under this chapter on sales and uses that are
exempt from taxation under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-104, as amended,
or 59-12-204, as amended, or any other exempt transactions required by law.
(Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-6-050: TAX PAID:
The amount of any tax paid under the state sales and use tax act, set forth at
Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-101 et seq., as amended, shall not be
included as a part of the purchase price paid or charged for a taxable item.
(Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-6-060: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-6-070: STATE TAX COLLECTION PROVISIONS:
The tax collection provisions set forth in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, tax collection, as amended, insofar as they relate to sales
and use taxes, are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though
fully set forth herein, except the name of the city as the taxing agency shall
be substituted for that of the state where necessary for the purposes of the
local sales and use tax, and an additional sales and use tax license is not
required if one has been or is issued under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-
106, as amended. Any amendments made to Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter
12, part 1, tax collection, which would be applicable to the city as set forth
herein, are incorporated herein by this reference and shall be effective upon
the date they are effective as a Utah statute. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-6-080: STATE TAX COMMISSION CONTRACT:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-202, as amended, the state tax
commission has been granted the exclusive authority to administer, operate and
enforce the local sales and use tax. The city has previously entered into an
agreement with the state tax commission for the commission to perform all
functions incident to the administration, operation and enforcement of the
sales and use tax ordinance of the city without interference from the city;
provided, that the city may be allowed to intervene in accordance with the
provisions and restrictions of Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-209, as
amended. That agreement is hereby confirmed and the mayor is hereby authorized
to enter into such supplementary agreement(s) with the state tax commission
which may be necessary for the continued administration, operation and
enforcement of the sales and use tax ordinance of the city. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-
2-2012)
5-6-090: DISTRIBUTION OF TAX REVENUE:
Sales and use tax revenues collected on transactions within the city shall be
collected and distributed by the state tax commission in accordance with
applicable provisions of state law. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-6-100: CONTINUATION OF PREVIOUS ORDINANCES:
The provisions of this chapter which are not in conflict with the former local
sales and use tax ordinances of the city shall be deemed to be a continuation
thereof and any rights, duties and obligations arising thereunder shall not in
any way be deemed abrogated or terminated. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
CHAPTER 7
TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE TAX
SECTION:
5-7-010: Purpose
5-7-015: Definitions
5-7-020: Levy Of Tax
5-7-030: Rate
5-7-040: Rate Limitation And Exemption
5-7-050: Effective Date Of Tax Levy
5-7-060: Interlocal Agreement For Collection Of Tax
5-7-070: Taxes Erroneously Recovered
5-7-080: Highway Management Fees
5-7-010: PURPOSE:
The Utah legislature adopted the municipal telecommunications license tax act,
as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-401 et seq., as amended,
authorizing municipalities to levy and cause to be collected from a
telecommunications provider a municipal telecommunications license tax on the
telecommunications provider's gross receipts from telecommunications service
that are attributable to the municipality. It is the city's intent to adopt and
levy a telecommunications license tax pursuant to and in accordance with
applicable provisions of the municipal telecommunications license tax act.
(Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-7-015: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the terms defined in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-
402, as amended, shall have the meanings set forth therein. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-
2-2012)
5-7-020: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied on telecommunications providers a municipal
telecommunications license tax on the telecommunications provider's gross
receipts from telecommunications service attributed to the city. (Ord. 2012-30,
10-2-2012)
5-7-030: RATE:
The rate of the municipal telecommunications license tax shall be three and
one-half percent (3.5%) of the telecommunications provider's gross receipts
from telecommunications service that are attributed to the city in accordance
with and subject to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-407, as
amended. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-7-040: RATE LIMITATION AND EXEMPTION:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-404, as amended, the Utah
telecommunications license tax act, the city is exempt from the statutory
limitation on the municipal telecommunications license tax rate if the
exemption from the limitation on the rate that may be imposed is approved by a
majority vote of the voters in the city that vote in:
   A.   A municipal general election;
   B.   A regular general election; or
   C.   A local special election. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-7-050: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX LEVY:
The telecommunications license tax imposed by this chapter shall be levied
beginning on July 1, 2007. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-7-060: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR COLLECTION OF TAX:
The city has previously entered into an interlocal agreement with the Utah
state tax commission as described in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-405, as
amended, for the collection, enforcement and administration of the municipal
telecommunications license tax. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-7-070: TAXES ERRONEOUSLY RECOVERED:
Pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-408, as amended,
a customer may not bring a cause of action against a telecommunications
provider on the basis that the telecommunications provider erroneously
recovered from the customer the municipal telecommunications license taxes
authorized by this chapter unless the customer meets the same requirements that
a purchaser is required to meet to bring a cause of action against a seller for
a refund or credit as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-110.1, as
amended. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-7-080: HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT FEES:
Nothing in this chapter shall restrict or affect the city's right to recover
from a telecommunications provider management costs for the maintenance of
public rights of way in accordance with the protection of highways act, as set
forth in Utah Code Annotated section 72-7-101 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 2012-
30, 10-2-2012)
CHAPTER 8
ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
5-8-010: Purpose
5-8-020: Definitions
5-8-030: Energy Sales And Use Tax
5-8-040: Exemptions From Energy Sales And Use Tax
5-8-050: Existing Franchise Agreements Not Affected; Credit For Franchise Fees
5-8-060: Collection Of Taxes By State Tax Commission
5-8-070: Incorporation Of State Code Tax Collection Provisions
5-8-080: Additional License For Collection Of Tax Not Required
5-8-010: PURPOSE:
The Utah legislature adopted the municipal energy sales and use tax act, as set
forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-301 et seq., in part to provide a
stable revenue source for municipalities and to create a more competitive
environment for the energy industry. It is the city's intent to adopt a
municipal energy sales and use tax pursuant to, and in conformance with, the
municipal energy sales and use tax act. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-8-020: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the terms defined in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-
303, as amended, shall have the meanings set forth therein. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-
2-2012)
5-8-030: ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX:
There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this chapter, a municipal
energy sales and use tax on the sale or use of taxable energy within Farmington
City at the rate of six percent (6%) of the delivered value of the taxable
energy to the consumer. This tax shall be known as the energy sales and use
tax.
   A.   The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the taxable
energy to the consumer.
   B.   The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax on taxable energy
imposed by Farmington City or by the state of Utah. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-8-040: EXEMPTIONS FROM ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX:
An exemption from the energy sales and use tax is provided for the sale or use
of taxable energy that is specifically exempt under Utah Code Annotated
sections 10-1-304 and 10-1-305, as amended. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-8-050: EXISTING FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS NOT AFFECTED; CREDIT FOR FRANCHISE FEES:
   A.   This chapter shall not alter or affect the validity of any existing or
future franchise agreements between the city and energy suppliers. Any such
franchise agreements shall be subject to and comply with applicable provisions
of Utah Code Annotated sections 10-1-203, 10-1-305 and 10-1-310, as amended.
   B.   The city may continue to collect a contractual franchise fee from an
energy supplier pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on July 1, 1997, at
the same rate for the remaining term of the franchise agreement; provided, the
city shall provide a credit against the energy sales and use tax in the amount
of the contractual franchise fee paid by the energy supplier in accordance with
the terms and conditions of Utah Code Annotated sections 10-1-203, 10-1-305 and
10-1-310, as amended. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-8-060: COLLECTION OF TAXES BY STATE TAX COMMISSION:
The city has contracted with the state tax commission to perform all functions
incident to the administration and collection of the energy sales and use tax,
in accordance with this chapter. The city may enter into such supplementary
agreements with the state tax commission as may be necessary and proper for the
continued administration and operation of the energy sales and use tax
ordinance enacted by this chapter. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-8-070: INCORPORATION OF STATE CODE TAX COLLECTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   The state tax commission shall collect, enforce and administer the
municipal energy sales and use tax according to the procedures established in
Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 1, general taxation policies, and chapter
12, part 1, tax collection (excluding sections 59-12-107.1 and 59-12-123), as
amended. Said provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1,
tax collection, and any amendments thereto, are hereby adopted and incorporated
by reference as a part of this title. This adoption and incorporation by
reference shall include any amendments to those provisions that relate to the
levying or collecting of a municipal energy sales and use tax.
   B.   The name of Farmington City shall be substituted for all references to
the "taxing agency" in Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, which
are intended to refer to the state of Utah, insofar as it is necessary to carry
out the purposes of that part, as well as provisions of the municipal energy
sales and use tax act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-301 et
seq., as amended. However, nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to
require substitution of the name of Farmington City for the word "state" when
that word is used as part of the title of the state tax commission, or of the
constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of Farmington City be substituted for
that of the state in any section when the result of such substitution would
require action to be taken by or against Farmington City or any agency thereof
rather than by or against the state tax commission in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-
2-2012)
5-8-080: ADDITIONAL LICENSE FOR COLLECTION OF TAX NOT REQUIRED:
No additional license to collect the energy sales and use tax levied by this
chapter is required if one has been issued under Utah Code Annotated section
59-4-106, as amended. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
CHAPTER 9
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
SECTION:
5-9-010: Purpose
5-9-020: Definitions
5-9-030: Transient Room Tax Imposed
5-9-040: Reserved
5-9-050: Collection Of Tax By State Tax Commission
5-9-060: Effective Date
5-9-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to enact a municipal transient room tax pursuant
to Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-352 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 2012-30,
10-2-2012)
5-9-020: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the terms defined in Utah Code Annotated section 59-
12-102, as amended, shall have the meanings set forth therein. (Ord. 2012-30,
10-2-2012)
5-9-030: TRANSIENT ROOM TAX IMPOSED:
Pursuant to authority set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-352, as
amended, there is hereby imposed a transient room tax of one percent (1%) on
charges for the accommodations and services described in Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-103(1)(i), as amended. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-9-040: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-9-050: COLLECTION OF TAX BY STATE TAX COMMISSION:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-354, as amended, the state tax
commission is authorized to administer, collect and enforce the municipal
transient room tax in accordance with procedures set forth in Utah Code
Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, tax collection, or chapter 12, part 2,
local sales and use tax act, and chapter 1, general taxation policies, as
amended. The state tax commission shall distribute the revenues collected from
the tax to the municipality within which the revenues were collected, subject
to an administrative charge authorized pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section
59-1-306, as amended. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
5-9-060: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This tax shall take effect on the first day of the calendar quarter beginning
at least ninety (90) days after the date on which the tax commission received
notice pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-355 that the city has
enacted this ordinance. (Ord. 2012-30, 10-2-2012)
CHAPTER 10
RECREATIONAL, ARTS AND PARKS (RAP) TAX
SECTION:
5-10-010: Purpose
5-10-020: Compliance
5-10-030: Recreational, Arts And Parks (RAP) Tax
5-10-040: Collection
5-10-050: Use Of Funds
5-10-060: Distribution Of Funds
5-10-070: Effective Date
5-10-010: PURPOSE:
Farmington City submitted a ballot proposition to the residents of the city at
the municipal general election held on November 4, 2014, providing each
resident an opportunity to vote on the imposition of a local sales and use tax
of one-tenth of one percent (0.10%) on certain qualifying transactions within
the city to fund a recreation center and other recreational and cultural
facilities and organizations within the community. A majority of the city's
registered voters voting on the opinion question voted in favor of imposing the
RAP tax. The purpose of this chapter is to impose the RAP tax as approved by
Farmington City voters and to provide for the collection and distribution of
the revenues generated by the RAP tax. (Ord. 2014-37, 12-2-2014)
5-10-020: COMPLIANCE:
It is the intent of the city to comply will all applicable provisions and
restrictions set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-1401 et seq., as
amended, regarding local option sales and use tax to fund recreational and
zoological facilities and botanical, cultural and zoological organizations.
(Ord. 2014-37, 12-2-2014)
5-10-030: RECREATIONAL, ARTS AND PARKS (RAP) TAX:
There is hereby levied a local option sales and use tax on qualifying taxable
transactions within Farmington City at the rate of one-tenth of one percent
(0.10%). This tax shall be known as the recreational, arts and parks (RAP) tax.
The RAP tax may be levied for a period of ten (10) years and may be
reauthorized at the end of the ten (10) year period in accordance with
applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-1402, as amended.
(Ord. 2014-37, 12-2-2014)
5-10-040: COLLECTION:
The RAP tax shall be administered, collected and enforced in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, parts 1
and 2, as amended, regarding tax collection and local sales and use tax act
(excluding subsections 59-12-205(2) through (7)), and chapter 1, of the same,
as amended, regarding general taxation policies. (Ord. 2014-37, 12-2-2014)
5-10-050: USE OF FUNDS:
The monies generated from the RAP tax shall be used for financing recreational
and cultural facilities within the city, providing for recreational or cultural
facilities; for ongoing operating expenses of cultural organizations within the
city and providing for the support of cultural organizations; and for any other
eligible facilities or organizations provided by law. (Ord. 2014-37, 12-2-2014)
5-10-060: DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS:
The city council has determined that the primary portion of the funds generated
by the RAP tax shall be utilized for the financing of a recreation center and
for ongoing operating expenses of such facility and/or organizations providing
support for the recreation center. Any funds generated by the RAP tax and not
used for the establishment and ongoing operating expenses of the recreation
center may be used for qualifying facilities and organizations approved by the
city council. (Ord. 2014-37, 12-2-2014)
5-10-070: EFFECTIVE DATE:
Except as otherwise provided by law for billing cycle transactions and catalog
sales, the enactment and imposition of the RAP tax shall take effect on the
first day of the calendar quarter following a ninety (90) day waiting period
beginning on the date the Utah state tax commission receives notice from the
city regarding its creation of the RAP tax in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-1402(5)(b), as amended. Pursuant to such provisions,
the Farmington City RAP tax shall take effect on April 1, 2015. (Ord. 2014-37,
12-2-2014)
CHAPTER 11
IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
5-11-010: Findings And Purpose
5-11-020: Definitions
5-11-030: Calculation And Administration
5-11-040: Service Areas
5-11-050: Timing Of Payment Of Fees
5-11-060: Use Of Fees
5-11-070: Adjustments And Credits
5-11-080: Accounting, Expenditure And Refund
5-11-090: Impact Fee Challenges And Appeals
5-11-010: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The City Council of Farmington City hereby declares that the City will
impose impact fees on development activity in accordance with the provisions of
the Utah Impact Fees Act and the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The City Council finds and determines that there is a need for certain
public facilities to serve new development activity within the City which
facilities have not been constructed and must be constructed in conformance
with the Impact Fees Act of the state of Utah to protect public health, safety
and welfare. The public facilities are needed for the following categories of
improvements:
      1.   Water system improvements;
      2.   Transportation system improvements;
      3.   Storm drainage system improvements;
      4.   Police facilities;
      5.   Fire apparatus;
      6.   Fire facilities; and
      7.   Parks and recreation facilities.
   C.   Continuing growth within the City requires the imposition and
collection of impact fees to assure that the costs associated with the impact
of new growth are equitably assessed. (Ord. 2022-37, 7-5-2022)
5-11-020: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise stated, the terms used in this chapter shall have the same
meaning as set forth in the Impact Fees Act, Utah Code Annotated sections 11-
36a-101, et seq. (Ord. 2022-37, 7-5-2022)
5-11-030: CALCULATION AND ADMINISTRATION:
Impact fees imposed by the City shall be calculated and administrated in
accordance with the Impact Fees Act. (Ord. 2022-37, 7-5-2022)
5-11-040: SERVICE AREAS:
The City Council may adopt separate service areas for any category of impact
fee where it determines that the adoption of such service areas is necessary to
equitably allocate the cost of public facilities to serve new growth. (Ord.
2022-37, 7-5-2022)
5-11-050: TIMING OF PAYMENT OF FEES:
Impact fees for the declared categories of public improvements shall be
collected at those times as may be set forth in the rules, regulations or
resolutions of the City. (Ord. 2022-37, 7-5-2022)
5-11-060: USE OF FEES:
Collected impact fees shall be used solely to:
   A.   Pay for described system improvements to be constructed by the city or
caused to be constructed by the City;
   B.   For reimbursing the City for the development's share of those system
improvements already constructed by the District;
   C.   For reimbursing developers who have constructed system improvements
where such facilities were beyond the project improvements needed for the
developer's project(s); and
   D.   For debt service incurred for system improvements. (Ord. 2022-37, 7-5-
2022)
5-11-070: ADJUSTMENTS AND CREDITS:
The City may, upon proper showing, adjust the impact fee at the time the fee is
charged to:
   A.   Respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases;
   B.   Ensure that impact fees are imposed fairly;
   C.   Allow credits pursuant to this chapter;
   D.   Adjust the amount of the fee based upon studies and data submitted by
the developer which are approved by the City after review of the same;
   E.   Allow credits as approved by the City for dedication of land,
improvement to, or new construction of public facilities providing service to
the City at large, provided such facilities are identified in the Impact Fee
Facilities Plan for the appropriate category of improvement and are required by
the City as a condition of approving the development activity, however, no
credit shall be given for project improvements as defined by the Impact Fees
Act. (Ord. 2022-37, 7-5-2022)
5-11-080: ACCOUNTING, EXPENDITURE AND REFUND:
The City shall account for, expend and refund impact fees in accordance with
the provisions of the Impact Fees Act. (Ord. 2022-37, 7-5-2022)
5-11-090: IMPACT FEE CHALLENGES AND APPEALS:
Any challenge to the fees imposed by the City shall comply with the provisions
of Utah Code Annotated sections 11-36a-701, et seq., as amended. Administrative
appeals of the impact fees imposed by the City shall follow the procedures of
this section and chapter 3-7 of this code.
   A.   Within the time limits established in section 11-36a-702 of the Utah
Code, any person or entity who has paid the fee and wishes to challenge the fee
shall file a written appeal with the City by delivering a copy of such appeal
to the City Recorder, setting forth, in detail, all grounds for the appeal and
all facts relied upon by the appealing party with respect to the fees appealed.
   B.   Upon receipt of the appeal, the City shall schedule a hearing on the
appeal before the administrative hearing officer at which time the appeal will
be heard. The administrative hearing officer shall render its decision on the
appeal within thirty (30) days of the filing of the appeal. (Ord. 2022-37, 7-5-
2022; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
TITLE 6
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-010: Definitions
6-1-020: Business License Required
6-1-025: Temporary Business License Required
6-1-026: Home Occupation Business License
6-1-027: Property Owners' Associations
6-1-030: Business License Official; Duties And Responsibilities
6-1-040: License Application Requirements
6-1-050: Issuance Of Business License
6-1-060: Renewals Of Business Licenses
6-1-070: Inspections
6-1-080: Payment Dates Of Business License Fees
6-1-090: Term Of Business Licenses
6-1-100: License Transfer Of Name Or Location Or Duplicate; Fee
6-1-110: License Transfer To Other Persons Prohibited
6-1-120: License Posting And Display Required
6-1-125: Misuse Of License Certificates
6-1-126: Duplicate Certificate Of License
6-1-130: Reciprocal Recognition Of Business Licenses
6-1-140: Constructive Notice Of Time Periods
6-1-150: Penalty
6-1-160: Closure Of Business
6-1-010: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, the following terms shall have the meanings
herein prescribed unless a different meaning is clearly intended:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSES: Off premises beer retailer, on premises beer
retailer - restaurant, temporary special event and dining club, as specified in
section
6-5-030 of this title.
APPLICANT: Any person applying for any license provided for in this title. If
the person is a partnership or corporation, then each partner, officer or
director is considered an applicant and must qualify accordingly.
APPLICATION: A formal written request for the issuance of any license permitted
under this title.
AUTHORIZED OFFICERS: Those persons authorized by the city or other entities to
inspect businesses and enforce the provisions of this title or other applicable
regulations, including peace officers, ordinance enforcement officers, and
employees of the health department, fire department or city attorney's office.
BUSINESS: Means and includes all trades, occupations, professions or activities
engaged within Farmington City, carried on for the purpose of gain or economic
profit, except that the acts of employees rendering service to employers shall
not be included in the term "business" unless otherwise specifically provided.
BUSINESS LICENSE OFFICIAL OR LICENSING OFFICER: The city recorder of Farmington
City or his or her designee.
CITY: Farmington City.
CITY RECORDER: The Farmington City recorder.
CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE: The schedule of fees adopted each year by resolution
of the Farmington City council setting forth the various fees charged by the
city.
EMPLOYEE: All individuals who work for an employer for salary or commission or
wages and who are subject to the direction and control of such employer.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Includes, but is not limited to, the sale of real or
personal property at retail or wholesale, the bartering or trading of property
or services, the manufacturing of goods or property and the rendering of
personal services for others for consideration by persons engaged in any
profession, trade, craft, business, occupation or other calling, except the
rendering of personal services by an employee to his employer under any
contract of personal employment.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: The Farmington City fire department.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Davis County health department.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any business activity entered into for profit and conducted or
operated from or in any residential premises within the city except for the
following activities which shall be deemed exempt from the requirements of this
chapter. City residents age eighteen (18) or under who sell goods or services,
temporary neighborhood sales such as garage sales, Christmas boutiques, etc.
(not more than 4 times a year with each event lasting not more than 72 hours);
sales by invitation to private home parties; childcare involving four (4) or
less children other than immediate family members; and Farmington City
community/neighborhood fundraisers. Other exemptions may be allowed or
disallowed as specifically approved by the city council. Each of the above
referenced exemptions is conditional upon compliance with all applicable zoning
ordinances of the city and other applicable city ordinances.
LICENSEE: The person who has obtained any type of license provided for in this
title. The term shall also include any employee or agent of the licensee.
MOBILE BUSINESS: A portable structure, including vehicles, without a permanent
foundation, from which goods or merchandise are sold or where a service is
provided.
PERSON: Any individual, receiver, assignee, trustee in bankruptcy, trust,
estate, firm, copartnership, joint venture, club, company, joint stock company,
business trust, corporation, association, society or other group of individuals
acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or
otherwise.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate location maintained or operated by the
licensee, whether or not under the same name, within the city from which
business is engaged.
SOLICITOR: A person engaged in soliciting residents at their residences.
TEMPORARY BUSINESS: An entity conducting business within the city boundaries
under a temporary business license. Where a licensee owns multiple businesses,
the term applies to each separate business operating within the city regardless
of whether the licensee's businesses operate under the same name.
VIOLATED OR VIOLATING: That there exists reasonable cause to believe that any
ordinance, code, statute or law has been or is being violated and is not
limited to guilty pleas or convictions for violating said ordinances, codes,
statutes or laws. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
6-1-020: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in any business within the city without first having obtained a business
license pursuant to this title or to continue doing business after a previously
issued business license has expired without renewing said license and paying
any applicable fees and penalties.
   B.   Mobile businesses are subject to this requirement to obtain a business
license, except as provided in this chapter. A separate license shall be
required for each vehicle, trailer, cart, or mobile structure. Each day of
noncompliance shall constitute a separate violation.
      1.   Exception: A business which meets the definition of a mobile
business such as a food truck under Utah law is not required to obtain a
Farmington City license if it has previously received the necessary health and
fire inspections and is licensed with another jurisdiction within the State of
Utah in accordance with Chapter 11-56 of the Utah State Code.
      2.   Unless operating at a private event, all mobile businesses must
operate in zones where the business activity is permitted and with permission
of the property owner or representative. Unless approved as part of special
event permit by Farmington City, mobile businesses shall not operate in the
public right of way or on Farmington City property.
   C.   Low-impact Home Occupations: A home occupation business whose combined
offsite impact of the home-based business and the primary residential unit does
not exceed the offsite impact of the primary residential unit alone is not
required to obtain a business license in accordance with Utah State Code 10-1-
203 (7) but may voluntarily obtain one.
   D.   Businesses operated only occasionally and by an individual who is under
eighteen years old are not required to obtain a business license. (Ord. 2014-
38, 12-2-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-22, 4-4-2023)
6-1-025: TEMPORARY BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
Unless otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any
temporary business within the city without first obtaining a temporary business
license pursuant to this title, obtaining a temporary use permit and/or
conditional use permit pursuant to section
11-28-120 of this code, and where required, paying any and all applicable fees.
A separate license shall be required for each location of business. Each day of
noncompliance shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-1-026: HOME OCCUPATION BUSINESS LICENSE:
   A.   Applicants for a license required by this chapter for a home occupation
business must complete a "home occupation license application". All
applications shall comply with the provisions of section
6-1-010 of this chapter, definition of "home occupation", and with the
pertinent provisions of title 11, chapter 35 of this code prior to being
approved.
   B.   License fees for home occupations shall be assessed in accordance with
the business license fee schedule adopted by resolution of the city council.
   C.   A home occupation business license holder which will not have customers
at their home may request to have a current and valid non-physical address,
such as a post office box, listed on their business license, so long as the
license holder also provides their home address to the business license
official. Home addresses provided for home occupation businesses under this
subsection shall be classified as private under Utah law.
   D.   For a home occupation business license described in subsection
6-1-026(C) of this code, the business license official may provide the non-
physical address on the business license, which shall satisfy subsection
6-1-050(E)(6) of this code. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. Ord. 2025-06, 1-21-
2025)
6-1-027: PROPERTY OWNERS' ASSOCIATIONS:
All owners' associations or property owners' associations or similar entities
or associations having responsibility for maintenance of common areas or common
landscaping shall register with the city, providing a contact person's name,
address and phone number, and the names and addresses of all board members.
Registration shall be renewed annually at the beginning of the calendar year.
(Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-57, 9-19-2023)
6-1-030: BUSINESS LICENSE OFFICIAL; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
It shall be the duty and responsibility of the business license official to:
   A.   Enforce the provisions of this title;
   B.   Collect all business license fees and all regulatory license fees;
   C.   Process all applications and renewals of all licenses provided for in
this title;
   D.   Obtain any necessary approvals from the various city departments and
divisions before issuing any business licenses or regulatory licenses; and
   E.   Deny, suspend or revoke licenses as provided in chapter 3 of this
title. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-1-040: LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application: Applications for licenses and permits required by this
title shall be made in writing to the license official in the absence of
provisions to the contrary, which applications shall be made upon forms
provided by the city. The application shall show:
      1.   The name of the person desiring a license;
      2.   Contact information for:
         a.   Primary contact of the business to include name, phone number,
email, mailing address;
         b.   Additional contact information for after -hours or local
personnel to include name, phone number, email, mailing address. Such
information shall be designated as private records if they are different from
the information provided in subsection (2)(a);
      3.   The kind of license desired, stating the business, calling, trade or
profession to be performed, practiced or carried on;
      4.   Proof of active registration with the State of Utah Department of
Corporations if any of the following apply to the business:
         a.   It uses a DBA;
         b.   It is an established limited liability corporation, partnership
or any corporate type of business other than a sole proprietorship;
      5.   Proof of any active license(s), permits or certifications required
by the Utah division of occupational and professional licensing for necessary
positions or functions occurring within the business;;
      6.   If there will be activity or sales which require charging customers
sales tax, proof of active sales tax ID with an outlet directed to Farmington
City;
      7.   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
carried on, giving the street number, if such business, calling, trade or
profession is to be carried on in any building or enclosure (a post office box
is insufficient to satisfy this requirement);
      8.   Anticipated opening date of the business.
      9.   For temporary licenses, the period of time for which such license is
desired to be issued;
      10.   That the proposed use of any premises by the applicant will not be
in violation of city zoning regulations, that the principals of the applicant's
business are properly bonded if bonding is required, and that the applicant
will otherwise be in full compliance with all applicable city, state and
federal laws and ordinances;
      11.   Such additional information as may reasonably be required by the
city as needed for the proper guidance of city officials in issuing the permit
or license applied for.
   B.   Attestation: The truthfulness, completeness and accuracy of all
information provided by applicant shall be attested to by an authorized
representative of the business.
   C.   Failure To Provide Information; Providing False or Misleading
Information: Failure to provide all required information or providing false or
misleading information in the application shall constitute grounds for denial
of the application, or revocation of a permit or license which was granted in
reliance on the information provided, and shall constitute a class B
misdemeanor, if such is done willfully with the intent to mislead the city.
(Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-22, 4-4-2023)
6-1-050: ISSUANCE OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
   A.   Applicant Requirements: An applicant for a business license shall fill
out the application in full and sign it as verification, under penalty of law,
that all information contained therein is true.
   B.   Submittal; Fees: The application shall be returned to the business
license official, along with full payment of all business license fees.
   C.   Review: If required by separate ordinance, the business license
official shall submit copies to other departments, divisions or agencies of the
city for their review.
   D.   Certificate Of License: Upon receipt of signed, written approvals from
all required departments, divisions and/or agencies, the business license
official shall be authorized to prepare a certificate of license for issuance.
   E.   Information In Certificate: The certificate of license shall be signed
by the city recorder or his or her designee and shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The person's name to whom the certificate is issued;
      2.   The business name;
      3.   The type of business licensed;
      4.   The date the license was issued;
      5.   The expiration date of the license;
      6.   The address of the place of business licensed; and
      7.   The business license number. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-1-060: RENEWALS OF BUSINESS LICENSES:
   A.   Application; Fees; Submittal: Each year, licensees shall renew their
business licenses by completing an application for a license renewal signed
under penalty of law that all information contained therein is true and
returning it, along with the proper fees, to the business license official
within the time period set forth in subsection 6-1-080B of this chapter.
Renewal applications for businesses which require police checks of the
licensees under the original license application shall be submitted to the
police department to determine whether the licensee still meets the necessary
qualifications.
   B.   Certificate Of License: Upon receipt of the application fees, and
police department approval, if applicable, the business license official shall
be authorized to prepare a certificate of license as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-1-070: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Authorized: Authorized officials of the city shall be permitted to make
an inspection to enforce any of the provisions of this title or any other
applicable statute or ordinance, and may enter any building or may enter upon
any premises during regular business hours; or, if there are no regular
business hours, the officials or their authorized representatives shall first
make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or
control of the building or premises and request entry.
   B.   Failure To Permit Entry: No owner, occupant or any other person having
charge, care or control of any building or premises shall fail or neglect,
after proper request is made as herein provided, to properly permit entry
therein by the authorized official or his representative(s) for the purpose of
inspection and examination to ensure compliance with this title.
   C.   Vehicle Inspection: Authorized officials may also, at any reasonable
time, stop and inspect any vehicle for which a business license is required and
demand the exhibition of such license for the current term from any person
engaged in the operation of such a vehicle. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-1-080: PAYMENT DATES OF BUSINESS LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Upon Submittal Of Application: Business license fees for new businesses
shall be due and payable upon making application to the business license
official. The application shall not be processed until the fee is paid.
   B.   Renewal: Business license fees for renewal businesses shall be due and
payable on or before January 1 each year. If the license is not paid or
postmarked by January 31, a fifty percent (50%) penalty of the amount of the
fee shall be added to the original amount due. If the fee is still not paid or
postmarked by the last day of February, a seventy five percent (75%) penalty of
the amount of the fee shall be added to the original amount due. If the fee is
still not paid or postmarked by March 31, a one hundred percent (100%) penalty
of the amount of the fee shall be added to the original amount.
   C.   Appeal Of Penalty Fees: Penalty fees may be appealed to the city
manager, who may, for good cause shown, refund all or part of the applicable
penalty fee that has been paid. The decision of the city manager may be
appealed to the city council as set forth in chapter 3 of this title. The city
council may, upon good cause, recommend that all or part of the penalty fee be
refunded. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-1-090: TERM OF BUSINESS LICENSES:
All business licenses, except solicitor licenses, firework sales, requested
home business, and temporary businesses shall expire each year on December 31.
License periods for new businesses shall begin the date the application is
approved and run until December 31 of the year of application. One-half (1/2)
of the annual fee shall be payable for all licenses issued by the city after
June 30 of each year. Business which apply for a license during the month of
December, upon approval, shall be granted a license that is active until the
end of the following calendar year. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-
22, 4-4-2023; Ord. 2023-58, 9-19-2023)
6-1-100: LICENSE TRANSFER OF NAME OR LOCATION OR DUPLICATE; FEE:
   A.   Transfer Application: Any person to whom a business license has been
issued to transact or carry on some business, calling, trade or profession at a
definite location in the city may make application for the transfer of his/her
business license for the sole purpose of transacting or carrying on the same
business, calling, trade or profession as is therein mentioned at some other
definite location in the city by himself or herself by filing said application
with the license official, together with the appropriate fee for such
application as set forth in the city's consolidated fee schedule.
   B.   Name Change: Any person who wishes to change his/her business name
shall also make application for the change of name of such person's business
license, for the sole purpose of transacting or carrying on the same business,
calling, trade or profession as is therein mentioned under a new name, by
filing an application with the license official, along with the appropriate fee
for such application, as set forth in the city's consolidated fee schedule. The
transfer fee may be waived if the name changes at the time of renewal.
   C.   Additional Licenses: If the business in question has any other licenses
which are required under this title, or its successor, the city may specify a
different fee for a location or name change.
   D.   Nonrefundable: The transfer fee shall be nonrefundable regardless of
whether the application is granted or denied. The city manager, after receiving
reports which shall be furnished by the license official, the police department
or the board of health, when necessary, may in his/her discretion, deny or
grant the transfer of any or all of said licenses strictly within the above
limitations. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-1-110: LICENSE TRANSFER TO OTHER PERSONS PROHIBITED:
No license granted or issued under any of the provisions of any ordinance of
the city shall be in any manner assignable, transferable or authorize any
person other than the person named therein as the licensee to carry on or
conduct the licensed business, except as may be otherwise specifically provided
by ordinance. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-1-120: LICENSE POSTING AND DISPLAY REQUIRED:
Every certificate of license issued shall be posted by the licensee in a
conspicuous place upon the wall of the building, room or office of the store or
place in which such licensed business, calling, trade or profession is carried
on, so that the same may be easily seen. When such certificate of license shall
have expired it shall be removed by the licensee from such place in which it
has been posted; and no certificate of license which is not in force and effect
shall be permitted to remain posted upon the wall or any part of any room,
store, office or place of business after the period of such certificate or
license has expired. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-1-125: MISUSE OF LICENSE CERTIFICATES:
It shall be unlawful to counterfeit a license certificate or to deface or
mutilate or remove the same while it is required to be posted. (Ord. 2014-38,
12-2-2014)
6-1-126: DUPLICATE CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE:
A duplicate license may be issued under the provisions of this title for a
certificate that has been lost or destroyed upon the licensee filing an
affidavit attesting to such fact and paying to the license official a duplicate
license fee as set forth in the city's consolidated fee schedule. (Ord. 2014-
38, 12-2-2014)
6-1-130: RECIPROCAL RECOGNITION OF BUSINESS LICENSES:
   A.   Vehicles And Equipment: A business license shall not be required for
operation of any vehicle or equipment in the city when:
      1.   Such vehicle is merely passing through the city; or
      2.   Such vehicle is used exclusively in interstate commerce.
   B.   Delivery Businesses: A business license shall not be required of any
person whose only business activity in the city is the mere delivery in the
city of property sold by him at a regular place of business maintained by him
outside the city where:
      1.   Such person's business is at the time of such delivery licensed by
the Utah city or county in which such place of business is situated; and
      2.   The authority licensing such business grants to licensees of the
city making deliveries within its jurisdiction the same privileges, upon
substantially the same terms as are granted by this section; and
      3.   Neither the property delivered nor any of the facilities by which it
was manufactured, produced or processed are subject to inspection by authority
of the city for compliance with health or sanitary standards prescribed by the
city; and
      4.   The truck or other conveyance by which such delivery is made
prominently displays at all times a license plate or symbol issued by the
licensing authority to evidence such business license. Such plate or symbol
shall identify the licensing authority by which it is issued, shall indicate
that it evidences a license issued thereby, and shall specify the year or term
for which it is effective.
   C.   Licensed In Other Agency: Except as otherwise provided herein, a
business license shall not be required of any person who is duly licensed in
another county or another city in Utah, has no business location in the city
and the county or other licensing city would also reciprocate if the same
business were located in the city.
      1.   Before reciprocity is granted, the person must fill out a business
license application and show proof of a valid business license in a qualifying
city or county.
      2.   Reciprocity shall not be granted to solicitors, mobile food units or
any business requiring police checks or police identification cards.
   D.   Certified Copies: The city recorder shall, at the request of any
person, upon payment of copying and postage costs, certify a copy of this
section to any city or county of the state of Utah. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-1-140: CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE OF TIME PERIODS:
   A.   Duty To Be Aware: All businesses, owners, licensees or applicants are
obligated to be aware of and are deemed to have constructive notice of all time
periods and/or deadlines and the effect of noncompliance with said time periods
and/or deadlines as set forth in this title relating to the application,
issuance, renewal, expiration, appeal or other action relating to business
licenses, alcohol licenses or any other licensing matters set forth in this
title.
   B.   No Obligation Of City: Nothing in this title shall be construed as
requiring the city to take any affirmative action to notify businesses, owners,
licensees or applicants of any time periods and/or deadlines or the effect of
noncompliance with said time periods and/or deadlines set forth in this title
relating to the application, issuance, renewal, expiration, appeal or other
action relating to business licenses, alcohol licenses, or any other licensing
matters as set forth in this title. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-1-150: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any violations of this title shall be a class B
misdemeanor.
   B.   Separate Offense: Each day of noncompliance shall constitute a separate
violation. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-1-160: CLOSURE OF BUSINESS:
A business must notify the city in writing if they are closing. The notice
should specify the date of closure and must be filed with the city within
thirty (30) days of closure. If a business does not notify the city of closure
and would like to reopen within one year of their last license expiration date,
they must pay any past due fees and penalties. If a business has not notified
the city of closure and applies for a new business license at the same address,
providing the same services, within one year of their license expiration date,
then the application will be considered a renewal and all past due fees and
penalties must be paid. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
CHAPTER 2
ASSESSMENTS AND LICENSE FEES
SECTION:
6-2-010: Definitions
6-2-020: Provisions As Regulatory Measure
6-2-030: License Fee Required To Do Business
6-2-040: License Fee Not Required When
6-2-050: License Fee Additional To All Regulatory Licenses
6-2-055: Board Of Equalization
6-2-060: Fee; No Undue Burden On Interstate Commerce
6-2-070: License Fees Levied
6-2-080: Joint Licenses
6-2-090: Branch Establishments
6-2-100: License Fees; Debt To City; Collection
6-2-110: Fees; Delinquent Payments; Penalty
6-2-120: Information Not To Be Made Public
6-2-130: Recordkeeping Required
6-2-140: Filing False Return Prohibited
6-2-010: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
herein prescribed:
BUSINESS: Means and includes all activities engaged in within the corporate
limits of Farmington City carried on for the business of gain or economic
profit, except that the acts of employees rendering service to employers shall
not be included in the term "business" unless otherwise specifically
prescribed.
EMPLOYEE: The operator, owner or manager of said place of business and any
persons employed by such person in the operation of the place of business in
any capacity, and also any salesman, agent or independent contractor engaged in
the operation of said place of business in any capacity.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Means and includes, but is not limited to, the sale of
tangible personal property at retail or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods
or property, and the rendering of personal services for others for a
consideration by persons engaged in any profession, trade, craft, business,
occupation or other calling, except the rendering of personal services by an
employee to his employer under any contract of personal employment.
PERSON: Any individual, receiver, assignee, trustee in bankruptcy, trust,
estate, firm, copartnership, joint venture, club, company, joint stock company,
business trust, corporation, association, society or other group of individuals
acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or
otherwise.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate location maintained or operated by the
licensee within the city from which business activity is conducted or
transacted. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-2-020: PROVISIONS AS REGULATORY MEASURE:
The ordinance codified herein is intended to serve as a means for the city to
recoup the administrative costs associated with issuance and renewal of
business licenses issued within the city. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-2-030: LICENSE FEE REQUIRED TO DO BUSINESS:
It is unlawful for any person to engage in business within the city without
first paying all license fees required by this chapter, as set forth in the
city's consolidated fee schedule, and any other city or state taxes, fees or
assessments. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-2-040: LICENSE FEE NOT REQUIRED WHEN:
No license fee shall be imposed under this chapter upon any person:
   A.   Engaged in business for solely religious, charitable or other types of
strictly nonprofit purpose who is tax exempt in such activities under the laws
of the United States and the state of Utah;
   B.   Engaged in a business specifically exempted from municipal taxation and
fees by the laws of the United States or the state;
   C.   Transacting business as a trustee, receiver or other public officer
acting pursuant to judicial order or supervision; or
   D.   Not maintaining a place of business within the city who has paid a like
or similar license tax or fee to some other taxing unit within the state, and
which taxing unit exempts from its license tax or fee, by reciprocal agreement,
businesses domiciled in the city and doing business in such taxing unit. (Ord.
2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-2-050: LICENSE FEE ADDITIONAL TO ALL REGULATORY LICENSES:
The license fee imposed by this chapter shall be in addition to any and all
other taxes or license fees imposed by any other provisions of the ordinances
of Farmington City. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-2-055: BOARD OF EQUALIZATION:
The city council is hereby constituted a board of equalization for the
equalization of license rates. The board shall have the authority to examine
license fee information, to hear complaints of persons aggrieved by their
license assessments, and to make corrections of any assessments found to be
illegal, unequal or unjust. Any corrections made by said board shall be entered
in a record of license abatements and the members of the board shall approve
the entries before the city may adjust the accounts. The board shall meet as
needed which shall ordinarily be during regular city council meetings. All
complaints made before January 1 of each year must be presented to the board
prior to January 31 or be forever barred, and all complaints made subsequent to
January 1 must be presented to the board within thirty (30) days of the date of
assessment. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-2-060: FEE; NO UNDUE BURDEN ON INTERSTATE COMMERCE:
None of the license fees provided for by this chapter shall be applied so as to
occasion an undue burden on interstate commerce. In any case where a license
fee is believed by a licensee or applicant for license to place an undue burden
upon such commerce, such person may apply to the city council for an adjustment
of the fee so that it shall not be discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair as to
such commerce. Such application may be made before, at or within six (6) months
after payment of the prescribed license fee. The applicant shall, by affidavit
and supporting testimony, show the method of applicant's business, the gross
volume or estimated gross volume of business, and such other information as the
council may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of such
undue burden on such commerce. The council may designate a person to conduct an
investigation, comparing the applicant's business with other businesses of like
nature. The council or the council's designee shall make findings of facts;
shall determine whether the fee fixed by this chapter is discriminatory,
unreasonable or unfair as to applicant's business; and shall determine, or if
investigated by the council's designee, shall recommend to the council, a
license fee for the applicant in an amount that is nondiscriminatory,
reasonable and fair. If the council is satisfied that such license fee is the
amount that the applicant should pay, the license fee shall be fixed in such
amount. If the regular license fee has already been paid, the council shall
order a refund of the amount over and above the fee fixed by the council. In
fixing the fee to be charged, the council shall have the power to use methods
which will assure that the fee assessed shall be uniform with those assessed on
businesses of like nature. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-2-070: LICENSE FEES LEVIED:
   A.   Fees For Businesses Located In City: There is hereby levied upon the
business of every person engaged in business in the city at a place of business
within the city, an annual license fee as set forth in the city's consolidated
fee schedule.
   B.   Fee For Applications Filed After June 30: The business license fee for
any license application filed after June 30 of any year shall be one-half (1/2)
the amount of the fee that would be payable for a full year license.
   C.   Nonrefundable Application Fee: In the event any initial or renewal
business license application is denied by the city or is withdrawn by the
applicant, the city shall be entitled to retain the sum of thirty five dollars
($35.00) as a nonrefundable business license application fee from any license
fees paid or payable to the city, unless another nonrefundable business license
application fee is otherwise provided for under the ordinances of the city.
   D.   Enhanced Service Fees: It is hereby determined by the city council of
Farmington City that police services are provided at enhanced levels to some
businesses within the city. The council has considered the number of calls for
police service from all businesses within the city occurring over a period of
one year and hereby determines that five (5) police calls per year represents
the basic level of municipal services provided by the city. The council further
determines that for each police call in excess of five (5) for a calendar year,
the business receives an enhanced level of municipal services, and that a fee
of twenty dollars ($20.00) for each police call in excess of five (5) is an
amount that is reasonably related to the city's cost of providing the enhanced
municipal services. For purposes of calculating the portion of the business
license fee which is allocable to "enhanced service fees", the city shall
determine the number of police calls received for the business by the city
during the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the date of
application and shall fix the fee in an amount that is reasonably related to
the city's cost to provide the municipal service. However, the enhanced service
fee related to calls for police service shall not, in any case, exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
6-2-080: JOINT LICENSES:
Whenever any person is engaged in two (2) or more businesses at the same
location within the city, such person shall not be required to obtain separate
licenses for conducting each of such businesses, but shall be issued one
license which shall specify on its face all such businesses. The license fee
shall be computed as if all said businesses were one business being conducted
at such location. Where two (2) or more persons conduct separate businesses at
the same location, each such person shall obtain a license for such business
and pay the required license tax for such business. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-2-090: BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or location
of business engaged in, within the city, as if such branch establishment or
location were a separate business, and each license shall authorize the
licensee to engage only in the business licensed thereby at the location or in
the manner designated in such license; provided, that warehouses and
distributing places used in connection with or incident to a business licensed
under this chapter shall not be deemed to be separate places of business or
branch establishments. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-2-100: LICENSE FEES; DEBT TO CITY; COLLECTION:
Any license fee due and unpaid under this chapter and all penalties thereon
shall constitute a debt to Farmington City, and shall be collected by court
proceedings in the same manner as any other debt in like amount, which remedy
shall be in addition to all other existing remedies. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-2-110: FEES; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; PENALTY:
License fees for renewal of an existing business license shall be due on or
before January 1 of each year. In the event any fee is not paid on or before
such date, a penalty shall be assessed pursuant to the provisions of section
6-1-080 of this title, or its successor section, which penalty shall become
part of the license fee imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-2-120: INFORMATION NOT TO BE MADE PUBLIC:
   A.   Information furnished to the license official, as required by this
chapter, shall not be made public nor shall it be subject to the inspection of
any person except the city manager or his or her authorized agent.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to make public or to inform any other
person as to the content of any information provided in conjunction with a
license application, or to permit the inspection of any such information,
except as is authorized in this section. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-2-130: RECORDKEEPING REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of every person liable for the payment of any license fee
imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve for a period of three (3) years
such books and records as will accurately reflect the amount of any license fee
for which he or she may be liable under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-2-140: FILING FALSE RETURN PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to make a return that is false, knowing the same
to be so. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
CHAPTER 3
REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR DENIAL OF LICENSES
SECTION:
6-3-010: Denial Of A Business License
6-3-020: Reasons For Suspension Or Revocation
6-3-030: Enforcement
6-3-040: Procedure For Suspension Or Revocation
6-3-050: Appeal Procedure
6-3-060: [Reserved]
6-3-070: [Reserved]
6-3-080: [Reserved]
6-3-090: Licensing After Revocation
6-3-100: Validity Of Business License Or Regulatory License During Appeal
6-3-110: Enforcement Through Litigation
6-3-010: DENIAL OF A BUSINESS LICENSE:
After a person has made application to the city for a business license, the
application may be denied for any of the following reasons:
   A.   Unqualified Applicant: The applicant does not meet the qualifications
for a license as provided under this title;
   B.   Returned Check; Nonpayment: For a new application, nonpayment of a
returned check for the required license fees at the time the application is
made. For a business license renewal application, nonpayment of the required
license fees plus penalty three (3) months after it is due;
   C.   Disapproval Of Authority: Any reviewing department, division or agency
of the city provided for in this title has disapproved the application pursuant
to any applicable provision of this code;
   D.   False, Incomplete Application: False or incomplete information given on
the application;
   E.   Noncompliance With Zoning: Noncompliance with the zoning code, or with
any requirement or condition set as part of a conditional use permit, variance
or special exception;
   F.   Noncompliance With Statutes: Noncompliance with any city, state or
federal statutes or any health department regulations governing the applicant's
proposed business;
   G.   Any Other Reason: Any other reason expressly provided for in this
title. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
6-3-020: REASONS FOR SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
An existing business license may be suspended or revoked for any of the
following reasons:
   A.   Unqualified: The licensee does not now meet the qualifications for a
license as provided under this title;
   B.   False, Incomplete Application: False or incomplete information given on
an application;
   C.   Violations: The licensee has violated or is violating any provision of
this title or provision of this code, state or federal statutes or regulations
governing the licensee's business;
   D.   Fraud, Deceit: The licensee has obtained or aided another person to
obtain a license by fraud or deceit;
   E.   Failure To Pay Taxes, Fees: The licensee has failed to pay any taxes or
fees to the city when due;
   F.   Access Refused: The licensee has refused authorized representatives of
the city access to the licensed premises for the purpose of an inspection or
has interfered with such representatives while in the performance of their duty
in making such inspection;
   G.   Noncompliance With Zoning, City Council: The licensee is not complying
with zoning codes or a requirement or condition as part of a conditional use
permit, variance, special exception or other agreement with the city;
   H.   Agent, Employee Violation: Violation of this title by the agents or
employees of a licensee and violations of any other laws by the agents or
employees committed while acting as an agent or employee of the licensee; or
   I.   Any Other Reason: Any other reason expressly provided for by ordinance.
(Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
6-3-030: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Denial Authority: The business license official shall have the
authority, without a hearing, to deny a license for the reasons provided for in
this chapter.
   B.   Suspension, Revocation: The business license official shall have the
authority to suspend or revoke a license without a hearing, for reasons
provided for in this chapter. However, the suspension or revocation shall not
take effect until the time period for appealing the decision as set forth in
this chapter has passed.
   C.   Investigation: The business license official may, on his/her own
initiative or in response to complaints from the general public or any city
department or division, investigate and gather evidence of violations of this
title or other circumstances which may give rise to a denial, suspension or
revocation. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-3-040: PROCEDURE FOR SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
The business license official shall cause written notice to be given by
personal service or registered mail to the licensee at the licensee's business
address of his or her decision to suspend or revoke a license, the reason for
such decision, that operation of a business after the effective date of the
suspension or revocation is a class B misdemeanor, the licensee's right to
appeal the business license official's decision and have a hearing, and the
appeal procedure. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-3-050: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Appeals of the business license official's decision to deny, suspend or
revoke a license may be made by filing a written notice of appeal with the city
recorder within ten (10) calendar days of receipt of the notice of denial,
suspension or revocation. All appeals shall be conducted in accordance chapter
3-7 of this code.
   B.   The notice of appeal shall be in writing and shall set forth with
specificity the reasons for which the appeal is taken.
   C.   If the denial, suspension or revocation appealed from is based on a
finding by the building department or fire department that the business was or
would be in violation of any uniform construction codes or on a finding by the
county health department that the business was or would be in violation of any
county health department regulations, then that finding shall be binding upon
the administrative hearing officer, and the hearing officer's decision may be
based only on whether the license was properly denied, suspended, or revoked
because of the building department, fire department or county health department
finding.
   D.   If the denial, suspension or revocation appealed from is based on a
determination by the business license official that grounds existed pursuant to
this code, the administrative hearing officer may examine the factual nature of
the grounds and determine whether such grounds are sufficient to sustain the
decision of the business license official.
   E.   The administrative hearing officer does not have the authority to waive
compliance with applicable provisions of the business license ordinances, nor
can the manager extend deadlines set forth in the ordinances or change the
substance or form of the ordinances. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-
65, 11-14-2023)
6-3-060: [RESERVED]:
6-3-070: [RESERVED]:
6-3-080: [RESERVED]:
6-3-090: LICENSING AFTER REVOCATION:
A person, whose license has been revoked, may not be issued a license for a
period of twenty four (24) months after the revocation. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-
2014)
6-3-100: VALIDITY OF BUSINESS LICENSE OR REGULATORY LICENSE DURING APPEAL:
Throughout the administrative appeal process as outlined above, a licensee
holding a suspended or revoked business license or regulatory license may
continue to operate his or her business in accordance with federal, state and
local laws pending final decision on all appeals, or until the time for appeal
has passed, whichever occurs first. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-3-110: ENFORCEMENT THROUGH LITIGATION:
In all cases where a business has failed to obtain a business license, or keep
such license in force, in violation of city ordinances requiring that a
business hold a valid business license in order to carry on any business within
this city, then such business is operating contrary to law and a civil action
may be brought in the name of Farmington City against the person failing to
obtain or keep in force such licenses to recover the amount not paid, and/or to
enjoin further conduct of such business. The city may, if it prevails, recover
a reasonable attorney fee incurred in such a civil action. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-
2014)
CHAPTER 4
REGULATORY LICENSES
SECTION:
6-4-010: Cumulative
6-4-020: Amusement Parks
6-4-030: Solicitors
6-4-040: Theaters
6-4-050: Video Stores
6-4-060: Fireworks
6-4-010: CUMULATIVE:
Unless otherwise provided, the licenses required by this chapter are in
addition to those required under any other chapter of this title. (Ord. 2014-
38, 12-2-2014)
6-4-020: AMUSEMENT PARKS:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall
have the meanings defined herein:
   AMUSEMENT PARK: Any commercially operated park open to the public located on
at least ten (10) acres with various amusement rides and devices for
entertainment, booths and games or other types of recreational facilities, and
the sale of food and drink.
   PERSON: An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or club.
   B.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an
amusement park or engage in the amusement park business without first obtaining
a license pursuant to this section, and paying the appropriate license fee, as
set forth in chapter 2 of this title, including an enhanced service fee where
applicable.
   C.   Gambling Prohibited: No amusement park owner or any employee shall
permit, allow or condone any gambling, gaming, wagering or betting in any form
in connection with the operation or play of any games or automatic amusement
devices located within the amusement park.
   D.   Special Beer License: An amusement park holding a valid liquor license
under section
6-5-100 of this title shall be entitled to sell beer. Such sales shall be for
consumption on the amusement park premises in original containers or in draft.
It shall be unlawful to sell beer to any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years. Beer must always be attended by an individual at least twenty one
(21) years of age who accepts responsibility for any distribution. It shall be
unlawful to sell or dispense any beer in an amusement park between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of any day.
   E.   Exclusive License: The amusement park license shall include all food
stands, dance halls, games, rides, theaters, entertainment, swimming pools and
water parks, and all other activities of the amusement park, excluding beer
licenses and other required regulatory licenses. Notwithstanding anything in
this chapter to the contrary, all amusement park activities and facilities
shall be operated in conformance with city ordinances and regulations governing
those activities and facilities. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-4-030: SOLICITORS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to protect Farmington City
residents from unreasonable intrusions upon residential privacy, consumer fraud
and deceptive, high pressure, factually unbalanced, or otherwise unfair
consumer sales practices, in a manner consistent with the constitutional rights
of residential- commercial solicitors to communicate their messages to willing
residential listeners.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
APPLICANT:    A person or organization that applies for a certificate of registration.
APPLICATION:  The form provided by the city to apply for a certificate of registration or the
              process of applying for a certificate of registration.
CERTIFICATION The written authorization to engage in commercial solicitation from the community
OF            development department of Farmington City.
REGISTRATION:
              A sale of goods or services in which the seller or a person acting for him
              initiates contact and engages in a face to face solicitation of the sale at a
              residence of the resident and the resident's agreement or offer to purchase is
HOME          there given to the solicitor or a person acting for him. Home solicitation sale
SOLICITATION  shall not include a sale made between parties at a business establishment at a
SALE:         fixed location where goods or services are offered or exhibited for sale, or a
              sale made within a residence to a third person invited therein by the resident
              where such sale was not initiated by unsolicited contact by a nonresident of the
              residence.
REGISTERED    Any person registered pursuant to this section who has obtained a valid
SOLICITOR:    certificate of registration (or "certificate") from the community development
              department of Farmington City.
              Refers to any: 1) living unit contained within any building or structure that is
              occupied by any person as a dwelling in conformity with the zoning laws of
RESIDENCE AND Farmington City, together with the lot or other real property on which such
RESIDENTIAL:  residence is located; 2) any apartment, hospital room, nursing home room,
              assisted living home room, group home, or other similar location; and 3) any
              building or structure that houses the residence together with the lot or other
              real property on which such building or structure is located.
RESIDENT:     Any person living in a residence.
              Any of the following activities engaged in with a resident at his or her place of
              residence:
              1.   Seeking to obtain orders for the sale or exchange of services, goods, wares,
              merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
SOLICIT,      consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought;
SOLICITED,    2.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase
SOLICITING OR insurance, financial services, subscriptions to publications, or publications;
SOLICITATION: 3.   Seeking to obtain contributions of money, services or anything of value for
              the benefit of any person, association, organization, corporation or program;
              4.   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or services; and
              5.   Seeking to obtain appointments or other opportunities to engage in any of
              the activities listed in subsections 1 through 5 of this definition.
SOLICITOR:    A person engaged in soliciting residents at their residences.
 
 
   C.   Unregistered Solicitation Prohibited:
      1.   All persons desiring to engage in soliciting within Farmington City
who are not exempt under subsection D of this section shall, prior to the
commencement of solicitation, obtain from the licensing officer a certificate
of registration as solicitor. The executed original of this certificate of
registration shall be maintained by the licensing officer, and a legible copy
shall be worn by the registered solicitor at all times while soliciting in the
city and shall be produced for inspection upon the request of any resident
being solicited or any Farmington City police officer.
      2.   Unless a registered solicitor is wearing a certificate of
registration or is exempt from registration under the provisions of this
section, a person who is present in or at a residence within Farmington City
for the purpose of engaging in solicitation is hereby declared to be committing
a nuisance that is punishable as set forth in this section.
   D.   Exemptions From Registration: The following activities are exempt from
the registration requirements of subsection E of this section:
      1.   Invited Solicitation: Solicitation which occurs as the result of a
resident's prior and express invitation to the solicitor to come onto such
resident's property. An invited solicitation shall not include the circumstance
where the resident invites back a solicitor who initiated the contact with the
resident at the residence. A resident's failure to post a "No Soliciting"
notice in accordance with subsection G of this section shall not be construed
as an exemption from registration under this section, as an invitation to
solicitation by such resident, or as an expression of such resident's desire to
hear or receive solicitations.
      2.   Noncommercial Solicitation: Solicitation which occurs as an incident
to political, religious or other noncommercial door to door canvassing,
pamphleteering or other dissemination of ideas.
      3.   State Regulated Charitable Solicitation: Solicitation on behalf of:
a) a charitable organization as defined by Utah Code Annotated section 13-22-2
(1); or b) an organization listed in Utah Code Annotated section 13-22-8(1);
provided, that: 1) with respect to solicitation on behalf of a charitable
organization as defined by section 13-22-8(1), the solicitor claiming this
exemption or the charitable organization has provided written verification of
the organization's charitable status to the licensing officer prior to the
commencement of solicitation within the city; 2) with respect to solicitation
on behalf of an organization or entity described in Utah Code Annotated section
13-22-8(1)(g), the principal or other person authorized by the school or the
applicable school district shall provide written notice to the city that the
school or school district has approved the solicitation prior to the
commencement of solicitation within the city; and 3) any solicitor relying on
this exemption shall carry with him while soliciting photo identification
showing the nature of his affiliation with the charitable or other organization
exempt from registration under this subsection on whose behalf he is
soliciting.
      4.   Minor Solicitation: Solicitation involving the sale, exchange or
contribution of money, services, goods or other consideration valued at less
than fifty dollars ($50.00).
      Any solicitor claiming an exemption under this section shall bear the
burden of proving his or her eligibility for, or the applicability of, the
exemption claimed.
   E.   Application For Certificate Of Registration, Review, Issuance, Denial:
      1.   Information And Documents Required: The licensing officer shall
provide a standard form for use for application for registration of solicitors
to include the information set forth herein. The applicant shall state upon
oath or affirmation that the information is truthfully provided to the best of
the knowledge and belief of the applicant. The applicant shall supply the
following information upon or with the application for registration:
         a.   The applicant's true, correct and legal name, including any
former names or aliases used within the last ten (10) years;
         b.   The name of any organization(s) for which the applicant will be
soliciting;
         c.   The applicant's home and business address, and the address where
the applicant can be contacted locally;
         d.   The names and addresses of applicant's directors, officers and
managers, if any;
         e.   Proof that either the applicant, or the organization(s) for which
applicant will be soliciting, has registered with the Utah state department of
commerce;
         f.   A special events sales tax number for either the applicant, or
for the organization(s) for which the applicant will be soliciting, if
applicable;
         g.   The purpose for which soliciting will be done;
         h.   Whether the applicant is a person against whom a judgment based
upon fraud, deceit, misrepresentation, false statements or dishonesty has been
entered within five (5) years of the date of application;
         i.   Whether the applicant has, within five (5) years of the date of
application, been enjoined by any court, or is the subject of an administrative
order issued in this or another state, if the injunction or order includes a
finding or admission of fraud, material misrepresentation, or if the injunction
or order was based on a finding of lack of integrity or truthfulness;
         j.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any felony, or a
misdemeanor involving fraud, deceit, misrepresentation, false statements or
dishonesty, within five (5) years of the date of application;
         k.   Whether the applicant has been criminally convicted of violating
any of Utah Code Annotated section 76-5-401, 76-5-401.1, 76-5-401.2, 76-5-402,
76-5-402.1, 76-5-402.2, 76-5-402.3, 76-5-403, 76-5-403.1, 76-5-404, 76-5-404.1,
76-5-405, 76-5-412, 76-5-413, 76-9-702, 76-9-702.5 or 76-9-702.7, or the
corresponding laws of another state; or is otherwise subject to registration as
a sex offender under Utah law or the corresponding law of another state;
         l.   Whether the applicant has been denied a certificate of
registration under this section, as amended, within the year preceding the date
of application, and whether the applicant has corrected the deficiency on which
the previous application was based;
         m.   Whether the applicant has had a certificate of registration under
this section, as amended, revoked within the year preceding the date of
application, and whether the applicant has corrected the reason for which the
certificate of registration was revoked;
         n.   Whether the applicant's certificate of registration has been
revoked within the year preceding the date of application for violation of the
nontransferability provision of this section, as amended;
         o.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a violation of this
section, as amended, within one year preceding the date of application;
         p.   The findings of a background check on the applicant conducted by
the Utah bureau of criminal investigations ("BCI") within the last one hundred
eighty (180) days. The applicant may apply for this service at the BCI offices
at 3888 West 5400 South, Salt Lake City, or at such other location as the BCI
shall provide from time to time. The application shall not be deemed complete
until the applicant has delivered the findings of the BCI background check to
the licensing officer, and receipt of the background check by the licensing
officer shall be a condition precedent to issuance of a certificate of
registration;
         q.   An acknowledgment that solicitation will not commence until the
solicitor is in full compliance with this section.
      2.   Incorrect Or Incomplete Information: If any information contained in
the application for registration becomes incorrect or incomplete, the applicant
or registered solicitor shall, within thirty (30) days after the information
becomes incorrect or incomplete, correct the application or file the complete
information required herein.
      3.   Fees: The applicant shall pay application and processing fees as set
by the city from time to time; provided, however, that the total of any such
fees shall not exceed reasonable administrative costs incurred by the city to
process an application and maintain the related records.
      4.   Grounds For Denial: A certificate of registration shall not be
issued in any of the following circumstances:
         a.   When the applicant has falsified information on the application;
         b.   When the applicant is a person against whom a judgment based upon
fraud, deceit, misrepresentation, false statements or dishonesty has been
entered within five (5) years of the date of application;
         c.   When the applicant has, within the past five (5) years, been
enjoined by any court, or is the subject of an administrative order issued in
this or another state, if the injunction or order includes a finding or
admission of fraud, material misrepresentation, or if the injunction or order
was based on a finding of lack of integrity or truthfulness;
         d.   When the applicant has been convicted of any felony, or a
misdemeanor involving fraud, deceit, misrepresentation, false statements or
dishonesty, within five (5) years of the date of application;
         e.   When the applicant has been criminally convicted of any violation
in chapters 76-5 or 76-5b of the Utah Code 76-9-702, 76-9-702.1, 76-9-702.5 or
76-9-702.7, or the corresponding laws of another state; or is otherwise subject
to registration as a sex offender under Utah law or the corresponding law of
another state;
         f.   When the applicant has been denied a certificate of registration
under this section, as amended, within the year preceding the date of
application, unless the applicant has corrected the deficiency on which the
previous application was based;
         g.   When the applicant has had a certificate of registration under
this section, as amended, revoked within the year preceding the date of
application, unless the applicant has corrected the reason for which the
certificate was revoked;
         h.   When an applicant's certificate of registration has been revoked
within the year preceding the date of application for violation of the
nontransferability provision of this section, as amended;
         i.   When the applicant has failed to supply any of the documents or
information listed in subsection E1 of this section, or has failed to pay any
of the fees set by the city in accordance with this section;
         j.   When the applicant has been convicted of a violation of this
section, as amended, within one year preceding the date of application.
      5.   Proof Of Identification Required: Initial proof of identification
can be faxed to the city or e-mailed to the city along with the completed
application form; provided, that in person identification is verified with one
of the following prior to or at the time of the issuance of the certificate of
registration. No certificate of registration shall be issued to any applicant
until the applicant submits one of the following to establish proof of
identification:
         a.   A valid driver's license issued by any state;
         b.   A valid United States uniformed service identification card;
         c.   A valid passport issued by the United States;
         d.   Any other official document issued by the United States or any
state thereof which contains the name and photograph of the applicant.
      6.   Registration Complete Upon Completion Of Application: Registration
shall be deemed complete when the licensing officer has received all of the
information and documents listed in subsection E1 of this section and the
applicant has paid the applicable fee. The certificate of registration shall be
issued within five (5) business days following the applicant's completion of
registration, unless one of the circumstances listed in subsection E4 of this
section applies.
      7.   Form Of Certificate And Badge:
         a.   Each certificate of registration issued by the licensing officer
shall be numbered, shall list the name of the individual solicitor and of any
organization on whose behalf the registered solicitor is authorized to solicit,
the date on which the certificate of registration expires, and shall be dated
and signed by the licensing officer or his or her authorized designee.
         b.   Each registered solicitor shall wear a badge prominently on his
or her person, consisting of a copy of the certificate of registration issued
by the city, a one and one-half inch by one and one-half inch (11/2" x 11/2")
(approximate) photograph of the solicitor that was taken within one year
preceding the issuance of the certificate of registration to be supplied by the
solicitor, and the name and address of any entity with which the solicitor is
associated. Such badge shall be worn at all times while the solicitor is
engaged in soliciting.
         c.   All badges are and remain the property of the city.
         d.   By issuing a certificate of registration, the city does not
guarantee the accuracy of any representation contained in the application for
registration or the certificate of registration, nor does it warrant that any
statement made by the registered solicitor is truthful. The city makes no
certification as to the worthiness of any organization, its products or
services, on whose behalf a solicitation is made nor as to the moral character
of the registered solicitor.
         e.   The following statement shall appear on each certificate of
registration:
      FARMINGTON CITY MAKES NO CERTIFICATION AS TO THE WORTHINESS OF ANY
ORGANIZATION, ITS PRODUCTS OR SERVICES, ON WHOSE BEHALF A SOLICITATION IS MADE
NOR AS TO THE MORAL CHARACTER OF THE REGISTERED SOLICITOR.
      8.   Renewal: A certificate of registration shall be valid for a period
of one year from the date of issuance. Any registered solicitor in good
standing may have his or her certificate of registration renewed for an
additional period of not to exceed one year upon request within thirty (30)
days prior to the expiration of the certificate of registration and payment of
a renewal fee as set by the city from time to time; provided, however, that the
total of any such fee shall not exceed reasonable administrative costs incurred
by the city to process the certificate of registration renewal and maintain the
related records. A registered solicitor is not in good standing if he satisfies
one or more grounds for denial or revocation within the meaning of this
section. An applicant desiring to obtain a certificate of registration
subsequent to the expiration of any renewal period shall make a new application
in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      9.   Nontransferability: Certificates of registration shall be issued
only in the name of the applicant and the firm, corporation or association on
whose behalf the applicant is authorized to solicit. The certificate of
registration is nontransferable in all respects. It shall constitute a
violation of this section for a solicitor whose certificate of registration
authorizes soliciting on behalf of a person or firm named in a certificate of
registration to solicit on behalf of any other person or firm, organization or
association, or for any purpose other than that specified in the application.
Any certificate of registration used by a person other than the person to whom
it was originally issued is void, and the city is authorized to confiscate and
immediately cancel any such certificate of registration.
      10.   Certificate Registry: The licensing officer shall maintain and make
available for public inspection a record of every application received,
together with any information pertaining thereto, all certificates of
registration issued, and all pending and denied applications, with the
exception of any portion of the application received and any information
pertaining thereto that qualifies as private or protected within the meaning of
the government records access and management act, Utah Code Annotated section
63G-2-101 et seq. Each application shall be numbered in consecutive order and
each certificate of registration issued shall be assigned a number exclusive to
the registered solicitor. Each certificate of registration renewed shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
initially issued. The licensing officer shall furnish to the chief of police or
the director of public safety a listing of all certificates of registration
issued and renewed and such chief or director shall maintain such listing for
public inspection and for identification.
      11.   Revocation Of Certificate: Any certificate of registration issued
pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be revoked by the licensing
officer if, following issuance of the certificate of registration, the
licensing officer determines that the registered solicitor was convicted of a
violation of this section or committed an act or became subject to a condition
that would disqualify him or her from receiving a certificate of registration
under subsection E4 of this section. Notice of revocation shall be immediately
given to the registered solicitor by personal service or certified mail to the
address listed on the application and, if applicable, to the organization for
which the registered solicitor was soliciting. The notice shall set forth the
factual basis for the revocation and, if applicable, the specific provision(s)
of subsection E4 of this section that identifies and defines the disqualifying
conduct. Immediately upon the giving of such notice, the certificate of
registration shall become void and shall remain so until the revocation is
rescinded. Upon receiving notice of revocation of any certificate of
registration, the registered solicitor shall forthwith return the related badge
to the city.
      12.   Appeal: An applicant whose registration is denied by the licensing
officer or a registered solicitor whose certificate of registration is revoked
by the licensing officer shall have the right to appeal such denial by filing a
written notice of appeal with city recorder, with a copy to the licensing
officer, within ten (10) calendar days of the applicant's or registered
solicitor's receipt of the decision from which the appeal is taken. Such notice
of appeal shall identify the applicant or registered solicitor, set forth the
decision of the licensing officer that is being appealed, and state the grounds
for appeal. The appeal shall be conducted in accordance with chapter 3-7 of
this code.
   F.   Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited:
      1.   False Statement: No solicitor shall make any materially false or
fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting. No solicitor shall fail to
state a material fact necessary to make statements made, in the context of the
circumstances under which they are made, not misleading.
      2.   Disclosure: A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the resident
at the beginning of any face to face solicitation, either verbally or by means
of a writing to be handed to the resident: a) the name of the solicitor; b) the
name and address of the entity with whom the solicitor is associated or for
which the solicitor is engaging in solicitation; and c) the purpose of the
solicitor's contact with the resident.
      3.   Fictitious Name: No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias,
or any name other than his or her legal name.
      4.   Endorsement By City: No solicitor shall represent directly or by
implication that the city endorses the solicitation, or that the granting of a
certificate of registration implies endorsement by the city of the solicitor or
his or her product or service.
   G.   "No Soliciting" Notices:
      1.   Permitted: Any resident may give notice of his or her unwillingness
to listen to solicitations or receive solicitors by displaying at his or her
residence a placard or sign no smaller than sixteen (16) square inches stating
"No Soliciting", "No Solicitors", "No Trespassing" or words of similar import.
Such placard or sign shall be posted on or near the main entrance door or on or
near the property line adjacent to the sidewalk leading to the residence.
      2.   Display Is Notice To Solicitors: The display of a "No Soliciting" or
similar sign or placard shall constitute notice to any solicitor that the
resident is unwilling to listen to solicitations.
   H.   Certain Solicitations Prohibited:
      1.   Attempt To Solicit If Signposted: It shall be a violation of this
section for any solicitor to attempt to solicit at a residence at or on which
has been posted a "No Soliciting" sign or placard in accordance with subsection
G of this section. All solicitors are under the legal obligation to
affirmatively check each residence for any such sign or placard. If such sign
or placard is posted, a solicitor shall desist from any efforts to solicit at
the residence and shall immediately depart therefrom.
      2.   Attracting Attention When Signposted: It is a violation of this
section for any solicitor to knock on the door, ring the doorbell, or in any
other manner attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence
that bears a "No Soliciting" or similar sign or placard. It is a violation of
this section for any solicitor through ruse, deception or concealment of a
purpose to solicit, to take action calculated to secure an audience with the
occupant of a residence that has posted a "No Soliciting" or similar sign or
placard.
      3.   Failure To Depart: It is a violation of this section for any
solicitor who is at any time asked by the resident to leave, to fail to
immediately and peacefully depart.
   I.   Time Of Day: It shall be unlawful for any person, whether a registered
solicitor or not, to solicit any person at a residence before eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Mountain time on business days, or
before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. Mountain
time, on Saturdays, Sundays or legal holidays, unless the solicitor has express
prior permission from the resident to do so.
   J.   Right To Residential Solicitation Sale: In any residential solicitation
sale, unless the buyer requests the seller to provide goods or services without
delay in an emergency, the solicitor shall present to the resident and obtain
resident's signature to a written statement which informs the resident of his
or her unconditional right to cancel the sale on or before the third business
day after the date of sale. Any documents memorializing the sale shall
accurately set forth the date of the sale. Such notice of "buyer's right to
cancel" shall be in the form required by Utah Code Annotated section 70C-5-103,
or a current or amended version thereof, or any state or federal law modifying
or amending such provision.
   K.   Penalties: Any person who engages in soliciting without complying with
the requirements of this section or violates any other terms or provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and shall be punished by
a fine of not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or a jail sentence
of not to exceed six (6) months. A second offense within five (5) years of a
prior conviction under this section may be prosecuted and punished as a class B
misdemeanor.
   L.   Private Right Of Action: A resident who has suffered injury or damage
as the result of violation of this section shall have the right to bring a
civil action for damages against the violator in the appropriate court within
the state of Utah. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 2023-65, 11-
14-2023; Ord. 2024-47, 9-3-2024)
6-4-040: THEATERS:
   A.   Defined: "Theater" means any commercial facility presenting a motion
picture, play, concert or other dramatic or musical entertainment in exchange
for a valuable consideration.
   B.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
theater or transact any theater business without first obtaining a license
pursuant to this section, and paying the appropriate license fee as set forth
in chapter 2 of this title, including any enhanced service fee where
applicable.
   C.   Application: In addition to the information required by section
6-1-040 of this title, every application for a theater license shall specify:
      1.   The address and seating capacity of the theater.
      2.   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of all
partners, and if a corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and
directors must be stated.
      3.   If the business is to be operated by a person other than the
applicant, said operator must join in the application and file the same
information required of the applicant.
      4.   If the application is for a motion picture or live theater, the
applicant shall specify which classified theater license the applicant is
seeking.
   D.   Obscenity: No theater shall hold, conduct or carry on or permit any
motion picture exhibition or entertainment of any sort which is obscene as
defined by applicable laws and court decisions. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-4-050: VIDEO STORES:
   A.   Defined: "Video store" means any place of business or individual or
group which sells or rents videos or videotapes, DVDs, blue ray or video games
in exchange for valuable consideration.
   B.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any video store to operate
or transact any business without first obtaining a license pursuant to this
section, and paying the appropriate business license fee as set forth in
chapter 2 of this title, including an enhanced service fee where applicable.
   C.   Application: In addition to the information required by section
6-1-040 of this title, every application for a video store license shall
specify:
      1.   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of all
partners, and if a corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and
directors must be stated.
      2.   If the business is to be operated by a person other than the
applicant, said operator must join in the application and file the same
information required of the applicant.
      3.   The days and hours of operation.
   D.   Obscenity: No video store shall sell, rent, display or provide any
videotapes, videos, DVDs, blue ray, video games or other materials of any sort
which are obscene as defined by the applicable laws and court decisions. (Ord.
2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-4-060: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Adoption Of State Fireworks Provisions: This section includes, but is
not limited to, sections of the fire prevention and fireworks act found in Utah
Code Annotated title 53, chapter 7, part 2, as amended, and sections of the
county and municipal fireworks act found in Utah Code Annotated title 11,
chapter 3, as amended, which sections are, by this reference, adopted as
Farmington City ordinances. Each section of the fire prevention and fireworks
act adopted by reference shall have a new section number as determined by this
present section. The following subsections of this section are adopting those
provisions by reference:
      1.   Definitions: Utah Code Annotated section 53-7-202, definition of
terms;
      2.   Sales: Utah Code Annotated section 53-7-222, restrictions on the
sale or use of fireworks;
      3.   Times: Utah Code Annotated section 53-7-225, times for sale and
discharge of fireworks;
      4.   Exemptions: Utah Code Annotated sections 11-3-10 and 53-7-221,
exemptions;
      5.   Penalties: Utah Code Annotated sections 11-3-11 and 53-7-226,
penalties.
   B.   Utah Fire Prevention Board Rules: Rules, specifications, standards or
requirements promulgated by the Utah fire prevention board as permitted or
required by the various sections of the fire prevention and fireworks act, Utah
Code Annotated section 53-7-201 et seq., as amended, are included and adopted
as part of this section.
   C.   Sales Of Fireworks:
      1.   Permit Required; Application; Fee: No person shall offer for sale or
sell, at retail, any fireworks without a permit issued by Farmington City. A
separate permit shall be required for each separate sales location. The fee for
each permit shall be nonrefundable and as set forth in the consolidated fee
schedule. Each permit shall remain in effect until March 1 of the following
calendar year. Sales of fireworks are to take place only when allowed by the
State of Utah. A permit may be revoked if a permittee violates any provision of
this section. Application for a permit to sell fireworks shall be made by
submitting a complete business license application form and shall:
         a.   Include the name and address of the person, firm or corporation
applying for the permit;
         b.   Describe the specific location where fireworks will be sold;
         c.   Include evidence of commercial general liability insurance in an
amount not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and two
million dollars ($2,000,000.00) aggregate; and
         d.   Include any other information reasonably required by the fire
department.
      2.   Submittal: All of the required information in subsection C1 of this
section, including fees, shall be submitted no less than fourteen (14) days
prior to the specified time period. However, if the permit application is for a
location for which a conditional use permit has not been issued or is no longer
valid, both permit applications shall be submitted no less than five (5) weeks
prior to the desired time period for the sale of fireworks. The applicable and
required fees shall accompany the permit application and be submitted at the
time of application.
   D.   Sales Locations And Structures; Business License Required: Retail sales
of fireworks shall be permitted within a permanent structure in connection with
an applicable and properly issued business license, which is in effect pursuant
to provisions of this code, or, from a temporary stand, trailer or tent. Retail
sales of fireworks shall be allowed only at locations as set forth in the
zoning ordinance. Sales both in permanent structures and in temporary stands,
trailers or tents shall be subject to the following requirements:
      1.   Distance Requirements: No sales of fireworks shall be permitted from
stands, trailers or tents located within one hundred feet (100') of any
building, or other stand, trailer or tent, nor within one hundred feet (100')
of any gasoline pump or dispensing device, or LPG, flammable liquid or gas
storage, or other combustibles. No sales of fireworks shall be permitted from
permanent structures located within fifty feet (50') of any gasoline pump or
dispensing device, or other combustibles.
      2.   Code Compliance: Fireworks stands, trailers or tents need not comply
with the provisions of the international building code; however, all stands,
trailers or tents shall comply with the provisions of the international fire
code and shall be erected in a manner that will reasonably assure the safety of
attendants and patrons.
      3.   Floor Space; Exits: Each stand or trailer shall not have in excess
of four hundred fifty (450) square feet of floor space, and each stand or
trailer shall have not less than two (2) exits, each of which must be at least
thirty six inches (36") in width.
      4.   Signage: A sign prohibiting the discharge of any fireworks within
one hundred fifty feet (150') of the fireworks stand, trailer or tent shall be
prominently displayed.
      5.   Age Of Employees: All employees on duty at all times shall be at
least sixteen (16) years of age or older.
      6.   Observation Of Displays: Displays of fireworks in permanent
structures shall be within constant visual observation of employees.
      7.   Removal Of Stand: Fireworks stands, trailers or tents shall be
removed within seven (7) days after retail sales cease.
      8.   Sleeping Prohibited: No person shall be permitted to sleep in the
fireworks stand, trailer or tent.
   E.   Public Displays Or Special Effects Fireworks:
      1.   Permit Required; License; Fee: No person shall discharge any display
or special effects fireworks without first obtaining a permit issued by the
fire department. A separate permit will be required for each public display or
special effects event. The fee for a single permit is as set forth in the
consolidated fee schedule. Application for this permit shall be in writing on
the application form "Public Display Or Special Effects Fireworks" and shall:
         a.   Include the name, address and telephone number of the person,
firm, entity or corporation applying for the permit;
         b.   Describe the specific location of the discharge, display, fallout
and spectator locations;
         c.   Include evidence of commercial general liability insurance in an
amount not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and two
million dollars ($2,000,000.00) aggregate;
         d.   Describe a plan for monitoring weather conditions, crowd control
and contingency plans for adverse or changing conditions; and
         e.   Include any additional information reasonably required by the
city.
      2.   Submittal: The information required in subsection E1 of this section
shall be submitted to the fire department at least fourteen (14) days prior to
the planned discharge of display or special effects fireworks. Governmental
subdivisions and governmental entities are exempt from the permit fee
requirements of this subsection; however, the application must be timely
submitted and the proper permit obtained prior to the planned discharge of
display or special effects fireworks.
   F.   Prohibition Of Discharge During Hazardous Conditions:
      1.   Authority Of Fire Chief: The fire chief, during times of adverse
fire and hazardous environmental conditions, may review information regarding
meteorological conditions, moisture content of plants and soil, and other
information related thereto, and is hereby authorized to exercise discretion
based thereon, in the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the
public, to prohibit the ignition or use of all fireworks. Such a prohibition is
to be for a defined period of time and may be limited to identified areas of
the city, or may be applicable throughout the city in mountainous, brush
covered, forest covered or wildland urban interface areas.
      2.   Violation: No person shall ignite, discharge or otherwise use any
fireworks in any area of the city designated by the fire chief as hazardous as
provided in subsection F1 of this section.
   G.   Prohibited Acts And Activities Generally:
      1.   Discharge: It shall be unlawful to discharge fireworks:
         a.   Within one hundred fifty feet (150') of any place where fireworks
are sold or offered for sale;
         b.   Within three hundred feet (300') of any church, hospital, rest
home, retirement center, school building, or similar institution;
         c.   In such a manner that the fireworks project over or onto the
property of another person without the consent of the person owning or
controlling such property; or
         d.   In any public park, except when a specific park is designated on
a season by season basis by the fire chief or the fire department as a location
authorized for the discharge of fireworks.
      2.   Motor Vehicles; Near Persons: It shall be unlawful to ignite,
discharge or throw any fireworks from or into any motor vehicle or at or near
any person.
      3.   Homemade Fireworks: It shall be unlawful to make, sell, or offer to
sell or to discharge any type of homemade fireworks.
      4.   Sales: It shall be unlawful to sell or to offer to sell fireworks:
         a.   Without a permit;
         b.   In violation of any requirement of this chapter or any
regulations adopted by the Utah state fire prevention board;
         c.   At a location not specified in the permit application;
         d.   Without the insurance coverage required in the permit
application; or
         e.   In violation of this section.
      5.   Type: Except as provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for
any person, firm or corporation to at any time own, possess, control, sell or
offer to sell any fireworks other than as set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 53-7-222, as amended.
   H.   Conflicting Provisions: In the event there should at any time be a
conflict between the provisions of this section and the provisions of Utah Code
Annotated, or the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, the more
strict shall control.
   I.   Authority To Enforce: The fire chief, or the chief's designee(s)
employed by Farmington City within those capacities, are hereby authorized to
enforce this section, and the applicable provisions of the fire prevention and
fireworks act and the county and municipal fireworks act within Utah Code
Annotated, as amended. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 2023-58, 9-19-2023)
CHAPTER 5
BEER LICENSES
SECTION:
6-5-010: Authority
6-5-020: Definitions
6-5-030: Classification Of Beer Retailer Licenses
6-5-040: Beer License Application
6-5-050: Applicant Qualifications
6-5-060: Criminal Background Checks
6-5-070: Review And Issuance Of License
6-5-080: Off Premises Beer Retailer
6-5-090: On Premises Beer Retailer - Restaurant
6-5-100: Dining Club License
6-5-110: Temporary Special Event
6-5-120: General Restrictions
6-5-130: Reserved
6-5-140: Fees
6-5-150: Expiration And Renewal
6-5-160: Sale Or Transfer Of License
6-5-170: Local Consent; Limited
6-5-180: State Offenses
6-5-190: Violations
6-5-200: Severability
6-5-010: AUTHORITY:
The provisions of this chapter are enacted pursuant to the authority set forth
in Utah Code Annotated sections 10-8-42, as amended, and 10-8-84, as amended,
and applicable provisions of the Utah alcoholic beverage control act, as set
forth in Utah Code Annotated section 32B-1-101 et seq., as amended. The
provisions and regulations set forth in this chapter are an exercise of the
police powers of the city for the protection of the public health, safety,
welfare and morals. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-020: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings. The definitions set forth herein are intended to follow and be
consistent with similar definitions set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
32B-1-102, as amended, of the Utah alcoholic beverage control act. To the
extent used in this chapter, all other terms set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 32B-1-102, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference as if more
particularly set forth herein.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: "Beer" or "liquor", as such terms are more particularly
defined in this section.
ALCOHOLIC PRODUCT: A product that contains at least 0.5 percent of alcohol by
volume, and is obtained by fermentation, infusion, decoction, brewing,
distillation, or other process that uses liquid or combinations of liquids,
whether drinkable or not, to create alcohol in an amount equal to or greater
than 0.5 percent of alcohol by volume. Alcoholic product includes an "alcoholic
beverage" as more particularly defined in this section.
BEER: A product that contains at least 0.5 percent of alcohol by volume, but
not more than four percent (4%) of alcohol by volume or 3.2 percent by weight;
and is obtained by fermentation, infusion, or decoction of malted grain. Beer
may or may not contain hops or other vegetable products. Beer includes a
product that contains alcohol in the percentages described herein and is
referred to as beer, ale, porter, stout, lager or a malt or malted beverage.
Beer does not include a "flavored malt beverage" as more particularly defined
in this section.
BEER RETAILER: A business that is engaged, primarily or incidentally, in the
retail sale of beer to a patron, whether for consumption on or off the
premises; and to whom a license is issued for an off premises beer retailer or
for an on premises beer retailer, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
CHURCH: A building set apart for the purpose of worship, in which religious
services are held, with which clergy is associated, and that is tax exempt
under the laws of the state of Utah.
COMMISSION: The Utah alcoholic beverage control commission.
COMMUNITY LOCATION: A public or private school, a church, a public library, a
public playground, or a public park.
DINING CLUB: An establishment as defined by Utah Code Annotated section 32B-6-
404(3).
DINING CLUB LICENSE: A license issued in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
sections 32B-5-101 through 32B-5-310 and 32B-6-401 through 32B-6-409.
FLAVORED MALT BEVERAGE: A beverage that contains at least 0.5 percent alcohol
by volume, that is treated by processing, filtration, or another method of
manufacture that is not generally recognized as a traditional process in the
production of a beer as described in 27 CFR section 25.55, as amended, to which
is added a flavor or other ingredient containing alcohol, except for a hop
extract, and for which the producer is required to file a formula for approval
with the U.S. alcohol and tobacco trade and tax bureau pursuant to 27 CFR
section 25.55, as amended, or that is not exempt under subdivision (f) of 27
CFR section 25.55, as amended. Flavored malt beverage is considered "liquor"
for purposes of this chapter.
HEAVY BEER: A product that contains more than four percent (4%) alcohol by
volume and is obtained by fermentation, infusion or decoction of malted grain.
Heavy beer is considered "liquor" for the purposes of this chapter.
LICENSED PREMISES: Any room, house, building, structure or place occupied by
any person licensed to sell beer on any premises under this title; provided,
that in any multi-roomed establishment, an applicant for an on premises beer
retailer - restaurant license shall designate a room or portion of the building
of such business for the sale of beer, which portion so specifically designated
in the application and in the license issued pursuant thereto shall be the
licensed premises. Multiple dining facilities located in one building and owned
or leased by one licensed applicant shall be deemed to be only one licensed
premises.
LICENSEE: Any person granted a license or a permit by the city under the
provisions of this chapter. This term shall also include "staff" of the
licensee as more particularly defined in this section.
LIQUOR: A liquid that is alcohol, an alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented,
malt, or other liquid; a combination of liquids, a part of which is spirituous,
vinous or fermented; or other drink or drinkable liquid; and contains at least
0.5 percent alcohol by volume and is suitable to use for beverage purposes.
Liquor includes "heavy beer", "wine" and a "flavored malt beverage", but does
not include "beer", as such terms are defined in this section.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, firm, corporation, limited liability
company, association, business trust, or other form of business enterprise,
including a receiver or trustee, and the plural as well as the singular number,
unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is disclosed by the context.
PREMISES: A building, enclosure, or room used in connection with the storage,
sale, furnishing, consumption, manufacture or distribution, of an alcoholic
product, unless otherwise defined by law or rules adopted by the commission.
RESTAURANT: A business location at which a variety of foods are prepared; at
which complete meals are served to the general public; and that is engaged
primarily in serving meals to the general public.
SCHOOL: A building used primarily for the general education of minors. School
does not include a nursery school, an infant daycare center, or a trade or
technical school.
SELL OR OFFER FOR SALE: Any transaction, exchange or barter whereby, for
consideration, an alcoholic product is either directly or indirectly
transferred, solicited, ordered, delivered for value, or by any means or under
any pretext is promised or obtained, whether done by a person as a principal,
proprietor or as staff, unless otherwise defined in this chapter or the rules
adopted by the commission.
STAFF: An individual who engages in activity governed by this chapter: on
behalf of a business, including a licensee, permittee, or certificate holder;
at the request of the business, including a licensee, permittee or certificate
holder; or under the authority of the business, including a licensee, permittee
or certificate holder. Staff includes an officer, director, employee, personnel
management, an agent of the licensee (including a managing agent), an operator
or representative.
STATE STORE: A facility for the sale of packaged liquor located on premises
owned or leased by the state and operated by state employees. "State store"
does not include a licensee, permittee or package agency.
TRAIL: A linear corridor of property which is planned as part of the parks and
trails master plan or recognized as a city facility by the parks and trails
master plan, although not classified as a park, and maintained by the city for
the purpose of recreation and alternate transportation as a part of the
transportation system. A trail is not a park as such term is used in the
definition of "community location", as more particularly set forth herein.
WINE: An alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar
content of fruits, plants, honey or milk, or other like substances, whether or
not another ingredient is added. Wine is considered "liquor" for purposes of
this chapter. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-030: CLASSIFICATION OF BEER RETAILER LICENSES:
This city is authorized to license and regulate the retail sale of beer within
the city for off premises or on premises consumption in accordance with
applicable provisions of the Utah alcoholic beverage control act. The city may
issue the following classification of beer licenses for the retail sale of beer
within the city for off premises or on premises consumption in accordance with
the terms and conditions of this chapter. No other beer retailer licenses shall
be permitted or granted by the city.
Off premises beer retailer;
On premises beer retailer - restaurant;
Temporary special event; and
Dining club. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-040: BEER LICENSE APPLICATION:
Before a person may store, sell, offer for sale, furnish or permit consumption
of beer for on premises or off premises consumption within the city, the person
shall first obtain the required classification of beer license from the city.
Any person desiring a beer license from the city shall file a completed
application with the business license official on forms provided by the city.
The application shall be accompanied by the following:
   A.   The applicable nonrefundable beer license application fee in the amount
specified in the city fee schedule for the type of license for which the person
is applying;
   B.   The applicable beer license fee in the amount specified in the city fee
schedule for the type of license for which the person is applying, which
license fee is refundable if the license is not issued;
   C.   A copy of the applicant's current business license;
   D.   Evidence of proximity to any community location in accordance with
applicable proximity requirements for the type of license for which the person
is applying;
   E.   A floor plan, and boundary map where applicable, of the premises to be
licensed, including any consumption area, and the area where the applicant
proposes to keep, store, sell, offer for sale, or furnish beer;
   F.   In the case of an applicant that is an entity, partnership, corporation
or limited liability company, proper verification evidencing that the person or
persons signing the license application are authorized to so act on behalf of
the entity, partnership, corporation or limited liability company;
   G.   Any other information the city may require to sufficiently evaluate the
merits of the application;
   H.   If the application is for an on premises beer retailer - restaurant
license, the following shall also be required to be submitted with the
application:
      1.   Evidence that the licensee is carrying public liability insurance in
an amount and form satisfactory to the city;
      2.   Evidence that the licensee is carrying dramshop insurance coverage
of at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence and two million
dollars ($2,000,000.00) in the aggregate; and
      3.   A signed consent form stating that the licensee will permit any
authorized representative of the commission, city, law enforcement or health
department unrestricted right to enter the premises of the licensee; and
   I.   If the application is for a temporary special event license, the
following shall also be required to be submitted with the application:
      1.   The times, dates, location, estimated attendance, nature and purpose
of the temporary special event; and
      2.   A signed consent form stating that the licensee will permit any
authorized representative of the commission, city, law enforcement or health
department unrestricted right to enter the premises during the temporary
special event. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-050: APPLICANT QUALIFICATIONS:
Applicant qualification requirements for the issuance of a beer license from
the city shall be the same as the applicant requirements set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 32B-1-304, as amended, regarding applicant requirements for
the issuance of a state license. The city shall not issue a beer license to any
person who has been convicted of any of the crimes enumerated therein or fails
to meet the qualifications set forth therein. The provisions of Utah Code
Annotated section 32B-1-304, as amended, are adopted by this reference as if
fully set forth herein. Any references therein to "commission" or "director"
shall refer to the "city" and "business license official", respectively. The
city may immediately suspend or revoke a beer license in accordance with the
provisions, procedures and grounds set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
32B-1-304, as amended. All applicants for a beer license shall also meet the
age restrictions set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 32B-1-304, as
amended, prohibiting the issuance of a license to a minor. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-
2014)
6-5-060: CRIMINAL BACKGROUND CHECKS:
   A.   Required: Unless otherwise provided in subsection E of this section,
the following individuals shall be required to submit a fingerprint card in a
form acceptable to the city and consent to a criminal background check by the
Utah bureau of criminal investigation and the federal bureau of investigation
in accordance with the provisions of this section:
      1.   An individual applying for a beer license from the city;
      2.   An individual who with regard to an entity that is applying to the
city for a beer license is a partner, managing agent, manager, officer,
director, twenty percent (20%) stockholder of a corporation, or twenty percent
(20%) member owner of a limited liability company;
      3.   An individual employed to act in a supervisory or managerial
capacity for the licensee; and
      4.   An individual who becomes involved in an entity in a capacity listed
herein on or after the day on which the entity receives a beer license from the
city.
   B.   Procedures: Criminal background checks shall be conducted in accordance
with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 32B-1-307, as amended,
regarding background checks for state issued license.
   C.   Use Of Information: Any criminal background checks conducted by the
city pursuant to this section shall comply with the provisions and restrictions
set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 32B-1-306, as amended, regarding
authorized use of criminal history information.
   D.   Cost Of Background Check: The individual required to submit a
fingerprint card and submit to a criminal background check as provided herein
shall pay for the cost of such fingerprint card and criminal background check.
   E.   State Criminal Background Check: In the event that any individual
listed in subsection A of this section has been issued a state beer or alcohol
license in conjunction with the application for a city issued beer license, the
state conducted criminal history background check on such individual shall be
deemed sufficient for purposes of applying for a city issued beer license;
provided, such criminal history background check has been conducted on the
subject individual within sixty (60) days from the date of application for the
city issued license and such criminal history background check has been deemed
acceptable for purposes of being granted a state issued beer or alcohol license
in accordance with applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 32B-1-
306, as amended. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-070: REVIEW AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Staff Review: Upon receipt of an application for a beer retailer
license, the business license official shall review the application and gather
information regarding the application and applicant qualifications. The
business license official shall also distribute copies of the application and
all other necessary information to appropriate departments of the city for
their review and comment. Upon completion of review and investigation of the
application and applicant qualifications, the business license official shall
determine whether or not to grant the requested license based on the criteria
set forth in this section and applicable requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Criteria: Before issuing a beer license under the provisions of this
chapter, the business license official shall determine that the applicant has
complied with all qualifications and requirements for making application for
the applicable license and that the application is complete. The business
license official shall also determine that the person applying for the license
is not disqualified under the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 32B-1-
304, as amended, and that the application complies with the specific licensing
requirements specified in this chapter for the type of license for which the
person is applying.
   C.   Disqualification: No beer license shall be issued to any person that is
disqualified under the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 32B-1-304, as
amended, or any person who is not lawfully present in the United States. (Ord.
2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-080: OFF PREMISES BEER RETAILER:
   A.   Off Premises Beer Retailer License: The city is authorized to license
and regulate the retail sale of beer for off premises consumption in accordance
with and subject to the restrictions of the Utah off premises beer retailer
act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 32B-7-101 et seq., as amended.
An off premises beer retailer license issued by the city shall authorize the
licensee to sell beer on the licensed premises for consumption off premises, in
accordance with applicable provisions of this chapter and state law.
   B.   Local License Required: Before a person may store, sell or offer for
sale beer at retail for off premises consumption, the person shall obtain an
off premises beer retailer license from the city.
   C.   Operational Restrictions: An off premises beer retailer licensee shall
comply with the general operational requirements set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 32B-7-202, as amended, regarding, among other regulations,
the purchase of beer, the sale of beer by minors, signage and display
requirements, staff identification badges and recordkeeping.
   D.   Alcohol Training And Education: The following persons shall be required
to have a valid record that the individual completed an alcohol training and
education seminar in accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated
section 32B-5-404, as amended: any individual who directly supervises the sale
of beer to a patron for consumption off the premises of the off premises beer
retailer; or any individual who sells beer to a patron for consumption off the
premises of the off premises beer retailer. The city may immediately suspend
the license of an off premises beer retailer licensee that allows staff to
directly supervise the sale of beer or to sell beer to a patron without having
a valid record of training as required by law.
   E.   Administrative Penalties For Sale To Minors: In addition to any
criminal penalty that may be imposed, an individual may be subject to
administrative penalties imposed by the city in accordance with the provisions
and procedures of the off premises beer retailer enforcement act, as set forth
in Utah Code Annotated section 32B-7-301 et seq., as amended, for persons who
have completed the required alcohol training and are thereafter found in
violation of any law involving the sale of an alcoholic beverage to a minor.
Administrative penalties may also be imposed against the licensee for such
violations in accordance with the provisions and procedures of Utah Code
Annotated section 32B-7-303, as amended.
   F.   Employee Identification: Staff of an off premises beer retailer
licensee who directly supervises the sale of beer or who sells beer to a patron
for consumption off premises shall comply with the identification badge
requirements set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 32B-7-202, as amended.
Each licensee shall maintain a record of all current staff identification
badges in accordance with applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated section
32B-7-202, as amended. The city may impose a fine of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) against any off premises beer retailer licensee that does not comply
or require its staff to comply with this subsection.
   G.   On Premises Consumption Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for an off
premises beer retailer licensee to permit the consumption of beer on any off
premises beer retailer licensed premises.
   H.   Container Restrictions: An off premises beer retailer licensee shall
not possess, sell, offer for sale or furnish beer in a container larger than
two liters (2 l).
   I.   Sale Of Beer By Minors: A minor may not sell beer on the premises of a
beer retailer for off premises consumption unless the sale is done under the
supervision of a person twenty one (21) years of age or older who is on the
premises and the minor is at least sixteen (16) years of age.
   J.   Hours Of Sale: An off premises beer retailer licensee may sell beer
beginning at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ending at the hour of
one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
   K.   Sales Restrictions: Beer may not be sold, delivered or furnished to
any:
      1.   Minor;
      2.   Person actually, apparently or obviously under the influence of any
intoxicating beverage or controlled substance;
      3.   Known habitual drunkard; or
      4.   Known interdicted person.
   L.   Advertising Sale: It shall be unlawful for any off premises beer
retailer licensee to advertise the sale of beer in violation of the Utah
alcoholic beverage control act.
   M.   Limit On Beer Sales: Each off premises beer retailer licensee shall
limit beer sales to no more than thirty percent (30%) of its total business.
   N.   Records Requirements: All holders of an off premises beer retailer
license shall maintain records separately showing quarterly expenditures and
sales for beer and nonbeer items. Each licensee shall retain all invoices,
vouchers, sales slips, receipts and other records disclosing all expenditures
and purchases from all suppliers. Such records shall be available for
inspection and audit by the city or its representatives and maintained for a
period of three (3) years. Failure to properly maintain such records for
inspection and audit shall be cause for revocation of the off premises beer
retailer license.
   O.   Gross Sales Percentages: If any inspection or audit discloses that the
sales of beer on the licensed premises are in excess of thirty percent (30%)
for any quarterly period, the city shall immediately put the licensee on a
probationary status and closely monitor the licensee's beer sales during the
next quarterly period to determine that the licensee is able to prove to the
satisfaction of the city that the sales of beer meet or are less than thirty
percent (30%) of total business sales. Failure of the licensee to provide
satisfactory proof of the required beer percentage within the probationary
period shall result in issuance of an order to show cause by the city to
determine why the license should not be revoked by the city.
   P.   Compliance: Each person granted an off premises beer retailer license
and the staff of such licensee shall abide by the conditions and requirements
set forth in this chapter and state law requirements. Failure to comply may, in
addition to criminal or civil penalties, result in suspension or revocation of
the license or other disciplinary action taken against individual staff. (Ord.
2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-090: ON PREMISES BEER RETAILER - RESTAURANT:
   A.   On Premises Beer Retailer - Restaurant: The city is authorized to
license and regulate the retail sale of beer for on premises consumption in
accordance with and subject to the restrictions of the Utah alcoholic beverage
control act, including, but not limited to, Utah Code Annotated section 32B-6-
704 et seq., as amended. An on premises beer retailer - restaurant license
issued by the city shall authorize the licensee to sell beer on the licensed
premises for on premises consumption, in accordance with applicable provisions
of this chapter and state law. Only bona fide restaurants shall be entitled to
an on premises beer retailer - restaurant license.
   B.   State And Local License Required: Before a restaurant may sell beer at
retail for on premises consumption, it must first obtain an on premises beer
retailer - restaurant license from the city and the required state license from
the Utah alcoholic beverage control commission. Issuance of the on premises
beer retailer - restaurant license by the city shall be deemed local consent
for the issuance of a state beer only restaurant license. Pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated section 32B-6-704, as amended, the suspension or revocation of a
licensee's state license shall automatically prohibit the licensee from
continuing to operate under the city license.
   C.   Operational Restrictions: An on premises beer retailer - restaurant
licensee shall comply with the general provisions and restrictions set forth in
Utah Code Annotated section 32B-6-901 et seq., as amended, regarding licensing
and operational requirements for beer only restaurant licenses, and applicable
provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 32B-5-301 et seq., regarding
operational requirements for on premises retailer licensees. A person granted
an on premises beer retailer - restaurant license from the city and staff of
the licensee shall comply with all of the conditions and requirements set forth
herein. The provisions of state law referenced in this section are adopted by
reference as if fully set forth herein.
   D.   Location Restrictions: Except as otherwise provided in subsection E of
this section, the premises of an on premises beer retailer license may not be
located within six hundred feet (600') of a community location as measured from
the nearest entrance of the outlet by following the shortest route of ordinary
pedestrian travel to the property boundary of a community location or within
two hundred feet (200') of a community location measured in a straight line
from the nearest entrance of the proposed beer retailer premises to the nearest
property boundary of the community location.
   E.   Variance: The city council may approve or give written consent to the
commission to authorize a variance to reduce the proximity requirements of
subsection D of this section in accordance with the procedures and criteria set
forth in Utah Code Annotated section 32B-1-202, as amended.
   F.   Alcohol Training And Education: The following persons shall be required
to have a valid record that the individual completed an alcohol training and
education seminar in accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated
section 32B-5-403, as amended: any individual who manages operations at the
licensed premises for consumption on the licensed premises; any individual who
supervises the furnishing of a beer to a patron for consumption on the licensed
premises; or any individual who serves a beer to a patron for consumption on
the licensed premises. The city may immediately suspend the license of an on
premises beer retailer - restaurant licensee if any of the individuals set
forth herein fail to complete an alcohol training seminar as required by law.
   G.   Container Restrictions: An on premises beer retailer - restaurant
licensee shall not sell, offer for sale, or furnish beer for on premises
consumption in a size of container that exceeds two liters (2 l) or to an
individual patron in a size of container that exceeds one liter (1 l).
   H.   Hours Of Sales: Hours for beer sales for on premises beer retailers are
governed by state law, pursuant to which the hours of sale are from eleven
thirty o'clock (11:30) A.M. until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
   I.   Total Business Sales: An on premises beer retailer - restaurant shall
maintain at least seventy percent (70%) of its total restaurant business from
the sale of food, exclusive of service charge.
   J.   Records: All holders of an on premises beer retailer - restaurant
license shall maintain records separately showing quarterly expenditures and
sales for beer and food. Each licensee shall retain all invoices, vouchers,
sales slips, receipts and other records disclosing all expenditures and
purchases from all suppliers. Such records shall be maintained in accordance
with provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 32B-5-302, regarding on premises
beer retailer record requirements. Such records shall be available for
inspection and audit by the city or its representatives and maintained for a
period of three (3) years. Failure to properly maintain such records for
inspection and audit shall be cause for revocation of the on premises beer
retailer - restaurant license.
   K.   Restaurant Business Percentages: If any inspection or audit discloses
that the sales of food are less than seventy percent (70%) for any quarterly
period, the city shall immediately put the licensee on a probationary status
and closely monitor the licensee's food sales during the next quarterly period
to determine that the licensee is able to prove to the satisfaction of the city
that the sales of food meet or exceed seventy percent (70%). Failure of the
licensee to provide satisfactory proof of the required food percentage within
the probationary period shall result in issuance of an order to show cause by
the city to determine why the license should not be revoked by the city.
   L.   Compliance: Each person granted an on premises beer retailer -
restaurant license and the staff of such licensee shall abide by the conditions
and requirements set forth in this chapter and state law requirements. Failure
to comply may, in addition to criminal or civil penalties, result in suspension
or revocation of the license or other disciplinary action taken against
individual staff. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-100: DINING CLUB LICENSE:
   A.   Dining Club License: The city is required to give local consent for
dining club applicants prior to the state issuing a dining club license. Prior
to granting such local consent pursuant to section
6-5-170 of this chapter, the applicant shall apply for a business license with
the city.
   B.   State And Local License Required: Before a dining club may sell
alcohol, it must first obtain a business license from the city and the required
state license from the Utah alcoholic beverage control commission. Local
consent shall be determined per section
6-5-170 of this chapter. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 32B-6-704, as
amended, the suspension or revocation of a licensee's state license shall
automatically prohibit the licensee from continuing to operate under the city
license.
   C.   Location Restrictions: Except as otherwise provided in subsection D of
this section, the premises of dining club license may not be located within six
hundred feet (600') of a community location as measured from the nearest
entrance of the outlet by following the shortest route of ordinary pedestrian
travel to the property boundary of community location or within two hundred
feet (200') of a community location measured in a straight line from the
nearest entrance of the proposed beer retailer premises to the nearest property
boundary of the community location.
   D.   Variance: The city council may approve or give written consent to the
commission to authorize a variance to reduce the proximity requirements of
subsection C of this section in accordance with the procedures and criteria set
forth in Utah Code Annotated section 32B-1-202, as amended.
   E.   Alcohol Training And Education: The following persons shall be required
to have a valid record that the individual completed an alcohol training and
education seminar in accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated
section 32B-5-403, as amended: any individual who manages operations at the
licensed premises for consumption on the licensed premises; any individual who
supervises the furnishing of alcohol to a patron for consumption on the
licensed premises; or any individual who serves a beer to a patron for
consumption on the licensed premises. The city may immediately suspend the
license of an on premises beer retailer - restaurant licensee if any of the
individuals set forth herein fail to complete an alcohol training seminar as
required by law.
   F.   Hours Of Sales: Hours for dining clubs is governed by state law,
pursuant to which the hours of sale are from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. until
twelve fifty nine o'clock (12:59) A.M.
   G.   Total Business Sales: Dining clubs shall maintain at least sixty
percent (60%) of its total restaurant business from the sale of food, exclusive
of service charge.
   H.   Records: All holders of a dining club license (issued by the state)
shall maintain records separately showing quarterly expenditures and sales for
beer and food. Each licensee shall retain all invoices, vouchers, sales slips,
receipts and other records disclosing all expenditures and purchases from all
suppliers. Such records shall be maintained in accordance with provisions of
Utah Code Annotated section 32B-5-302, regarding dining club retailer record
requirements. Such records shall be available for inspection and audit by the
city or its representatives and maintained for a period of three (3) years.
Failure to properly maintain such records for inspection and audit shall be
cause for revocation of the business license.
   I.   Restaurant Business Percentages: If any inspection or audit discloses
that the sales of food are less than sixty percent (60%) for any quarterly
period, the city shall immediately put the licensee on a probationary status
and closely monitor the licensee's food sales during the next quarterly period
to determine that the licensee is able to prove to the satisfaction of the city
that the sales of food meet or exceed sixty percent (60%). Failure of the
licensee to provide satisfactory proof of the required food percentage within
the probationary period shall result in issuance of an order to show cause by
the city to determine why the license should not be revoked by the city.
   J.   Compliance: Each person granted local consent for a dining club license
and the staff of such licensee shall abide by the conditions and requirements
set forth in this chapter and state law requirements as outlined in the
alcoholic beverage control act. Failure to comply may, in addition to criminal
or civil penalties, result in suspension or revocation of the license or other
disciplinary action taken against individual staff.
   K.   Restriction Of Number Of Licenses: The total number of dining club
licenses in the city shall not exceed one per every ten thousand (10,000)
population of the city, based on the latest housing population estimate
provided by the city manager and determined by the average household size and
number or residential units in the city. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-110: TEMPORARY SPECIAL EVENT:
   A.   Temporary Special Event License: A temporary special event license
shall authorize the licensee to sell, offer for sale, or furnish beer at retail
for on premises consumption at a temporary event that does not last longer than
thirty (30) days and shall authorize the storage, service and consumption of
beer at such temporary event.
   B.   State And Local License Required: Before a person may sell beer at
retail for on premises consumption at a special event, it must first obtain a
temporary special event license from the city and the required license or
permit from the Utah alcoholic beverage control commission. Pursuant to Utah
Code Annotated section 32B-9-404, as amended, the suspension or revocation of a
licensee's state license shall automatically prohibit the licensee from
continuing to operate under the city license.
   C.   General Restrictions: A temporary special event licensee shall comply
with the general restrictions set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 32B-9-
204, as amended.
   D.   Operational Restrictions: A person granted a temporary special event
license from the city and the staff of the licensee shall comply with all of
the general operations requirements set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
32B-9-204, as amended, for event permits, and section 32B-9-406, as amended,
regarding specific operational requirements for temporary event beer permits.
The provisions of section 32B-9-406, as amended, are adopted by this reference
as if fully set forth herein.
   E.   Compliance: Each person granted a temporary special event license and
the staff of the licensee shall abide by the conditions and requirements set
forth in this chapter and all state law requirements. Failure to comply may
result in suspension or revocation of the license or other disciplinary action
taken against staff or the licensee.
   F.   Records: All holders of a temporary special event license shall
maintain records which shall disclose the gross sales of beer sold for
consumption during the temporary event. Each licensee shall retain all
invoices, vouchers, sales slips, receipts and other records and other commodity
purchases from all suppliers. Such records shall be available for inspection
and audit by the city license official at any time during the temporary special
event and for a period of eighteen (18) months after the end of the temporary
event. Failure to properly maintain such records for such inspection and audit
shall be cause for revocation of the license. Licensees shall also comply with
the records requirements set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 32B-9-406, as
amended.
   G.   Restriction On Number: No person may be issued more than three (3)
temporary special event licenses in any calendar year. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-
2014)
6-5-120: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   License, Fee Required: It is unlawful for any person to sell beer
within the city without first having procured a license therefor from the city
as provided in this chapter and paying the license fee and any other applicable
fees as set forth in the city fee schedule.
   B.   Sales After Revocation: It is unlawful for any person to sell beer
after the revocation of a license issued pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Separate License: A separate license shall be required for each place
of sale and the license shall at all times be conspicuously displayed in the
place to which it shall refer or for which it shall be issued. It shall be
unlawful for any licensee to violate any of the terms of his or her license.
   D.   Compliance: Any person granted a beer license under the provisions of
this chapter, and staff of such licensee, shall comply with the provisions of
this chapter and all applicable state statutes, rules and regulations regarding
retail licensees, including, but not limited to, applicable provisions of the
Utah alcoholic beverage control act, as more particularly set forth in Utah
Code Annotated section 32B-1-101 et seq., as amended, and the rules and
regulations of the Utah state alcoholic beverage control commission promulgated
pursuant thereto, including, but not limited to, the rules set forth in Utah
administrative code R81, as amended.
   E.   Zoning Applicability: Licensees and licensed premises shall meet and
comply with applicable zoning ordinance regulations and restrictions and any
other applicable city ordinance requirements. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-130: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-140: FEES:
Applications for beer licenses under this chapter shall be accompanied by the
applicable application and license fees set forth in the city fee schedule.
(Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-150: EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL:
   A.   Expiration: All beer licenses issued or renewed pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall expire on December 31 of each year; provided,
temporary special event licenses shall expire on the date set forth in the
temporary license.
   B.   Application For Renewal: Each licensee desiring to renew a beer license
granted pursuant to this chapter shall, by no later than December 31 of each
year, file with the business license official a completed annual renewal
application for renewal of his or her license on forms provided by the city.
Each application for renewal shall be complete and shall be accompanied by the
applicable renewal fee as set forth herein.
   C.   Fee For Renewal: The fee for renewal of a beer license shall be set
forth in the city fee schedule.
   D.   Failure To Comply: Failure to comply with the renewal requirements set
forth herein shall result in an automatic forfeiture of the license effective
on the date the existing license expires. Any licensee who fails to obtain a
license renewal within the required time limit shall close the licensed
premises on or before the expiration date of the then license and shall keep
the premises closed for any and all business for the sale of beer until the
date a new license is issued by the city.
   E.   Additional Fees: In addition to the forfeiture provisions of subsection
D of this section, in the event renewal fees are not received by the city by
January 31 of the year when due, the licensee must pay a penalty of fifty
percent (50%) of the fees due as part of the renewal fee, in addition to any
applicable beer license fees. In the event the renewal fees are not received by
the city by February 28 of the year when due, the license shall be deemed
forfeited and the licensee must reapply for a beer license and pay all
applicable application and license fees. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-160: SALE OR TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   No Sale Of License: A person granted a beer license under the
provisions of this chapter shall not sell, transfer, assign, exchange, barter,
give or attempt in any way to dispose of the license to another person whether
for monetary gain or not. A beer license issued hereunder has no monetary value
for the purpose of any type of disposition.
   B.   No Location Transfer: A person granted a beer license under the
provisions of this chapter shall not transfer the license issued pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter from one location to another.
   C.   No Ownership Transfer: Except for corporate or company ownership
changes set forth in subsections D2 and D3 of this section, no ownership
transfers of any license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
permitted.
   D.   Notification Of Change: In addition to the ownership transfer
prohibitions of this section, all licensees shall be required to notify the
city immediately of any change in ownership of the licensee or persons
associated with the licensee if the licensee is an entity. In order to ensure
compliance with this section, the city may suspend or revoke a beer license if
the licensee does not immediately notify the city of any change in:
      1.   Ownership of the premises of the retail license;
      2.   For a corporate owner, the:
         a.   Corporate officers or directors of the retail licensee; and
         b.   Shareholders holding at least twenty percent (20%) of the total
issued and outstanding stock of the corporation; or
      3.   For a limited liability company:
         a.   Managers of the limited liability company; or
         b.   Members owning at least twenty percent (20%) of the limited
liability company. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-170: LOCAL CONSENT; LIMITED:
   A.   Restaurant Liquor Licenses: The issuance of an on premises beer
retailer - restaurant license under the provisions of this chapter shall be
required as a prerequisite for any restaurant seeking a state liquor license,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Beer only restaurant license;
      2.   Full service restaurant license;
      3.   Limited service restaurant license; and
      4.   Dining club license.
   B.   Temporary Special Event: This issuance of a temporary special event
permit under the provisions of this chapter shall be required as a prerequisite
for any person seeking a state issued temporary beer event permit. This
issuance of a temporary special event permit by the city shall be deemed local
consent for purposes of the Utah alcoholic beverage control act requiring such
consent for the issuance of the state issued temporary beer event permit.
   C.   Local Consent Form: The city council shall have a public vote to grant
or deny local consent. Upon an affirmative, simple majority vote, the
authorized individual shall sign the local consent form for state licensing of
restaurants complying with the provisions of subsection A of this section and
temporary beer events complying with the provisions of subsection B of this
section.
   D.   No Other Local Consent: The city shall not grant local consent for any
state issued liquor licenses within the city other than those liquor licenses
enumerated in subsection A of this section regarding restaurant liquor
licenses, and subsection B of this section regarding temporary beer events.
   E.   Compliance: Any person or licensee granted local consent under the
terms and provisions of this chapter shall comply with all applicable
provisions of the alcoholic beverage control act, as amended. (Ord. 2014-38,
12-2-2014)
6-5-180: STATE OFFENSES:
To the extent applicable to the retail sale of beer within the city and subject
to the jurisdiction of the city, the offenses set forth in Utah Code Annotated
title 32B, chapter 4, as amended, known as the criminal offenses and procedures
act, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 2014-
38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-190: VIOLATIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly provided in this chapter or by state law, any
violations of this chapter shall be deemed a class B misdemeanor. Any
violations of this chapter shall be subject to criminal and/or civil penalties
and procedures. In addition to the criminal penalties, upon a defendant's
conviction of any offense defined in this chapter, the court may order
restitution, defense costs and other applicable criminal penalties as set forth
in Utah Code Annotated section 32B-4-305, as amended. In addition to criminal
or civil penalties, any violations of this chapter shall also be subject to
administrative enforcement action such as suspension, probation or revocation
of beer license, suspension, probation or revocation of business license. (Ord.
2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-5-200: SEVERABILITY:
If a provision of this chapter or the application of a provision to a person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this chapter shall be given
effect without the invalid provision or application. The provisions of this
chapter are severable. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
CHAPTER 6
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
6-6-010: Title For Citation
6-6-020: Purpose And Findings
6-6-030: Application Of Provisions
6-6-040: Definitions
6-6-050: Obscenity And Lewdness; Statutory Provisions
6-6-060: Location And Zoning Restrictions
6-6-070: Business License Required
6-6-080: Business Categories; Number Of Licenses
6-6-090: License Fees
6-6-100: License Bond
6-6-110: License Premises Location And Name
6-6-120: Issuance Of License
6-6-130: Inspection
6-6-140: Expiration Of License; Denial Of Renewal
6-6-150: Suspension
6-6-160: Revocation
6-6-170: Judicial Review
6-6-180: No Transfer Of License
6-6-190: License Display
6-6-200: License; Statement In Advertisements
6-6-210: Regulations And Unlawful Activities
6-6-220: Outcall Services; Operation Requirements
6-6-230: Additional Regulations For Adult Motels
6-6-240: Adult Business; Design Of Premises
6-6-250: Regulations Pertaining To Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films And
Videos
6-6-260: Seminude Entertainment Business; Design Of Premises
6-6-270: Seminude Entertainment Business; Location Restriction
6-6-280: Seminude Dancing Agencies
6-6-290: Performers; Prohibited Activities
6-6-300: Patrons; Prohibited Activities
6-6-310: Existing Businesses; Compliance Time Limits
6-6-320: Exterior Portions Of Sexually Oriented Businesses
6-6-330: Signage
6-6-340: Massages Or Baths Administered By Person Of Opposite Sex
6-6-350: Hours Of Operation
6-6-360: Exemptions
6-6-370: Notices
6-6-380: Injunction
6-6-390: Severability
6-6-400: Penalty
6-6-010: TITLE FOR CITATION:
The provisions codified in this chapter shall be known and may be referred to
as the SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2014-
38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-020: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses and related activities to promote the health, safety,
morals and general welfare of the citizens of the city, and to establish
reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious location and
concentration of sexually oriented businesses within the city. The provisions
of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually
oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter
to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected
by the first amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the
intent nor effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of
obscene materials.
   B.   Findings: Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of
adult uses on the community presented in hearings and in reports made available
to the city council, and on findings incorporated in the cases of City Of Los
Angeles v. Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425 (2002); City Of Erie v. Pap's
A.M., 529 U.S. 277 (2000); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991);
City Of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Arcara v. Cloud
Books, Inc., 478 U.S. 697 (1986); Iacobucci v. City Of Newport, Ky, 479 U.S. 92
(1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres, 427 U.S. 50 (1976); California v.
LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); United States v. O'Brien, 391 U.S. 367 (1968); DLS,
Inc. v. City Of Chattanooga, 107 F.3d 403 (6th Cir.1997); Kev, Inc. v. Kitsap
County, 793 F.2d 1053 (9th Cir.1986); Hang On, Inc. v. City Of Arlington, 65
F.3d 1248 (5th Cir.1995); South Florida Free Beaches, Inc. v. City Of Miami,
734 F.2d 608 (11th Cir.1984); and N.W. Enterprises v. City Of Houston, 27
F.Supp. 2d 754 (S.D. Tex. 1998), as well as studies conducted in other cities,
including, but not limited to, Phoenix, Arizona; Minneapolis, Minnesota;
Houston, Texas; Indianapolis, Indiana; Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove,
California; Los Angeles, California; Whittier, California; Austin, Texas;
Seattle, Washington; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Cleveland, Ohio; and Beaumont,
Texas; and findings reported in the "Final Report Of The Attorney General's
Commission On Pornography" (1986), the "Report Of The Attorney General's
Working Group On The Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses" (June 6, 1989,
state of Minnesota), and statistics obtained from the U.S. department of health
and human services, centers for disease control and prevention, the city
council finds that:
      1.   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of
the establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to make owners of
these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises.
      2.   Crime statistics show that all types of crimes, especially sex
related crimes, occur with more frequency in neighborhoods where sexually
oriented businesses are located.
      3.   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur at
sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or
semiprivate booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos or live sex shows.
      4.   Offering and providing such booths and/or cubicles encourages such
activities, which creates unhealthy conditions.
      5.   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades and other
sexually oriented businesses, for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually oriented businesses.
      6.   At least fifty (50) communicable diseases may be spread by
activities occurring in sexually oriented businesses, including, but not
limited to, syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-
AIDS), genital herpes, hepatitis B, non-A, non-B amebiasis, salmonella
infections, and shigella infections.
      7.   As of June, 2001, the total number of reported cases of AIDS in the
United States caused by the immunodeficiency virus (HIV) was seven hundred
ninety three thousand twenty five (793,025).
      8.   The total number of cases of genital chlamydia trachomatis
infections in the United States reported in 2000 was seven hundred two thousand
ninety three (702,093), a six percent (6%) increase over the year 1999.
      9.   The total number of cases of early (less than 1 year) syphilis in
the United States reported during the twelve (12) year period 1996 - 2000 was
two hundred twelve thousand six hundred seventy two (212,672).
      10.   The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported
annually remains at a high level, with a total of one million seven hundred
thirty thousand nine hundred eleven (1,730,911) cases reported during the
period 1996 - 2000.
      11.   The surgeon general of the United States in his report of October
22, 1986, advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug use, exposure to infected
blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her newborn.
      12.   According to the best scientific evidence available, AIDS and HIV
infection, as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by
sexual acts.
      13.   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and operators of the facilities to self-regulate those activities
and maintain those facilities.
      14.   Numerous studies and reports have determined that bodily fluids,
including semen and urine, are found in the areas of sexually oriented
businesses where persons view "adult" oriented films.
      15.   Nude dancing in adult establishments encourages prostitution,
increases sexual assaults, and attracts other criminal activity.
      16.   Nude dancing in adult establishments increases the likelihood of
drug dealing and drug use.
      17.   Alcohol consumption in adult establishments increases the
likelihood of crime, illegal drug use, and illegal sexual activity, and
encourages undesirable behavior that is not in the interest of the public
health, safety and welfare.
      18.   The findings noted in subsections B1 through B17 of this section
raise substantial governmental concerns.
      19.   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics which
should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
      20.   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and operators of
sexually oriented businesses. Further, such licensing procedure will place a
heretofore nonexistent incentive on operators to see that the sexually oriented
business is run in a manner consistent with the health, safety and welfare of
its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the city. It is
appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is the actual
operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and control of
the premises and activities occurring therein.
      21.   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on the premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest
in curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult
establishments.
      22.   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day to day operation and maintenance of the sexually
oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and criminal activity.
      23.   It is desirable, in the prevention of crime and the spread of
communicable diseases, to obtain a limited amount of information regarding
certain employees who may engage in the conduct this chapter is designed to
prevent, or who are likely to be witnesses to such activity.
      24.   The fact that an applicant for a sexually oriented business license
has been convicted of a sex related crime leads to the rational assumption that
the applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention to this chapter.
      25.   The barring of such individuals from operation or employment in
sexually oriented businesses for a period of five (5) years for a previous
felony conviction serves as a deterrent to further criminal conduct, and
prevents conduct which leads to the transmission of sexually transmitted
diseases.
      26.   The general welfare, health, morals and safety of the citizens of
this city will be promoted by enactment of this chapter.
      27.   When more than one sexually oriented business use occupies the same
location or business address, the secondary effects caused by such businesses
are increased. Secondary effects are eliminated or controlled to a greater
degree when only a single sexually oriented business use is allowed to occupy
the same location. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-030: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter imposes regulatory standards and license requirements on certain
business activities which are characterized as sexually oriented businesses,
and certain employees of those businesses characterized as sexually oriented
business employees. Except where the context or specific provisions require,
this chapter does not supersede or nullify any other related ordinances,
including, but not limited to, those codified in other chapters and provisions
of the business regulations of the city. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-040: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or slug operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, videos or other image
producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial establishment that, as one
of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of
consideration any one or more of the following:
   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion picture, videocassettes or video reproductions, slides,
electronic media or other visual representations that are characterized by the
depicting or describing of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas"; or
   B.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use in
connection with "specified sexual activities".
A principal business purpose exists if materials offered for sale or rental
depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas" generate twenty percent (20%) or more of the business' income, or
account for twenty percent (20%) or more of inventory, or occupy twenty percent
(20%) or more of total floor space. A commercial establishment may have other
principal business purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental
of material depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" and still be categorized as "adult bookstore" or "adult video
store". Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial
establishments from being categorized as an "adult bookstore" or "adult video
store" so long as one of its principal business purposes is the offering for
sale or rental for consideration the specified materials that are characterized
by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, cafe or similar commercial
establishment that regularly, commonly, habitually or consistently features:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity; or
   B.   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, photographic
reproductions or other image producing devices that are characterized by the
depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas"; or
   D.   Persons who engage in "exotic" or erotic dancing or performances that
are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or
customers.
ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
   A.   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration and
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas"; and has a sign visible from the public right
of way that advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions; or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
twenty four (24) hours; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room for
a period of time that is less than twenty four (24) hours.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly, commonly, habitually or consistently
shown that are characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that regularly, commonly, habitually or consistently features
persons who appear, in person, in a state of nudity and/or seminudity, and/or
live performances that are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities".
DIRECTOR: The chief of police and such employee(s) of the city police
department as he or she may designate to perform the duties of the director
under this chapter.
EMPLOYEE: A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full time, part time, contract basis or independent
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise, and whether or not the said person is paid a
salary, wage or other compensation by the operator of said business. "Employee"
does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance
of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to
the premises, nor does "employee" include a person exclusively on the premises
as a patron or customer.
ESCORT: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
ESCORT AGENCY: A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   C.   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business; or
   E.   A sexually oriented business or premises on which the sexually oriented
business is located.
LICENSED DAYCARE CENTER: A facility licensed by the state of Utah, whether
situated within the city or not, that provides care, training, education,
custody, treatment or supervision for more than twelve (12) children under
fourteen (14) years of age, where such children are not related by blood,
marriage or adoption to the owner or operator of the facility, for less than
twenty four (24) hours a day, regardless of whether or not the facility is
operated for a profit or charges for the services it offers.
LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
LIVE THEATRICAL PERFORMANCE: A play, skit, opera, ballet, concert, comedy or
musical drama.
NUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity or
displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons
for consideration.
NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus, anal
cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals or vulva, with
less than a fully opaque covering; or a female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any part of the areola; or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
PATRON: Any person who contracts with or employs any escort services or escort
or the customer of any business licensed pursuant to this chapter.
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association or
other legal entity.
PREMISES: The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to section
6-6-070 of this chapter.
SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which opaque clothing covers no more than the
female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; and the
male or female genitals, pubic region and anus shall be fully covered by an
opaque covering no narrower than four inches (4") wide in the front and five
inches (5") wide in the back, which shall not taper to less than one inch (1")
wide at the narrowest point.
SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCY: Any person, agency, firm, corporation, partnership or
any other entity or individual which furnishes, books or otherwise engages or
offers to furnish, book or otherwise engage the service of a professional
dancer licensed pursuant to this chapter for performance or appearance at a
business licensed for adult theaters.
SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: A business, including adult theater, where
employees perform or appear in the presence of patrons of the business in a
state of seminudity. A business shall also be presumed to be a seminude
entertainment business if the business holds itself out as such a business.
SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
   A.   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons
of the opposite sex; or
   B.   Activities between persons of the opposite sex and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or seminudity.
A principal business purpose exists if the services offered are intended to
generate business income.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter center or seminude
entertainment business.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES: Those employees who work on the premises
of a sexually oriented business in activities related to the sexually oriented
portion of the business. This includes all managing employees, dancers,
escorts, models and other similar employees, whether or not hired as employees,
agents or as independent contractors. Sexually oriented business employees
shall not include individuals whose work is unrelated to the sexually oriented
portion of the business, such as janitors, bookkeepers and similar employees.
Sexually oriented business employees shall not include cooks, serving persons
and similar employees, except where they may be managers or supervisors of the
business. All persons making outcall meetings under this chapter, including
escorts, models, guards, escort runners, drivers, chauffeurs and other similar
employees, shall be considered sexually oriented business employees.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if fully and opaquely covered;
   B.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following offenses:
   A.   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of obscenity;
sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; sexual assault;
molestation of a child; or any similar sex related offenses to those described
above under the criminal or penal code of this state, other states or other
countries;
   B.    For which:
      1.   Fewer than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
      2.   Fewer than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense;
      3.   Fewer than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are for two (2) or
more misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring
within any twenty four (24) month period;
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A.Acts of:
      1.   Masturbation,
      2.   Human sexual intercourse,
      3.   Sexual copulation between a person and a beast,
      4.   Fellatio,
      5.   Cunnilingus,
      6.   Bestiality,
      7.   Pederasty,
      8.   Buggery, or
      9.   Any anal copulation between a human male and another human male,
human female, or beast;
   B.   Manipulating, caressing or fondling by any person of:
      1.   The genitals of a human,
      2.   The pubic area of a human,
      3.   The uncovered female nipple and areola;
   C.   Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in undergarments, a
mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise
physically restrained on the part of the one so clothed.
SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: The increase in floor
areas occupied by the business by more than twenty five percent (25%), as the
floor areas existed on January 1, 2004.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and
includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device that
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-050: OBSCENITY AND LEWDNESS; STATUTORY PROVISIONS:
Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, nothing in this chapter
shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or display of any matter which
is contrary to the provisions of title 13 of this code, "lewdness" as defined
in this code, or other applicable federal or state statutes prohibiting
obscenity. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-060: LOCATION AND ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business at any
location within the city not zoned for such business. Sexually oriented
businesses licensed as adult business or seminude entertainment businesses
pursuant to this chapter shall only be allowed in areas where they are
specifically designated as permitted or conditional uses pursuant to title 11
of this code. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-070: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful:
      1.   For any person to operate a sexually oriented business without a
valid sexually oriented business operator's license ("operator's license")
issued by the director pursuant to this chapter; or
      2.   For any person who operates a sexually oriented business to employ a
person to work and/or perform services on the premises of the sexually oriented
business, if such employee is not in possession of a valid sexually oriented
business employee license ("employee license") issued to such employee by the
director pursuant to this chapter; or
      3.   For any person to obtain employment with a sexually oriented
business if such person is not in possession of a valid sexually oriented
business employee license issued to such person by the director pursuant to
this chapter.
It shall be a defense to subsections A2 and A3 of this section if the
employment is of limited duration and for the sole purpose of repair and/or
maintenance of machinery, equipment or the premises. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
   B.   Application: An application for a sexually oriented business operator's
license must be made on a form provided by the city. The application must be
accompanied by a sketch or a diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). Prior to issuance of
an operator's license, the premises must be inspected by the health department,
building department and zoning department. Prior inspection by the health
department and building department shall be required only when the provisions
set forth in sections
6-6-240,
6-6-250 and/or
6-6-260 of this chapter are applicable. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. 2016
Code)
   C.   Qualification: All applicants for a license must be qualified according
to the provisions of this chapter. The application may request, and the
applicant shall provide, such information reasonably necessary (including
fingerprints) to enable the city to determine whether the applicant meets the
qualifications established under this chapter. The applicant has an affirmative
duty to supplement an application with new information received subsequent to
the date the application was deemed completed.
   D.   Signatures: If a person who wishes to own or operate a sexually
oriented business is an individual, he or she must sign the application for an
operator's license as applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually
oriented business is other than an individual, each individual who has a ten
percent (10%) or greater interest in the business must sign the application for
an operator's license as applicant. If a corporation is listed as owner of a
sexually oriented business or as the entity that wishes to operate such a
business, all corporate officers and directors must sign the application for an
operator's license as applicant.
   E.   Information Required; Submittal: Applications for an operator's
license, whether original or renewal, must be made to the director by the
intended operator of the enterprise. Applications must be submitted to the
office of the director or the director's designee during regular working hours.
Application forms shall be supplied by the director. The following information
shall be provided on the application form:
      1.   The name, street address (and mailing address if different) of the
applicant(s);
      2.   The applicant's social security number and/or his/her state or
federally issued tax identification number;
      3.   The name under which the establishment is to be operated and a
general description of the services to be provided. If the applicant intends to
operate the sexually oriented business under a name other than that of the
applicant, he or she must: a) state the sexually oriented business' fictitious
name; and b) submit the required registration documents;
      4.   Whether the applicant has been convicted or is awaiting trial on
pending charges of a "specified criminal activity" as defined herein, and, if
so, the "specified criminal activity" involved, the date, place and
jurisdiction of each;
      5.   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter
or other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city or
county denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the
sexually oriented business for which the business license was denied, suspended
or revoked, as well as the date of the denial, suspension or revocation, and
whether the applicant is or has been a partner in a partnership or an officer,
director or principal stockholder of a corporation that is or was licensed
under a sexually oriented business ordinance whose business license has
previously been denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location
of the sexually oriented business for which the business license was denied,
suspended or revoked, as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation;
      6.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter or
other similar sexually oriented business ordinance from another city or county
and, if so, the names and locations of such other licensed businesses;
      7.   The single classification of license, as found in section
6-6-080 of this chapter, for which the applicant is filing;
      8.   The telephone number of the establishment;
      9.   The address and legal description of the tract of land on which the
establishment is to be located;
      10.   If the establishment is in operation, the date on which the owner
(s) acquired the establishment for which the business license is sought, and
the date on which the establishment began operations as a sexually oriented
business at the location for which the business license is sought;
      11.   If the establishment is not in operation, the expected startup date
(which shall be expressed in number of days from the date of issuance of the
business license). If the expected startup date is to be more than ten (10)
days following the date of issuance of the business license, then a detailed
explanation of the construction, repair or remodeling work or other cause of
the expected delay and a statement of the owner's time schedule and plan for
accomplishing the same;
      12.   If an applicant wishes to operate a sexually oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which shall exhibit on the premises, in a viewing
room or booth of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space,
films, videocassettes, other video reproductions or live entertainment which
depict specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, then the
applicant shall comply with the application requirements set forth in section
6-6-250 of this chapter.
   F.   Additional Requirements: Each application for an operator's license
shall be accompanied by the following:
      1.   Payment of the application fee in full;
      2.   If the establishment is a state of Utah corporation, a certified
copy of the articles of incorporation, together with all amendments thereto;
      3.   If the establishment is a foreign corporation, a certified copy of
the certificate of authority to transact business in this state, together with
all amendments thereto;
      4.   If the establishment is a limited partnership or limited liability
company formed under the laws of the state of Utah, a certified copy of the
certificate of limited partnership or limited liability company, together with
all amendments thereto;
      5.   If the establishment is a foreign limited partnership or limited
liability company, a certified copy of the certificate of limited partnership
or limited liability company and the qualification documents, together with all
amendments thereto;
      6.   Proof of the current fee ownership of the tract of land on which the
establishment is to be situated in the form of a copy of the recorded deed;
      7.   If the persons identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of land
in subsection F6 of this section is not also the owner of the sexually oriented
business, then the lease, purchase contract, purchase option contract, lease
option contract or other document(s) evidencing the legally enforceable right
of the owner(s) or proposed owner(s) of the sexually oriented business to have
or obtain the use and possession of the tract or portion thereof that is to be
used for the sexually oriented business;
      8.   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared within
thirty (30) days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting
the property lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented
businesses within one thousand feet (1,000') of the property to be certified;
and the property lines of any established religious institution/synagogue,
school, public park or recreation area within one thousand feet (1,000') of the
property to be certified. For purposes of this section, a use shall be
considered existing or established if it is in existence at the time an
application is submitted;
      9.   Any of items F2 through F8 of this section shall not be required for
a renewal application if the applicant states that the documents previously
furnished to the director with the original application or previous renewals
thereof remain correct and current.
   G.   Employee License: Applications for an employee license to work and/or
perform services in a sexually oriented business, whether original or renewal,
must be made to the director by the person to whom the employee license shall
issue. Each application for an employee license shall be accompanied by payment
of the application fee in full. Application forms shall be supplied by the
director. Applications must be submitted to the office of the director or the
director's designee during regular working hours. Each applicant shall be
required to give the following information on the application form:
      1.   The applicant's given name, and any other names by which the
applicant is or has been known, including "stage" names and/or aliases;
      2.   Age, and date and place of birth;
      3.   Height, weight, hair color and eye color;
      4.   Present residence address and telephone number;
      5.   Present business address and telephone number;
      6.   Date, issuing state and number of photo driver's license, or other
state issued identification card information;
      7.   Social security number; and
      8.   Proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years old.
The personal information provided in this subsection shall be confidential, and
shall not be disclosed to the public, except to the extent required by state or
federal law.
   H.   Additional Attachments: Attached to the application form for any
license under this chapter shall be the following:
      1.   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's
face, and the applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by the police
department. Any fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant.
      2.   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant, in this or any other city, county, state or
country, has ever had any license, permit or authorization to do business
denied, revoked or suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or
permit denied, revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial,
revocation or suspension, state the name(s) under which the license was sought
and/or issued, the name(s) of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe
in full the reason(s) for the denial, revocation or suspension. A copy of any
order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be attached to the application.
      3.   A statement whether the applicant has, within the past five (5)
years, been convicted, or is awaiting trial on pending charges, of a "specified
criminal activity" as defined herein and, if so, the "specified criminal
activity" involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
      4.   Every application for a license under this chapter shall contain a
statement under oath that:
         a.   The applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained
in the application, and that the information contained therein and furnished
therewith is true and correct; and
         b.   The applicant has read the provisions of this chapter.
   I.   Separate Application, License: A separate application and operator's
license shall be required for each sexually oriented business classification as
set forth in section
6-6-080 of this chapter.
   J.   No Exemption: The fact that a person possesses other types of state or
city permits and/or licenses does not exempt him/her from the requirement of
obtaining a sexually oriented business operator or employee license. (Ord.
2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-080: BUSINESS CATEGORIES; NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   Number: It is unlawful for any business premises to operate or be
licensed for more than one category of sexually oriented business, except that
a business may have a license for both outcall services and a seminude dancing
agency on the same premises.
   B.   Categories: The categories of sexually oriented businesses are:
      1.   Outcall services;
      2.   Adult businesses;
      3.   Seminude entertainment businesses;
      4.   Seminude dancing agency. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-090: LICENSE FEES:
Each applicant for a sexually oriented business or employee license shall be
required to pay regulatory license fees as set forth in the consolidated fee
schedule. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-100: LICENSE BOND:
Each applicant for a sexually oriented business license shall post with the
director, a cash or corporate surety bond payable to Farmington City in the
amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00). Any fines assessed against the
business, officers or managers for violations of city ordinances shall be taken
from this bond if not paid in cash within ten (10) days after notice of the
fine, unless an appeal is filed as provided by this chapter. In the event the
funds are drawn against the cash or surety bond to pay such fines, the bond
shall be replenished to two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) within fifteen (15)
days of the date of notice of any draw against it. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-110: LICENSE PREMISES LOCATION AND NAME:
   A.   Location: It is unlawful to conduct business under a license issued
pursuant to this chapter at any location other than the licensed premises. Any
location to which telephone calls are automatically forwarded by such business
shall require a separate license.
   B.   Name: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business
in the city under any name other than the business name specified in the
application. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-120: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Employee License; Findings: Upon the filing of an application for a
sexually oriented business employee license, the director shall issue a
temporary license to said applicant. The application shall then be referred to
the appropriate city departments for investigation to be made on the
information contained in the application. The application process shall be
completed within thirty (30) days from the date of the completed application.
After the investigation, the director shall issue an employee license, unless
it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the
following findings is true:
      1.   The applicant has failed to provide the information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form; or
      2.   The applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years; or
      3.   The applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity"
as defined herein; or
      4.   The sexually oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
      5.   The applicant has had a sexually oriented business employee license
revoked by the city within two (2) years of the date of the current
application.
If the sexually oriented business employee license is denied, the temporary
license previously issued is immediately rendered null and void. Denial,
suspension or revocation of a license issued pursuant to this subsection shall
be subject to appeal as forth in subsection I of this section.
   B.   Content Of License; Possession Required: A license issued pursuant to
subsection A of this section, if granted, shall state on its face the name of
the person to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address of the
sexually oriented business. While engaged in employment or performing services
on the sexually oriented business premises, an employee shall, at all times,
possess the license in such manner as to be available for immediate inspection
upon lawful request.
   C.   Renewal: A license issued pursuant to subsection A of this section
shall be subject to annual renewal upon the written application of the
applicant and a finding by the director that the applicant has not been
convicted of any "specified criminal activity" as defined in this chapter, or
committed any act during the existence of the previous license which would be
grounds to deny the initial license application. The decision whether to renew
a license shall be made within thirty (30) days of the completed application.
The renewal of a license shall be subject to the fee as set forth in section
6-6-090 of this chapter. Nonrenewal of a license shall be subject to appeal as
set forth in subsection I of this section.
   D.   Operator's License; Findings: If application is made for a sexually
oriented business operator's license, the director shall approve or deny
issuance of the license within thirty (30) days of receipt of the completed
application. The director shall issue a license to an applicant unless it is
determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the following
findings is true:
      1.   An applicant has failed to provide the information reasonably
necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or
request for information on the application form;
      2.   An applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      3.   An applicant has been denied a license by the city to operate a
sexually oriented business within the preceding twelve (12) months, or whose
license to operate a sexually oriented business has been revoked within the
preceding twelve (12) months;
      4.   An applicant is overdue in payment to the city for taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him/her in relation to the
sexually oriented business for which license is sought, or the property on
which the sexually oriented business is located or will be located;
      5.   An applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity"
as defined herein;
      6.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business has not
been approved by the health department, building department and zoning
department as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances, if such
approval is required under other sections of this code;
      7.   The license fee required under this chapter has not been paid;
      8.   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with one or more of the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Content Of License; Posting Required: A license issued pursuant to
subsection D of this section, if granted, shall state on its face the name of
the person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the address
of the sexually oriented business, and the business classification as set forth
in section
6-6-080 of this chapter for which the license is issued. The license shall be
posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented
business so that it may be easily read at any time.
   F.   Departmental Certifications: If so required under other sections of
this chapter, the health department, building department and zoning department
shall complete their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in
compliance within twenty (20) days of receipt of the completed application by
the director. The certification shall be promptly presented to the director.
Failure of an appropriate department to timely certify its inspection shall not
be grounds for refusing to issue a license within the mandatory time period
prescribed in subsection D of this section. In the event the director fails to
render a decision on the application within the time specified herein, the
operator shall be permitted to commence operation of the business.
   G.   Classification: A sexually oriented business license shall issue for
only one business classification, as set forth in section
6-6-080 of this chapter.
   H.   Notice Of Ineligibility: In the event that the director determines that
an applicant is not eligible for a sexually oriented operator's license, the
applicant shall be given notice in writing of the reasons for the denial within
thirty (30) days of the receipt of the completed application by the director;
provided, that the applicant may request, in writing at any time before the
notice is issued, that such period be extended for an additional period of not
more than ten (10) days in order to make modifications necessary to comply with
this chapter. Notice of denial shall be sent to the applicant in accordance
with the notice provisions set forth in section
6-6-370 of this chapter.
   I.   Appeal: An applicant may appeal the decision of the director regarding
a denial by filing a written notice of appeal with the city recorder within ten
(10) calendar days from receipt of the notice of denial. The notice of appeal
shall be accompanied by a memorandum or other writing setting out fully the
grounds for such appeal and all arguments in support thereof. The appeal shall
be conducted in accordance with chapter
3-7 of this code. The status quo immediately prior to denial of the license
shall be maintained during the pendency of the appeal. Judicial review of the
administrative hearing officer's order may be made pursuant to section
6-6-170 of this chapter. The status quo shall continue to be maintained during
the pendency of judicial review.
   J.   Renewal: A license issued pursuant to this section shall be subject to
annual renewal upon the written application of the applicant and a finding by
the director that the applicant has not been convicted of any "specified
criminal activity" as defined in this chapter, or committed any act during the
existence of the previous license which would be grounds to deny the initial
license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall be made
within thirty (30) days of the completed application. The renewal of a license
shall be subject to the fee as set forth in section
6-6-090 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-
2023)
6-6-130: INSPECTION:
The city shall regularly inspect the premises of the sexually oriented business
in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter. An applicant
or licensee shall permit representatives of the police department and/or health
department to inspect the premises at any time the establishment is open for
business. Such inspection shall be limited to visual assessment of the
activities conducted in areas to which patrons have access or are allowed
access; to requests for inspection of the licenses required under this chapter;
and to requests for identification of those individuals who reasonably appear
to be under the age of eighteen (18). (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-140: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; DENIAL OF RENEWAL:
   A.   Expiration: Each license shall expire one year from the date of
issuance and may be renewed only by making application as provided in section
6-6-070 of this chapter. Application for renewal should be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration date. When application is made less than thirty
(30) days before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be
affected.
   B.   Denial Of Renewal: When the director denies renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, in the event a licensee appeals
the nonrenewal of a license, the status quo immediately prior to nonrenewal
shall be maintained throughout the pendency of the appeal, up to and including
judicial review on the merits as set forth in section
6-6-170 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-150: SUSPENSION:
   A.   Conditions: The director shall suspend a license for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days if he or she determines that licensee or an employee of
licensee has:
      1.   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
      2.   Operated or performed services in a sexually oriented business while
intoxicated by the use of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances;
      3.   Refused to allow prompt inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
      4.   With knowledge, permitted gambling by any person on the sexually
oriented business premises.
   B.   Appeal: A licensee may appeal the suspension of a license to the
administrative hearing officer in accordance with the procedure set forth in
section
6-6-120 of this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this section,
in the event a licensee appeals the suspension of a license, the status quo
immediately prior to suspension shall be maintained throughout the pendency of
the appeal, up to and including judicial review on the merits as set forth in
section
6-6-170 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-
2023)
6-6-160: REVOCATION:
   A.   Revocation Upon Suspension: The director shall revoke a license if a
cause of suspension in section
6-6-150 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   Conditions For Revocation: The director shall revoke a license if he or
she determines that:
      1.   A licensee gave materially false or misleading information in the
material submitted during the application process;
      2.   A licensee was convicted of a "specified criminal activity" on a
charge that was pending prior to the issuance of the license;
      3.   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted the possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      4.   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted the sale, use or
consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises;
      5.   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted prostitution on the
premises;
      6.   A licensee has, with knowledge, operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      7.   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sexual conduct to
occur in or on the licensed premises;
      8.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city or state for any
taxes, fees, fines or penalties relating to the sexually oriented business or
the premises thereon;
      9.   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted a person under eighteen
(18) years of age to enter or remain in the establishment;
      10.   A licensee has attempted to sell his business license, or has sold,
assigned or transferred ownership or control of the sexually oriented business
to a nonlicensee of the establishment; or
      11.   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted a person or persons to
engage in specified sexual activities on the premises of the sexually oriented
business.
   C.   Term Of Revocation; Appeal: When the director revokes a license, the
revocation shall continue for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued a
license for one year from the date the revocation became effective. A licensee
may appeal the revocation of a license to the administrative hearing officer in
accordance with the procedure set forth in section
6-6-120 of this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section,
in the event the licensee appeals the revocation of a license, the status quo
immediately prior to revocation shall be maintained throughout the pendency of
the appeal, up to and including judicial review on the merits as set forth in
section
6-6-170 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-
2023)
6-6-170: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Within thirty (30) calendar days of entry of an administrative order upholding
a denial of an initial or renewal application, or suspension or revocation of a
license by the director, the applicant or licensee may seek prompt judicial
review of such administrative action in the district court. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-
2-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
6-6-180: NO TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   A licensee shall not transfer his/her employee license to another, nor
shall a licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address designated in the application and
set forth in the operator's license.
   B.   An operator's license shall not be transferable from one location to
another. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-190: LICENSE DISPLAY:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business location within the
boundaries of the city to fail to display the license granted pursuant to this
chapter in a prominent location within the business premises. It is unlawful
for any individual licensed pursuant to this chapter to fail to carry their
employee license on their person while engaged in licensed activities within
the corporate boundaries of the city. If the individual is seminude, such
license shall be visibly displayed in the same room in which the individual is
performing. Individuals or businesses engaged in licensed activities within the
corporate boundaries of the city violate the law if they fail to show the
appropriate licenses when requested to do so by police, city licensing
officials, health officials or other enforcement personnel. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-
2-2014)
6-6-200: LICENSE; STATEMENT IN ADVERTISEMENTS:
It is unlawful for any advertisement by the sexually oriented business or
employee to fail to state that the business or employee is licensed by the
city, and such advertisement shall include the city license number. (Ord. 2014-
38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-210: REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business or sexually oriented business
employee to:
   A.   Allow persons under the age of eighteen (18) years on the licensed
premises, except that in adult businesses which exclude minors from less than
all of the business premises, minors shall not be permitted in excluded areas;
   B.   Allow, offer or agree to conduct any outcall business with persons
under the age of eighteen (18) years;
   C.   Allow, offer or agree to allow any alcohol to be stored, used or
consumed on or in the licensed premises;
   D.   Allow the outside door to the premises to be locked while any customer
is in the premises;
   E.   Allow, offer or agree to gambling on the licensed premises;
   F.   Allow, offer or agree to any sexually oriented business employee
touching any patron or customer; except that outcall employees and customers
may touch, except that any touching of specified anatomical area, whether
clothed or unclothed, is prohibited;
   G.   Allow, offer or agree to illegal possession, use, sale or distribution
of controlled substances on the licensed premises;
   H.   Allow sexually oriented business employees to possess, use, sell or
distribute controlled substances while engaged in the activities of the
business;
   I.   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor, or committing activities harmful to a
minor to occur on the licensed premises or, in the event of an outcall employee
or business, the outcall employee committing, offering or agreeing to commit
prostitution, attempting to commit prostitution, soliciting prostitution,
soliciting a minor or committing activities harmful to a minor;
   J.   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any sex act as validly defined by city
ordinances or state statute in the presence of any customer or patron;
   K.   Allow, offer or agree to any employee appearing before any customer or
patron in a state of nudity;
   L.   Allow, offer or agree to allow a patron or customer to masturbate in
the presence of a sexually oriented business employee or on the premises of a
sexually oriented business;
   M.   Appear in a state of nudity before a patron on the premises of a
sexually oriented business. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-220: OUTCALL SERVICES; OPERATION REQUIREMENTS:
It is unlawful for any business or employee that provides outcall services
contracted for in the city to fail to comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Written Contract: All businesses licensed to provide outcall services
pursuant to this chapter shall provide to each patron a written contract in
receipt of pecuniary compensation for services. The contract shall clearly
state the type of services to be performed, the length of time such services
shall be performed, the total amount such services shall cost the patron, and
any special terms or conditions relating to the services to be performed. The
contract need not include the name of the patron. The business licensee shall
keep and maintain a copy of each written contract entered into pursuant to this
section for a period not less than one year from the date of provision of
services thereunder. The contracts shall be numbered and entered into a
register listing the contract number, date, names of all employees involved in
the contract and pecuniary compensation paid.
   B.   Office, Telephone: All outcall businesses licensed pursuant to this
chapter shall maintain an open office or telephone at which the licensee or
licensee's designated agent may be personally contacted during all hours
outcall employees are working. The address and phone number of the license
location shall appear and be included in all patron contracts and published
advertisements. For outcall businesses whose premises are licensed within the
corporate limits of the city, private rooms or booths where the patrons may
meet with the outcall employee shall not be provided at the open office or any
other location owned or leased by the service, nor shall patrons meet outcall
employees at the business premises.
   C.   Advertising: Outcall services shall not advertise in such a manner that
would lead a reasonably prudent person to conclude that specified sexual
activities would be performed by the outcall employee.
   D.   Licensing: All employees of outcall services who provide outcall
services within the city shall be licensed in accordance with this chapter,
regardless of the primary location of the business. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-230: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS:
   A.   Presumption Of Adult Motel: Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel,
motel or a similar commercial enterprise has been rented and vacated two (2) or
more times in a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours creates a
rebuttable presumption that the enterprise is an "adult motel", as that term is
defined in this chapter.
   B.   Prohibition: It is unlawful if a person, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial enterprise that does not
have a sexually oriented business license, rents or subrents a sleeping room to
a person and, within ten (10) hours from the time the room is rented, he rents
or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   C.   Rent, Subrent Defined: For purposes of subsection B of this section,
the terms "rent" or "subrent" mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied
for any form of consideration.
   D.   Penalty: Violation of subsection B of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-240: ADULT BUSINESS; DESIGN OF PREMISES:
   A.   Diagram: In addition to the general requirements of disclosure for a
sexually oriented business, any applicant for a license as an adult business
shall also submit a diagram, drawn to scale, of the premises of the license.
The design and construction, prior to granting a license or opening for
business, shall conform to the following:
      1.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from the manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms.
      2.   Restrooms may not contain any video reproduction equipment or any of
the business merchandise. Signs shall be posted requiring only one person being
allowed in the restroom per stall, and only one person in any stall at a time,
and requiring that patrons shall not be allowed access to manager's station
areas.
      3.   For businesses which exclude minors from the entire premises, all
windows, doors and other apertures to the premises shall be darkened or
otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from seeing the
inside of the premises. Businesses which exclude minors from less than all of
the premises shall be designed and constructed so that minors may not see into
the area from which they are excluded.
      4.   The diagram required shall not necessarily be a professional
engineer's or architect's blueprint; however, the diagram must show marked
internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures and ratings for
illumination capacity.
   B.   Manager Station View: It shall be the duty of the licensee and the
licensee's employees to ensure that the views from the manager's station in
subsection A1 of this section remain unobstructed by any doors, walls,
merchandise, display racks or any other materials at all times that any patron
is present within the premises, and to ensure that no patron is permitted
access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in
which patrons will not be permitted.
   C.   Lighting: The premises shall at all times be equipped and operated with
overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to
which patrons are permitted access at an illumination of not less than one
foot-candle, measured at floor level. It shall be the duty of the licensee and
the licensee's employees present on the premises to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present within the premises. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-250: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS AND
VIDEOS:
   A.   Requirements: A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in
a viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space,
a film, videocassette or other video reproduction, that depicts specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the
following requirements:
      1.   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the business license will be conspicuously posted,
if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). The director may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since said diagram was prepared.
      2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the director or his designee.
      4.   It is the duty of the owner and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of the entire area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If
the premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the
interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations.
The view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the
manager's station.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the view
area specified in subsection A5 of this section remains unobstructed at all
times. No doors, walls, partitions, curtains, merchandise, display racks or
other object(s) shall obstruct from view of the manager's station any portion
of the premises to which patrons have access. It shall be the duty of the
operator, and it shall also be the duty of any agents and employees present in
the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises that has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted, as designated in the application filed pursuant to subsection A1 of
this section.
      7.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five (5) foot-candles, as measured
at the floor level.
      8.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      9.   No viewing room or booth may be occupied by more than one person at
any time.
      10.   No opening of any kind shall exist between viewing rooms or booths.
      11.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty
of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that no more
than one person at a time occupies viewing booths or rooms, and to ensure that
no person attempts to make an opening of any kind between the viewing booths or
rooms.
      12.   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall, each business
day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings
or holes exist.
      13.   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
floor coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces,
with no rugs or carpeting.
      14.   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all wall
surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other porous material shall be used within forty eight
inches (48") of the floor.
   B.   Failure To Comply: A person having a duty under subsection A of this
section is in violation of this chapter if he/she, with knowledge, fails to
fulfill that duty. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-260: SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS; DESIGN OF PREMISES:
   A.   Prohibitions: It is unlawful for business premises licensed for
seminude entertainment to:
      1.   Permit a bed, sofa, mattress or similar item in any room on the
premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the
public or in any office to which patrons are not admitted, and except that in
an adult theater such items may be on the stage as part of a performance;
      2.   Allow any door on any room used for the business to be lockable from
the inside. Doors to an office to which patrons shall not be admitted, outside
doors and restroom doors are exempt from this requirement;
      3.   Provide any room in which the employee or employees and the patron
or patrons are alone together without a separation by a solid physical barrier
at least three feet (3') high and six inches (6") wide. The patron or patrons
shall remain on one side of the barrier and the employee or employees shall
remain on the other side of the barrier.
   B.   Performance Area Separation: Adult theaters shall also require that the
performance area shall be separated from the patrons by a minimum of three feet
(3'), which separation shall be delineated by a physical barrier at least three
feet (3') high. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-270: SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS; LOCATION RESTRICTION:
It is unlawful for any business licensed for seminude entertainment to be
located within five hundred feet (500') of a business licensed for the sale or
consumption of alcohol. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-280: SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCIES:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any individual or entity to
furnish, book or otherwise engage the services of a professional dancer, model
or performer to appear in a state of seminudity for pecuniary compensation in
or for any seminude entertainment business or adult theater licensed pursuant
to this chapter, unless such engaging individual or entity is licensed pursuant
to this chapter.
   B.   Employee License Required: It is unlawful for any individual or entity
to furnish, book, or otherwise engage or permit any person to perform as a
professional dancer, model or performer in a state of seminudity or nudity,
either gratuitously or for compensation, in or for any business licensed
pursuant to this chapter, unless such dancer, model or performer is licensed
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-290: PERFORMERS; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any professional dancer, model or performer, while
performing in any business licensed pursuant to this chapter, to:
   A.   Appear before any customer or patron in a state of nudity;
   B.   Touch in any manner any other person;
   C.   Throw any object or clothing off the stage area;
   D.   Accept any money, drink or any other object directly from any person;
   E.   Allow another person to touch such performer or to place any money or
object on the performer or within the costume or person of the performer; or
   F.   Place anything within the costume or adjust or move the costume while
performing so as to render the performer in a state of nudity. (Ord. 2014-38,
12-2-2014)
6-6-300: PATRONS; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any person or any patron of any business to touch in any
manner any performer; to place any money or object on or within the costume or
person of any performer; or to give or offer to give any such performer any
drinks, money or object while such performer is performing; except that money
may be placed on the stage, which shall not be picked up by the performer
except by hand. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-310: EXISTING BUSINESSES; COMPLIANCE TIME LIMITS:
The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and
businesses described herein, whether the herein described activities were
established before or after the effective date of the provisions codified in
this chapter and regardless of whether such persons and businesses are
currently licensed to do business in the city.
   A.   Outcall Services: All such persons and businesses requiring outcall
service licenses shall have forty five (45) days from the effective date
hereof, or until their current license expires, whichever is first in time, to
comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Seminude Dancing Agencies: All seminude dancing agency licensees shall
have seventy five (75) days from the effective date hereof, or until their
license must be renewed, whichever is first, to comply with the provisions of
this chapter.
   C.   Adult Businesses And Seminude Entertainment Businesses: All adult
businesses and seminude entertainment businesses that are not covered under
subsections A and B of this section shall have one hundred thirty five (135)
days from the effective date hereof, or until their current license must be
renewed, whichever is first, to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-320: EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   Visibility: It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually
oriented business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment
to be visible from a point outside the establishment.
   B.   Lighting, Pictorial Representations: It shall be unlawful for the owner
or operator of a sexually oriented business to allow the exterior portion of
the sexually oriented business to have flashing lights, or any words,
lettering, photographs, silhouettes, drawings or pictorial representations of
any manner, except to the extent permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Building Color: It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a
sexually oriented business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to
be painted any color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall
not apply to a sexually oriented business if the following conditions are met:
      1.   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center; and
      2.   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to be a
component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial
multi-unit center.
   D.   Unpainted Exteriors: Nothing in this section shall be construed to
require the painting of an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually
oriented business. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-330: SIGNAGE:
   A.   Regulations: In addition to applicable city ordinances regarding signs,
the following sign regulations shall apply to all sexually oriented businesses
within the city. In the event of conflict between the provisions of this
section and the provisions of the city sign ordinances, the more restrictive
provisions shall apply. Notwithstanding any other city ordinance, code or
regulation to the contrary, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any
sexually oriented business or any other person to erect, construct or maintain
any sign for the sexually oriented business other than one primary sign and one
secondary sign, as provided herein.
   B.   Primary Signs: Primary signs shall have no more than two (2) display
surfaces. Each such display surface shall:
      1.   Not contain any flashing lights;
      2.   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      3.   Not exceed seventy five (75) square feet in area; and
      4.   Not exceed ten feet (10') in height or ten feet (10') in length.
   C.   Prohibited Representations: Primary signs shall contain no photographs,
silhouettes, drawings or pictorial representations in any manner, and may
contain only the name of the enterprise.
   D.   Design, Color: Each letter forming a word on a primary sign shall be of
solid color, and each such letter shall be the same print type, size and color.
The background behind such lettering on the display surface of a primary sign
shall be of a uniform and solid color.
   E.   Secondary Signs: Secondary signs shall have only one display surface.
Such display surface shall:
      1.   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      2.   Not exceed twenty (20) square feet in area;
      3.   Not exceed five feet (5') in height and four feet (4') in width; and
      4.   Be affixed or attached to any wall or door of the enterprise.
   F.   Applicability To Secondary Signs: The provisions of subsection B1 of
this section and subsections C and D of this section shall also apply to
secondary signs. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-340: MASSAGES OR BATHS ADMINISTERED BY PERSON OF OPPOSITE SEX:
It shall be unlawful for any sexually oriented business, regardless of whether
in a public or private facility, to operate as a massage salon, massage parlor
or any similar type business where any physical contact with the recipient of
such services is provided by a person of the opposite sex. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-
2014)
6-6-350: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:
00) A.M. on weekdays and Saturdays. No sexually oriented business shall open
for business or remain open for business on Sunday or any legal holiday
recognized by the state of Utah. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-360: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Modeling Classes: It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter
that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class
operated:
      1.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state of Utah, a college,
junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
   B.   Movies: Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, movies
rated G, PG, PG-13 or R, by the Motion Picture Association Of America (MPAA),
or live theatrical performances with serious artistic, social or political
value, that depict or describe specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities, are expressly exempted from regulation under this chapter. (Ord.
2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-370: NOTICES:
   A.   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the director or any
other city office, division, department or other agency under this chapter to
any applicant, operator or owner of a sexually oriented business may be given
either by personal delivery or by certified United States mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent address as
specified in the application for the license, or any notice of address change
that has been received by the director. Notices mailed as above shall be deemed
given upon signature for receipt. In the event that any notice given by mail is
returned by the postal service, the director or his designee shall cause it to
be posted at the principal entrance to the establishment. Notice by posting
shall be deemed given twenty four (24) hours from time of posting.
   B.   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the director by any
person under this chapter shall not be deemed given until and unless it is
received in the office of the director.
   C.   It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the director in writing of
any change of residence or mailing address. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-380: INJUNCTION:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid operator's license, or in violation of section
6-6-060 of this chapter, is subject to a suit for injunction as well as
prosecution for criminal violations. Each day a sexually oriented business so
operates is a separate offense or violation. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
6-6-390: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection or clause of this chapter shall be deemed to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, the validity of the remaining sections,
subsections and clauses shall not be affected thereby. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-
2014)
6-6-400: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specifically provided herein or provided by law, any person
who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor, subject to fines, forfeitures, penalties and/or imprisonment as
provided by law. (Ord. 2014-38, 12-2-2014)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE
CHAPTER 1
RESERVED
(2016 Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
7-2-010: Nuisances Defined
7-2-020: Author Of Nuisance
7-2-030: Notice To Abate Nuisance
7-2-040: Civil Actions
7-2-050: Criminal Actions
7-2-010: NUISANCES DEFINED:
Whatever is dangerous to human life or health, and whatever renders soil, air,
water or food impure or unwholesome, is declared to be a nuisance and to be
illegal. Nuisances shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Whatever unreasonably or unlawfully affects the health or safety of one
or more persons;
   B.   Anything which unreasonably or unlawfully interferes with, obstructs,
or tends to obstruct, or renders dangerous for passage, any public or private
highway, road, sidewalk, ditch, stream or drainage facility;
   C.   Noxious weeds, weeds more than twelve inches (12") tall or weeds in a
quantity in any locations which constitute an unreasonable fire hazard;
   D.   Any building, structure or premises which is unfit for human
habitation, or which is an unreasonable hazard to the health, safety and
welfare of people residing in the vicinity thereof, or which presents an
unreasonable fire hazard in the area where it is located;
   E.   To burn garbage, leaves, grasses or other refuse or materials that emit
any noxious odors without first having obtained a written permit from the city;
   F.   Any privy, vault or cesspool that has become a menace to health;
   G.   Vegetable waste, garbage or refuse of any nature that has accumulated
to the point that it has become offensive or hazardous to health;
   H.   The accumulation of manure in any stable, stall, corral, yard or in
which any animal shall be kept;
   I.   To permit any business which is or may be its nature to become
offensive, unwholesome or noxious or which creates or emits or which is of a
nature that it may create or emit offensive, unwholesome or noxious odors,
gases or vapors in or within one mile of the limits of the city without first
obtaining a permit from the city council. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 2022-29, 6-7-
2022)
7-2-020: AUTHOR OF NUISANCE:
When a nuisance exists upon property, and is the outgrowth of the usual,
natural or necessary use of the property, the owner thereof, or his agent, the
tenant, or his agent, and all other persons having control of the property on
which such nuisance exists, shall be deemed to be the authors thereof, and
shall be equally liable therefor, but where any such nuisance shall arise from
the unusual or unnecessary use to which such property may be put, or from
business use to which such property may be put, or from business thereon
conducted, then the occupants and all other persons contributing to the
contrivance or continuance of such nuisance, shall be deemed the authors
thereof. (2016 Code)
7-2-030: NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE:
In order to better carry out the provisions of this chapter, the Davis County
health department, the Farmington City chief of police or any police officer,
or any city officer may serve a notice in writing upon the owner, occupant or
agent of any lot, building or premises in or upon which any nuisance may be
found or upon him or her who may be the cause of such nuisance, requiring him
or her to abate the same in such manner as the officer directs and within a
reasonable time to be fixed in the notice; and failure to give a notice as
provided herein shall not relieve the author of any nuisance from the
obligation to abate such nuisance or from the penalty provided for the
maintenance thereof. (2016 Code)
7-2-040: CIVIL ACTIONS:
In the case of neglect or refusal of any person to abate any nuisance defined
by this chapter, a civil action to abate or enjoin a nuisance, or for damages
for causing or maintaining a nuisance (including costs, if any, of cleaning the
subject property), may be brought by Farmington City or by any private person
directly affected. (2016 Code)
7-2-050: CRIMINAL ACTIONS:
It shall be unlawful and a class B misdemeanor to create, aid in creating,
contribute to, support, continue, maintain or retain a nuisance. Notice to
abate a nuisance shall be given as a prerequisite to prosecution by personally
delivering a copy of the notice to abate to the offender or by mailing a copy
of the notice to abate to the offending party at the party's last known address
by certified U.S. mail, return receipt requested. The notice to abate shall
reasonably describe the subject nuisance and the steps necessary to abate the
same and shall require abatement to be made within a reasonable period of time,
not to exceed thirty (30) days. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
7-3-010: Definitions
7-3-020: Collection Of Garbage
7-3-030: Service Charge
7-3-040: Method Of Payment Of Service Charges
7-3-050: No Accumulation
7-3-060: Containers
7-3-070: Time And Place Of Pick Up
7-3-080: Burning Prohibited
7-3-090: Dumping Prohibited
7-3-100: Limitations Upon Dumping
7-3-110: Establishment Of Rules And Regulations
7-3-120: Penalties
7-3-010: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter:
APPROVED GARBAGE CONTAINERS: Approved garbage containers shall consist of those
containers designated by the city from time to time which may utilize a
"rotationally molded" process or other containers approved by the city council.
Approved garbage containers for residential and approved limited nonresidential
use are designed specifically for automated collection and are equipped with
wheels for easy movement by residential users.
BULKY WASTES: Wastes that are not capable of being stored in the approved
garbage containers and cannot be picked up by normally used collection
vehicles, including items such as appliances, furniture, large tree branches,
lawn sod and trees, etc.
COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE: Garbage, rubbish, trash, food wastes, etc., resulting
from the normal activities of commercial users, institutions or industries.
COMMERCIAL USER: An enterprise, not a residence, such as a business,
association, corporation, manufacturer, hotel, motel, resort, commercial
entity, institution, governmental or public entity, church, etc. However, some
limited nonresidential collection may be approved by the city at the sole
option of the city, provided said nonresidential user does not generate more
weekly garbage than would be typically generated from a single- family dwelling
(2 containers).
GARBAGE: Refers to residential solid waste and means all wastes and other
objects or substances ordinarily or usually discharged by persons at private
residence(s), except nonprocessible waste.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Materials and wastes that are hazardous by reason of their
pathological, explosive, radiological or toxic character.
NONPROCESSIBLE WASTE: A.Goods and materials which are not residential and/or
are prohibited by the disposal facility which items include the following:
      1.   Any loads, the majority of which consists of noncombustible
material.
      2.   Hazardous materials or waste of any kind.
      3.   Any material that when incinerated clearly conducts electricity.
      4.   Explosives.
      5.   Medical or pathological wastes.
      6.   Animal or human waste, body parts or remains.
      7.   Any materials, the majority of which is liquid.
      8.   White goods or appliances.
      9.   Construction debris of unprocessible proportions.
      10.   Large metal objects of any kind.
      11.   Large sealed containers of any kind.
      12.   Motor vehicles or related parts.
      13.   Any item exceeding two feet by two feet by five feet (2'x2'x5') in
dimensions.
      14.   Wood having a cross section exceeding nine inches (9") or five feet
(5') in length.
      15.   Any vehicle containing material that is on fire ("hot load").
   B.   Nonprocessible waste shall include all of the foregoing and bulky
wastes.
PERSON: Means and includes individuals, companies, firms, corporations,
associations or combinations thereof.
RESIDENCE: An occupied dwelling unit, such as a home, trailer or multi-family
dwelling of four (4) or less units, not including hotels, motels, mobile home
parks, hospitals or other institutional, commercial or industrial
establishments. Each unit of a multi-family dwelling shall be considered a
separate residence for purpose of billing. A dwelling unit is not occupied if
persons living there are absent for over ninety (90) continuous days, or are
absent for thirty (30) continuous days after notice to the city, whichever
period is shorter. All multi- family dwellings of five (5) or more units shall
be deemed commercial users.
RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE: Garbage.
RUBBISH AND TRASH: Combustibles such as paper, wood, yard trimmings, etc., and
noncombustibles such as metal, glass, stone, etc. (Ord. 2004-56, 10-6-2004)
7-3-020: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE:
   A.   Requirements: The city, or a contractor authorized by the city, shall
collect, remove and dispose of all residential solid waste by providing once a
week collection at all residences and at some limited approved nonresidential
sites within the city on a scheduled route to be determined by the city and its
contractor. The city, or a contractor authorized by the city, shall also
collect, remove and dispose of recyclable trash and/or rubbish on a schedule
and in a manner as set forth in the regulations of the city. Collections shall
be made during the daytime hours set forth in the approved schedule subject to
modifications enacted from time to time by the city. The city and its
contractor shall not be required to provide collection or disposal of
nonprocessible wastes unless approved in advance in writing by the city and its
contractor. All residence and limited approved nonresidential solid waste shall
be hauled by the city or its contractor unless prior arrangements satisfactory
with the city are made with the city in writing by any person not desiring the
city's garbage collection and disposal services.
   B.   Complex, Multiple Dwellings: Where complex and multiple dwellings, not
each exceeding a fourplex in size, achieves vehicular access from a private
road, the city will determine, at its discretion, whether the complex's garbage
shall be deemed residential solid waste or commercial solid waste. Commercial
and residential solid waste shall not be mixed in the same vehicle and
transported to the point of disposal. Generally commercial garbage disposal
shall not be provided by the city except on a limited basis where such
collection is on a residential route and where the type of waste collected is
in compliance with garbage collection rules not to exceed two (2) containers.
   C.   Hauling Requires Authorized Persons: Except as otherwise expressly
permitted herein, no garbage shall be moved or hauled away or transported upon
the streets or public ways of the city, except by the city or its contractor
and except by authorized persons hauling commercial solid waste or garbage as
hereinafter provided.
   D.   Commercial Waste: Commercial businesses or establishments, institutions
and industries creating commercial solid waste or similar garbage, may remove
the commercial solid waste or garbage themselves or may employ the services of
authorized contractors to remove the same. Authorized garbage contractors must
apply for and receive a business license to operate within the city, together
with written authorization from the city to provide services within the city.
Haulage of garbage must be done in the manner, at such times and in such
vehicles as may be approved for such purposes as the city council may from time
to time by regulation provide.
   E.   Persons Hauling Own Waste: Nothing contained in this section shall
preclude persons from hauling their own garbage or commercial solid wastes over
the streets and alleys of the city as the city council may authorize and
pursuant to rules and regulations governing the same.
   F.   Charges Not Eliminated: Nothing in this section shall be construed as
eliminating the charge made by the city for residential garbage service unless
authorized by the city. (Ord. 2009-65, 12-1-2009)
7-3-030: SERVICE CHARGE:
   A.   Imposed: There is hereby levied and imposed upon the owner or owners of
each residence served by the city (or its contractor) in accordance with the
preceding sections, a monthly service charge for each such residence. The city
may include said service charge on a bill for other services.
   B.   Late Charges: The city may also impose late charges and interest on any
past due service charges or unpaid part thereof. Collection of said late
charges may be effected through such action as the city may deem necessary,
including, but not limited to, termination and disconnection of garbage and/or
water service to delinquent residences, litigation in a court of competent
jurisdiction for collection of penalties and charges provided for, and/or other
methods as the city may deem appropriate from time to time.
   C.   Payment By Owner: The owner or owners of the residence serviced are
responsible for payment of the service charge and any other charges levied and
imposed hereunder. An occupant or person in possession or control of a
residence or property unit other than the owner may pay the service charge and
thereby cause a credit on the corresponding property of the owner, provided
nothing herein shall relieve the property owner from responsibility for payment
of any unpaid charges imposed hereunder.
   D.   Amount: The amount of the monthly service charge and all associated
late charges and interest may be set and modified from time to time by
resolution of the city council.
   E.   Removal of Containers Due to Non-payment: If within a period of sixty
(60) days after the penalty in Section
9-1-130(B) of this code is assessed, payment for any past due balances,
together with any penalty fees, has not been made, the city utility billing
clerk shall notify the public works department to remove all city garbage and
recycling containers from the premises or to take other collection measures
authorized by the city council. A redelivery fee in the amount determined in
the consolidated fee schedule shall be imposed on the account at the time the
containers are removed. Before the containers are redelivered, all past due
balances, together with all penalty and special expense fees that may be
assessed, must have been paid. (2016 Code; amd. Ord. 2023-30, 6-6-2023)
7-3-040: METHOD OF PAYMENT OF SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Billing: The garbage service charges above imposed pursuant to this
chapter shall be added to the charge made for water furnished through the water
system of the city and shall be billed and collected in the same manner as
water service charges are billed and collected by the city.
   B.   Other Methods: In the event that the obligee for the water service
charges and the obligee for the garbage service charges do not coincide, or in
the event the practical, economic and administrative reasons do not make
combined billing and collection feasible, in the opinion of the city council,
the garbage service charges may be collected with such frequency and in such
manner as the city council shall by regulation provide. (2016 Code)
7-3-050: NO ACCUMULATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate garbage or commercial solid
waste or cause garbage or commercial solid waste to be deposited upon any
street or alley, or upon any premises in the city without express written
permission from the county health department. The health officer may permit the
processing of garbage or commercial solid waste upon premises properly equipped
and maintained so as to prevent the creation of a nuisance or a hazard to
health. Additionally, the health officer may grant to any person permission for
sorting, baling and marketing commercial solid waste upon premises properly
equipped and maintained. (2016 Code)
7-3-060: CONTAINERS:
   A.   Approved Containers: All garbage to be collected by the city from each
residential user shall be placed only in approved garbage containers issued to
such residential user and use of containers issued to other users for garbage
disposition is prohibited. All other garbage not collected by the city shall be
placed in suitable and sanitary garbage receptacles.
   B.   Title To Containers: Title to the approved garbage containers furnished
by the city to residential users shall be retained by the city.
   C.   Care And Maintenance: All persons using approved garbage containers
furnished by the city shall keep such container(s) free from destructive or
decorative markings, shall maintain the original color thereof, shall keep the
inside of said containers clean and free from build up of fungus or bacteria or
any other type of contaminant that causes odors or facilitates deterioration of
the inside or outside of such container, and shall not deposit any hot or
caustic materials therein or otherwise damage, deface or abuse such containers.
Any damage to containers caused by the residential user's use or abuse of such
container shall be the responsibility of the user and paid upon demand to the
city.
   D.   Report Of Damage Or Malfunction: Residential users shall promptly
report to the city, or its authorized contractor, any damage to or
malfunctioning of the approved garbage containers that limit their usefulness
for receipt of garbage so that the same may be repaired or replaced.
   E.   Loss; Deposit Required: Residential users shall exercise due care to
protect containers against loss through theft or misappropriation or from other
causes. Loss of approved containers is the responsibility of the resident. In
case of loss, a fifty dollar ($50.00) deposit shall be paid prior to the city
issuing a replacement container. If the lost container is later recovered and
is in usable condition, the deposit may be refunded. The deposit requirement
may be waived at the discretion of the city manager upon a showing of good
cause.
   F.   Nontransferable: Approved garbage containers furnished by the city are
issued to specific residential addresses by number and are not nontransferable.
Upon discontinuance of use by a resident, their approved garbage container(s)
shall remain at the property unless the city requests the container be
delivered to the city public works facility.
   G.   Overfilling; Rainproof, Flyproof: Approved garbage containers shall not
be overfilled to the extent that the contents may be spilled during the process
of pick up and dumping into the garbage collection vehicle. All commercial
solid waste shall be placed in rainproof and flyproof receptacles and the
receptacles shall be tightly closed in such a manner as to prevent offensive
odors or flies and unsightly conditions. (Ord. 1997-18, 4-2-1997)
   H.   Temporary Discontinuance: Any resident who desires to temporarily
discontinue garbage collection service may request the city pick up the
approved garbage container issued to that residence. Such a request for
temporary discontinuance shall be made in writing, stating the residence
address, the name of the person making the request, the estimated period of
discontinuance, which shall be not less than sixty (60) days, and shall be
accompanied by the required administrative fee as set forth in the city's
consolidated fee schedule. (Ord. 1998-33, 9-2-1998)
7-3-070: TIME AND PLACE OF PICK UP:
   A.   Placement: All garbage subject to garbage collection by the city or its
contractor shall be placed on the edge of the street next to the driveway on
the opposite side of the driveway approach from the mailbox, but in no event
within ten feet (10') of a mailbox, and with the container's wheels as close to
the curb as reasonably possible, with the hinge thereof to curbside and the lid
opening facing toward the street. When snow or street construction prevents
placing of the approved garbage container against the curb, the container shall
be placed not over two feet (2') from the edge of said snow or construction and
in a manner that will not obstruct traffic or unduly impede the snowplowing
activities of the city.
   B.   Blocking Driveway Or Traffic: Approved garbage containers shall not be
placed or permitted to block driveways or through traffic.
   C.   Set For Collection: Until otherwise provided by regulation, garbage and
refuse must not be set out upon the street for collection prior to the evening
of the day before collection and must be set out prior to six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. on the day of collection.
   D.   Removal Of Empty Container: All empty approved garbage containers must
be removed from the street as soon as practicable after being emptied, and in
every case, must be removed from the street the same day they are emptied.
   E.   Assistance May Be Requested: Those physically unable to wheel approved
garbage containers to curbside may contact the city to arrange for pick up
assistance.
   F.   Prohibited Parking: It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle upon a
public street within the city during the hours of garbage pick up on said
street in a manner that interferes with access thereto by the garbage
collection vehicle. (2016 Code)
7-3-080: BURNING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage, commercial solid waste,
manure or other refuse, rubbish or trash in the open air or in any furnace or
stove within the city unless expressly allowed by state regulations or Davis
County health and burning ordinances. (2016 Code)
7-3-090: DUMPING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or dump garbage, ashes,
commercial solid waste, rubbish, trash, paper boxes, cartons, manure or night
soil, or any other refuse, upon any lot within the city, whether such lot is
occupied or vacant and whether such person so placing, depositing or dumping
any of the foregoing is the owner, tenant, occupant or lessor or has the same
under his jurisdiction and control. (2016 Code)
7-3-100: LIMITATIONS UPON DUMPING:
Dumping garbage shall be permitted only in such places as are designated by the
city council. Dumping shall be subject to such rules and regulations as may be
formulated by the city council. Until changed by city ordinance, all garbage
generated with the city shall be delivered to the Davis County solid waste
management and energy recovery special service district or to NARD, as said
district shall direct. (2016 Code)
7-3-110: ESTABLISHMENT OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council may establish and amend rules and regulations governing the
disposal and collection of garbage and fixing rates for the collection of the
same. (2016 Code)
7-3-120: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
7-4-010: Short Title
7-4-020: Adoption Of County Ordinance
7-4-030: Penalty
7-4-010: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the COMPREHENSIVE ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE OF
DAVIS COUNTY AND FARMINGTON CITY. (2016 Code)
7-4-020: ADOPTION OF COUNTY ORDINANCE:
The comprehensive animal control ordinance, as codified on July 3, 2001, and as
subsequently amended, is hereby adopted in its entirety as the animal control
ordinance of Farmington City. (Ord. 2003-17, 5-7-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
7-4-030: PENALTY:
Any person who is found guilty of violating any of the provisions of the
ordinance adopted in section
7-4-020 of this chapter, either by failing to do those acts required therein or
by doing a prohibited act, shall be subject to the penalty specified therein,
or in the event no penalty is specified, shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL FIRE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-5-010: Seasonal Ban
7-5-020: Rapid Access Key Boxes
7-5-010: SEASONAL BAN:
   A.   Specified: From June 1 until October 15, unauthorized outdoor fires are
strictly prohibited within the designated area set forth in subsection B of
this section.
   B.   Area Defined: The prohibition set forth in subsection A of this section
applies to the geographic area situated east of a line of demarcation described
as follows:
Starting at the southern boundary line of the city at 200 East, heading north
to 830 South, then heading east to 350 East, then north to 500 South and
extending across Steed Creek to 200 South and 350 East, then heading north to
State Street, then heading west to 100 East, then heading north to 600 North,
then heading west to Compton Road, then heading north on Compton Road to
Bayview Drive, then heading east to 175 East, then extending through the end of
the cul-de-sac to Canyon View Drive (950 North), then heading east to Oakridge
Drive, then heading north to Shannon Drive (1200 North), then heading north to
North Compton Road, then heading west on Richards Way (1265 North), then
heading north on Alice Lane (265 West), then following the east property line
of the Forest Glen Subdivision north to the southern boundary line of the
Compton's Pointe Subdivision, then following the western boundary line of the
Shepard Heights Subdivision until reaching North Compton Road at 1800 North and
extending north along North Compton Road to the city boundary.
   C.   Authorized Outdoor Fires: Authorized outdoor fires exempt from the
prohibition set forth in subsection A of this section are:
      1.   Outdoor barbecue units;
      2.   Recreational fires in residential firepits where any combustible
material is located at least thirty feet (30') from the edge of the firepit
only after receiving proper authorization from the Farmington City fire
department; and
      3.   Burns conducted by farm and horticultural operations; provided, that
such burns are contained and monitored at all times and are commenced only
after receiving proper authorization from the Farmington City fire department.
         a.   For purposes of this section, a farm or horticultural operation
is defined as:
            (1)   Fruit orchards of twenty five (25) or more fruit trees on a
continuous two (2) acre parcel of property; or
            (2)   Agricultural activities of two (2) or more cultivated acres
on single or contiguous parcels of property. (Ord. 2012-21, 6-5-2012; amd. 2016
Code)
7-5-020: RAPID ACCESS KEY BOXES:
   A.   Applicability: This section applies to any commercial or industrial
structure within Farmington City for which the International Fire Code required
or currently requires fire department access doors, fire alarms, or automatic
fire sprinkler systems.
   B.   Timing of Requirement: Structures subject to this section shall be
equipped with a rapid access key box, prior to April 30, 2025. All new
construction of applicable structures shall be equipped with boxes beginning
April 30, 2024.
   C.   Application and Installation: Application for a rapid access key box
shall be made to the Fire Marshal and shall be purchased and installed by the
property owner. The type of box, location and number of boxes required for a
structure shall be determined by the Fire Marshal.
   D.   Keys to Lock Boxes: The Fire Marshal is responsible for each key to
each rapid access key box and will ensure that they are properly accounted for
and secure.
   E.   Contents of Boxes: The following shall be contained within the lock
box:
      1.   Keys to locked points of ingress or egress, whether on the interior
or exterior of the structure;
      2.   Keys to all mechanical rooms;
      3.   Keys to all locked electrical rooms;
      4.   Keys to elevators and their control rooms;
      5.   Keys to fire alarm panels; and
      6.   Keys to any other area within the structure indicated by the Fire
Marshal.
   F.   Maintenance of Boxes: The owner or operator of a building shall
immediately notify Farmington City Fire Department and provide new keys if a
lock box is changed or re-keyed. The property owner is responsible to keep the
lock box in proper working condition and to replace or make repairs to the box
as necessary.
   G.   Temporary Boxes: Commercial buildings under construction must provide a
temporary lock box for emergency access at the commencement of construction.
   H.   Penalties for Violation: Failure to install or adequately maintain a
lock box is a civil violation subject to a $50.00 fine for each day that the
offense occurs. Failure to install or maintain the lock box for greater than
ten days after the Fire Marshal provides notice to the property owner or
property manager is a Class B misdemeanor and is subject to a fine of no less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2024-19, 4-9-2024)
CHAPTER 6
RESERVED
(2016 Code)
CHAPTER 7
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
SECTION:
7-7-010: Hazardous Material Cleanup
7-7-020: Definitions
7-7-030: Supervision And Verification
7-7-040: Remedies Nonexclusive
7-7-010: HAZARDOUS MATERIAL CLEANUP:
The city is authorized, but not required, to clean up and/or abate any
hazardous material which is unlawfully released, discharged or deposited upon
or into any property or facilities located within the city. In the event the
city determines that a cleanup or abatement activity is required, the following
persons or entities shall be jointly and severally liable to the city for the
payment of all costs and expenses incurred by the city and as a result of said
cleanup or abatement activities:
   A.   The person, persons or entity whose negligent or wilful act or omission
proximately cause such release, discharge or deposit;
   B.   The person, persons or entity who owned, controlled or had custody of
the hazardous substance or material at the time of such release, discharge or
deposit, without regard to fault or proximate cause;
   C.   The person, persons or entity who controlled or had custody or control
of the container or vessel which held such hazardous waste or substance at the
time of or immediately prior to such release, discharge or deposit, without
regard to fault or proximate cause;
   D.   The person, persons or entity who owned or controlled the land on which
the hazardous waste or substance was deposited or from which the hazardous
material was released or discharged. (2016 Code)
7-7-020: DEFINITIONS:
EXPENSES: Actual labor and costs of government and volunteer personnel,
including workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits, administrative
overhead, costs of equipment, costs of equipment operations, costs of
materials, and the cost of any contract labor and materials.
PERSON, PERSONS OR ENTITY: Includes individuals, companies, firms,
corporations, associations or any combinations thereof. (2016 Code)
7-7-030: SUPERVISION AND VERIFICATION:
In the event that any person undertakes, either voluntarily or upon order of a
city official, to clean up or abate any hazardous substance or waste unlawfully
released, discharged or deposited upon or into any property or facilities
within the city, Farmington City may take such action as it deems necessary to
supervise or verify the adequacy of such cleanup or abatement. The persons
described in section
7-7-010 of this chapter shall be jointly and severally liable to the city for
all costs incurred as a result of such supervision or verification. (2016 Code)
7-7-040: REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided by this section shall be in addition to any other
remedies provided by law. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 8
RESERVED
(2016 Code)
CHAPTER 9
CLEANING OF REAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
7-9-010: Purpose
7-9-012: Authority
7-9-014: Administration
7-9-016: Inspectors
7-9-020: Definitions
7-9-030: Weed Control
7-9-040: Refuse Control
7-9-050: Graffiti Control
7-9-060: Junk Vehicle Control
7-9-062: Construction Materials Control
7-9-070: Inspections
7-9-080: Notice Of Violation
7-9-090: Proof Of Service
7-9-100: One Notice Per Year
7-9-110: Appeal
7-9-120: Failure To Comply
7-9-130: Itemized Statement Of Costs
7-9-140: Determination Of Collection Procedures
7-9-150: Collection Through Courts
7-9-160: Collection Through Tax Notice
7-9-170: Violations
7-9-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations and procedures for the
cleaning of real property, including, but not limited to, the control of
injurious and noxious weeds, garbage, refuse, graffiti and any unsightly or
deleterious objects or structures on property located within the city. The
intent of this chapter is to provide for the public health and safety,
including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Prevent fire hazards;
   B.   Prevent the spread of vegetation not conducive to the public health,
safety or welfare;
   C.   Prevent the presence of public nuisances, eyesores and other objects,
structures or refuse not conducive to the public health, safety and welfare;
   D.   Prevent the presence and breeding of rodents, insects and vermin;
   E.   Prevent the continued existence of unsightly or deleterious objects and
structures upon property resulting from lack of maintenance, repair or
cleaning;
   F.   Prevent the occurrence and growth of gang related activities within the
city; and
   G.   Prevent the unsightly effect of graffiti and discourage its continued
application within the city. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-012: AUTHORITY:
The provisions of this chapter are provided pursuant to the general police
power of the city and specific statutory authorization as set forth in Utah
Code Annotated section 10-11-1 et seq., as amended, regarding the inspection
and cleaning of real property. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-014: ADMINISTRATION:
Except as otherwise provided herein regarding fire safety matters, the
provisions of this chapter shall be administered, interpreted and enforced by
the community development director. Fire safety matters and provisions shall be
administered, interpreted and enforced by the fire official. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-
19-2010)
7-9-016: INSPECTORS:
The community development director, the weed abatement/code enforcement
official, and their authorized designees, are hereby appointed as the city
inspectors for purposes of carrying out the provisions of this chapter
("inspectors"). It shall be the duty of such inspectors to examine and
investigate potential violations of this chapter and to pursue the enforcement
of any such violations in accordance with the procedures set forth herein. It
shall further be the duty of the inspectors to ascertain the names of the
owners and descriptions of the premises where such weeds, refuse, garbage,
graffiti or violations exist. Inspectors are hereby authorized to make
examinations and investigations of all real property within the city to
determine whether the owners of such property are complying with the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth below:
GRAFFITI: Any form of unauthorized painting, writing, spraying, scratching,
affixing, marking or inscribing on the property of another, whether public or
private, regardless of the content or nature of the material used in the
commission of the act.
JUNK VEHICLE: Any licensed or unlicensed motor vehicle of any kind or part
thereof which is in a wrecked, junked, partially dismantled, inoperative or
abandoned condition.
OWNER: Any person who, alone or joint or severally with others:
   A.   Has the legal title to any real property, premises, dwelling or
dwelling unit, with or without actual possession thereof; or
   B.   Has charge, care or control of any real property, premises, dwelling or
dwelling unit, as a tenant, lessee, legal or equitable owner, or as personal
representative, trustee, guardian, agent or conservator of the person holding
legal title.
PERSON: Any individual, public or private corporation, partnership, limited
liability company, joint venture, association, firm trustee, executor of an
estate, or other legal entity recognized by law.
PROPERTY: Any private real property within Farmington City, and the frontage
area of any such property abutting or fronting upon any street, highway or
alley within the city from the property line out to the edge of the road
asphalt.
REFUSE: Any garbage, trash, rubbish, weed or grass clippings, dead animals,
sludge, liquid or semiliquid waste, and other discarded materials or materials
stored or accumulated in an unsightly manner for the purpose of eventually
discarding or salvaging them, including vehicles, or materials that have served
their intended purpose.
WEEDS: Vegetation which is uncultivated, useless, unsightly, or which has
become a fire hazard or is otherwise determined by the city to be noxious,
dangerous, or a nuisance. The term "weeds" shall also include, but is not
limited to, poison ivy (Rhus toxicodendron), poison oak (Rhus diversiloba),
poison sumac (Rhus vernix), and those plants named in or listed pursuant to the
Utah noxious weed act, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 4-17-1 et
seq., as amended. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-030: WEED CONTROL:
   A.   Height: No owner shall permit weeds on his or her property to exceed a
height of twelve inches (12") at any time.
   B.   Prohibited Weeds: No owner of property shall permit poison ivy (Rhus
toxicodendron), poison oak (Rhus diversiloba), poison sumac (Rhus vernix), or
any plants designated in the Utah noxious weed act, as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 4-17-1 et seq., as amended, to grow at any height on his or
her property at any time.
   C.   Removal, Eradication: Weeds and noxious plants must be eradicated by
chemicals, cutting or other acceptable methods, and all cuttings or dead
remnants shall be promptly cleared and removed from the property. Weeds which
are eradicated by chemicals must be done so before their height exceeds twelve
inches (12"), or they must be cut at a level not to exceed twelve inches (12")
in accordance with subsection A of this section.
   D.   Exceptions; Exemptions: When an inspector determines that the size,
location, accessibility or other circumstances regarding certain property makes
compliance within this section impractical, the inspector may, in his or her
sole discretion, issue an order permitting the owner to create firebreaks as
required and approved by the fire department, or otherwise exempt the property
from the requirements set forth herein as deemed permissible and nonhazardous
to the public health and safety. Any such exception or exemption permitted
hereunder shall be in writing and issued to the owner of the property.
   E.   Order For Removal; Noncompliance: When an inspector determines that the
weeds in a particular area pose a serious fire hazard in view of their density,
dryness, proximity to possible sources of ignition, and the effects of
prevailing winds and weather, the inspector may order the owner of the property
on which said weeds are located to remove or clear the weeds within twenty four
(24) hours. If the weeds are not removed within the twenty four (24) hour
period, the city may seek appropriate relief as set forth herein or otherwise
available by law. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-040: REFUSE CONTROL:
   A.   Accumulation Prohibited: No owner shall permit refuse, garbage or other
unsightly or deleterious objects or structures, to remain upon his or her
property for longer than three (3) days, unless located in authorized garbage
collection containers scheduled for pick up.
   B.   Order For Removal; Noncompliance: When an inspector determines that a
particular deposit of refuse, garbage or other unsightly or deleterious objects
or structures, poses a significant health hazard by reason of its potential for
the spread of disease, the breeding of worms, insects or rodents, or the
contamination of a stream or other body of water, then said inspector may order
the owner of the property on which said refuse, garbage or other unsightly or
deleterious objects or structures is deposited, or the person who deposited it
there, or both, to remove the refuse, garbage or other unsightly or deleterious
objects or structures, within twenty four (24) hours. If the refuse, garbage or
other unsightly or deleterious objects or structures is not removed within the
twenty four (24) hour period, the city may seek appropriate relief as set forth
herein or otherwise available by law. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-050: GRAFFITI CONTROL:
   A.   Reporting: Any person spotting graffiti within the city may report the
sighting to the city police department for enforcement, tracking purposes and
possible criminal prosecution and/or intelligence functions.
   B.   Duty Of Property Owners: In order to prevent the unsightly and
dangerous effects of vandalism and graffiti, it shall be the duty of every
owner of property within Farmington City to keep his or her property free from
graffiti and evidence of vandalism. No owner of property in the city shall
permit such graffiti or evidence of vandalism to remain on his or her property.
   C.   Removal; City Assistance: Owner may remove graffiti from his or her
property himself or herself, or may contract with a person in the business of
graffiti removal. In addition, the city has entered into an interlocal
cooperation agreement for the use of a graffiti removal machine which may be
used by the city to remove graffiti from public or private property. Subject to
the terms of the interlocal agreement and the availability of the graffiti
removal machine, the city is willing to attempt to assist private property
owners in removing graffiti from their property. Such service shall be provided
by the city at an hourly rate as set forth in the city fee schedule or as
otherwise set forth by resolution of the city council and only upon receipt of
a signed waiver and release form from the property owner. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-
2010)
7-9-060: JUNK VEHICLE CONTROL:
   A.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful to park, store or leave or permit
the parking, storing or leaving of any "junk vehicle", as defined in section
7-9-020 of this chapter, whether attended or not, upon any private property
within the city limits of Farmington City for a period of time in excess of
seventy two (72) hours, except that two (2) or less such vehicles may be stored
if within a building or placed behind an opaque screening fence. Vehicles
located within a junkyard or automobile wrecking yard lawfully established
pursuant to the provisions of the zoning ordinances of Farmington City are
exempt from the limitations set forth in this section.
   B.   Removal Required: The accumulation and storage of more than two (2)
"junk vehicles", as defined in section
7-9-020 of this chapter, on private property, except as set forth above, shall
constitute a nuisance, detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the
inhabitants of Farmington City. It shall be the duty of the owner of such "junk
vehicles" or the lessee or other person in possession of private property upon
which such "junk vehicles" are located, to remove the same from such property.
(Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-062: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS CONTROL:
It shall be the responsibility of each owner of real property and any
contractor or builder constructing improvements on real property located within
the city to secure all construction materials present on site during
construction periods to ensure that such materials do not blow away, fall upon
or litter adjacent properties in the area. The owner and/or contractor and
builder shall be liable for any damages incurred by reason of unsecured
construction materials. The storage and/or use of construction materials shall
also be subject to the stormwater regulations set forth in title 16 of this
code. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-070: INSPECTIONS:
An inspector may from time to time enter and inspect real property for
violations of this chapter; provided, that no entry upon real property shall be
made for purposes of inspection unless the inspector first obtains any warrant
required by law. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-080: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
When an inspector determines there has been a violation of this chapter, the
inspector shall serve notice in writing upon the owner or occupant of the
property, either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to
the owner or occupant at the last known post office address as disclosed by the
records of the Davis County assessor, requiring such owner or occupant to
eradicate, destroy or remove the weeds, refuse, objects, graffiti or junk
vehicles causing the violation within such time as the inspector may designate,
which shall not be less than ten (10) days from the date of service of such
notice ("notice of violation"). The notice of violation shall be signed by the
inspector issuing it and shall include the following information:
   A.   The condition which must be eradicated, destroyed and/or removed;
   B.   A reasonable time to comply (not less than 10 days from date of
services);
   C.   The consequences for failure to remedy the condition within the
required time frame; and
   D.   The person or office from which the owner or occupant may obtain
further information, including contact information. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-090: PROOF OF SERVICE:
The inspector shall provide, under oath, proof of service of any notice of
violation issued in accordance with section
7-9-080 of this chapter and file the same in the office of the Davis County
treasurer if collection of costs are to be pursued through tax notice as more
particularly provided herein. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-100: ONE NOTICE PER YEAR:
One notice of violation issued in accordance with section
7-9-080 of this chapter shall be deemed sufficient on any lot or parcel of
property for the entire season of weed growth during any calendar year, or for
the entire calendar year for other violations, such as garbage, refuse,
graffiti or junk vehicles. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-110: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the issuance of a notice of violation may request an
appeal hearing by filing a written appeal with the city recorder within ten
(10) calendar days from the date of the notice of violation. The appeal shall
be conducted in accordance with chapter
3-7 of this code. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
7-9-120: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
If any owner or occupant of land to whom a notice of violation has been served
fails or neglects to eradicate, destroy and/or remove the weeds or condition
causing the violation within the time specified in the notice of violation, the
community development director may, at the expense of the city, employ
necessary assistance and cause such weeds, garbage, refuse, graffiti, junk
vehicles or condition to be cut, removed and/or destroyed, and to authorize
others to enter onto such property to cut, remove and/or destroy such weeds,
garbage, refuse, graffiti, junk vehicles or condition. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-
2010)
7-9-130: ITEMIZED STATEMENT OF COSTS:
If the community development director elects to cause such weeds, garbage,
refuse, graffiti, junk vehicles or condition to be cut, removed and/or
destroyed, the community development director shall prepare an itemized
statement of all expenses, including administrative expenses, incurred in the
cutting, removal and/or destruction of the weeds, garbage, refuse, graffiti,
junk vehicles or condition, and mail a copy of the statement to the owner
demanding payment to the city treasurer within thirty (30) days of the date of
mailing ("statement of costs"). Such statement of costs and demand for payment
shall be considered delivered when mailed by certified mail addressed to the
property owner's last known address. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-140: DETERMINATION OF COLLECTION PROCEDURES:
If the owner fails to make full payment of the amount set forth in the
statement of costs to the city treasurer within the required thirty (30) days,
the city may, as more particularly provided herein: a) cause suit to be brought
in an appropriate court of law; or b) refer the matter to the Davis County
treasurer for inclusion in the tax notice for the subject property. (Ord. 2010-
42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-150: COLLECTION THROUGH COURTS:
If the city pursues collection of the costs through the courts, the city may:
a) sue for and receive judgment upon all of the costs of removal and
destruction, including administrative costs, together with reasonable attorney
fees, interest and court costs; and b) execute on the judgment in the manner
provided by law. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-160: COLLECTION THROUGH TAX NOTICE:
If the city elects to refer the matter to the Davis County treasurer for
inclusion in the tax notice of the property owner, the city shall: a) make, in
triplicate, an itemized statement of all expenses, including administrative
expenses, incurred in the removal and destruction of the weeds, garbage,
refuse, graffiti, junk vehicles or condition; and b) deliver the three (3)
copies of the statement to the Davis County treasurer within ten (10) days
after the expiration of the thirty (30) day period provided in the statement of
costs under section
7-9-130 of this chapter. The Davis County treasurer shall send notice to the
owner of the statement of costs, including right to hearing for objections, and
collect such costs as a tax lien upon the property in accordance with the
provisions and procedures set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-11-4, as
amended. (Ord. 2010-42, 10-19-2010)
7-9-170: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or occupying real property within
the city to violate any of the provisions and restrictions of this chapter
regarding weeds, garbage, refuse, graffiti, junk vehicles or deleterious object
or structures, or to fail to comply with any lawful order or notice of the
community development director, fire official or inspector regarding the
abatement of any such violation. In addition to the abatement and collection of
cost procedures set forth herein, any violation of this chapter shall be deemed
a class B misdemeanor, punishable by fine, imprisonment or both, as permitted
by applicable laws of the state of Utah, or enforced through the civil
enforcement procedures set forth in title 1, chapter 6 of this code. The city
may pursue all other remedies available by law or in equity. Except as
otherwise prohibited by law, all remedies shall be cumulative. (Ord. 2010-42,
10-19-2010)
CHAPTER 10
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
7-10-010: Prohibited Noise
7-10-020: Regulated Noise
7-10-030: Factors
7-10-040: Exceptions
7-10-050: Special Permit
7-10-060: Violations
7-10-010: PROHIBITED NOISE:
It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or with reckless disregard create the
following noise disturbances within the city:
   A.   Disruption Of Dwelling: To make, cause or permit any excessive noise
which annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of any
neighborhood or person residing therein which under the circumstances would
disturb a person of average and reasonable sensitivities.
   B.   Disruption Of Meeting: To make, cause or permit any excessive noise
which prevents or disrupts a lawful meeting, gathering, business or other
lawful activity, which under the circumstances would disturb a person of
average and reasonable sensitivities.
   C.   Automobiles: To operate or permit the operation of a motor vehicle
which causes excessive noise levels as a result of any car stereo, a defective
or modified exhaust system, or as a result of any unnecessary rapid
acceleration, deceleration, engine revving or tire squealing.
   D.   Street Performances: To use or permit the use of bells, whistles,
sirens, music horns or any other noisemaking device for the purpose of
business, amusement or otherwise which tends to collect persons on the streets
or sidewalks of the city.
   E.   Emergency Signals: To make, cause or permit the sounding of any fire,
burglar, automobile or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle, or similar
emergency signaling device other than for emergency or testing purposes. Any
testing permitted herein shall be conducted between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and shall be conducted for the minimum
test cycle time, not to exceed three (3) minutes. (Ord. 1999-07, 2-3-1999)
7-10-020: REGULATED NOISE:
It shall be unlawful to cause, permit or perform the following acts between the
hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. within the
city when such acts create a noise disturbance within a residential area:
   A.   Loading Operation: To load, unload, open, close or otherwise handle
boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage containers or similar
objects.
   B.   Construction Work: To operate any tools or equipment used in
construction, drilling, repair, alteration or demolition work on buildings,
structures or streets.
   C.   Power Equipment: To operate any mechanically powered saw, drill,
sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool, lawn mower or other similar device, other
than powered snow removal equipment.
   D.   Garbage Collection: To collect garbage, waste or refuse.
   E.   Loudspeakers: To operate or use any loudspeaker, public address system
or mobile sound vehicle amplifying sound therefrom.
   F.   Radios: To operate or play any radio, television, musical instrument or
similar audio device. (Ord. 1999-07, 2-3-1999)
7-10-030: FACTORS:
The factors to be considered in determining whether a violation of the
provisions of this chapter exist include, but shall not be limited to, the
following:
   A.   The level of the noise;
   B.   The nature of the noise (i.e., usual or unusual);
   C.   The origin of the noise (i.e., natural or unnatural);
   D.   The level and intensity of any background noise;
   E.   The proximity of the noise to residential areas;
   F.   The nature and zoning of the surrounding area;
   G.   The density of inhabitants in the surrounding area;
   H.   The time of day of the noise; and
   I.   The recurrence or consistency of the noise. (Ord. 1999-07, 2-3-1999)
7-10-040: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to emergency situations, the
lawful exercise of free speech, and conduct permitted by license or permit of
the city or otherwise authorized by law. In addition, this chapter shall not
apply to amusement parks or agricultural equipment or operation. The exceptions
provided herein are limited to the provisions of this chapter and shall not
provide any exception from any other applicable law or ordinance and shall not
be interpreted to limit the city's enforcement authority regarding the same.
(Ord. 1999-07, 2-3-1999)
7-10-050: SPECIAL PERMIT:
Persons may file an application with the city for a special temporary noise
permit authorizing the applicant to take certain action or conduct certain
activities not otherwise permitted herein. Any permit issued hereunder shall be
in addition to any and all other licenses or permits required by law, and shall
be subject to all other state and county laws regarding noise emissions.
   A.   Application: Applications for a special temporary noise permit shall be
made in writing to the city planning department and shall include the following
items:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant;
      2.   Activity or purpose for which the permit is desired;
      3.   Reasons why the permit is necessary, including an explanation of
undue hardship and lack of reasonable alternatives;
      4.   The specific date, time and location to be covered by the permit;
and
      5.   Any other relevant information requested by the city.
   B.   Fees: Each application for the special temporary noise permit filed
hereunder shall be accompanied by any required permit fees set forth by
resolution of the city council. No permit shall be issued until the proper fees
have been paid to the city. Unless otherwise provided, the fees required herein
shall be in addition to any and all other license or permit fees imposed by any
other law.
   C.   Issuance: The city planner/zoning administrator or his or her designee
shall review all applications filed hereunder and may issue or deny a permit,
in whole or in part, based upon consideration for public health and safety. Any
permit issued hereunder shall contain any conditions upon which the permit has
been granted, including the effective dates, time restrictions, location and
other reasonable requirements necessary to minimize adverse affects upon
surrounding areas and any persons therein.
   D.   Denial: If the proper fees have not been paid, or the city planner/
zoning administrator or his or her designee determines that the application
does not conform with applicable law or it is not in the public's best interest
to issue the permit, the city planner/zoning administrator or his or her
designee shall deny the permit and notify the applicant in writing of such
denial. The notice shall state the reasons for denial and inform the applicant
that he or she may file a written appeal of such denial pursuant to subsection
I of this section.
   E.   Term: Any permit issued hereunder shall specifically state the term and
purpose for which it was issued, not to exceed thirty (30) days.
   F.   Limitation: Except as provided herein, each permit issued hereunder
shall be valid only for the person to whom it is issued. Permit holders shall
ensure that the permit is available for inspection by city officials at the
place and time for which it is issued.
   G.   Records: The city planner/zoning administrator or his or her designee
shall keep a record of all permits issued hereunder, including the name of the
person to whom the permit was issued, the type of permit issued, and the fees
collected.
   H.   Revocation: Any permit issued hereunder may be revoked or suspended by
the city planner/zoning administrator or his or her designee due to the permit
holder's failure to comply with the provisions hereof or other applicable law.
Prior to revocation of any permit, proper notice and an opportunity to be heard
shall be provided to the permit holder.
   I.   Appeal: Any determination made by the city planner/zoning administrator
or his or her designee relative to the issuance, denial or revocation of a
permit hereunder may be appealed to the city manager by filing within ten (10)
days from the date of said determination, a written notice of appeal setting
forth the grounds for the appeal and any other pertinent information. Such
notice of appeal shall be filed by delivering an original and three (3) copies
to the city manager during regular business hours. Upon receipt of the appeal,
the city manager shall thoroughly and objectively investigate the matter and
issue a written decision stating the reasons for the decision and informing the
appellant of any right to judicial review provided by law. (Ord. 1999-07, 2-3-
1999)
7-10-060: VIOLATIONS:
Any person found in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor and subject to imprisonment and/or fines as provided by law.
Violations of this chapter may also constitute a public nuisance and may be
enjoined and abated as such by the city. (Ord. 1999-07, 2-3-1999)
CHAPTER 11
NUISANCE PARTIES, GATHERINGS OR EVENTS
SECTION:
7-11-010: Purpose
7-11-020: Definitions
7-11-030: Nuisance Party, Gathering Or Event
7-11-040: Notice Required
7-11-050: Penalty For Hosting Nuisance Party, Gathering Or Event
7-11-060: Right To Contest Notice
7-11-070: Other Appropriate Action Not Precluded
7-11-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to impose liability on property owners and
persons responsible for parties, gatherings and events occurring within the
city, where illegal and/or nuisance activity is conducted to the detriment of
the health, safety, welfare and morals of the citizens. (Ord. 2006-52, 8-1-
2006)
7-11-020: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, phrases and terms as used in this chapter shall have the
meaning for this chapter as indicated below:
HOST: A.The person having an ownership, leasehold or other interest in the
premises where the nuisance party, gathering or event is located, or any person
acting as an agent on the owner's behalf; and/or
   B.   A person who resides at the location or occupies, in any capacity
whether for personal or business purposes, the property where the party,
gathering or event takes place; and/or
   C.   The person in charge of the premises; and/or
   D.   The person who organized the event; and/or
   E.   The person who gave permission to hold the party on the premises;
   F.   If the party is hosted by an organization, either incorporated or
unincorporated, the term "host" includes the officers of the organization.
NUISANCE PARTY, GATHERING OR EVENT: An event where three (3) or more people
have assembled or are assembling for a social activity in a manner which
results in one or more of the following: disorderly conduct; illegal open
container; outdoor urination or defecation in a public place; unlawful sale,
furnishing, dispensing or consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor; sale or
furnishing of beer or intoxicating liquor to a minor; possession or consumption
of beer or intoxicating liquor by a minor; illegal use of a controlled
substance regulated by the Utah controlled substances act; public indecency;
unlawful deposit of litter or refuse; the damage or destruction of property
without the consent of the property owner; unlawful pedestrian or vehicular
traffic; standing or parking of vehicles that obstructs the free flow of
traffic on the public streets and sidewalks or that impedes the ability to
render emergency services; noise disturbance prohibited by chapter 10 of this
title; or any other conduct or condition that threatens injury, inconvenience
or alarm to persons or damage to property. A nuisance party, gathering or event
is hereby declared to be an unlawful public nuisance. (Ord. 2006-52, 8-1-2006)
7-11-030: NUISANCE PARTY, GATHERING OR EVENT:
Any person hosting a nuisance party, gathering or event within the city shall
be guilty of a class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 2006-52, 8-1-2006)
7-11-040: NOTICE REQUIRED:
When any police officer responds to any nuisance party, gathering or event
which is hosted by a person other than the owner of the property, the police
officer, in addition to any other action the situation requires, shall provide
a written notice addressed to the owner(s) of the property, as shown on the
most current assessment rolls of the county, as follows:
   A.   Initial Notice: The initial notice shall inform the owner(s):
      1.   A nuisance party, gathering or event has occurred at the premises;
      2.   The date of the nuisance party, gathering or event;
      3.   Any subsequent nuisance party, gathering or event on the same
premises within a thirty (30) day period shall result in a second notice;
      4.   The owner(s) has the right to contest the notice given as provided
in this chapter.
   B.   Second Notice: The second notice shall inform the owner(s):
      1.   A nuisance party, gathering or event has occurred at the premises;
      2.   The date of the nuisance party, gathering or event;
      3.   That any subsequent nuisance party, gathering or event on the same
premises within a thirty (30) day period shall result in the issuance of a
criminal citation to the owner(s) of the property;
      4.   That the owner(s) has the right to contest the notice given as
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2006-52, 8-1-2006)
7-11-050: PENALTY FOR HOSTING NUISANCE PARTY, GATHERING OR EVENT:
An owner who has received two (2) notices as provided by section
7-11-040 of this chapter, and who is found to have hosted a party, gathering or
event in violation of this chapter within thirty (30) days subsequent to the
second notice, shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, punishable by fine,
imprisonment or both, as permitted by the applicable laws of the state of Utah
and Farmington City. (Ord. 2006-52, 8-1-2006)
7-11-060: RIGHT TO CONTEST NOTICE:
Any owner receiving a notice pursuant to section
7-11-040 of this chapter may contest the notice by filing a written petition
for review within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice. The appeal shall be
conducted in accordance with chapter
3-7 of this code. The administrative hearing officer may rescind a notice if it
is shown that the person who received the notice was not the legal owner of the
property on the relevant date, that compliance with this chapter would have
presented an imminent and irreparable injury to persons or property, or similar
mitigating circumstances. (Ord. 2006-52, 8-1-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-
2023)
7-11-070: OTHER APPROPRIATE ACTION NOT PRECLUDED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the arrest and/or
citation of violators of the state penal code or other regulations, ordinances
or laws, either in the initial or subsequent visits. (Ord. 2006-52, 8-1-2006)
CHAPTER 12
FIRE ALARMS
SECTION:
7-12-010: Purpose
7-12-020: Definitions
7-12-030: Maintenance, Testing, And Inspection
7-12-040: Fire Alarm Activation And Response
7-12-050: Intentional False Alarm
7-12-060: Notice And Service Fees For Repeated False Alarms; Late Fees
7-12-070: Disconnection Of Fire Alarm System; Fire Watch; Reactivation
7-12-080: Appeals
7-12-090: Fire Watch
7-12-100: Government Immunity
7-12-010: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to require owners to properly use and
maintain the operational effectiveness of fire alarm systems in order to
improve their reliability and eliminate or reduce false fire alarms and
nuisance fire alarms. The requirements of this chapter shall be in addition to,
and not in place of, any requirements imposed by the international fire code as
adopted by the city.
   B.   This chapter governs fire or fire suppression alarm systems designed to
summon the Farmington fire department, assessment of fees for excessive false
and nuisance alarms, establishment of fire watch for repetitive violations or
other authorized reasons, severability of the parts hereof if declared invalid,
and provides an effective date. (Ord. 2024-59, 12-17-2024)
7-12-020: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings:
   ADOPTED CODES: Codes adopted by Farmington City
   FALSE FIRE ALARM: The activation of any monitored fire alarm, monitored
suppression alarm, or other fire department notification system which results
in a response by the fire department and which is caused by the negligence or
intentional misuse of the system by the owner or occupants, employees, or
agents thereof, or any other activation of a system not caused by heat, smoke,
fire, or water flow.
   FEE: The assessment of a monetary charge payable to the Farmington City
treasurer to defray the expense of responding to a false fire alarm or nuisance
fire alarm.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM: A system or portion of a combination system consisting of
components and circuits arranged to monitor and/or annunciate the status of a
fire alarm, suppression system activation, or signal initiating devices that
initiate a response.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT: The Farmington Fire Department.
   FIRE WATCH: A person or persons assigned to the premises for the purpose of
protecting the structure or occupants from an emergency situation, approved by
the Fire Chief. Fire watch may involve some special actions beyond normal
staffing. These special actions may include persons trained in fire prevention
and detection, use of extinguishing systems, and activation of fire alarms.
   NUISANCE FIRE ALARM: The activation of any monitored fire alarm, monitored
suppression alarm, or other fire department notification system, which results
in a response by the fire department, caused by mechanical failure, lack of
proper maintenance, malfunction, improper installation, more than once a
quarter, or any other response for which emergency officials cannot determine
the cause of the alarm.
   OWNER: Any person who owns the premises in which a fire alarm system is
installed. In the event such premises are leased to a third party, "owner"
shall mean both the owner of the property and the tenant in possession of the
premises, and any responsibilities for the alarm system and fees assessed
hereunder shall be joint and several for both owner and tenant.
   PREMISES: Any building, structure, or combination of building and
structures, wherein a fire alarm system is installed. For the purposes of this
chapter, the definition of premises shall not include single-family or two-
family residential buildings.
   SERVE: Delivery via certified U.S. mail, return receipt requested, to both
the address of the premises and to the address of the record owner of the
premises if different than the address of the premises and available to the
enforcement official. (Ord. 2024-59, 12-17-2024)
7-12-030: MAINTENANCE, TESTING, AND INSPECTION:
   A.   The owner shall ensure that all fire alarm systems under his or her
control are periodically maintained as dictated by the manufacturer's
specifications and adopted codes.
   B.   The owner shall ensure that all fire alarm systems are tested and
inspected at least once per year, in accordance with adopted codes. (Ord. 2024-
59, 12-17-2024)
7-12-040: FIRE ALARM ACTIVATION AND RESPONSE:
   A.   The owner of the premises shall be responsible for all activations of a
fire alarm system thereon.
   B.   A response to the activation of a fire alarm system shall result when
any officer or member of the fire department is dispatched to the premises
where the fire alarm system has been activated. (Ord. 2024-59, 12-17-2024)
7-12-050: INTENTIONAL FALSE ALARM:
It shall be unlawful for any person to, knowingly or intentionally, turn in or
report to the fire department a false report of a fire, activate a false fire
alarm, or tamper with or remove any part of a fire alarm system. (Ord. 2024-59,
12-17-2024)
7-12-060: NOTICE AND SERVICE FEES FOR REPEATED FALSE ALARMS; LATE FEES:
   A.   Upon the first and second fire alarm activations in any three hundred
sixty five (365) day period, deemed by the Fire Marshal to be nuisance or false
fire alarms, the Fire Marshal shall serve notice to the owner of the premises
where the fire alarm system has been activated notifying the owner of the false
or nuisance fire alarm activation, directing the owner to rectify the cause of
the false or nuisance fire alarm, and providing a warning that subsequent
alarms may result in the assessment of fees pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Additional fire alarm activations within any three-hundred sixty-five
(365) day period, deemed by the Fire Marshal to be nuisance or false fire
alarms, shall result in the assessment of fees against the owner in the amounts
stated in the Farmington City consolidated fee schedule. The amounts provided
in the schedule may be updated annually to reflect the estimated cost of a
response.
   C.   Should any fee assessed pursuant to this chapter remain unpaid in
excess of sixty (60) days from the date the fee is billed, a late payment
penalty shall be imposed equal to ten percent (10%) of the amount due. In
addition, for each calendar month beyond the due date that a payment is late,
compound interest of two percent (2%) will accrue monthly until the fee, plus
penalties and interest, are paid in full. (Ord. 2024-59, 12-17-2024)
7-12-070: DISCONNECTION OF FIRE ALARM SYSTEM; FIRE WATCH; REACTIVATION:
   A.   A premises which is habitually responsible for false or nuisance alarms
is subject to a written order to disconnect the fire alarm by the Fire Marshal,
served upon the owner and specifying the date on which the owner shall be
required to disconnect or deactivate the fire alarm system. This notice may
also be served in person. The date of deactivation or disconnection shall be at
least fifteen (15) days after the notice is mailed to the owner.
   B.   Each building affected by the disconnection or deactivation of the fire
alarm system, for which occupancy requires a functioning fire alarm, shall be
required to establish a fire watch that meets the requirements of the Fire
Marshal until the fire alarm system has been returned to service. The Fire
Marshal, in his or her discretion, may order a fire watch pursuant to section
7-12-090 of this chapter.
   C.   The Fire Marshal shall have the authority to temporarily suspend the
occupancy certificate of the premises until all outstanding repairs are made on
the fire alarm system or if the fire watch is not maintained to the
satisfaction of the Fire Marshal.
   D.   A fire alarm system may be reactivated or reconnected upon a finding by
the Fire Marshal that the owner of the premises has taken necessary corrective
action to remedy the cause of the false fire alarms or nuisance fire alarms at
the premises. The owner shall have the burden of showing what corrective action
has been taken upon making a request for reactivation.
   E.   The owner shall be responsible for any inspection and/or testing fees
incurred in determining whether the fire alarm system is ready for
reactivation. The Fire Marshal shall not approve an order of reactivation or
reconnection if the owner has failed to pay any fees imposed pursuant to this
chapter or otherwise. (Ord. 2024-59, 12-17-2024)
7-12-080: APPEALS:
   A.   An owner may appeal the assessment of fees to the administrative
hearing official pursuant to chapter 3-7 of this code. The filing of an appeal
with the enforcement official stays the assessment of the fee until the
enforcement official makes a final decision.
   B.   An owner to whom a notice to disconnect or deactivate a fire alarm
system was mailed, pursuant to subsection
7-12-070( A) of this chapter, shall be entitled to appeal the order to the
administrative hearing officer pursuant to chapter 3-7 of this code. The
administrative hearing officer shall review the facts and circumstances and
shall determine whether the owner has demonstrated by a preponderance of the
evidence that the order lacks substantial evidence or is arbitrary, capricious
or illegal. If the administrative hearing officer affirms the order to
disconnect or deactivate a fire alarm system, the owner shall have fifteen (15)
days after the written decision is served upon the owner to comply with the
order. The appeal of an order to disconnect or deactivate shall suspend the
effective date of the order until the appeal has been acted upon by the
administrative hearing officer. (Ord. 2024-59, 12-17-2024)
7-12-090: FIRE WATCH:
   A.   If the Fire Marshal orders a fire watch as a result of a fire alarm
system being disconnected as provided for in this chapter, or for any other
reason authorized by the adopted codes, such fire watch may be at the following
levels or may provide specific fire watch requirements at the discretion of the
Fire Marshal, which will vary depending upon the uses, occupancy and hours of
operation for the premises:
      1.   Level I: Continuous monitoring of affected area for signs of smoke
or fire for the sole purpose of notifying the fire department (dialing 911).
This may be effectively carried out through one (1) or more approved employees
of the building owner, security guards, or fire department personnel.
      2.   Level II: Continuous monitoring of affected area for signs of smoke
or fire for the purpose of notifying the fire department and assisting with
evacuation. This may be effectively carried out through one (1) or more
approved employees of the building owner, security guards, or fire department
personnel. These individuals must be familiar with the exiting systems, fire
protection systems, and evacuation plan relative to the affected area.
      3.   Level III: Continuous monitoring of affected area for signs of smoke
or fire for the purpose of notifying the fire department, assisting with
evacuation, and fire extinguishment/hazard mitigation. One (1) or more fire
department personnel will be required. An emergency action plan may also be
required.
   B.   The owner of the premises is responsible for paying all costs
associated with establishing a fire watch. (Ord. 2024-59, 12-17-2024)
7-12-100: GOVERNMENT IMMUNITY:
Inspection of fire alarm systems, establishment of fire watches, or any other
action provided for in this chapter is not intended to, nor will it, create a
contract, duty, or obligation, either expressed or implied, of response. Any
and all liability and consequential damage resulting from the failure to
respond to a notification or take any other action as provided for herein is
hereby disclaimed and governmental immunity as provided by law is retained.
Farmington City, its officers, employees, and agents, shall not assume any duty
or responsibility for the installation, operation, repair, effectiveness, or
maintenance of any privately-owned fire alarm system or the maintenance of a
fire watch, those duties or responsibilities belong solely to the owner of the
premises. (Ord. 2024-59, 12-17-2024)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC PROPERTY AND FACILITIES
CHAPTER 1
CITY CEMETERY
SECTION:
8-1-010: Title
8-1-020: Supervision
8-1-030: Burial Restrictions
8-1-040: Burial Right Required
8-1-050: Disinterment
8-1-060: Cemetery Fees And Charges
8-1-070: Perpetual Care Fund
8-1-080: Placing Of Markers
8-1-090: Unlawful To Disturb Property
8-1-100: Defacing Property
8-1-110: Visiting Hours
8-1-120: Rules And Regulations
8-1-010: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the FARMINGTON CITY CEMETERY ORDINANCE. (Ord.
2009-31, 6-16-2009)
8-1-020: SUPERVISION:
The city manager, under the direction and control of the governing body of the
city, shall have responsibility for the general supervision of the city
cemetery. All markers, planting, improvements or other work of any kind, nature
or description, must be done under the direction and control of the city
manager. No person owning a right to burial in the city cemetery shall plant,
grade or do any work in said cemetery, except by permission of the city. Before
burying anyone in the cemetery, the city shall require relatives or persons
having charge of the body to furnish in writing, upon blank forms provided by
the city, giving the name of the person deceased, with the names of his parents
or other relatives, date and place of birth, date and place of death, cause of
death, the name of the attending physician, if any, the size of the outside box
or vault and the plat, block and lot where the person is to be buried. The city
shall keep a record of such information. The city manager shall cause to be dug
all graves required for the burial of the dead therein, keep a record of
burials and removals, and regulate all funeral corteges while in the cemetery.
(Ord. 2009-31, 6-16-2009)
8-1-030: BURIAL RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Bury the body of a deceased person within the limits of the city except
in the city cemetery, or in such other cemetery as may be hereafter established
or permitted by the city council;
   B.   Inter the body of any deceased person in any cemetery within the city
except by written permit issued by an official authorized by state statute; or
   C.   Inter the body of a deceased person in any cemetery without first
placing the body in a casket or other suitable container encased in a vault of
concrete, metal, fiberglass or other materials of equivalent strength approved
by the city and so constructed as to prevent collapse and the resulting
settlement of the soil above the same. (Ord. 2009-31, 6-16-2009)
8-1-040: BURIAL RIGHT REQUIRED:
No person shall inter the body of a person in the city cemetery without first
obtaining a burial certificate for the gravesite in which the burial is to be
made in compliance with such rules, regulations and terms adopted by the city
pertaining to the sale and usage of burial rights in the city cemetery. A right
to burial certificate does not convey to or entitle the holder thereof any
other privilege other than the right to bury the body of a deceased person, and
is not a deed conveying title in fee simple or otherwise to the land or any
part thereof. (Ord. 2009-31, 6-16-2009)
8-1-050: DISINTERMENT:
No person shall disinter any body in any city cemetery mentioned in this
chapter except under the direction of the city. (Ord. 2009-31, 6-16-2009)
8-1-060: CEMETERY FEES AND CHARGES:
The city council shall from time to time establish fees by resolution for the
sale of burial rights, transfer of burial rights, and for burial or
disinterment and related cemetery fees. (Ord. 2009-31, 6-16-2009)
8-1-070: PERPETUAL CARE FUND:
There shall be established a fund of the city for the purpose of providing
perpetual care and maintenance of the cemetery. The following shall be
deposited in the perpetual care fund:
   A.   Fees:
      1.   All permit fees for all markers or headstones;
      2.   Fifty percent (50%) for each burial right sold by the city;
      3.   Such additional funds as are authorized by resolution of the city
council;
      4.   The city council, by resolution, may establish and amend the fee
structure for markers, sale of "right to burial" permits, interment and
disinterment fees.
   B.   Use Of Perpetual Care Funds:
      1.   Interest earnings accrued annually in the perpetual care fund may be
transferred into the city's general fund or otherwise allocated to provide for
the operational costs of the cemetery;
      2.   The city council may, at its discretion, authorize by resolution the
use of perpetual care funds (not solely interest earnings) for the following
purposes:
         a.   For partial reimbursement of the city's general fund for cemetery
operational expenses not provided by perpetual care interest transfers;
         b.   To purchase land and/or to make improvements or to pay for
development costs of an expansion of the existing cemetery and/or development
of a new cemetery;
         c.   To purchase capital equipment valued in excess of twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00) if the use of such equipment for cemetery purposes is
proportionate to the monetary contribution made from the perpetual care fund.
(Ord. 2009-31, 6-16-2009)
8-1-080: PLACING OF MARKERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place any type of marker or monument on
any grave in the cemetery without first obtaining a permit from the city to do
so. All markers must be set in accordance with the applicable cemetery "rules
and regulations" as adopted and amended from time to time by the city council.
(Ord. 2009-31, 6-16-2009)
8-1-090: UNLAWFUL TO DISTURB PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, take away or carry away from any
grave or lot, any headboard, tombstone, monument, tree, shrub, flower or cut
flower, or any other property or ornament in the city cemetery, except with the
permission of the city. (Ord. 2009-31, 6-16-2009)
8-1-100: DEFACING PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to damage any monument, marker, tree, shrub
or other property in the city cemetery. (Ord. 2009-31, 6-16-2009)
8-1-110: VISITING HOURS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to visit the cemetery other than during
daylight hours without the previous consent of the city. (Ord. 2009-31, 6-16-
2009)
8-1-120: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The governing body of the city may establish rules and regulations for the
proper operation and care of the city cemetery, relating to conditions of sale
and transfer of burial rights, dividing the cemetery into gravesites, the
capacity of each grave, the location of graves, and the type and placement of
monuments and markers and other related matters. (Ord. 2009-31, 6-16-2009)
CHAPTER 2
STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-2-010: Supervision And Duties
8-2-020: Standards And Specifications
8-2-030: Street Excavations
8-2-030.1: Franchise Required
8-2-030.2: Conformance With Application
8-2-040: Restrictions On Road Use Because Of Adverse Conditions
8-2-050: Restrictions On Road Use By Oversized Vehicles And Loads
8-2-060: Signs
8-2-070: Sidewalk Construction, Maintenance And Use
8-2-080: Frontage Maintenance
8-2-090: Renaming Of Street Or Public Way
8-2-100: Street Lighting
8-2-110: Cleaning City Streets And Facilities
8-2-010: SUPERVISION AND DUTIES:
The public works director shall have general supervision of all the streets,
rights of way, bridges, sidewalks and other public ways that lie within the
corporate boundaries of Farmington City. The public works director shall comply
with and enforce the provisions of this chapter and every other ordinance which
shall relate to the maintenance and use of streets, rights of way, culverts,
ditches, bridges, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, drains, waterways or any other
public ways. The public works director shall supervise, inspect and control the
construction, maintenance and/or repair of all streets, rights of way,
culverts, ditches, bridges, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, drains, waterways and
other public ways within the boundaries of Farmington City. The powers and
duties of the public works director, as specified herein, may be delegated by
the public works director to authorized designees. When used in this chapter,
public works director shall include the reference to such authorized designees.
(Ord. 2010-17, 5-4-2010)
8-2-020: STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
The city council, upon the recommendation of the city engineer and public works
director, shall establish and adopt certain standards and specifications for
the construction of streets and public improvements within the city ("standards
and specifications"). Any installation, construction, alteration, repair,
maintenance or other work on the streets and public improvements within the
city, or within any public right of way, shall comply with the standards and
specifications. (Ord. 2010-17, 5-4-2010)
8-2-030: STREET EXCAVATIONS:
Prior to commencement of any excavation work within the public right of way, an
excavation permit shall be obtained from the city in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 5 of this title. It shall be unlawful for any person to
perform such excavation work within the public right of way without obtaining
an excavation permit from the city. All excavation work shall comply with the
standards and specifications adopted by the city and the provisions of chapter
5 of this title. (Ord. 2010-17, 5-4-2010)
8-2-030.1: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein or exempt under federal or state
law, any person or entity desiring to install improvements or facilities within
any public right of way under the jurisdiction of the city shall be required to
enter into a franchise agreement or other acceptable rights of way use or
license agreement with the city authorizing the use of the public right of way
for such improvements or facilities and specifying the terms and conditions of
such use of the public right of way. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, construct or maintain any approach road, driveway, pole, pipeline,
conduit, sewer, ditch, culvert, billboard, advertising sign, utility or any
other structure, facility or object of any kind or character within the public
rights of way within the jurisdiction of the city without obtaining such a
franchise agreement or other acceptable rights of way use or license agreement
from the city in accordance with the provisions of this section.
Telecommunications improvements or facilities installed within the public
rights of way under the jurisdiction of the city shall be governed by the
provisions of title 9, chapter 4 of this code, regarding telecommunications
systems. Regulation of the city rights of way as provided herein shall be
subject to and comply with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 72,
chapter 7, as amended, entitled the protection of highways act. (Ord. 2010-17,
5-4-2010)
8-2-030.2: CONFORMANCE WITH APPLICATION:
No person shall misrepresent any material fact in any application for an
excavation permit, and no person shall excavate on, into, or under any street,
sidewalk or other public way in excess of the dimensions listed on the
application for an excavation permit for such excavation. Any violations of any
provision of this chapter shall be a class B misdemeanor punishable by fine,
imprisonment or both, as prescribed by the applicable statutes of the state of
Utah. In addition to this criminal penalty, the city attorney may bring suit in
an appropriate court to enjoin any person from excavating without a permit and/
or seek any other legal or equitable relief for violation of this chapter. The
provisions of this chapter shall not apply to excavations of any kind within
any city streets or rights of way which are conducted by city personnel under
the direction of the city manager. (Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991)
8-2-040: RESTRICTIONS ON ROAD USE BECAUSE OF ADVERSE CONDITIONS:
The city council may, by resolution or ordinance, prohibit the operation of
vehicles upon any city street or impose restrictions as to weight for a total
period of not to exceed ninety (90) days in any one calendar year when any said
highway or street, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or any other climatic
or adverse conditions, will be seriously damaged or destroyed, unless the use
of vehicles thereon is prohibited or the permissible weights thereof reduced.
Upon passage of such a resolution or ordinance, the city council shall erect or
cause to be erected and maintained, signs prescribing the weight limitation as
set forth in the ordinance or resolution. It shall be unlawful for any person
to drive a vehicle on such a posted highway with a weight in excess of the
posted limit. (Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991)
8-2-050: RESTRICTIONS ON ROAD USE BY OVERSIZED VEHICLES AND LOADS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle standing by itself
and/or containing a load in excess of twelve feet (12') in height above the
road surface on any city street without first obtaining a permit from the city.
(Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991)
8-2-060: SIGNS:
The requirements of title 15 of this code shall apply to all signs within or
over any street or public way. (Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991)
8-2-070: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND USE:
   A.   Construction: All sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with
specifications and regulations as provided in section
8-2-020 of this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any person, either as owner,
agent, contractor or employee, to construct any sidewalk in Farmington City
unless such sidewalk be constructed to lines and grades approved by the city.
No permanent sidewalk shall be constructed within the city without having first
obtained from the city a permit as required in section
8-2-030 of this chapter. The acceptance of such permit shall be deemed an
agreement on the part of such person to construct the sidewalk in accordance
with specifications and grades approved by the city.
   B.   Sidewalk Maintenance And Repair: All owners of real property abutting
or fronting upon any street, highway or alley within the city are required to
keep the public sidewalks, and private drive approaches connecting with the
public sidewalk across or immediately abutting their property in good order and
repair. Each such owner shall be liable to the city for all losses to the city
or recoveries from the city for damages to persons or property caused by such
owner's failure, or that of his agents, to repair and keep in good order and
reasonably safe all such sidewalks abutting or fronting owner's property upon
any street, highway or alley within the corporate limits of the city.
      1.   It shall be the responsibility of each owner to notify the city when
repair of a public sidewalk is needed. In addition, the city may, on its own
initiative or at the request of others, determine if sidewalk repairs shall be
performed. Conditions to be considered by the city to decide if a sidewalk
shall be repaired pursuant to this section shall include, but not be limited
to, any one of the following:
         a.   Broken sidewalk panels;
         b.   Sidewalk panels having different elevation at the junction
thereof;
         c.   Sidewalk panels with a deteriorated surface;
         d.   A finding that the condition of the sidewalk is hazardous for
anticipated users thereof; or
         e.   A finding that inclusion of the proposed repairs in a special
improvement district is not practical or desirable. (Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991)
      2.   It shall be the sole prerogative of the city to determine if repairs
shall be performed. Upon rendering of such determination, the owner of real
property bounding, abutting, upon or adjacent to a sidewalk which is to be
repaired pursuant to this section shall pay a portion of the costs of repair as
determined by the city public works director. It shall be initially presumed
that the proper allocation of costs will be fifty percent (50%) payment by the
abutting owner and fifty percent (50%) by the city; however, this allocation
may be modified by the public works director based upon the facts of each
particular case and any applicable regulations of the city. If the sidewalk has
been damaged by the acts or omissions of the abutting owner or his agents,
etc., the entire cost of such damage shall be paid by the owner. All costs not
allocated to the property owner shall be paid by the city.
      3.   The city public works director, or his designee, shall, within
thirty (30) days of any request or upon his own initiative, determine as
described in subsection B2 of this section, if the sidewalk shall be repaired
and shall make the allocation described in subsection B2 of this section
between the landowner and the city of the reasonable costs of repair of
defective sidewalk. (Ord. 1992-20, 6-17-1992)
      4.   The owner(s) obligation of payment described in subsection B2 of
this section shall not commence until thirty (30) days after the city has
mailed written notice (unless the same has been waived in writing) to the owner
of real property, which notice shall contain not less than the following:
         a.   A description of the sidewalk which has been or is proposed to be
repaired and the reason therefor;
         b.   The cost of the repair and the allocation of that cost between
the property owner and the city; and
         c.   A statement that the property owner may appeal any claim by the
city for payment and a description of the time and manner in which the same may
be done.
      5.   Any person directly affected by a decision of the city public works
director, or his designee, may appeal the same within thirty (30) days after
the mailing date of the written notice described in subsection B4 of this
section. Appeals shall be in writing and filed with the city recorder
requesting that the city council hear the matter. The city recorder shall then
put the matter on the next available city council agenda and notify the
property owner of the date and time of the hearing. The appeal hearing shall be
informal and need not be reported. At such hearing, the owner may present such
evidence and argument as is pertinent to appealing the decision of the city
public works director. The city council shall also permit the presentation of
evidence or argument by the city public works director and other interested
parties. Thereafter, within not more than fifteen (15) days, the city council
shall render its written decision, a copy of which shall be mailed to or served
upon the property owner. The property owner shall be subject to the terms of
the decision.
      6.   The city may agree to reasonable terms, including the payment of
interest, for the payment of the share of costs to be paid by the property
owner. The city may bring a civil action and collect any unpaid sum, including
interest, costs and a reasonable attorney fee which is owed pursuant to this
section. In addition, should the property owner fail to make payment to the
city for the property owner's share of the costs of repair, said portion of the
costs of repair shall constitute a lien against the real property of owner. If
such lien is not satisfied within sixty (60) days after being filed of record,
the city may seek to foreclose the lien in the manner provided in Utah Code
Annotated title 38, for the enforcement of mechanics' liens.
      7.   The purpose of this section is to avoid liability to Farmington City
and to the owners of private property because of defective sidewalks.
      8.   This section shall not apply to the new construction of sidewalks in
subdivisions or other places within the city. This section shall not prohibit
the repair of sidewalks for reasons other than those described in subsection B1
of this section if the same is done at the property owner's sole expense and
according to applicable law and city specifications. (Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991)
   C.   Obstructions In Street Or Public Way: It shall be unlawful for any
person owning, occupying or having control of any premises to place or permit
to be placed on or in or over the sidewalk, parking area, gutter, street or any
other public way next to such premises:
      1.   Any building materials, dirt, refuse, dead trees, tree stumps,
fencing, lumber, merchandise or any other thing which will obstruct such public
streets, gutters, parking and areas, sidewalks or any other public way except
as expressly authorized by ordinance and for the two (2) week period prior to
spring cleanup;
      2.   Any recreational equipment or facilities, including basketball
standards, backboards, nets or other sports equipment or structures of any kind
which will obstruct such public streets, gutters, parking areas, sidewalks or
any other public way, or which require persons to occupy the street or public
way in order to use such structures or facilities. (Ord. 2007-40, 8-21-2007)
   D.   Snow Removal: It shall be the duty of the owner, occupant, lessor or
agent of any property abutting on any sidewalk to remove or cause to be removed
from such paved sidewalk all hail, snow or sleet falling thereon, within a
forty eight (48) hour period after the hail, snow or sleet has ceased falling.
   E.   Sweeping Of Business Sidewalks: It shall be the duty for the owners or
occupants of places of business within the city to cause the sidewalks abutting
thereon to be kept swept or cleaned.
   F.   Driving, Riding On Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful for any person to
drive a self-propelled vehicle, other than snow removal equipment, or to ride
any animal upon any sidewalk, except at established crossings.
   G.   Obstructing Free Passage: It shall be unlawful for any person or
persons to congregate, loiter or remain standing, lying or sitting on any
sidewalk for a longer period than two (2) minutes in such a manner as to
obstruct the free passage of pedestrians thereon, or to wilfully remain
standing, lying or sitting thereon for more than one minute after being
requested to move by any police officer, or to wilfully congregate or remain on
any sidewalk in such a manner as to obstruct the free passage of any person or
vehicle into or out of property abutting upon the sidewalk or any property
having access to such sidewalk. (Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991)
8-2-080: FRONTAGE MAINTENANCE:
It shall be the duty of each owner of real property abutting or fronting upon
any street, highway, or alleyway within the city to maintain the frontage area
adjacent to their property out to the edge of the road asphalt in a safe and
clean condition and to keep the frontage free of weeds and debris at all times.
It shall be the duty of each owner of real property abutting or fronting upon
any street, highway or alley within the city to prevent any soil, sand, silt or
debris from migrating from or leaving the owner's property into any street,
highway or alley adjacent thereto. It shall be a class B misdemeanor to violate
any provision contained in this section. In addition to other remedies
available at law, upon any violation of this section, the city zoning
administrator or the city building inspector shall have the right to stop any
construction or activities upon the owner's property which may be causing
deposit of material within the city street or right of way by issuing a stop
work order, citation or other directive to the property owner. (Ord. 1991-44,
12-11-1991)
8-2-090: RENAMING OF STREET OR PUBLIC WAY:
Upon payment of a fee to be set by the city council and upon petition by a
person owning a lot in the city, requesting that the name of a street or alley
be changed, the city council may, upon hearing, and upon being satisfied that
there is good cause for such change of name, that it will not be detrimental to
the general interest, and that it should be made, declare by ordinance the new
name of the street or alley. The city council may change the name of multiple
streets or alleys in one ordinance. The city council may initiate the process
for name change without a petition from a landowner, subject to the same
requirements. (Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991; amd. Ord. 2023-09, 2-7-2023)
8-2-100: STREET LIGHTING:
The city may, but shall not be obligated to, operate and maintain street
lighting within Farmington City as deemed appropriate by the city council. The
city shall also have the right to contract with utility companies and/or other
entities to provide operation and/or maintenance of street lighting within the
city. (Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991)
8-2-110: CLEANING CITY STREETS AND FACILITIES:
   A.   Single Lot Or Parcel Residential Construction: In order to reduce the
amount of debris and materials impacting city streets and entering the city's
storm drain system, city streets should be cleaned periodically, together with
the storm sewer facilities of the city receiving stormwaters from the street
system. During construction periods, including new construction and remodeling,
the city will provide street sweeping once each month. No dirt ramps shall be
constructed over curbs during construction periods. In order to fund the
cleaning and maintenance, the city council, by resolution, may adopt and
require payment of fees for street sweeping and/or related services. All fees
adopted by the city council may be amended from time to time as determined
appropriate in the discretion of the city council. Required street cleaning
fees shall be paid to the city by the owners of real property abutting any
street or public way within the city prior to the issuance of a building permit
for any new construction and/or remodeling.
   B.   Multi-Lot Residential Construction And Nonresidential Construction: For
all new development, developers of multi-lot residential properties and owners
of nonresidential properties within the city shall be responsible to clean
paved streets within any subdivision and/or nonresidential development,
together with those portions of paved streets located up to one thousand feet
(1,000') off site from said subdivision and/or development. Cleaning shall
begin at the commencement of any such development and shall continue until the
beginning of the warranty period. Maintenance shall include cleaning of inlet
boxes and sweeping of paved streets. An improvement bond in a form satisfactory
to the city shall be required to be posted by the developer or owner in an
amount estimated by the city engineer to be adequate to cover the cost of such
cleaning and maintenance during construction and development periods. Projects
having streets which are not cleaned and maintained may be halted until
compliance occurs. No dirt ramps shall be constructed over curbs during
construction periods. In the event the required cleaning is not provided, the
city may, at its discretion, call the bond at any time and utilize the proceeds
therefrom to pay for cleaning. Calling of the bond shall not excuse the
developer or owner from providing the required cleaning specified hereunder. In
the event the bond proceeds are insufficient to provide the necessary cleaning,
the developer or owner shall be liable for any deficiency and administrative
expenses incurred by the city in performing the cleaning. (Ord. 2003-44, 10-1-
2003)
CHAPTER 3
FLOOD CONTROL PROPERTIES AND FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-3-010: Definitions
8-3-020: Safeguarding Flood Control Structures
8-3-030: Safeguarding Emergency Floodway
8-3-040: Exceeding Permission
8-3-050: Strict Liability
8-3-060: Penalties
8-3-010: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter:
EMERGENCY FLOODWAY: Any channel expected to be used in times of a flood
emergency for the carrying or transporting of floodwater or debris flows,
including the public rights of way in 100 East Street between 600 North Street
and 500 North Street, and 500 North between 100 East Street and Main Street,
and such other locations and ways as may be designated from time to time by
resolution of the city council.
FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE: Any earthen berm, channel, wall, spillway or other
manmade facility, improvement or device designed for the management or handling
of water or mud for the purpose of preventing or mitigating damage. (Ord. 1991-
44, 12-11-1991)
8-3-020: SAFEGUARDING FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURES:
No person shall alter, remove, disable or significantly affect any flood
control structure without first obtaining express, written permission from the
city and any other governmental entity having jurisdiction over the same and
upon review by its engineer and specifying the nature and extent of the
alteration, removal or disablement. (Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991)
8-3-030: SAFEGUARDING EMERGENCY FLOODWAY:
No person shall dig into or in any way alter or affect the surface of the
ground in the emergency floodway, including the sides of the emergency
floodway, without first obtaining express, written permission from the city
upon review by its engineer and specifying the nature and extent of the
digging, alteration or affect. Without limiting the generality of this section,
the acts it prohibits specifically include any digging, undermining, diminution
or other alteration of any earthen berms along the sides of an emergency
floodway. (Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991)
8-3-040: EXCEEDING PERMISSION:
No person having permission to alter or perform work affecting a flood control
structure or emergency floodway shall exceed the limits or conditions of that
permission in any way that affects either a flood control structure or
emergency floodway. (Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991)
8-3-050: STRICT LIABILITY:
Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, any person violating any
provision of this chapter may be found guilty without regard to fault,
knowledge, intent or the state of mind of the person committing the violation.
(Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991)
8-3-060: PENALTIES:
Any person violating this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor. A
violation of section
8-3-020 of this chapter shall be deemed a separate offense from a violation of
section
8-3-030 of this chapter, and each day in which a prohibited act or its effects
continue shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 1991-44, 12-11-1991)
CHAPTER 4
PARKS
SECTION:
8-4-010: Parks
8-4-020: Regulations
8-4-030: Motor Vehicles
8-4-040: Bicycles And Skateboards
8-4-050: Golf
8-4-060: Skiing
8-4-070: Paths, Trails Or Roads
8-4-080: Animals
8-4-090: Fireworks And Explosives
8-4-100: Fire Making
8-4-110: Camping
8-4-120: Defacing Or Destruction Of Property
8-4-130: Littering
8-4-140: Restroom Facilities
8-4-150: Prohibited Conduct
8-4-160: Hunting And Fishing
8-4-170: Park Hours
8-4-180: Concessions
8-4-190: Alcoholic Beverages
8-4-200: Violations
8-4-210: Eviction
8-4-220: Park Reservations
8-4-010: PARKS:
The city may purchase, lay out, establish and maintain parks and playgrounds
for the benefit of the citizens of the city. For purposes of this chapter, a
"park" shall be defined as real property owned, leased or controlled by
Farmington City and operated and maintained by Farmington City and set apart
for the use of the general public, whether developed or undeveloped, and which
is usually, or may be, planted with trees, lawns and other landscaping, and
which may include within its boundaries facilities for sport, entertainment,
dancing, recreation, picnicking or swimming, or is planned for such future use.
(Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-020: REGULATIONS:
The city may promulgate rules and regulations relating to the city parks and
may amend such rules and regulations from time to time by resolution of the
city council. Any park rules and regulations adopted by resolution of the city
council shall be incorporated herein by this reference and any violation of
such park rules and regulations shall be deemed a violation of this section,
subject to citation and eviction as provided elsewhere in this chapter. (Ord.
2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-030: MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   Motor Vehicles Specified: For purposes of this section, motor vehicles
include, but are not limited to, automobiles, trucks, off road vehicles,
motorcycles, motorbikes, snowmobiles and any and all other self-propelled
mechanical vehicles, excepting vehicles moved solely by human power and
motorized wheelchairs.
   B.   Locations: No motor vehicles may be driven at any place within a city
park, other than in those areas specifically designated and posted as allowing
such vehicles. This shall not apply, however, to motorized or self-propelled
equipment or emergency vehicles used within the park by officers or employees
of the city in the performance of their official duties.
   C.   Snowmobiles And Off Highway Vehicles: It shall be unlawful to operate
or drive any snowmobile or other off highway vehicle within any area of any
city park or recreation area at any time.
   D.   Speed: It shall be unlawful to operate or drive any motor vehicle
within any city park or recreation area at a speed in excess of that speed
posted on the particular road, trail or pathway within the park. In the absence
of a posted speed limit, no motor vehicle may be operated within any city park
at a speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   E.   Manner Of Operation: No motor vehicles, even though operated within the
speed permitted on the places provided for such vehicles, shall be operated in
a careless or reckless manner to such an extent that it will endanger the
peace, health and safety of any other person within the city park area. (Ord.
2004-61, 12-1-2004)
   F.   Motorized Vehicles Prohibited On Portion Of Fire Break Road: The
Farmington City council hereby declares that motorized vehicle use shall be
prohibited on that certain portion of Fire Break Road which lies within the
Hughes Estates Subdivision as shown on the official plat of said subdivision in
the records of the Davis County recorder. (Ord. 2005-13, 4-20-2005)
8-4-040: BICYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS:
Except as otherwise posted, self-propelled vehicles such as bicycles,
skateboards, roller skates, rollerblades, scooters, or motorized wheelchairs,
and similar types of vehicles may be used within public parks. No self-
propelled vehicles or motorized wheelchairs shall be operated in a careless or
reckless manner to such an extent that it will endanger the peace, health and
safety of any other person within the city park area or in any way that will
damage the facilities, plants or property within the park. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-
2004)
8-4-050: GOLF:
It shall be unlawful to play or practice golf within any city park except as
part of classes or programs approved by the city. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-060: SKIING:
It shall be unlawful to ice skate or ski within any city park, except in
specific areas as designated by the city. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-070: PATHS, TRAILS OR ROADS:
When a trail, path or road is designated for any specific purpose or purposes,
such as an equestrian trail, bicycle path or other use, then such trail may,
unless the city shall otherwise permit, only be used for the specific purposes
designated or for incidental uses in connection therewith which are necessary
to accomplish the use permitted. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-080: ANIMALS:
   A.   Certain Animals Prohibited: Except as provided herein, the only animals
permitted within the city parks are cats and dogs. Except as provided herein,
no person shall bring or let loose any animal, other than a cat or a dog, at
any time within a city park.
   B.   Animal Control: No person shall bring or drop off any animal in any
city park for the purpose of allowing such animal to urinate or defecate upon
the park property. If any animal deposits its feces on any park areas, the
owners of such animal shall immediately clean up and remove such feces from the
park premises. Patrons attending the city park for any reason shall keep any
animal on a leash during the time such animals are within the park. Unattended
or unlicensed animals found within any city park are subject to pick up by the
animal control officer.
   C.   Tethering Animals: No person shall hitch or fasten any animal to any
tree or any other place or structure on park property. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-
2004)
8-4-090: FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES:
No person shall carry or discharge any firecrackers, rockets, or any other
explosives within a city park, except persons who have obtained a special
permit from the city to put on a fireworks show. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004; amd.
Ord. 2023-53, 9-5-2023)
8-4-100: FIRE MAKING:
No person shall make or kindle a fire within a city park for any purpose,
unless such person shall do the same in designated areas and at designated
times where a fireplace or other facility intended to contain a fire is
available. The city council shall designate permitted hours and seasons for
permissible fireplace or fire facility use within city parks in the parks rules
and regulations or other resolution of the city council. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-
2004)
8-4-110: CAMPING:
No person shall camp or lodge in any city park or playground. This section
shall not apply to authorized city personnel for official city business or
security purposes. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-120: DEFACING OR DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY:
Except as permitted by the city, no person shall remove, injure, deface,
destroy or disturb any wood, turf, grass, soil, sand, gravel, tree, shrub,
plant, rock, building, sign, fence, bench or other structure, apparatus or
property within a city park; or cut, take or remove any plant, or mark or write
upon any building, sign, fence, bench or other structure within a city park.
(Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-130: LITTERING:
No dumping or littering shall be allowed on any city park premises. No garbage
generated outside of the park premises shall be transported to or dumped within
the park or within any garbage receptacles belonging to the city and located
within the park. Any garbage generated through use of the park premises shall
be deposited within designated garbage receptacles. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-140: RESTROOM FACILITIES:
No male person over six (6) years of age and no female person over such age
shall enter or use any restroom designated and marked for use by members of the
opposite sex in a city park or playground, except that city personnel may for
maintenance purposes enter any restroom. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-150: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
No person shall engage in fighting or indulge in riotous, boisterous,
intoxicated, threatening, promiscuous or indecent conduct or use any abusive,
threatening, profane or indecent language in a city park. No person shall
conduct any activity within a city park that poses a risk to public health and
safety or which endangers the peace, health and safety of any other person
within the city park area. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-160: HUNTING AND FISHING:
No person shall hunt or fish in any city park; provided, fishing is permitted
at the Farmington Pond Park in accordance with applicable rules and
regulations. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-170: PARK HOURS:
Unless otherwise provided by ordinance or resolution of the city council, city
parks may be used between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. City parks shall not be used or occupied between the hours
of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., except by special
permission of the city. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-180: CONCESSIONS:
No person may sell food, drinks, or other items in city parks, except as may be
permitted by special permit approved by the city council. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-
2004)
8-4-190: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
No person shall consume, sell or have in their possession any alcoholic
beverage within a city park. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-200: VIOLATIONS:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor, subject to fines, forfeitures, penalties and/or
imprisonment as provided by law. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-210: EVICTION:
In addition to other remedies provided by law, any person violating any of the
instructions, signs or rules established by the city may be forthwith evicted
from the park by any police officer of the city. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-1-2004)
8-4-220: PARK RESERVATIONS:
Certain facilities and areas within the city parks as designated by the city
may be reserved by any person upon payment of an applicable park reservation
fee established by the city. Park reservation policies may be adopted and
amended from time to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 2004-61, 12-
1-2004)
CHAPTER 5
RIGHT OF WAY ENCROACHMENT, USAGE OR EXCAVATION PERMITS
SECTION:
8-5-010: Title
8-5-012: Authority
8-5-015: Administration
8-5-017: Definitions
8-5-020: Permit Required
8-5-030: Permit Application Requirements
8-5-032: Application Review And Approval
8-5-035: Franchise Required
8-5-040: Emergency Work
8-5-050: Application And Permit Fees
8-5-060: Permit; Contents, Duration And Extensions
8-5-070: Permit; No Transfer Or Assignment
8-5-080: Compliance With Standards And Specifications
8-5-082: Boring Requirements
8-5-085: Minimum Interference
8-5-090: Other Highway Permits
8-5-100: Relocation Of Structures In Public Rights Of Way
8-5-110: Impact Of Excavation On Existing Improvements
8-5-120: Restoration Of Public Property
8-5-130: Insurance Requirements
8-5-140: Bonds; When Required, Conditions, Warranty
8-5-150: Hold Harmless Agreement; Limitations On City Liability
8-5-160: Work Without Permit; Penalty
8-5-170: Failure To Comply; Default In Performance
8-5-180: Failure To Conform To Design Standards; Penalty
8-5-190: Appeal Of Suspension, Revocation Or Stop Order
8-5-200: Tampering With Traffic Barricades
8-5-210: Conflict With Governing Provisions
8-5-220: Violation; Penalty
8-5-010: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as and may be referred to as the FARMINGTON CITY
EXCAVATION PERMIT ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-012: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to and in accordance with applicable
provisions of state law regarding a municipality's right to regulate its rights
of way and under the city's police power to establish procedures and standards
for the safe use of its right of way, including, but not limited to, the
provisions set forth in Utah Code Annotated sections 10-8-11, 10-8-13, 10-8-23
and 10-8-84, as amended, and provisions of the protection of highways act, as
set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 72-7-101 et seq., as amended. (Ord.
2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-015: ADMINISTRATION:
This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the public works director,
or his or her authorized designees. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-017: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: Any person who makes application for an excavation permit under the
provisions of this chapter.
EMERGENCY: Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of which
constitutes a clear and immediate danger to persons or property, or which
causes interruption of utility services.
MANUAL ON UNIFORM TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: The manual on proper barricading and
traffic control practices, as published by the federal government.
PERMITTEE: Any person which has been issued a permit and thereby has agreed to
fulfill the requirements of this chapter.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, association, trust, corporation, firm,
company, organization or entity of any kind.
PROPERTY OWNER: Any person or persons who have legal title to property and/or
equitable interest in the property.
PROVIDER: Any person providing utility, cable or telecommunications services to
another through the use of a system of facilities and infrastructure which uses
the public rights of way, or any person who owns or operates such a system and
leases it to another for the purpose of providing utility, cable or
telecommunications services to another, or any public utility company which
uses the public rights of way for purposes of providing gas, electrical, water
or other utility product or services for the use by the general public.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Means and includes all municipal streets, alleys, roads,
lanes, footpaths, walkways, sidewalks and easements within the city dedicated
to the public; provided rights of way shall not include any real or personal
property of the city that is not specifically described herein and shall not
include utility easements not within rights of way of the city.
STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS: The latest version of the Farmington City
standard details for construction of public improvements and other construction
within the public rights of way as adopted by the city. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-
2011)
8-5-020: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to perform work of any kind in a public right of way, other
than the city or its authorized employees and agents, shall be required to
apply for and obtain an excavation permit from the city. For safety purposes,
dumpsters are not allowed on the street. Any contractor or developer installing
a service connection within the public right of way shall be required to obtain
an excavation permit in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
chapter. Any person performing work in the public right of way, including, but
not limited to, use of dump trucks, cement trucks, cranes, pumper trucks and
landscaping trucks, shall be required to apply for and obtain an excavation
permit from the city. The decision by the city to issue an excavation permit
shall include, among other factors determined by the city, the following:
   A.   The capacity of the public right of way to accommodate the facilities
or structures proposed to be installed in the public right of way;
   B.   The capacity of the public right of way to accommodate multiple wire in
addition to cables, conduits, pipes or other facilities or structures of other
users of the public right of way, such as electrical power, telephone, gas,
sewer and water;
   C.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements or landscaping previously existing in the public right of way;
   D.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction from numerous excavations of the public right of way; and
   E.   Public safety. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-030: PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Filing: Application for a permit shall be filed with the public works
director on forms to be furnished by the city.
   B.   Eligibility: Only the following persons or entities shall be eligible
to receive an excavation permit to do work within the public rights of way of
the city:
      1.   Contractors licensed by the state of Utah as general contractors; or
      2.   Providers.
   C.   Plans, Details: All applications shall include excavation plans and
details, showing the trench detail including the length, width and depth of the
trench, the exact location and address of the trench, and the relationship of
the trench to the right of way lines, traffic lanes, intersections, signals and
structures. Trenches must meet OSHA standards.
   D.   Compliance With Traffic Manual: All applications shall be in compliance
with the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices".
   E.   Fee, Bonds, Insurance: All applications shall include the requisite
application fee, bonds and insurance certificates as more particularly set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-032: APPLICATION REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Review; Past Performance: The public works director shall review all
applications and may deny the issuance of permits to contractors, providers,
utility companies or other permit applicants who have shown by past performance
that in the opinion of the public works director they will not consistently
conform to the standards and specifications, or the requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   Plans, Sketches May Be Required: When necessary, in the judgment of the
public works director, to fully determine the relationship of the work proposed
to existing or proposed facilities within the public rights of way, or to
determine whether the work proposed complies with the standards and
specifications, the public works director may require the filing of engineering
plans, specifications and sketches showing the proposed work in sufficient
detail to permit determination of such relationship or compliance, or both, and
the application shall be deemed suspended until such plans and sketches are
filed and approved.
   C.   Approval, Permit Required; Driveways: It shall be unlawful for any
person to commence work upon any public right of way until the public works
director has approved the application and until an excavation permit has been
issued for such work. Any installation of or modification to a driveway within
the public right of way shall also require review and approval from the
community development director or his or her designee.
   D.   Appeals: The disapproval or denial of an application by the public
works director may be appealed by the applicant by filing a written notice of
appeal with the city recorder within ten (10) calendar days of the action of
the public works director. The appeal shall be conducted in accordance with
chapter
3-7 of this code.
   E.   Limitation Of Authority: In approving or disapproving work within any
public right of way, or permits therefor, in the inspection of such work, in
reviewing plans, sketches or specifications, and generally in the exercise of
the authority conferred upon him/her by this chapter, the public works director
shall act in such manner as to preserve and protect the public right of way and
the use thereof, but shall have no authority to govern the actions or inaction
of permittees and applicants or other persons which have no relationship to the
use, preservation or protection of the public right of way.
   F.   Exception To Permit Requirement: An excavation permit is not required
for public utility providers providing routine maintenance, accessing their
utility within the right of way, including exercising valves, checking manholes
and other work that does not require road excavation and that is approved by
the public works director. However, all work within the right of way, including
routine maintenance, shall be performed in accordance to the city standards and
specifications, the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" and other laws,
regulations, and generally recognized practices of the industry. (Ord. 2011-24,
11-15-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
8-5-035: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
Any person, governmental entity or provider desiring to construct, maintain,
repair, operate or use any improvements or facilities to be located within the
public right of way shall be required to obtain a franchise or other acceptable
rights of way use agreement or license agreement with the city authorizing the
use of the public right of way for such improvements or facilities in
accordance with the provisions of section
8-2-030.1 of this title, as amended, in addition and prior to the issuance of
any excavation permit for work within the public right of way. (Ord. 2011-24,
11-15-2011)
8-5-040: EMERGENCY WORK:
   A.   Scope: Any person maintaining pipes, lines, or facilities in the public
right of way may proceed with work upon existing facilities without an
excavation permit when emergency circumstances demand the work to be done
immediately, provided an excavation permit could not reasonably and practicably
have been obtained beforehand.
   B.   Regular Business Hours: In the event that emergency work is commenced
on or within any public right of way of the city during regular business hours,
the public works director shall be notified within one-half (1/2) hour from the
time the work is commenced. The person commencing and conducting such work
shall take all necessary safety precautions for the protection of the public
and the direction and control of traffic, and shall ensure that the work is
accomplished according to city standards and specifications, the "Manual On
Uniform Traffic Control Devices" and other applicable laws, regulations or
generally recognized practices in the industry.
   C.   Work Without Permit: Any person commencing emergency work in the public
right of way without an excavation permit shall immediately thereafter apply
for a permit or give notice during the first hour of the first regular business
day on which city offices are open for business after such work is commenced.
An excavation permit for such emergency work may be issued which shall be
retroactive to the date when the work was begun, at the discretion of the
public works director. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-050: APPLICATION AND PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Payment Required: The city shall charge and the applicant shall pay,
upon filing of an application for an excavation permit, an application fee as
more particularly set forth in the consolidated fee schedule. The city shall
charge and the permittee shall pay, upon issuance of the excavation permit,
permit fees for costs associated with the work performed under the excavation
permit as outlined in the consolidated fee schedule. All application and permit
fees shall be assessed in a nondiscriminatory manner.
   B.   Waiver: The public works director may waive permit fees or portions
thereof provided for in this chapter, when he or she determines that such
permit fee:
      1.   Pertains to construction or rehabilitation of housing for persons
whose income is below the median income level for the city;
      2.   Pertains to an encroachment on the public right of way involving a
beautification project which furthers specific goals and objectives set forth
in the city's strategic plan, master plans or other official documents,
including decorative street lighting, building facade lighting, flower and
planter boxes, and landscaping; or
      3.   Pertains to work that is performed for a public utility provider, is
for the health, welfare or benefit to the city, and the applicant has worked
with the city or provided services that offset the city's costs.
   C.   Additional Charges: Additional charges to cover the reasonable cost and
expenses of any required engineering review, professional services, inspection
and work site restoration associated with each undertaking may be charged by
the city to each permittee, in addition to the application and permit fees. A
deposit for such charges may be required as a condition of permit approval.
(Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-060: PERMIT; CONTENTS, DURATION AND EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Starting, Completion Dates: Each excavation permit application shall
state the starting date and estimated completion date. Work shall be completed
within five (5) days from the starting date or as determined by the public
works director. Such determination shall be based upon factors reasonably
related to the work to be performed under the permit. Such factors may include,
in addition to other factors related to the work to be performed, the
following:
      1.   The scope of work to be performed under the permit;
      2.   Maintaining the safe and effective flow of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic on the public right of way affected by the work;
      3.   Protecting the existing improvements to the public right of way
impacted by the work;
      4.   The season of the year during which the work is to be performed, as
well as the current weather and its impact on public safety and the use of the
public right of way by the public; and
      5.   Use of the public right of way for extraordinary events anticipated
by the city.
   B.   Notification Of Commencement: The public works director shall be
notified by the permittee of commencement of the work within twenty four (24)
hours prior to commencing work. The excavation permit shall be valid for the
time period specified in the permit.
   C.   Extension: If the work is not completed during such period, prior to
the expiration of the permit, the permittee may apply to the public works
director for an additional permit or an extension, which may be granted by the
public works director for good cause shown.
   D.   Length Of Extension: The length of the extension requested by the
permittee shall be subject to the approval of the public works director. (Ord.
2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-070: PERMIT; NO TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT:
Excavation permits shall not be transferable or assignable, and work shall not
be performed under a permit in any place other than that specified in the
permit. Nothing herein contained shall prevent a permittee from subcontracting
the work to be performed under a permit; provided, however, that the holder of
the permit shall be and remain responsible for the performance of the work
under the permit, and for all bonding, insurance and other requirements of this
chapter and under said permit. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-080: COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Required: The work performed in the public right of way shall conform
to the requirements of the standards and specifications and the "Manual On
Uniform Traffic Control Devices", copies of which shall be available from the
public works director, kept on file in the office of the city recorder and open
to public inspection during office hours.
   B.   Signage: Where a job site is left unattended, before completion of the
work, signage with minimum two inch (2") high letters shall be attached to a
barricade or otherwise posted at the site, indicating the permittee's name, or
company name, telephone number, and after hours telephone number. (Ord. 2011-
24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-082: BORING REQUIREMENTS:
Except as otherwise approved by the city, all lateral crossing excavations
shall be placed by boring. If boring is impossible, a request for an exception
may be made to the public works director. Upon review and consideration of the
submitted request and supporting information, the public works director may
approve the exception. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-085: MINIMUM INTERFERENCE:
All excavations shall be conducted in a manner resulting in a minimum amount of
interference or interruption of street or pedestrian traffic. Inconvenience to
residents and businesses fronting on the public right of way shall be
minimized. Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades and/or other structures
will be available and used where necessary to prevent accidents involving
property or persons. Barricades must be in place until all of the permittee's
equipment is removed from the site and the excavation has been backfilled and
proper temporary gravel surface is in place, except where backfilling and
resurfacing is to be done by the city; in which case the barricades, together
with any necessary lights, flares or torches, must remain in place until the
backfill work is actually commenced by the city. From sunset to sunrise, all
barricades and excavations must be clearly outlined by adequate signal lights,
torches, etc. The police department and fire department shall be notified at
least twenty four (24) hours in advance of any planned excavation requiring
street closure or traffic detour. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-090: OTHER HIGHWAY PERMITS:
   A.   Scope: Holders of permits for work on highways owned or under the
jurisdiction of other government entities, but located within the city limits,
shall not be required to obtain an excavation permit from the city under the
provisions of this chapter, unless deemed necessary by the city. Any city
permit shall not be construed to permit or allow work on a county road or on a
state highway within the city without an applicable county or state permit.
   B.   Authority Of City: The public works director, in his or her discretion,
shall have the right and authority to regulate work under permits issued by
other governmental entities with respect to hours and days of work, and
measures required to be taken by the permittee of said governmental entity for
the protection of traffic and safety of persons and property. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose any duty,
implied or express, on the city or its employees, officers, agents or assigns,
relative to the protection of traffic and safety of persons or property,
arising out of the issuance of any permit issued by government entities other
than the city, or arising out of any work performed on any public right of way
owned or within the jurisdiction of the city. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-100: RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Direction Of Public Works Director: The public works director may
direct any person owning or maintaining facilities or structures in the public
right of way to alter, modify or relocate such facilities or structures as the
public works director may require. Such facilities or structures include, but
shall not be limited to, sewers, pipes, drains, tunnels, conduits, pipe
driveways, vaults, trash receptacles and overhead and underground gas,
electric, telephone, cable, telecommunication and communication facilities,
pressure irrigation lines, and power and telephone poles. The person owning or
maintaining the facilities or structures shall, at their own cost and expense
and upon reasonable written notice by the city, promptly protect, or promptly
alter or relocate such facilities or structures, or part thereof, as directed
by the city. In the event that such person refuses or neglects to conform to
the directive of the city, the city shall have the right to break through,
remove, alter or relocate such part of the facilities or structures without
liability to such person. Such person shall pay to the city all costs incurred
by the city in connection with such work performed by the city, including
design, engineering, construction, materials, insurance, court costs and
attorney fees.
   B.   Considerations: Any directive by the public works director shall be
based upon one or more of the following:
      1.   The facility or structure was installed, erected or is being
maintained contrary to law, or determined by the public works director to be
structurally unsound or defective;
      2.   The facility or structure constitutes a nuisance as defined under
state statute or city ordinance (this section shall not, however, be deemed to
diminish the vehicle impound authority of the police department);
      3.   The authority under which the facility or structure was installed
has expired or has been revoked;
      4.   The facility or structure is not in conformity with public
improvements consistent with the general plan of the city for the area;
      5.   The public right of way is about to be repaired or improved and such
facilities or structures may pose a hindrance to construction; or
      6.   The grades or lines of the public right of way are to be altered or
changed.
   C.   Failure To Comply: Any person owning or maintaining facilities or
structures in the public right of way who fails to alter, modify or relocate
such facilities or structures upon notice to do so by the public works director
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor. All costs of alteration, modification
or relocation shall be borne by the person owning or maintaining the facilities
or structures involved. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-110: IMPACT OF EXCAVATION ON EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Sidewalk Or Curb Ramp: If any sidewalk or curb ramp is blocked by
excavation work, a temporary sidewalk or curb ramp shall be constructed or
provided. Said temporary improvement shall be safe for travel and convenient
for users, and consistent with city standards for such.
   B.   Gravel Surfaces: Where excavations are made in paved areas, the surface
shall be replaced with a temporary gravel surface until such time as the
permanent repairs are completed.
   C.   Disturbance Of Property: At any time a permittee disturbs the yard,
residence or the real or personal property of a private property owner or the
city, such permittee shall ensure that such property is returned, replaced and/
or restored to a condition that is comparable to the condition that existed
prior to the commencement of the work. The costs associated with the
disturbance and the return, replacement and/or restoration shall be borne by
the permittee.
   D.   Reimbursement For Damage: A permittee shall reimburse a property owner,
or the city, for any actual damage caused by the permittee, its subcontractor,
or its independent contractor, in connection with the disturbance of such
property. However, nothing in this subsection shall require the permittee to
pay a subscriber or private property owner when that subscriber or private
property owner requests that the permittee remove, replace or relocate
improvements associated with the service provided by the permittee to the
property owner and when the permittee exercises due care in the performance of
that service, or when the subscriber or private property owner provided false
information to the permittee on which the permittee relied to its detriment.
   E.   Drainage Channels: Existing drainage channels, such as gutters or
ditches, shall be kept free of dirt or other debris so that natural flow will
not be interrupted. When it is necessary to block or otherwise interrupt flow
of the drainage channel, a method of rerouting the flow must be submitted for
approval by the public works director prior to the blockage of the channel.
Permittee shall comply with all other stormwater drainage requirements and
restrictions, including, but not limited to, applicable provisions of the
stormwater ordinance as set forth in title 16 of this code, as amended.
   F.   Requirements Applicable To Subcontractors: The requirements imposed
upon the permittee extend to any subcontractor or independent contractor that
the permittee might employ to perform the tasks pursuant to the permit.
   G.   Exception: The requirements of this section shall not apply to the
removal by a permittee of a permanent structure placed by a property owner in
the public right of way, unless such property owner has received prior written
permission from the city granting the property owner the right to install a
permanent structure on or within the public right of way, and such written
permission has been recorded in the office of the county recorder. (Ord. 2011-
24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-120: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Required: The permittee shall, at its own expense, restore the surface
of any public right of way to its original condition and replace any removed or
damaged pavement. All restoration shall conform to the standards and
specifications promulgated by the city and shall be accomplished within the
time limits set forth in the permit, unless additional time is granted in
writing by the public works director.
   B.   Restoration By City: The permittee doing the actual excavation work may
request that the city restore the surface to its original condition. Approval
of such request shall be made by the public works director as part of the
excavation permit approval. The fee for such resurfacing shall be determined by
the public works director in accordance with its reasonable costs for such work
and shall be charged to the person, firm or corporation making the excavation.
Payment for the estimated cost of said work shall be received by the city prior
to issuance of the excavation permit. Actual cost of such work shall be paid to
the city prior to release of the bond. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-130: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Limits And Requirements: Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall
furnish to the city evidence that such applicant has a comprehensive general
liability and property damage policy that includes contractual liability
coverage endorsed with the following limits and provisions:
      1.   A minimum of two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) per occurrence for
bodily injury, personal injury and property damage, and not less than two
million dollars ($2,000,000.00) in the aggregate. The general aggregate limit
shall apply separately to the permit, or the general aggregate limit shall be
two (2) times the required occurrence limit. The coverage shall be in the
nature of broad form commercial general liability coverage. The city may
increase minimum insurance limits, depending on the potential liability of any
project. In no event shall insurance coverage be in amounts less than those set
forth herein or less than federal or state statutory limits and requirements,
whichever is greater, including, but not limited to, governmental immunity cap
limits for municipal corporations, as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
63G-7-101 et seq., as amended. The permittee shall increase the limits of such
insurance to at least the amount of the limitation of judgments described in
Utah Code Annotated section 63G-7-101 et seq., as amended, of the governmental
immunity act of Utah, as calculated by the state risk manager every two (2)
years and stated in Utah administrative code R37-4-3, as amended.
      2.   All policies shall include the city, its employees, officers,
officials, agents, volunteers and assigns, as insureds. Any reference to the
"city" shall include the city, its employees, officers, officials, agents,
volunteers and assigns.
      3.   The coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the city, its
employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers and assigns. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns shall be in excess of the permittee's insurance
and shall not contribute to or with it.
      4.   Any failure to comply with reporting provisions of the policy shall
not affect coverage provided to the city, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns.
      5.   Coverage shall state that the permittee's insurance shall apply
separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought,
except with respect to the limits of the insurer's liability.
      6.   Underwriters shall have no right of recovery or subrogation against
the city, it being the intent of the parties that the insurance policy so
affected shall protect both parties and be primary coverage for any and all
losses covered by the described insurance.
      7.   The insurance companies issuing the policy or policies shall have no
recourse against the city for payment of any premiums due or for any
assessments under any form of any policy.
      8.   Each insurance policy shall be endorsed to state that the coverage
shall not be suspended, voided, canceled or reduced in coverage or in limits,
except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested sent to the city.
      9.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, save harmless and defend
the city and its officers and employees against any claim or loss, damage or
expense sustained on account of damages to persons or property occurring by
reason of permit work done by the permittee, or his/her subcontractor or agent,
whether or not the work has been completed and whether or not the right of way
has been opened to public travel.
      10.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, hold harmless and
defend the city, and its officers and employees against any claim or loss,
damage or expense sustained by any person occurring by reason of doing any work
pursuant to the permit including, but not limited to, falling objects or
failure to maintain proper barricades and/or lights as required from the time
work begins until the work is completed and right of way is opened for public
use.
   B.   Rating Requirements: Insurance is to be placed with insurers with an AM
Best rating of no less than an A carrier, with a rating of "A7" or higher.
   C.   Certificates: The permittee shall furnish the city with certificates of
insurance and original endorsements affecting coverage required by the permit.
The certificates and endorsements for each insurance policy are to be signed by
a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its behalf. The city
expressly reserves the right to require complete, certified copies of all
required insurance policies at any time. Consequently, the permittee shall be
prepared to provide such copies prior to the issuance of the permit.
   D.   Unsatisfactory Policy: If any of the required policies are, or at any
time become, unsatisfactory to the city as to form or substance, or if a
company issuing any such policy is, or at any time becomes, unsatisfactory to
the city, the permittee shall promptly obtain a new policy, submit the same to
the city for approval, and thereafter submit verification of coverage as
required by the city. Upon failure to furnish, deliver and maintain such
insurance as provided herein, the city may declare the permit to be in default
and pursue any and all remedies the city may have at law or in equity,
including those actions outlined in this chapter.
   E.   Subcontractors Included: The permittee shall include all subcontractors
as insured under its policies or shall furnish separate certificates and
endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverage for subcontractors shall be
subject to all of the requirements stated herein.
   F.   Deductibles: Any deductibles or self-insured retentions shall be
declared to and approved by the city. At the option of the city, either the
insurer shall reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-insured retentions
as respects the city, its employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers or
assigns, or the permittee shall procure a bond, in a form acceptable to the
city, guaranteeing payment of losses and related investigations, claim
administration, and defense expenses.
   G.   Exceptions: A provider may be relieved of the obligation of submitting
certificates of insurance if such company submits satisfactory evidence in
advance that:
      1.   It is insured in the amounts set forth in this chapter, or has
complied with state requirements to become self-insured. Public utilities may
submit annually evidence of insurance coverage in lieu of individual
submissions for each permit; and
      2.   Said coverage provides to the city the same scope of coverage that
would otherwise be provided by a separate policy as required by this chapter;
or
      3.   The work to be performed under the permit issued to the applicant is
performed by the city, in which case insurance requirement shall be negotiated
between the city and the applicant by separate agreement. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-
2011)
8-5-140: BONDS; WHEN REQUIRED, CONDITIONS, WARRANTY:
   A.   Required: Except as noted in this chapter, each applicant that will be
excavating in the right of way, before being issued a permit, shall provide the
city with an acceptable cash bond in the amount of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) and a corporate surety bond or another type of security in an
amount and type as determined by the public works director to guarantee
faithful performance of the work authorized by a permit granted pursuant to
this chapter. The amount of the bond required may be increased or decreased at
the discretion of the public works director whenever it appears that the amount
and cost of the work to be performed, and not satisfactorily completed, may
vary from the amount of bond otherwise required under this chapter. The form of
the bond and the entity issuing the bond shall be subject to the approval of
the city.
   B.   Exception: Public utilities franchised or authorized by separate
agreement with the city shall not be required to file the cash bond or the
corporate surety bond if such requirement is expressly waived in the franchise
document or other acceptable right of way use agreement or license, or if such
bond(s) has been provided with the franchise grant or other acceptable right of
way use agreement or license.
   C.   Conditions: The bonds required by this section shall be conditioned as
follows:
      1.   The permittee shall fully comply with the requirements of the city
ordinances and regulations, the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices",
and the standards and specifications promulgated by the city relative to work
in the public right of way, and respond to the city in damages for failure to
conform therewith;
      2.   After work is commenced, the permittee shall proceed with diligence
and expedition and shall promptly complete such work and restore the public
right of way to construction specifications, so as not to obstruct the public
right of way or travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary;
      3.   The permittee shall guarantee the materials and workmanship for a
period of one year from completion of such work, with reasonable wear and tear
excepted; and
      4.   Unless authorized by the public works director on the permit, all
paving, resurfacing or replacement of street facilities on major or collector
streets shall be done in conformance with the regulations contained herein
within two (2) calendar days from the time the excavation commences, and within
five (5) calendar days from the time the excavation commences on all other
streets, except as provided for during excavation in winter or during weather
conditions which do not allow paving according to the standards and
specifications. In winter, a temporary patch must be provided. In all
excavations, restoration of pavement surfaces shall be made immediately after
backfilling is completed or concrete is cured.
   D.   Release: When no excavation work is being done in the right of way, at
the discretion of the public works director, the cash bond may be released when
work is completed. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-150: HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT; LIMITATIONS ON CITY LIABILITY:
   A.   Hold Harmless: The permittee agrees to save the city, its officers,
employees, volunteers and agents harmless from any and all costs, damages and
liabilities which may accrue or be claimed to accrue by reason of any work
performed under the permit. The issuance and acceptance of any permit under
this chapter shall constitute such an agreement by the permittee to this
section.
   B.   Nonliability: This chapter shall neither be construed as imposing upon
the city, its officers, employees, volunteers and agents, any liability or
responsibility for damages to any person injured by or by reason of the
performance of any work within the public rights of way, or under a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter; nor shall the city, its officers, officials,
employees, agents, volunteers or assigns thereof be deemed to have assumed any
such liability or responsibility by reason of inspection authorized hereunder,
the issuance of any permit, or the approval of any work. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-
2011)
8-5-160: WORK WITHOUT PERMIT; PENALTY:
   A.   Stop Work Order: A stop work order may be issued by the public works
director, or his or her designee, directed to any person or persons doing or
causing any work to be done in the public right of way without a permit.
   B.   Fee: Any person found to be doing work in the public right of way
without having obtained a permit, as provided in this chapter, shall be
required to pay a permit fee equal to two (2) times the normal permit fee. For
replacement work, where a fee is not normally charged, the normal permit fee
for new construction shall apply. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-170: FAILURE TO COMPLY; DEFAULT IN PERFORMANCE:
   A.   Reasons For Action: Any permit may be revoked or suspended and a stop
work order issued by the public works director, after notice to the permittee
for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Violation of any condition of the permit, the bond, or of any
provision of this chapter;
      2.   Violation of any provision of any other ordinance of the city or law
relating to the work; or
      3.   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act which may
constitute or cause a condition endangering life or property.
   B.   Immediate Effect: A suspension or revocation by the public works
director, and a stop work order, shall take effect immediately upon entry
thereof by the public works director and notice to the person performing the
work in the public right of way. Notice to the person performing the work shall
be accomplished when the public works director has posted a stop work order at
the location of the work and written notice has been mailed, return receipt
requested, to the address indicated by the permittee on the permit.
   C.   Notice: Whenever the public works director finds that a default has
occurred in the performance of any term or condition of the permit, written
notice thereof may be given to the principal and to the surety on the bond, if
there is a surety bond. Such notice shall state the work to be done, the
estimated cost thereof, and the period of time deemed by the public works
director to be reasonably necessary for the completion of the work.
   D.   Performance By City: In the event that the surety or principal, within
a reasonable time following the giving of such notice (taking into
consideration the exigencies of the situation, the nature of the work, the
requirements of public safety and for the protection of persons and property),
fails either to commence and cause the required work to be performed with due
diligence, or to indemnify the city for the cost of doing the work, as set
forth in the notice, the city may perform the work, at the discretion of the
public works director, with city forces or contract forces or both, and suit
may be commenced by the city against the contractor and bonding company and
such other persons as may be liable, to recover the entire amount due to the
city, including attorney fees, on account thereof. In the event that cash has
been deposited, the cost of performing the work may be charged against the
amount deposited, and suit brought for the balance due, if any. (Ord. 2011-24,
11-15-2011)
8-5-180: FAILURE TO CONFORM TO DESIGN STANDARDS; PENALTY:
For failure to conform to the design standards and regulations, the public
works director may:
   A.   Suspend or revoke the permit;
   B.   Issue a stop work order;
   C.   Order removal and replacement of faulty work;
   D.   Require an extended warranty period; and/or
   E.   Negotiate a cash settlement to be applied toward future maintenance
costs. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-190: APPEAL OF SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR STOP WORK ORDER:
Any suspension, revocation or stop order by the public works director may be
appealed by the permittee by filing a written notice of appeal with the city
recorder within ten (10) calendar days of the action of the public works
director. The appeal shall be conducted in accordance with chapter
3-7 of this code. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
8-5-200: TAMPERING WITH TRAFFIC BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or wantonly or without
authorization and legal cause, extinguish, remove or diminish any light
illuminating any barricade or excavation, or to tear down, remove or in any
manner alter any rail, fence or barricade protecting any excavation or other
construction site. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-210: CONFLICT WITH GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any other ordinance, agreement, franchise or other document
governing the excavation of a public right of way, the more restrictive
provisions of the aforesaid documents shall apply. (Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
8-5-220: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a violation of any provision of
this chapter, or failure to comply with an order of suspension, revocation or
stop work, shall be a class B misdemeanor. Each day the violation exists shall
be a separate offense. No criminal conviction shall excuse the person from
otherwise complying with the provisions of this chapter. Civil penalties may
also be imposed in accordance with applicable ordinances regarding the same.
(Ord. 2011-24, 11-15-2011)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-1-010: Application For Water And Sewer Service
9-1-015: Termination Or Deferral Of Service Due To Vacancy
9-1-020: Two Users On One Connection
9-1-030: Water To Be Used Only By Occupants
9-1-040: Pipes To Be Kept In Repair
9-1-050: Waste Prohibited
9-1-060: Water Department To Have Free Access
9-1-060.1: Obstructions On Or Near Water Meter Boxes
9-1-070: City Not Liable For Damage
9-1-080: Curtailment Of Usage
9-1-090: Water Rates And Collection
9-1-100: Special Rates
9-1-110: Board Of Equalization; Water Rates, Rebates
9-1-120: Use Without Payment Unlawful
9-1-130: Payment Notice; Discontinuance Of Service
9-1-140: Turning On Water After Turned Off Unlawful
9-1-150: Unlawful To Pollute Or Contaminate Water Sources
9-1-150.1: Unlawful To Live Near Open Water Sources
9-1-150.2: Unlawful To Maintain Nuisance Near Open Water Source
9-1-160: Davis County Health Department To Make Rules
9-1-170: City Council To Place Signs
9-1-180: Fire Hydrant Water Use Permits
9-1-190: Permit Required
9-1-200: Fees
9-1-210: Issuance Of Permit
9-1-220: Water Meter
9-1-230: Payment
9-1-240: Inspection
9-1-250: Records
9-1-260: Rules And Regulations
9-1-270: Indemnification
9-1-280: Revocation
9-1-290: Unauthorized Use
9-1-300: Appeals
9-1-310: Cross Connections
9-1-320: Need-Based Assistance For Utility Bills; Trust Fund
9-1-010: APPLICATION FOR WATER AND SEWER SERVICE:
   A.   Any person desiring a supply of water from the city water system or
sewer service, or such services available, shall apply therefor to the city
treasurer and file an agreement with the city in a form maintained by the city
treasurer.
   B.   The record owner of property to be served by the City water system must
appear as an applicant for water connection and service, and shall be held
responsible to the City for payment of all water service fees and utility
charges incurred by that connection. Owners of property that rent, lease or
otherwise give the said property over to the tenancy of another shall remain
liable for the water services and other utilities furnished to the property by
the City, including all fees and charges incurred by a renter or lessee or
other occupant of the owner's premises. It shall be the duty of the property
owner to notify the City of termination or change in ownership of the property.
(2016 Code; amd. Ord. 2023-30, 6-6-2023)
9-1-015: TERMINATION OR DEFERRAL OF SERVICE DUE TO VACANCY:
   A.   The customer shall be responsible for the payment of all fees
associated with the utilities provided to the property until a new customer
submits an application for service at the property. If a customer has
transferred ownership of the property, the customer may submit a notice to City
requesting disconnection. The City may require proof of property transfer in
connection with this request. Due to the ongoing expenses of maintaining the
utility system for the immediate benefit of each property, users may not
terminate or defer the accrual of fees for their properties, except as provided
in this section.
   B.   A customer may request a deferral of fees for no less than six months
nor greater than two years, if the property will be vacant and water will not
be used during that time. The customer shall be required to pay a fee in an
amount identified in the consolidated fee schedule at the commencement of the
deferral. The City may install a lock on the customer's meter when that
customer's account is put into deferral.
   C.   Upon resumption of occupancy, the customer must inform the City in
order to remove the property from deferral status.
   D.   A customer whose account is in deferral, and who fails to inform the
City of occupancy within thirty days of occupancy, shall be required to pay the
fees for any portion of any month during which the property was occupied, and
also pay a penalty fee equal to a month of service. (Ord. 2023-30, 6-6-2023)
9-1-020: TWO USERS ON ONE CONNECTION:
Where two (2) or more families or premises are supplied from one water service
pipe, the failure on the part of either of said families to comply with these
ordinances shall legally justify the city to withhold the supply of water
through said service pipe until a separate service pipe with stopcock and key
box and meters is put in for each user of water under a separate application.
(2016 Code)
9-1-030: WATER TO BE USED ONLY BY OCCUPANTS:
It shall be unlawful for any water user to permit any person from other
premises, or any unauthorized person, to use or obtain water regularly from his
premises from water outlets either outside or inside his building. (2016 Code)
9-1-040: PIPES TO BE KEPT IN REPAIR:
All water users shall keep their service pipes and connections and other
apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at their own expense; but no
person, except under the direction of the water department, shall be allowed to
dig into the street for the purpose of laying, removing, or repairing a service
pipe without approval of the city. (2016 Code)
9-1-050: WASTE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any water user to waste water, or to allow it to be
wasted, by imperfect stops, taps, valves, leaky joints or pipes, or to allow
tanks or watering troughs to leak or overflow, or to wastefully run water from
hydrants, faucets or stops or through basins, water closets, urinals, sinks or
other apparatus, or to use the water for purposes other than those for which he
has paid, or to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for
controlling the water supply. (2016 Code)
9-1-060: WATER DEPARTMENT TO HAVE FREE ACCESS:
The water supervisor and his agents shall have at all ordinary hours the free
access to premises supplied with water from the waterworks system for the
purpose of examining the premises and the amount of water used and the manner
in which the water was used. (2016 Code)
9-1-060.1: OBSTRUCTIONS ON OR NEAR WATER METER BOXES:
It shall be unlawful for any water user to cover, by any means, or to construct
buildings, fences or other structures or to plant shrubs, trees or other
vegetation that impede or interfere with free and easy access to a water meter.
Failure of any user to remove any such obstruction, as directed by the water
supervisor or his agent, shall result in termination of all water service.
Before said water service shall again be provided to the premises, said
obstruction must be removed and all penalties assessed by the city for shutting
off and turning on the water service must be paid in full. (Ord. 1976-9, 9-1-
1976)
9-1-070: CITY NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGE:
The city shall not be liable for any damage to a water user by reason of
stoppage or interruption of his water supply caused by fires, scarcity of
water, damages to works or mains, alterations, additions or repairs, or for any
other unavoidable cause. (2016 Code)
9-1-080: CURTAILMENT OF USAGE:
The city council may by resolution regulate, restrict or limit the use of water
during water shortage periods and shall have the power to take all necessary
means and make any unnecessary means and make any necessary regulations as
circumstances require to protect the users of the city water. (2016 Code)
9-1-090: WATER RATES AND COLLECTION:
The water rates and connection fees for a supply of water from the Farmington
City water system shall be fixed by resolution of the city council. (2016 Code)
9-1-100: SPECIAL RATES:
The city council may from time to time fix special rates and conditions for
users using an exceptionally large or small amounts of water upon such terms
and conditions as they may deem proper. (2016 Code)
9-1-110: BOARD OF EQUALIZATION; WATER RATES, REBATES:
The city council is hereby constituted a board of equalization of water rates
to hear complaints and make corrections of any assessments deemed to be
illegal, unequal or unjust. They may, if they see fit, rebate all or any part
of the water bill of any indigent person. (2016 Code)
9-1-120: USE WITHOUT PAYMENT UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person by himself, family, servants, or agents, to
use the water coming through the city water without first paying therefor as
herein provided. (2016 Code)
9-1-130: PAYMENT NOTICE; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Statement Of Charges: The city utility billing clerk shall mail or
cause to be mailed a statement of service charges to each user of water, storm
sewer, sanitary sewer and garbage collection each month or at such other
regular intervals as the city council shall direct. Said statement shall
separately specify the amount of charges for water, storm sewer, sanitary
sewer, and garbage service and shall also specify the date due and place
wherein payments may be made.
   B.   Penalty: If any person neglects, fails or refuses to pay his charges
for water, storm sewer, sanitary sewer or garbage on or before the specified
due date, penalties shall be assessed against those charges thirty (30) days
following the due date, in an amount established in the consolidated fee
schedule. Additional penalties shall apply every thirty (30) days until: (1)
water is shut off, or (2) any past due balances, together with all penalties
and special expense fees associated with the city utility account, have been
paid.
   C.   Shut-Off: If, within a period of thirty (30) days after the initial
penalty in subsection (B) is assessed, payment for any past due balances,
together with any penalty fees, has not been made, the city utility billing
clerk shall notify the water supervisor to shut off all water service to the
premises involved or to take other collection measures authorized by the city
council. Before water service to said premises shall again be provided, any
past due balances, together with all penalty and special expense fees that may
be assessed, must have been paid.
   D.   Notice: Prior to the shutting off of water service, and during the
thirty (30) day period subsequent to the assessment of the penalty fee, the
city utility billing clerk shall first mail or cause to be delivered at least
two (2) notices to the billing address of the customers in arrears advising
them of their delinquency. One of such notices shall be a shutoff notice
specifying the date the water is to be shut off for nonpayment and also
specifying the customers' right to appeal such action to the city council.
   E.   Appeal: A customer may appeal a shutoff notice to the City Council by
submitting a written appeal to the City Manager prior to the shutoff date. The
appeal shall be placed on a subsequent city council agenda that is at least
seven calendar days after the appeal is filed. An appeal to the City Council
shall stay the shutoff while the matter is pending, but fees and penalties
continue to accrue and are not stayed.
   F.   Collection Agency: The city utility billing clerk shall have the
authority to utilize a collection agency on all accounts not collectible by the
water shutoff method. When a collection agency is used, the cost of collection
shall be added to the account balance in arrears. (Ord. 2006-22, 3-15-2006;
amd. Ord. 2023-30, 6-6-2023)
9-1-140: TURNING ON WATER AFTER TURNED OFF UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person, after the water has been turned off from
his premises for either nonpayment of water or sewer charges as provided in
section
9-1-130 of this chapter or for a violation of the rules and regulations of the
city, to turn the water on again. Such delinquent water user or violator shall
be assessed and pay the amount as penalty and cost as determined by resolution
of the city council for the shutting off and turning on of the water and all
delinquent charges, before the water is turned on again. The water is to be
turned on only by the city representative. In addition to payment, the violator
shall also be required to make a new application and to add a new deposit as
provided in this chapter. (2016 Code)
9-1-150: UNLAWFUL TO POLLUTE OR CONTAMINATE WATER SOURCES:
It shall be unlawful for any firm, partnership or corporation to do or permit
to be done any of the things hereinafter described in this section in any
canyon or along any stream of water, lake or other body of water used by the
inhabitants of the city for their water supply within a point fifteen (15)
miles above the point from which said water is taken and for a distance of
three hundred feet (300') on each side of any stream, lake or any other water
source, or on a highway along such stream or water sources within said fifteen
(15) miles and said three hundred feet (300'):
   A.   Waste Disposal System; Pool: To construct or maintain any closet,
privy, outhouse, cesspool, urinal or sewage disposal system or any public
bathhouse, swimming tank or swimming pool without first having obtained from
the city council a permit for the construction, use and maintenance of the
same.
   B.   Contaminating Yard: To construct or maintain any corral, sheep pen, pig
pen, chicken coop, stable, or any offensive or contaminating yard or outhouse
where a permit to do so has not first been obtained from the local board of
health.
   C.   Manure, Carcass: To dispose of, pile, unload or leave any manure or any
offensive rubbish or the carcass of any dead animal at any place within the
limits hereinabove designated.
   D.   Garbage: To throw or dispose of any garbage or any deleterious matter
of any kind within said limits except at such garbage disposal location and in
such garbage receptacles as shall be provided and maintained by the city or any
other agencies.
   E.   Dogs: To permit any dog to run into or swim in such stream, lake or
other water sources.
   F.   Glass: To throw or break bottles and other glass or to leave any broken
glass within said area.
   G.   Picnicking: To spread or eat any picnic or lunch at any place within
said designated area which may now or hereafter be excluded as a picnic or
camping ground by the city council.
   H.   Wading, Swimming: To wade, bathe, swim or enter into any such streams,
lakes or other water sources.
   I.   Washing Dishes: To wash dishes or other articles in said streams, lakes
or other water sources; except that the washing of dishes and other articles
may be allowed in any place which may hereafter be expressly provided for by
the city council. (2016 Code)
9-1-150.1: UNLAWFUL TO LIVE NEAR OPEN WATER SOURCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership or corporation to own,
operate, maintain or permit the use of any house, cottage, cabin, human
habitation or camping place within the area hereinabove designated without
providing for and maintaining a sewage disposal system satisfactory to the
Davis County health department and without complying with the rules and
regulations of said health department relative thereto; and the said health
department shall have authority to close or prevent the use of said house or
any other human habitation or camping place, if its rules and regulations
relative to the use thereof are not complied with. (2016 Code)
9-1-150.2: UNLAWFUL TO MAINTAIN NUISANCE NEAR OPEN WATER SOURCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any nuisance whatsoever,
detrimental to the purity of such streams, lakes or other water sources. (2016
Code)
9-1-160: DAVIS COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT TO MAKE RULES:
The Davis County health department is authorized and directed to prescribe
necessary rules and regulations not contrary to law for the governing of all
matters of sanitation within the water sources of the city as hereinbefore
designated. (2016 Code)
9-1-170: CITY COUNCIL TO PLACE SIGNS:
The city council may, at its discretion, provide for the erection and placing
of proper signs, posting water source areas if deemed necessary for the
protection of the city water supply. (2016 Code)
9-1-180: FIRE HYDRANT WATER USE PERMITS:
The purpose of these provisions is to provide a uniform set of guidelines for
issuing fire hydrant water use permits. The private use of city fire hydrants
for obtaining water shall be used as a measure of last resort and all other
means of obtaining water for construction purposes, dust control and other
private uses must be explored and used whenever possible. In any event, no
private use of city fire hydrants as permitted herein, may interfere with the
use of any fire hydrant by city officials, and the fire department shall at all
times have free access to all fire hydrants. (Ord. 1996-43, 11-20-1996)
9-1-190: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person or entity desiring to obtain water from a city fire hydrant shall
submit an application for a fire hydrant water use permit on forms provided by
the city to the Farmington City public works department. The application shall
be signed by the applicant or applicant's authorized and certified agent, and
shall state the purpose for which the water is to be used, the location of the
intended fire hydrant to be used, and the desired term of the permit, not to
exceed thirty (30) days. Applicants must agree to and abide by all conditions,
charges and liabilities of the permit. (Ord. 1996-43, 11-20-1996)
9-1-200: FEES:
Each application for a fire hydrant water use permit shall be accompanied by
the required permit fees as set forth in the city fee schedule. No permit shall
be issued until the proper fees have been paid to the city. Unless otherwise
provided, the permit and fees required herein shall be in addition to any and
all other licenses, permits and fees imposed by any other ordinance, regulation
or law. (Ord. 1996-43, 11-20-1996)
9-1-210: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The water superintendent shall review all applications for fire hydrant water
use permits and may issue or deny such applications based upon consideration of
the effect of the proposed use, the location of the hydrant, the availability
of water from the system, assurance that the use of the hydrant(s) will not
adversely affect delivery of water to existing connections to the city water
system, and compliance with all conditions and requirements of sections
9-1-180 through
9-1-300 of this chapter. Permit terms may not exceed thirty (30) days. Permits
shall be valid only for the applicant for whom it was issued and only for the
location and use for which it was issued and shall not be assignable or
transferable. (Ord. 1996-43, 11-20-1996)
9-1-220: WATER METER:
Upon issuance of a fire hydrant water use permit and payment of all required
fees and deposits, the permit holder shall obtain a meter and other required
equipment from the public works department necessary to obtain and meter the
water drawn from the hydrant in accordance with the permit. A deposit shall be
required for the use of the meter and other equipment provided by the city in
an amount set forth in the city fee schedule in order to ensure return of the
meter and equipment in good condition. The meter number and reading shall be
noted on the permit at the time of issuance. (Ord. 1996-43, 11-20-1996)
9-1-230: PAYMENT:
Upon completion of the use of fire hydrant water or expiration of the permit,
whichever is sooner, applicant shall return the meter and other equipment
provided by the city and pay the appropriate fee in accordance with the rates
set forth in the city fee schedule for the amount of water used as indicated on
the returned meter. In the alternative, the city may require an applicant to
prepay for the good faith estimate of the amount of water to be used at the
appropriate rate set forth in the city fee schedule. All fees, deposits and
payments shall be submitted to the city treasurer's office for receipt and
remittance. (Ord. 1996-43, 11-20-1996)
9-1-240: INSPECTION:
The city reserves the right to supervise and/or inspect the use of any city
fire hydrant in accordance with any permit issued hereunder. Applicant shall
close the hydrant and disconnect the meter from the hydrant when not using the
water, thereby leaving the hydrants free and clear for use by the fire
department and city officials. (Ord. 1996-43, 11-20-1996)
9-1-250: RECORDS:
The public works department shall keep a record of all permits issued
hereunder, including the name of the person to whom the permit was issued, the
term of the permit and the fees and deposit collected. (Ord. 1996-43, 11-20-
1996)
9-1-260: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The public works department may establish and adopt, with the advice and
consent of the city council, rules and regulations governing the use of city
fire hydrants and permits for the same. (Ord. 1996-43, 11-20-1996)
9-1-270: INDEMNIFICATION:
Applicant shall be responsible for returning the meter and equipment to the
city in good condition when due. A late fee may be charged for any meter or
equipment which is not returned to the city within twenty four (24) hours from
the expiration of the permit as provided in the city fee schedule. Applicant
shall be responsible to reimburse the city for the cost to replace any meter or
equipment not returned and shall be liable for any and all damage to the city
fire hydrant(s) or equipment in connection with applicant's use of the hydrant.
Applicant shall further indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officers,
employees, agents and sureties, from liability of any kind or nature which may
result from use of the hydrant, meter, equipment or water as permitted herein.
(Ord. 1996-43, 11-20-1996)
9-1-280: REVOCATION:
Any fire hydrant water use permit issued hereunder may be revoked or suspended
by the city upon applicant's failure to comply with the rules and regulations
of the public works department and the ordinances of the city governing the use
of water from city fire hydrants. Prior to revocation of any permit, proper
notice and an opportunity to be heard shall be provided to the permit holder.
(Ord. 1996-43, 11-20-1996)
9-1-290: UNAUTHORIZED USE:
It is unlawful for any person, other than those duly authorized, to open or
operate any city fire hydrant or to tamper or interfere with or attempt to draw
water therefrom, or in any way to obstruct the approach thereto. (Ord. 1996-43,
11-20-1996)
9-1-300: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved of the denial or revocation of a fire hydrant water use
permit may appeal such decision by filing written notice of appeal with the
city recorder within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the decision. The
appeal shall be conducted in accordance with chapter
3-7 of this code. (Ord. 1996-43, 11-20-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
9-1-310: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Title And Purpose: This section shall be known as the FARMINGTON CITY
CROSS CONNECTION ORDINANCE, and may be so cited. The purpose of this section is
to protect the public potable water supply from contamination or pollution by
isolating within its customers' internal distribution system(s) or its
customers' private water system(s) such contaminants or pollutants which could
backflow or back siphon into the public potable water supply system. This
section is adopted pursuant to section R309-102-5 of the Utah safe drinking
water rules and regulations.
   B.   Requirements: No water service connection to any premises within
Farmington City shall be installed or maintained unless the water supply is
protected. Unprotected cross connections shall not be an integral part of any
consumer's water system within Farmington City. In the event a cross connection
cannot be eliminated, it must be protected by the installation of an air gap or
approved backflow prevention assembly/device in accordance with the provisions
set forth herein.
   C.   Responsibilities: It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to
purchase, install or cause to be installed, test and maintain any backflow
prevention assembly/device required herein. It shall be the responsibility of
the city public works and building departments to administer and enforce the
provisions of this section to ensure compliance herewith.
   D.   Compliance: All connections to the Farmington City potable water system
and backflow prevention devices required herein shall conform to the provisions
of this section, the international plumbing code as adopted by the city, the
Utah safe drinking water act, and other relevant provisions of Utah Code
Annotated, as amended.
   E.   Enforcement: Service of water to any building or location, in the
discretion of Farmington City, may be discontinued if a backflow prevention
assembly required by this section is not installed, tested and maintained, if a
backflow prevention assembly has been removed or bypassed, or if an unprotected
cross connection exists at the building or location. In addition, water service
may be terminated to any building or location when the public works director or
building official determines that the service connection's water usage
constitutes a sufficient hazard or risk to the water supply or to the city
water system. The city shall give reasonable notice to the customer and/or
owner of the building or location of the termination of water service to a
building or location, and where the consumer could not reasonably be so
notified before termination, then notice shall be given promptly afterwards.
Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are corrected to
the requirement of this section and the satisfaction of the city.
   F.   Recordkeeping: Officers and employees of the public works department
and the building department shall report all installations of backflow
prevention devices, assemblies and methods of cross connection correction
installed by or communicated to them to the public works director. The public
works director shall maintain or cause to be maintained an inventory of all
said assemblies, as well as test and repair records on all such assemblies, and
shall be responsible for notifying customers of annual testing requirements or
other enforcement requirements.
   G.   Omission Not Waiver: The omission to specify or enumerate in this
section those provisions of general law applicable to all cities shall not be
construed as a waiver of the benefits of any such provisions. (Ord. 1995-09, 3-
1-1995)
9-1-320: NEED-BASED ASSISTANCE FOR UTILITY BILLS; TRUST FUND:
   A.   The City may establish a trust fund to receive voluntary donations from
customers or other individuals in order to assist eligible households with
utility bill payments.
   B.   The trust fund established by the City will be limited in its use for
need-based utility bill assistance for Farmington utility customers and may not
be accessed for any other government purpose.
   C.   A household located within Farmington City establishes eligibility for
participation in the city's need-based assistance program by:
      1.   Presenting a letter confirming eligibility to receive assistance
through the Home Energy Assistance Target program operated by the Utah
Department of Workforce Services; or
      2.   If the household is a refugee household that does not qualify for
assistance under the Home Energy Assistance Target program, presenting a letter
from a case worker from the Utah Department of Workforce Services Refugee
Services Office requesting assistance, which letter must include information
regarding the household's needs.
   D.   Eligibility expires one (1) year after it is established by the
household, as provided in subsection C of this section.
   E.   Eligibility to participate in the program does not guarantee specific
assistance; funds will be disbursed on a programmatic basis, as directed by the
Council. Once trust fund amounts are exhausted in a given fiscal year, then
assistance will not be available until the following fiscal year, unless
specifically authorized by the Council. (Ord. 2023-64, 11-14-2023)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-2-010: Sewer Committee
9-2-020: Sewer Manager
9-2-030: Bond
9-2-040: Salary
9-2-050: Users
9-2-060: Application For Connection
9-2-070: Unauthorized Connections
9-2-080: Rates
9-2-090: Unlawful Connections
9-2-100: Unlawful To Injure Sewer Or Discharge Inflammable Or Injurious Matter
Therein
9-2-110: Obstructions
9-2-120: Manhole Covers
9-2-130: Discontinuance Of Privy Vaults And Cesspools
9-2-140: Revenue
9-2-150: Agreement With Central Davis County Sewer District
9-2-160: Penalty
9-2-010: SEWER COMMITTEE:
On or before the first Wednesday in February immediately following a municipal
election, the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city council,
shall appoint a sewer committee to be composed of two (2) or more city council
members. The sewer committee shall be charged with the duty of advising the
mayor and city council regarding the operation and maintenance of the sewer
system and shall recommend rules and regulations necessary for managing,
operating and maintaining the sewer system. (2016 Code)
9-2-020: SEWER MANAGER:
On or before the first Wednesday in February immediately following a municipal
election, the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the city council,
shall appoint a sewer manager. It shall be the duty of the sewer manager to
supervise, manage, operate and maintain the sewer system in accordance with the
provisions of the city ordinances and the rules and regulations adopted by the
city council. It shall be his duty to keep suitable maps and records of the
sewer system and of all connections, repairs and extensions made to the sewer
system. He shall supervise the maintenance of the sewer system and any
extensions made to the system and shall inspect the sewer lines at least once
each month and shall keep a record showing when each part of the system was
inspected. The sewer manager shall, upon request, report to the governing body
the condition of the sewer system and shall furnish such information regarding
the sewer system as the mayor or the city council may from time to time
require. It shall be the duty of the sewer committee to approve all claims
chargeable against the sewer system. The sewer manager may employ, with the
approval of the city council, such help as shall be necessary to carry out the
duties prescribed by the city ordinances and by the rules and regulations
adopted by the city council. (2016 Code)
9-2-030: BOND:
The sewer manager shall, before entering upon the duties of his office, execute
and file with the city recorder, a bond in the amount required by the city
council at the time of his appointment. (2016 Code)
9-2-040: SALARY:
The salary of the sewer manager shall be fixed by the city council. (2016 Code)
9-2-050: USERS:
The facilities afforded by the city sewer system may be furnished to users both
inside and outside of the corporate limits of the city, but in all cases
contracts for the use of such facilities shall be approved by the sewer
committee. None of the facilities afforded by the sewer system shall be
furnished without a reasonable service and connection charge being made
therefor. (2016 Code)
9-2-060: APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION:
Applications for sewer connection must be made in writing by the owner of the
premises to be served, or his authorized agent, and must be accompanied by a
plan, showing the reason for the connection, its size and the size and location
of all branches and facilities to be connected with it. All connections to the
sewer system shall be made by the city and the city council shall by resolution
establish connection fees; such fees shall be uniform with respect to class for
the type of connection made and shall be reasonable for the cost of making such
connection. Connection fees must be paid before the connection is made. (2016
Code)
9-2-070: UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS:
All applications and sewer connections shall be authorized by the sewer
committee. No person shall connect to the sewer system without first having
filed application and obtained authorization from the sewer committee; and no
connection shall be made to the sewer unless the plumbing and the building to
be serviced and the connection shall comply and conform to the requirements of
the rules and regulations adopted by the city council. It shall be unlawful for
any person to connect to the sewer system or cause a connection to the sewer
system to be made or to commence or carry on the work of laying, repairing or
altering any pipe connected with the sewer without having first obtained
authorization to do so from the sewer committee. (2016 Code)
9-2-080: RATES:
The city council shall by resolution establish rates to be charged the users of
the sewer system facilities and shall prescribe the manner in which the same
are to be paid, and such rates shall be reasonable and uniform with respect to
class for the type of service to be rendered; provided, however, that the rates
shall not be in excess of a reasonable rate for the services rendered. In the
event the rates prescribed by the city council are not paid by the user, then
the sewer committee may cause the connection to be discontinued. This provision
shall not prevent such disconnected user from being prosecuted under the
provisions of this chapter. (2016 Code)
9-2-090: UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to connect with the sewer system any drain
or pipe which discharges rainwater, cellar or surface water, acids, alkalies,
lye or other injurious liquids, or the contents of any spring, flowing well,
creek, ditch or other watercourse. No boiler or heating plant shall be directly
connected to the sewer system. The overflow from boilers or heating plants,
when cooled to a temperature not to exceed one hundred twenty degrees
Fahrenheit (120°F), will be allowed to run into a sump, said sump to be
connected to the sewer. The discharge of the contents of waste pipes from water
fitters, gas engines, air compressors, vacuum or dry cleaners, laundries,
garages, wash racks, stores or warehouses containing inflammable substances,
car barns, buildings for the stabling or keeping of horses, cows and other
animals, and all similar establishments, shall not be dumped into or connected
with the sewer system unless such contents are first discharged into settling
tanks properly trapped and vented, said tanks to be of a construction approved
by the sewer committee and to be at all times subject to their inspection and
approval or condemnation. Upon condemnation by the sewer committee, the
effluent from said tanks shall not be allowed to flow into sewers until
satisfactory alterations have been made and the connection approved by the
sewer manager. (2016 Code)
9-2-100: UNLAWFUL TO INJURE SEWER OR DISCHARGE INFLAMMABLE OR INJURIOUS MATTER
THEREIN:
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, break or remove any part or
portion of the sewer or of any sewer appliance or appurtenance, or to discharge
into the sewer any inflammable gas, gasoline, oil or petroleum byproducts or
any calcium products or residue therefrom, or any other matter which by
chemical reaction shall in any way injure said sewer, or any part thereof, or
become dangerous to health, life or property, or any liquid or any other
material or substance which will evolve in inflammable gas when in contact with
water, sewage or fire. Oil separators installed in any building where volatile
fuels are used must not be connected directly with the sewer. (2016 Code)
9-2-110: OBSTRUCTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to empty or discharge into the sewer system
any solids, garbage or other matter without first treating the same in a manner
approved by the sewer committee or to discharge in the sewer system any matter
or thing likely to obstruct the sewer. (2016 Code)
9-2-120: MANHOLE COVERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to open any sewer manhole without
permission from the sewer manager. (2016 Code)
9-2-130: DISCONTINUANCE OF PRIVY VAULTS AND CESSPOOLS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner, or his agent, or any other person having
charge of or occupying any property located upon any street, alley, court or
passageway in the city and within three hundred feet (300') of a sewer pipeline
located in any such court, street, alley or passageway in the city, to maintain
or use or cause or permit to exist any privy vault, outhouse, septic tank or
cesspool on such property. The sewer committee shall cause notice to be served
upon the owner, agent or occupant of such premises to disconnect all plumbing
from any septic tank or cesspool and to fill all cesspools and privy vaults
with fresh earth and to remove all seats from such privies and to connect all
plumbing on such property with the sewer system. (Ord. 1977-2, 4-21-1977)
9-2-140: REVENUE:
The rates prescribed by the city council shall be collected by the city
treasurer and all revenues received from the sewer system shall be turned over
to the city treasurer. All money paid to the city treasurer shall be placed in
a special fund out of which shall be paid the expenses of the sewer system,
costs of maintenance and costs of improvements and extensions. (2016 Code)
9-2-150: AGREEMENT WITH CENTRAL DAVIS COUNTY SEWER DISTRICT:
The city has duly authorized the mayor and city recorder to enter into an
agreement with the Central Davis County sewer district for the disposal and
treatment of raw sewage from the city and prescribing certain rates that the
city is required to charge its residents, business establishments and industry
in general and also imposing other restrictions and regulations upon the city
as it concerns the raw sewage emptied into the sewer district outfall lines,
and a copy of said agreement is on file in the city recorder's office. (2016
Code)
9-2-160: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine of not to
exceed two hundred ninety nine dollars ($299.00). Each day violation continues
to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (2016 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SECONDARY WATER SYSTEMS
SECTION:
9-3-010: Findings
9-3-020: Definitions
9-3-030: Master Plans
9-3-040: New Development
9-3-050: Approval
9-3-060: Operation
9-3-070: Existing Subdivisions Without Secondary Water
9-3-080: Maintenance
9-3-090: Unauthorized Connections
9-3-100: Tampering With Secondary Water Systems
9-3-110: Appeal
9-3-010: FINDINGS:
The city council of Farmington City hereby finds and determines that the
health, safety, welfare and convenience of the citizens of Farmington City,
will be promoted by the operation of secondary water systems within the city at
economical rates for the purpose of providing outside watering and irrigation
for properties located within the boundaries of Farmington City. The demand for
culinary water to serve the growing population and business demands within
Farmington City is steadily increasing and current sources of culinary water
may not be able to meet the requirements from such growth over time, resulting
in increased expenses and costs for water for the general population. As water
treatment costs increase and water sources become more scarce, the cost of
culinary water will increase. As the city expands, current culinary water
sources will become more stressed and limited during peak periods of use. The
city will continue to acquire, operate and maintain a culinary water
distribution system throughout the city and the ability of the city to
accomplish this may be negatively impacted if savings cannot be obtained
through use of secondary water for outside watering instead of treated water.
Usage of secondary water will, over time, enable the culinary water
distribution system of the city to meet expected demands for extended periods
of time and before system replacement will be necessary. The city council
further finds that utilizing treated culinary water for outside watering and
irrigation purposes is not economical. Piped, pressurized secondary water
systems will inure to the benefit of the citizens of Farmington City by
reducing water loss through seepage, reducing disturbance to property by reason
of loss through seepage, reducing disturbance to property by reason of
flooding, promoting the welfare and safety of the residents of the city,
including children, by eventually eliminating open irrigation ditches which
will also conserve water resources and enhance the beauty of the city. At the
present time, the Farmington area pressurized irrigation district and the Weber
Basin water conservancy district each own and operate their respective
secondary water systems within the city. The city reserves the right to
hereafter acquire and/or operate a secondary water system within the city. The
city council further finds that it is reasonable and desirable that developers
of new subdivisions and owners of residential and nonresidential building sites
developed in Farmington City be required to install secondary water system
facilities within the boundaries of the subdivision or building site in order
to ensure that future secondary water service will be available to such
properties and subdivisions and to purchase and/or contract for water, shares
or full allotments as necessary to provide secondary water to the local system.
(Ord. 2004-12, 2-18-2004)
9-3-020: DEFINITIONS:
BUILDING SITE: Any lot or parcel of real property located in the city on which
any building is or will be built.
CITY: Farmington City.
COMPANY: The Farmington area pressurized irrigation district or the Weber Basin
water conservancy district.
LOCAL SYSTEMS: Refers to any pipes or systems of pipes installed for the
purpose of serving any subdivision and/or building sites located within the
city which are under private ownership.
MASTER PLAN: The master plan of any secondary water systems operating within
Farmington City for the purpose of providing secondary water service to all or
a portion of the building sites located within the city.
SECONDARY WATER: Water which is suitable for irrigation and other nonculinary
purposes not in violation of any applicable statutes, ordinances or other law
rules and regulations.
SECONDARY WATER SYSTEM: Includes the pipes, meters, valves, reservoirs, tanks,
wells, springs, sources, shares of irrigation water, and all other property,
facilities and equipment owned by a company providing a source of water and
through which such water flows for the purpose of providing secondary water for
irrigation and other nonculinary purposes throughout the city.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person or entity who divides a tract of land into two (2) or
more parcels for sale or use as residential or nonresidential property.
SUBDIVISION: A tract of land divided by a subdivider into any lots or tracts or
real property on which any building is or will be built.
USER: Any person or entity who utilizes secondary water for any purpose within
the city. (Ord. 2004-12, 2-18-2004)
9-3-030: MASTER PLANS:
The master plans and related maps and specifications for each secondary water
system operating with the city shall be filed with the city engineer by the
company operating that system, and shall be updated not less than annually to
outline each company's secondary water distribution system located within the
city. (Ord. 2004-12, 2-18-2004)
9-3-040: NEW DEVELOPMENT:
All new subdivisions and building sites which have not received preliminary
plat approval prior to the effective date hereof shall install piping and
related facilities within the subdivision or building site(s) required to
provide a secondary water local system for the subdivision or building site(s)
and shall purchase and/or contract for water, shares or full allotments as
necessary to provide secondary water to the local system. (Ord. 2004-12, 2-18-
2004)
9-3-050: APPROVAL:
No subdivision or building site shall be approved or considered for final
approval and no building permits shall be issued and no other approval or
permit shall be issued by the city for any subdivision, building site or
development unless the subdivision, building site or development includes a
satisfactory local system of secondary water and the related facilities
required within the subdivision, building site or development to deliver
secondary water to each lot or parcel. The developer or owner shall be required
to connect to a company's secondary water system when the system is available
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the property and to purchase and/or
contract for water, shares or full allotments as necessary to provide secondary
water to the local system. (Ord. 2004-12, 2-18-2004)
9-3-060: OPERATION:
The city shall have no obligation to operate and maintain any secondary water
facilities located upon private parcels of real property or within subdivisions
within the city unless the city assumes such obligation by ordinance. Any
secondary water systems operated within the city by a company or others shall
be operated in such a manner so as to provide secondary water to the users at
economical rates and in a reasonable manner. (Ord. 2004-12, 2-18-2004)
9-3-070: EXISTING SUBDIVISIONS WITHOUT SECONDARY WATER:
In cases where a local system has not been installed within an existing
subdivision or building site, a majority of the property owners within such
subdivision or building site may request a company to install a local system
within the subdivision on terms and conditions mutually agreeable to the
property owners and that company. (Ord. 2004-12, 2-18-2004)
9-3-080: MAINTENANCE:
Any secondary water distribution system within the city shall be maintained by
the owner of that system in a safe and efficient manner. The lot or parcel
owner shall maintain all secondary water facilities located on the owner's lot
or parcel. Any fees charged for secondary water shall be reasonable. The city
shall have no obligation to maintain any secondary water systems or facilities.
(Ord. 2004-12, 2-18-2004)
9-3-090: UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to directly or indirectly connect
to or alter a company's secondary water system or any part thereof without the
prior authorization being first obtained from the company owning the secondary
water system. (Ord. 2004-12, 2-18-2004)
9-3-100: TAMPERING WITH SECONDARY WATER SYSTEMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, modify or alter any
secondary water distribution system located within the city without the prior
consent of the owner thereof. Violations of this section shall be a class B
misdemeanor, punishable by fine, imprisonment or both as prescribed by the
applicable statutes of the state of Utah. (Ord. 2004-12, 2-18-2004)
9-3-110: APPEAL:
Any person or entity purporting to be unfairly dealt with, suffering any
hardship, or otherwise aggrieved by the provisions of this chapter may file a
written notice of appeal with the city recorder within ten (10) calendar days
from the date of the decision. The appeal shall be conducted in accordance with
chapter
3-7 of this code. (Ord. 2004-12, 2-18-2004; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
CHAPTER 4
FRANCHISE FOR RIGHT-OF-WAY
SECTION:
9-4-010: Definitions
9-4-020: Declaration Of Finding And Intent
9-4-030: Scope Of Chapter
9-4-040: Excluded Activity
9-4-050: Franchise Required
9-4-060: Compensation And Other Payments
9-4-070: Franchise Applications
9-4-080: Construction And Technical Requirements
9-4-090: Franchise, License, Transfer Or Sale
9-4-100: Oversight And Regulation
9-4-110: Rights Of City
9-4-120: Obligation To Notify
9-4-130: General Provisions
9-4-140: Federal, State And City Jurisdiction
9-4-010: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense may include the future tense, words in the single number may
include the plural number, words in the plural number may include the singular.
The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is permissive. Words not
defined shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
APPLICATION: Means the process by which a provider submits a request and
indicates a desire to be granted a franchise to utilize the rights-of-way of
all, or a part, of the City. An application includes all written documentation,
verbal statements and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by a
provider to the City concerning: the construction of a Utility System over,
under, on or through the rights-of-way; the utility services proposed to be
provided in the City by a provider; and any other matter pertaining to a
proposed system or service.
CITY: Means Farmington City, Utah.
COMPLETION DATE: Means the date that a provider begins providing services to
customers in the City.
CONSTRUCTION COSTS: Means all costs of constructing a system, including make
ready costs, other than engineering fees, attorneys or accountants fees, or
other consulting fees.
CONTROL OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Means actual working control in whatever
manner exercised, including, without limitation, working control through
ownership, management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may
be, of the system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence
of control or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership,
directly or indirectly, by any person, or group of persons acting in concert,
of more than twenty five percent (25%) of any provider (which person or group
of persons is hereinafter referred to as "controlling person"). "Control" or
"controlling interest" as used herein may be held simultaneously by more than
one person or group of persons.
FCC: Means the Federal Communications Commission, or any successor thereto.
FRANCHISE: Means the rights and obligation extended by the City to a provider
to own, lease, construct, maintain, use or operate a system in the rights-of-
way within the boundaries of the City. Any such authorization, in whatever form
granted, shall not mean or include:
   A.   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the City required by the
ordinances and laws of the City;
   B.   Any other permit, agreement or authorization required in connection
with operations on rights- of-way or public property including, without
limitation, permits and agreements for placing devices on or in poles, conduits
or other structures, whether owned by the City or a private entity, or for
excavating or performing other work in or along the rights-of-way.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: Means a contract entered into in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter between the City and a franchisee that sets forth,
subject to this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will
be exercised.
GROSS REVENUE: Includes all revenues of a provider that may be included as
gross revenue within the meaning of chapter 26, title 11 Utah Code Annotated,
1953, as amended.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Means a person providing to another, for the purpose
of providing utility services to customers, all or part of the necessary system
which uses the rights-of-way.
OPEN VIDEO SERVICE: Means any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights-of-way, by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an Open Video System pursuant to sections 651, et seq., of the
Telecommunications Act (to be codified at 47 USC title VI, part V), regardless
of the system used.
OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM: Means the system of cables, wires, lines, towers, wave
guides, optic fiber, microwave, laser beams, and any associated converters,
equipment, or facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing,
receiving, amplifying or distributing open video services to or from
subscribers or locations within the City.
OPERATOR: Means any person who provides service over a Utility System and
directly or through one or more persons who owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
ORDINANCE: Means this chapter concerning the granting of franchises in and by
the City for the construction, ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a
Utility System.
PSC: Means the Public Service Commission, or any successor hereto.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint
stock company, trust, or any other legal entity, but not the City.
PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES FACILITIES: Has the same meaning as provided in
section 704 of the Telecommunications Act (47 USC 332(c)(7)(c)), which includes
what is commonly known as cellular and PCS services that do not install any
system or portion of a system in the rights-of-way.
PROVIDER: Means an operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, or system
lessee.
RESELLER: Refers to any person that provides local exchange service over a
system for which a separate charge is made, where that person does not own or
lease the underlying system used for the transmission.
RIGHTS-OF-WAY: Means the surface of and the space above and below any public
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way of any type whatsoever, now or
hereafter existing as such within the City, but shall not include City electric
utility easements and rights-of-way until a separate joint facilities (pole
attachment) agreement is entered into by the City and provider. City and other
utility providers have or may have easements and rights-of- way that may be
prescriptive in nature. Nothing in this chapter or in any franchise agreement
shall "surcharge the easement or right-of-way", or be implied to in any way
grant or extend the permission or right to use an easement or right-of-way
beyond those rights the City and other utility providers have acquired.
Easements and rights-of-way may also be subject to third party, prior, or
after-acquired interests and each franchise applicant and provider shall be
responsible to examine each individual easement and right-of-way and the legal
arrangement between the City or other utility providers and adjacent property
owners before using the easement or right-of-way. The City shall have no duty
or obligation to defend any interest in any easement or right-of-way and
providers shall remain solely responsible to make any necessary legal
arrangements required as a result of other persons claiming an interest in the
City or other utility providers easements or right-of-way.
SIGNAL: Means any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light or
laser or radio frequency energy or optical information in either analog or
digital format.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion
of a system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Means the transmission, between or among points specified
by the user, of information of the user's choosing (e.g., data, video, and
voice), without change in the form or content of the information sent and
received.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE OR SERVICES: Means any telecommunications services
provided by a provider within the City that the provider is authorized to
provide under Federal, State and local law, and any equipment and/or facilities
required for and integrated with the services provided within the City, except
that these terms do not include "cable service" as defined in the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended by the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992 (47 USC section 521, et seq.), and the
Telecommunications Act of 1996. Telecommunications System or systems also
includes an Open Video System.
UTILITY: Means any private company or association which provides a service and/
or product for the convenience and/or necessity of the public for a fee.
Utility shall include but not be limited to telecommunications, fiber and
broadband internet and internet protocol television providers. A governmental
entity is not a utility for purposes of this chapter.
UTILITY SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: Means all conduits, pipes, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased, or used by a provider, located in the rights-of-
way and utilized in the provision of services, including fully digital or
analog, voice, data and video imaging and other enhanced telecommunications
services. Telecommunications system or systems also includes an Open Video
System.
WIRE: Means fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable, or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
(Ord. 2018-44, 11-13-2018)
9-4-020: DECLARATION OF FINDING AND INTENT:
   A.   Findings Regarding Rights-Of-Way: The City Council of Farmington City,
Utah, finds that the rights-of-way within Farmington City (hereinafter "City"):
      1.   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in
the business and social life of the City;
      2.   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
      3.   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and other
public service entities delivering utility and public services rendered for
profit, to the enhancement of the health, welfare, and general economic well-
being of the City and its citizens; and
      4.   Are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and
negative effects upon the public from such facilities' construction, placement,
relocation, and maintenance in the rights-of-way.
   B.   Finding Regarding Compensation: The City finds that the City should
receive fair and reasonable compensation for use of the rights-of-way.
   C.   Finding Regarding Local Concern: The City finds that while Utility
Systems are in part an extension of interstate commerce, their operations also
involve rights-of-way, Municipal franchising, and vital business and community
service, which are of local concern.
   D.   Finding Regarding Promotion Of Utility Services: The City finds that it
is in the best interests of its taxpayers and citizens to promote the rapid
development of utility services, including those utilizing emerging technology,
on a nondiscrimination basis, responsive to community and public interest, and
to assure availability for Municipal, educational and community services.
   E.   Findings Regarding Franchise Standards: The City finds that it is in
the interests of the public to franchise and to establish standards for
franchising providers in a manner that:
      1.   Fairly and reasonably compensates the City on a competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory basis as provided herein;
      2.   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under
which providers may use the rights-of-way to serve the public;
      3.   Fully protects the public interests and the City from any harm that
may flow from such commercial use of rights-of-way;
      4.   Protects the police powers and rights-of-way management authority of
the City, in a manner consistent with Federal and State law;
      5.   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and use
of the City infrastructure;
      6.   Protects the public's investment in improvements in the rights-of-
way; and
      7.   Ensures that no barriers to entry of telecommunications providers
are created and that such franchising is accomplished in a manner that does not
prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting telecommunication services, within
the meaning of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 ("Act") (United States P.L.
No. 96 - 104).
   F.   Power To Manage Rights-Of-Way: The City adopts this chapter pursuant to
its power to manage the rights-of-way, pursuant to common law, the Utah
Constitution and statutory authority, and receive fair and reasonable,
compensation for the use of rights- of-way by providers as expressly set forth
by section 253 of the Act. (Ord. 2018-44, 11-13-2018)
9-4-030: SCOPE OF CHAPTER:
This chapter shall provide the basic local scheme for providers of utility
services and systems that require the use of the rights-of-way, including
providers of both the system and service, those providers of the system only,
and those providers who do not build the system but who only provide services.
This chapter shall apply to all future providers and to all providers in the
City prior to the effective date of this chapter, whether operating with or
without a franchise as set forth herein. (Ord. 2018-44, 11-13-2018)
9-4-040: EXCLUDED ACTIVITY:
   A.   Provisions Applicable To Excluded Providers: Providers excused by other
law that prohibits the City from requiring a franchise shall not be required to
obtain a franchise, but all of the requirements imposed by this chapter through
the exercise of the City's police power and not preempted by other law shall be
applicable.
   B.   Interconnection Of Facilities Owned By Single Business: The requirement
of obtaining a telecommunications franchise shall not apply to a business that
only desires to cross or use City rights-of-way to interconnect its own
facilities, wholly located within City limits, if the City Manager finds:
      1.   That the business will use City rights-of-way only to interconnect
its own facilities; and
      2.   The entity agrees to enter into a written license agreement with the
City wherein the entity agrees to:
         a.   Assume all costs (including City oversight and inspection costs)
associated with construction and maintenance of the facilities, including all
costs associated with the complete restoration of the City right-of-way after
construction (or removal) of the facilities in the City right-of-way;
         b.   Assume all liability arising from the construction, installation,
maintenance, repair, use, operation, and/or removal of the facilities and
indemnify, defend and hold City harmless from any such liability; and
         c.   Pay a reasonable license fee for use of right-of-way based on
comparable revenues received by the City from its franchisees.
   C.   City Facilities Or Poles: Nothing herein shall give the entity the
right to use City facilities or poles, the use of which shall be governed by
the license agreement. (Ord. 2018-44, 11-13-2018)
9-4-050: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
   A.   Nonexclusive Franchise: The City is empowered and authorized to issue
nonexclusive franchises governing the installation, construction, and
maintenance of systems in the City's rights-of- way, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The franchise is granted through a Franchise
Agreement entered into between the City and provider.
   B.   Every Provider Must Obtain A Franchise: Except to the extent preempted
by Federal or State law, as ultimately interpreted by a court of competent
jurisdiction, including any appeals, every provider must obtain a franchise
prior to constructing a Utility System or providing utility services using the
rights-of-way, and every provider must obtain a franchise before constructing
an Open Video System or providing open video services via an Open Video System.
Any Open Video System or service shall be subject to the customer service and
consumer protection provisions applicable to the cable TV companies to the
extent the City is not preempted or permitted as ultimately interpreted by a
court of competent jurisdiction, including any appeals. The fact that
particular Utility Systems may be used for multiple purposes does not obviate
the need to obtain a franchise for other purposes. By way of illustration and
not limitation, a cable operator of a cable system must obtain a cable
franchise, and, should it intend to provide telecommunications services over
the same system, must also obtain a telecommunications franchise.
   C.   Nature Of Grant: A franchise shall not convey title, equitable or
legal, in the rights-of-way. A franchise is only the right to occupy rights-of-
way on a nonexclusive basis for the limited purposes and for the limited period
stated in the franchise; the right may not be subdivided, assigned, or
subleased. A franchise does not excuse a provider from obtaining appropriate
access or pole attachment agreements before collocating its system on the
property of others, including the City's property. This section shall not be
construed to prohibit a provider from leasing conduit to another provider, so
long as the lessee has obtained a franchise.
   D.   Current Providers: Except to the extent exempted by Federal or State
law, any provider acting without a franchise on the effective date of this
chapter shall request issuance of a franchise from the City within ninety (90)
days of the effective date of this chapter. If such request is made, the
provider may continue providing service during the course of negotiations. If a
timely request is not made, or if negotiations cease and a franchise is not
granted, the provider shall comply with the provisions of the City's excavation
permit ordinance. If a provider has previously entered into a
telecommunications franchise agreement with City the term of which has not
expired, the provider may continue to operate under the existing franchise
agreement until the term of the franchise agreement expires or may negotiate a
new franchise agreement with City.
   E.   Nature Of Franchise: The franchise granted by the City under the
provisions of this chapter shall be a nonexclusive franchise providing the
right and consent to install, repair, maintain, remove and replace its system
on, over and under the rights-of- way in order to provide services.
   F.   Regulatory Approval Needed: Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise, a provider shall obtain any and all regulatory
approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for the offering or provision of
such services from the appropriate Federal, State and local authorities, if
required, and shall submit to the City upon the written request of the City
evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses.
   G.   Term: No franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall have a term of
less than five (5) years or greater than fifteen (15) years. Each franchise
shall be granted in a nondiscriminatory manner. (Ord. 2018-44, 11-13-2018)
9-4-060: COMPENSATION AND OTHER PAYMENTS:
   A.   Compensation: As fair and reasonable compensation for any franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter, a provider shall have the following
obligations:
      1.   Application Fee: In order to offset the cost to the City to review
an application for a franchise and in addition to all other fees, permits or
charges, a provider shall pay to the City, at the time of application, a non-
refundable application fee as shown on the consolidated fee schedule adopted by
the City Council.
      2.   Franchise Fees: The franchise fee, if any, shall be set forth in the
Franchise Agreement. The obligation to pay a franchise fee shall commence on
the completion date. The franchise fee is offset by any business license fee or
Business License Tax enacted by the City.
      3.   Excavation Permits: The provider shall also pay fees required for an
excavation permit as provided in the City's excavation permit ordinance.
   B.   Timing: Unless otherwise agreed to in the Franchise Agreement, all
franchise fees shall be paid on a monthly basis within forty five (45) days of
the close of each calendar month.
   C.   Fee Statement And Certification: Unless a Franchise Agreement provides
otherwise, each fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement showing the
manner in which the fee was calculated and shall be certified as to its
accuracy.
   D.   Future Costs: A provider shall pay to the City or to third parties, at
the direction of the City, an amount equal to the reasonable costs and
reasonable expenses that the City incurs for the services of third parties
(including but not limited to attorneys and other consultants) in connection
with any renewal or provider-initiated renegotiation, or amendment of this
chapter or a franchise, provided, however, that the parties shall agree upon a
reasonable financial cap at the outset of negotiations. In the event the
parties are unable to agree, the parties may submit the issue to arbitration in
accordance with the rules and procedures of the American Arbitration
Association.
   E.   Taxes And Assessments: To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities, other than the City on the use of the City
property as a result of a provider's use or occupation of the rights-of-way,
the provider shall be responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such
taxes, payable annually unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such
payments shall be in addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this
chapter.
   F.   Interest On Late Payments: In the event that any payment is not
actually received by the City on or before the applicable date fixed in the
franchise, interest thereon shall accrue from such date until received at the
rate charged for delinquent State taxes.
   G.   No Accord And Satisfaction: No acceptance by the City of any fee shall
be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount,
nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed as a release of any
claim the City may have for additional sums payable.
   H.   Not In Lieu Of Other Taxes Or Fees: The fee payment is not a payment in
lieu of any tax, fee or other assessment except as specifically provided in
this chapter, or as required by applicable law. By way of example, and not
limitation, excavation permit fees and fees to obtain space on the City owned
poles are not waived and remain applicable.
   I.   Continuing Obligation And Holdover: In the event a provider continues
to operate all or any part of the system after the term of the franchise, such
operator shall continue to comply with all applicable provisions of this
chapter and the franchise, including, without limitation, all compensation and
other payment provisions throughout the period of such continued operation,
provided that any such continued operation shall in no way be construed as a
renewal or other extension of the franchise, nor as a limitation on the
remedies, if any, available to the City as a result of such continued operation
after the term, including, but not limited to, damages and restitution.
   J.   Costs Of Publication: A provider shall assume any publication costs
associated with its franchise that may be required by law. (Ord. 2018-44, 11-
13-2018)
9-4-070: FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Franchise Application: To obtain a franchise to construct, own,
maintain or provide services through any system within the City, to obtain a
renewal of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter or to obtain the City
approval of a transfer of a franchise, as provided in section
9-4-090 of this chapter, granted pursuant to this chapter, an application must
be filed with City on the form approved by the City Council. The application
form may be changed by the City Manager so long as such changes request
information that is consistent with this chapter. Such application form, as
amended, is incorporated by reference.
   B.   Application Criteria: In making a determination as to an application
filed pursuant to this chapter, the City may, but shall not be limited to,
request the following from the provider:
      1.   A copy of the order from the PSC granting a Certificate of
Convenience and Necessity.
      2.   Certification of the provider's financial ability to compensate the
City for provider's intrusion, maintenance and use of the rights-of-way during
the franchise term proposed by the provider.
      3.   Provider's agreement to comply with the requirements of section
9-4-080 of this chapter.
      4.   Prior to using any City electrical utility right-of-way and/or
making any attachments to poles, the willingness to enter into a joint
facilities use agreement (pole attachment agreement) with the City. Any costs
associated with any work to be done by the Power and Public Works Department to
provide space on City owned poles shall be borne by the provider.
   C.   Franchise Determination: The City, in its discretion, shall determine
the award of any franchise on the basis of these and other considerations
relevant to the use of the rights-of-way, without competitive bidding. (Ord.
2018-44, 11-13-2018)
9-4-080: CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirement: No provider shall receive a franchise unless it
agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this section governing
construction and technical requirements for its system, in addition to any
other reasonable requirements or procedures specified by the City or the
franchise, including requirements regarding locating and sharing in the cost of
locating portions of the system with other systems or with City utilities. A
provider shall obtain an excavation permit, pursuant to the excavation
ordinance, before commencing any work in the rights-of-way.
   B.   Quality: All work involved in the construction, maintenance, repair,
upgrade and removal of the system shall be performed in a safe, thorough and
reliable manner using materials of good and durable quality. If, at any time,
it is determined by the FCC or any other agency granted authority by State or
Federal law or the FCC to make such determination, that any part of the system,
including, without limitation, any means used to distribute signals over or
within the system, is harmful to the public health, safety or welfare, or
quality of service or reliability, then a provider shall, at its own cost and
expense, promptly correct all such conditions.
   C.   Licenses And Permits: A provider shall have the sole responsibility for
diligently obtaining, at its own cost and expense, all permits, licenses or
other forms of approval or authorization necessary to construct, maintain,
upgrade or repair the system, including but not limited to any necessary
approvals from persons and/or the City to use private property, easements,
poles and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit, license,
approval or authorization, including but not limited to excavation permits,
pole attachment agreements, etc., prior to the commencement of the activity for
which the permit, license, approval or authorization is required.
   D.   Relocation Of The System:
      1.   New Grades Or Lines: If the grades or lines of any rights-of- way
are changed at any time in a manner affecting the system, then a provider shall
comply with the requirements of the excavation ordinance.
      2.   The City Authority To Move System In Case Of An Emergency: The City
may, at any time, in case of fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined
by the City in its reasonable discretion, cut or move any parts of the system
and appurtenances on, over or under the rights-of-way of the City, in which
event the City shall not be liable therefor to a provider. The City shall
notify a provider in writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon
as possible and in no case later than the next business day following any
action taken under this section. Notice shall be given as provided in
subsection 9-4-130D of this chapter.
      3.   A Provider Required To Temporarily Move System For Third Party: A
provider shall, upon prior reasonable written notice by the City or any person
holding a permit to move any structure, and within the time that is reasonable
under the circumstances, temporarily move any part of its system to permit the
moving of said structure. A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any
person other than the City for any such movement of its systems.
      4.   Rights-Of-Way Change; Obligation To Move System: When the City is
changing a rights-of-way and makes a written request, a provider is required to
move or remove its system from the rights-of-way, without cost to the City, to
the extent provided in the excavation ordinance. This obligation does not apply
to systems originally located on private property pursuant to a private
easement, which property was later incorporated into the rights-of-way, if that
private easement grants a superior vested right. This obligation exists whether
or not the provider has obtained an excavation permit.
   E.   Protect Structures: In connection with the construction, maintenance,
repair, upgrade or removal of the system, a provider shall, at its own cost and
expense, protect any and all existing structures belonging to the City and all
designated landmarks, as well as all other structures within any designated
landmark district. A provider shall obtain the prior written consent of the
City to alter any water main, power facility, sewerage or drainage system, or
any other Municipal structure on, over or under the rights-of-way of the City
required because of the presence of the system. Any such alteration shall be
made by the City or its designee on a reimbursable basis. A provider agrees
that it shall be liable for the costs incurred by the City to replace or repair
and restore to its prior condition in a manner as may be reasonably specified
by the City, any Municipal structure or any other rights-of-way of the City
involved in the construction, maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the
system that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of any work thereon by
or on behalf of a provider pursuant to the franchise.
   F.   No Obstruction: In connection with the construction, maintenance,
upgrade, repair or removal of the system, a provider shall not unreasonably
obstruct the rights-of-way of fixed guide way systems, railways, passenger
travel, or other traffic to, from or within the City without the prior consent
of the appropriate authorities.
   G.   Safety Precautions: A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and Utah OSHA. A provider shall comply
with all applicable Federal, State and local requirements including but not
limited to the National Electrical Safety Code.
   H.   Repair By City: After written reasonable notice to the provider,
unless, in the sole determination of the City, an imminent danger exists, any
rights-of-way within the City which are disturbed or damaged during the
construction, maintenance or reconstruction by a provider of its system may be
repaired by the City at the provider's expense, to a condition as good as that
prevailing before such work was commenced. Upon doing so, the City shall submit
to such a provider an itemized statement of the cost for repairing and
restoring the rights-of-way intruded upon. The provider shall, within thirty
(30) days after receipt of the statement, pay to the City the entire amount
thereof.
   I.   System Maintenance: A provider shall:
      1.   Install and maintain all parts of its system in a non- dangerous
condition throughout the entire period of its franchise.
      2.   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the National
Electrical Safety Code and all other applicable Federal, State and local laws
or regulations.
      3.   At all reasonable times, permit examination by any duly authorized
representative of the City of the system and its effect on the rights-of-way.
   J.   Trimming Of Trees: A provider shall have the authority to trim trees,
in accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and easement
restrictions, upon and hanging over rights-of-way so as to prevent the branches
of such trees from coming in contact with its system.
   K.   Location To Minimize Interference: All lines, poles, towers, pipes,
conduits, equipment, property, structures, and assets of the provider shall be
located so as to cause minimum interference with the use of streets, alleys,
rights-of-way, and public property by others and shall cause minimum
interference with the rights of owners of property that abuts any of said
streets, alleys, rights-of-way, or public property.
   L.   Repair Of Damage By Provider: If during the course of work on its
facilities, the provider causes damage to or alters any street, alley, right-
of-way, sidewalk, utility, public improvement, or other public or private
property, the provider (at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by
the City) shall promptly and completely replace and restore such street, alley,
right-of-way, sidewalk, utility, public improvement or other public or private
property in accordance with applicable City ordinances, policies, and
regulations relating to repair work of similar character to the reasonable
satisfaction of the City. Except in case of emergency, the provider, prior to
commencing work in the public way, street, or public property, shall make
application for a permit to perform such work from the City Engineer or other
department or division designated by the City. Such permit shall not be
unreasonably withheld. The provider shall abide by all reasonable regulations
and requirements of the City for such work.
   M.   Restoring Landscaping: In constructing and installing its system, the
provider shall restore landscaping and the general appearance of any property
located within the City in a manner consistent with the surrounding properties.
Such obligation to repair and restore the appearance of property shall include,
but not be limited to, the landscaping of front yards and parkways in
residential zones; the reinstallation of curb, gutter, sidewalk, and parkway
landscaping in those areas where similar improvements have been or are being
installed on contiguous properties; and the screening of provider's facilities
directly abutting a public street or abutting residential property with
appropriate landscaping or screening material as required by the City's
Planning Commission.
   N.   Guarantee Of Repairs: For a period of one year following the completion
of the repair work performed pursuant to subsection L of this section, the
company shall maintain, repair, and keep in good condition those portions of
said streets, alleys, rights-of- way, or public property restored, repaired, or
replaced to the satisfaction of the City. (Ord. 2018-44, 11-13-2018)
9-4-090: FRANCHISE, LICENSE, TRANSFER OR SALE:
   A.   Notification Of Sale:
      1.   Notification And Election: When a provider is the subject of a sale,
transfer, lease, assignment, sublease or disposed of, in whole or in part,
either by forced or involuntary sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation or
otherwise, such that it or its successor entity is obligated to inform or seek
the approval of the PSC, the provider or its successor entity shall promptly
notify the City of the nature of the transaction. The notification shall
include either:
         a.   The successor entity's certification that the successor entity
unequivocally agrees to all of the terms of the original provider's franchise
agreement, or
         b.   The successor entity's application in compliance with section
9-4-070 of this chapter.
      2.   Transfer Of Franchise: Upon receipt of a notification and
certification in accordance with subsection A1a of this section, the City
designee, as provided in subsection 9-4-110A1 of this chapter, shall send
notice affirming the transfer of the franchise to the successor entity. If the
City has good cause to believe that the successor entity may not comply with
this chapter or the franchise agreement, it may require an application for the
transfer. The application shall comply with section
9-4-070 of this chapter.
      3.   If PSC Approval No Longer Required: If the PSC no longer exists, or
if its regulations or State law no longer require approval of transactions
described in section
9-4-070 of this chapter and the City has good cause to believe that the
successor entity may not comply with this chapter or the franchise agreement,
it may require an application. The application shall comply with section
9-4-070 of this chapter.
   B.   Events Of Sale: The following events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of the franchise requiring compliance with this
section:
      1.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of a
provider's assets to another person;
      2.   The sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in a provider by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members or other equity owners so as to
create a new controlling interest in a provider;
      3.   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership, membership
or other equity interest by a provider so as to create a new controlling
interest in such a provider; or
      4.   The entry by a provider into an agreement with respect to the
management or operation of such provider or its system. (Ord. 2018-44, 11-13-
2018)
9-4-100: OVERSIGHT AND REGULATION:
   A.   Insurance, Indemnity, And Security: Prior to the execution of a
franchise, a provider will deposit with the City an irrevocable, unconditional
letter of credit or surety bond as required by the terms of the franchise, and
shall obtain and provide proof of the insurance coverage required by the
franchise. A provider shall also indemnify the City as set forth in the
franchise.
   B.   Oversight: The City shall have the right to oversee, regulate and
inspect periodically the construction, maintenance, and upgrade of the system,
and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the franchise and
applicable law. A provider shall establish and maintain managerial and
operational records, standards, procedures and controls to enable a provider to
prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the City at all times
throughout the term, that a provider is in compliance with the franchise. A
provider shall retain such records for not less than the applicable statute of
limitations.
   C.   Maintain Records: A provider shall at all times maintain:
      1.   On file with the City, a full and complete set of plans, records and
"as-built" hard copy maps and, to the extent the maps are placed in an
electronic format, they shall be made in electronic format compatible with the
City's existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations and the
types of equipment and systems installed or constructed in the rights-of- way,
properly identified and described as to the types of equipment and facility by
appropriate symbols and marks which shall include annotations of all rights-of-
way where work will be undertaken. As used herein, "as-built" maps include
"file construction prints". Maps shall be drawn to scale. "As-built" maps,
including the compatible electronic format, as provided above, shall be
submitted within thirty (30) days of completion of work or within thirty (30)
days after completion of modification and repairs. "As-built" maps are not
required of the provider who is the incumbent local exchange carrier for the
existing system to the extent they do not exist.
      2.   Throughout the term of the franchise, a provider shall maintain
complete and accurate books of account and records of the business, ownership,
and operations of a provider with respect to the system in a manner that allows
the City at all times to determine whether a provider is in compliance with the
franchise. Should the City reasonably determine that the records are not being
maintained in such a manner, a provider shall alter the manner in which the
books and/or records are maintained so that a provider comes into compliance
with this section. All financial books and records which are maintained in
accordance with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental entity that
regulates utilities in the State of Utah, and generally accepted accounting
principles shall be deemed to be acceptable under this section.
   D.   Confidentiality: If the information required to be submitted is
proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by Federal, State or local
law, upon proper request by a provider, such information shall be classified as
a protected record within the meaning of the Utah Government Records Access and
Management Act ("GRAMA"), making it available only to those who must have
access to perform their duties on behalf of the City, provided that a provider
notifies the City of, and clearly labels the information which a provider deems
to be confidential, proprietary information. Such notification and labeling
shall be the sole responsibility of the provider.
   E.   Provider's Expense: All reports and records required under this chapter
shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter or a franchise.
   F.   Right Of Inspection: For the purpose of verifying the correct amount of
the franchise fee, the books and records of the provider pertaining thereto
shall be open to inspection or audit by duly authorized representatives of the
City at all reasonable times, upon giving reasonable notice of the intention to
inspect or audit the books and records, provided that the City shall not audit
the books and records of the provider more often than annually. The provider
agrees to reimburse the City the reasonable costs of an audit if the audit
discloses that the provider has paid ninety five percent (95%) or less of the
compensation due the City for the period of such audit. In the event the
accounting rendered to the City by the provider herein is found to be
incorrect, then payment shall be made on the corrected amount within thirty
(30) calendar days of written notice, it being agreed that the City may accept
any amount offered by the provider, but the acceptance thereof by the City
shall not be deemed a settlement of such item if the amount is in dispute or is
later found to be incorrect. (Ord. 2018-44, 11-13-2018)
9-4-110: RIGHTS OF CITY:
   A.   Enforcement And Remedies:
      1.   Enforcement - City Designee: The City is responsible for enforcing
and administering this chapter, and the City or its designee, as appointed by
the City Manager, is authorized to give any notice required by law or under any
franchise agreement.
      2.   Enforcement Provision: Any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter shall contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation, and
protection of the public, consistent with the other provisions of this chapter
including, but not limited to, defining events of default, procedures for
accessing the Bond/Security Fund, and rights of termination or revocation.
   B.   Force Majeure: In the event a provider's performance of any of the
terms, conditions or obligations required by this chapter or a franchise is
prevented by a cause or event not within a provider's control, such inability
to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions shall be
imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this section, causes or events
not within the control of a provider shall include, without limitation, acts of
God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances, failure or loss of
utilities, explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural disasters such as
floods, earthquakes, landslides, and fires.
   C.   Extended Operation And Continuity Of Services:
      1.   Continuation After Expiration: Upon either expiration or revocation
of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the City shall have discretion
to permit a provider to continue to operate its system or provide services for
an extended period of time not to exceed six (6) months from the date of such
expiration or revocation. A provider shall continue to operate its system under
the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise granted pursuant to
this chapter.
      2.   Continuation By Incumbent Local Exchange Carrier: If for a
telecommunications system, the provider is the incumbent local exchange
carrier, it shall be permitted to continue to operate its system and provide
services without regard to revocation or expiration, but shall be obligated to
negotiate a renewal in good faith.
   D.   Removal Or Abandonment Of Franchise Property:
      1.   Abandoned System: In the event that:
         a.   The use of any portion of the system is discontinued for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months, and thirty (30) days after no response
to written notice from the City to the last known address of provider;
         b.   Any system has been installed in the rights-of-way without
complying with the requirements of this chapter or franchise; or
         c.   The provisions of subsection 9-4-050B of this chapter are
applicable and no franchise is granted, a provider, except the provider who is
an incumbent local exchange carrier, shall be deemed to have abandoned such
system.
      2.   Removal Of Abandoned System: The City, upon such terms as it may
impose, may give a provider written permission to abandon, without removing,
any system, or portion thereof, directly constructed, operated or maintained
under a franchise. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, a provider shall remove within a reasonable time the
abandoned system and shall restore, using prudent construction standards, any
affected rights-of-way to their former state at the time such system was
installed, so as not to impair their usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures and equipment, a provider shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights-of-way in as good
condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires,
poles or attachments. The City shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the rights-of- way cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to
and after removal. The liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this
chapter and any Security Fund provided in a franchise shall continue in full
force and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by a
provider with the terms and conditions of this section.
      3.   Transfer Of Abandoned System To City: Upon abandonment of any system
in place, a provider, if required by the City, shall submit to the City a
written instrument, satisfactory in form to the City, transferring to the City
the ownership of the abandoned system.
      4.   Removal Of Above-Ground System: At the expiration of the term for
which a franchise is granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as
provided for by this chapter, in any such case without renewal, extension or
transfer, the City shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at its
expense, all above ground portions of a system from the rights-of-way within a
reasonable period of time, which shall not be less than one hundred eighty
(180) days. If for a telecommunications system, the provider is the incumbent
local exchange carrier, it shall not be required to remove its system, but
shall negotiate a renewal in good faith.
      5.   Leaving Underground System: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
set forth in this chapter, a provider may abandon any underground system in
place so long as it does not materially interfere with the use of the rights-
of-way or with the use thereof by any public utility, cable operator or other
person. (Ord. 2018-44, 11-13-2018)
9-4-120: OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY:
Before entering onto any private property, a provider shall make a good faith
attempt to contact the property owners in advance, and describe the work to be
performed. (Ord. 2018-44, 11-13-2018)
9-4-130: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Conflicts: In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
chapter and a franchise entered pursuant to it, the provisions of this chapter
in effect at the time the franchise is entered into shall control. For
agreements entered prior to the adoption of this chapter, the agreement shall
be controlling.
   B.   Severability: If any provision of this chapter is held by any Federal,
State or local court of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid as conflicting
with any Federal or State Statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in
any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such law and all
appellate remedies with regard to the validity of the chapter provisions in
question are exhausted, such provision shall be considered a separate,
distinct, and independent part of this chapter, and such holding shall not
affect the validity and enforceability of all other provisions hereof. In the
event that such law is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise
changed, so that the provision which had been held invalid or modified is no
longer in conflict with such law the provision in question shall return to full
force and effect and shall again be binding on the City and the provider,
provided that the City shall give the provider thirty (30) days, or a longer
period of time as may be reasonably required for a provider to comply with such
a rejuvenated provision, written notice of the change before requiring
compliance with such provision.
   C.   New Developments: It shall be the policy of the City to liberally amend
this chapter, upon application of a provider, when necessary to enable the
provider to take advantage of any developments in the relevant field of utility
service and technology which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently, or economically serve itself or the public.
   D.   Notices: All notices from a provider to the City required under this
chapter or pursuant to a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be
directed to the officer as designated by the Mayor. A provider shall provide in
any application for a franchise the identity, address and phone number to
receive notices from the City. A provider shall immediately notify the City of
any change in its name, address, or telephone number.
   E.   Exercise Of Police Power: To the full extent permitted by applicable
law either now or in the future, the City reserves the right to adopt or issue
such rules, regulations, orders, or other directives that it finds necessary or
appropriate in the lawful exercise of its police powers. (Ord. 2018-44, 11-13-
2018)
9-4-140: FEDERAL, STATE AND CITY JURISDICTION:
   A.   Construction: This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent
with all applicable Federal and State Statutes.
   B.   Chapter Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all franchises
granted or renewed after the effective date of this chapter. This chapter shall
further apply, to the extent permitted by applicable Federal or State law to
all existing franchises granted prior to the effective date of this chapter and
to a provider providing services, without a franchise, prior to the effective
date of this chapter.
   C.   Other Applicable Chapters: A provider's rights are subject to the
police powers of the City to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the
health, safety and welfare of the public. A provider shall comply with all
applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the City pursuant to its
police powers. In particular, all providers shall comply with the City zoning
and other land use requirements.
   D.   City Failure To Enforce: A provider shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter by reason of any failure of the City
to enforce prompt compliance.
   E.   Construed According To Utah Law: This chapter and any franchise granted
pursuant to this chapter shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the
substantive laws of the State of Utah. (Ord. 2018-44, 11-13-2018)
CHAPTER 5
UTILITY TRANSPORTATION FUND
SECTION:
9-5-010: Intent In Creating A Transportation Utility
9-5-020: Definitions
9-5-030: Establishment Of Utility Transportation Fund
9-5-040: Billing And Collection
9-5-050: Enforcement
9-5-060: Dedication Of Funds
9-5-070: Annual Report And Tax Revenues
9-5-080: Appeals
9-5-090: Contribution Exemption
9-5-010: INTENT IN CREATING A TRANSPORTATION UTILITY:
The City Council hereby finds, determines, and declares that the public
necessity of providing maintenance, upkeep, improvement, and repair of the
City's streets and related facilities within the right-of-way requires the
establishment of a comprehensive transportation utility with the purpose and
power of undertaking such maintenance and improvements of City streets and
related facilities as may be necessary and proper, with such mandate to
include, without limitation, the following activities: patching, crack sealing,
seal coating, over-laying and other activities as are necessary in order that
local streets may be properly improved and maintained to safeguard the health,
safety and welfare of the City and its inhabitants. As part of the
establishment of this utility, a Utility Transportation Fund ("fund") is hereby
created for the purpose of providing funds for the improvement and maintenance
of Farmington City streets. Insofar as possible to do so with funds available,
and in accordance with policies adopted by the City Council, the City intends
to improve and maintain only Farmington public streets and rights-of-way and
shall not use funds for the improvement and maintenance of private streets,
rights-of-way, or easements. (Ord. 2018-09, 2-20-2018)
9-5-020: DEFINITIONS:
DWELLING: Means any building or portion thereof which is designed for use for
residential purposes, except hotels, apartment hotels, boarding houses and/or
rooming houses, tourist courts and automobile house trailers.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: Means an attached or detached building containing
three (3) or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: Means a detached building designed for the occupation
exclusively by one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: Means a detached building containing two (2) dwelling
units.
DWELLING UNIT: Means one or more rooms connected together, but structurally
divided from all other rooms in the same building and constituting a separate
independent housekeeping unit which may be used for permanent residential
occupancy by humans, with facilities for such humans to sleep, cook and eat.
NON-RESIDENTIAL: Means nonresidential land use including, but not limited to,
industrial, office, retail, commercial recreation, public, quasi-public,
hotels, for-profit education, for-profit medical facilities, or professional
services establishments and/or uses.
STREET: Means any public street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway,
viaduct, alley, or other way for the movement of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic, or a public street or way shown upon a plat, heretofore approved,
pursuant to law or approved by official action; and includes the land between
street lines, whether improved or unimproved, and may comprise pavement
shoulders, sidewalk, curb, gutter, parking areas, and other areas within the
right-of-way.
TRIP-END: Means a trip to or from an origin or destination. A trip-end is the
standard unit of measure for trip generation and can be measured as one pass by
a traffic counter. Two (2) trip- ends are involved in a simple round trip.
Round trips with multiple stops include "pass-by trips" at the destinations
between the beginning and end of the trip. (Ord. 2018-09, 2-20-2018)
9-5-030: ESTABLISHMENT OF UTILITY TRANSPORTATION FUND:
   A.   There is hereby created a Utility Transportation Fund, to be reported
as an Enterprise Fund, to be funded by a fee ("fee") assessed by the City
within the corporate limits of Farmington City. Such fee shall be established
by resolution of the Municipal Council in such amounts as deemed necessary to
provide funds to properly improve and maintain City streets. The amount of the
fee shall be adopted in the consolidated fee schedule, which may be amended as
needed by resolution of the City Council. The amount of the fee charged shall
be based upon the following land use categories and subcategories:
      1.   Residential:
         a.   Residential Class A: Single-family dwelling units.
         b.   Residential Class B: Two-family dwelling units.
         c.   Residential Class C: Multiple-family dwelling units.
      2.   Non-residential.
   B.   The fee for each land use category and subcategory shall be based on
the relative share of aggregate trips each category and subcategory generates.
Trips for residential and non-residential uses shall be based on trip-
generation rates as identified in the most recent edition of the Institute of
Transportation Engineers (ITE) Trip General Manual. (Ord. 2018-09, 2-20-2018)
9-5-040: BILLING AND COLLECTION:
The utility transportation fee shall be billed and collected with and as part
of the monthly consolidated utility bill. The person(s) responsible for payment
of the fee shall be the same person(s) responsible for payment of other City
utilities. All such bills shall be rendered monthly by the City and shall
become due and payable in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by
the City pertaining to the collection of utility fees, and the City's finance
officers shall place all such fees so collected into the fund to be deposited
and separately kept to be used only for the transportation utility purposes
provided herein. (Ord. 2018-09, 2-20-2018)
9-5-050: ENFORCEMENT:
Any charge due hereunder which is not paid when due may be recovered in an
action at law or equity by the City. In addition to any other remedies or
penalties provided by this chapter or any other ordinance of the City, failure
of any person responsible for the payment of City utilities to timely pay the
charges when due shall subject such person to discontinuance of utility
services provided by the City, consistent with City policies regarding
termination of utility services. (Ord. 2018-09, 2-20-2018)
9-5-060: DEDICATION OF FUNDS:
All funds collected by the City from this fee shall annually be paid into the
Utility Transportation Fund, which is hereby created as an established
Enterprise Fund in the City budget. Such revenues shall be used for the
purposes of the operation, equipment, improvement, and maintenance of
Farmington City streets. It shall not be required that the operations,
improvement, and maintenance expenditures from the fund specifically relate to
any particular property from which the fees were collected. (Ord. 2018-09, 2-
20-2018)
9-5-070: ANNUAL REPORT AND TAX REVENUES:
   A.   Each year during the annual budget process, the City Council shall
receive an annual report detailing the income and expenditures of the fund.
This report shall be in writing and shall be presented at a meeting of the City
Council by representatives of the Public Works Department or the Administration
Department.
   B.   In the event that any State or County legislation is enacted that
either changes the rate of a tax or enacts a new tax, the purpose of which tax
is to provide funds for the operation, improvement, or maintenance of Municipal
streets, and that results in the City receiving increased revenues dedicated to
that purpose, the City Council may hold a public hearing to consider the
question of whether the fee should be reduced to offset, either entirely or
partially, those increased revenues. Such hearing may be held as a part of the
public hearing held on the City budget, so long as this question is
specifically addressed. (Ord. 2018-09, 2-20-2018)
9-5-080: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person who disputes the amount of the fee, or disputes any
determination made by or on behalf of the City pursuant to and by the authority
of this chapter, may petition the administrative hearing officer for a hearing
on a revision or modification of such fee or determination. Such petitions may
be filed only once in connection with any fee or determination, except upon a
showing of changed circumstances sufficient to justify the filing of such
additional petition.
   B.   Such petitions shall be in writing, filed with the city recorder within
thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the utility bill containing the
disputed charge or the date of the challenged determination. The facts and
figures shall be submitted in writing or orally at the administrative hearing.
The petitioner shall have the burden to prove that the amount of the fee is in
error. (Ord. 2018-09, 2-20-2018; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
9-5-090: CONTRIBUTION EXEMPTION:
The fee shall not be charged to any person or entity that in lieu of paying the
fee makes an advance voluntary contribution to the Utility Transportation Fund
in an amount equal to or greater than the amount of the fee imposed by this
chapter. (Ord. 2018-09, 2-20-2018)
TITLE 10
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING DIVISION
SECTION:
10-1-010: Building Division Created
10-1-020: Building Official
10-1-030: Fire Code
10-1-040: Local Amendments
10-1-050: Conformance With Other Ordinances
10-2-060: Definition
10-2-070: Later Enactments
10-1-010: BUILDING DIVISION CREATED:
Construction Code, for purposes of this Chapter, shall have the same meaning as
set forth in the State Construction Code Administration Act, as adopted and
amended by the state of Utah from time to time, and shall also refer to the
Construction Codes adopted by the City in this Chapter. (Ord. 2019-24, 8-20-
2019)
10-1-020: UNIFORM CODE ADOPTION:
Farmington City hereby adopts those certain Construction Codes, as adopted and
amended by the State of Utah pursuant to the State Construction Code
Administration Act, including all Construction Codes which may be adopted by
the State from year to year pursuant to the Act. (Ord. 2019-24, 8-20-2019)
10-1-030: FIRE CODE:
The international fire code (IFC), 2018 edition, issued by the International
Code Council, as adopted and amended by the state of Utah, including
appendices: appendix B, fire flow requirements for buildings; appendix D, fire
apparatus access roads (sections D101 through D105); appendix F, hazard
ranking; appendix I, fire protection systems-unsafe conditions; and appendix J,
emergency responder radio coverage; the National Fire Protection Association,
NFPA 96, standard for ventilation control and fire protection of commercial
cooking operations, 2008 edition, as adopted and amended by the state of Utah;
and the National Fire Protection Association, NFPA 1403, standard on live fire
training evolutions, 2007 edition, as adopted and amended by the state of Utah,
are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference as the fire code of
Farmington City. Local amendments adopted by Farmington City that are in effect
on June 30, 2013, imposing requirements relating to automatic sprinkler systems
for structures built in accordance with the IRC, shall remain in full force and
effect and are hereby grandfathered pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section
15A-5-301 of the state fire code adoption act. (Ord. 2019-24, 8-20-2019)
10-1-040: LOCAL AMENDMENTS:
The construction codes adopted herein shall include any and all local
amendments adopted by Farmington City and approved by the state in accordance
with applicable local amendment procedures. (Ord. 2019-24, 8-20-2019)
10-1-050: CONFORMANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES:
Any construction, alteration or improvement of any building or structure within
the city shall also comply with other relevant city ordinances and regulations,
including, but not limited to, subdivision, zoning and fire provisions. The
provisions of this title and the construction codes adopted herein are intended
to be interpreted and administered in conformance with such other ordinances.
Whenever a conflict exists between any provisions, the more restrictive
standard or provision shall prevail. Where there is a conflict between a
general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall
govern. (Ord. 2019-24, 8-20-2019)
10-2-060: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the phrase "as adopted and amended by the state of
Utah" shall mean the code referenced in each section of this chapter (e.g.,
international building code, national electrical code, etc.), duly adopted by
the city; and shall also mean and include any later amendments or revisions to
the code approved by the state of Utah or by the city. (Ord. 2019-24, 8-20-
2019)
10-2-070: LATER ENACTMENTS:
In the event the state of Utah adopts or enacts a more recent version of any
code referenced in this chapter or in Utah Code Annotated title 15A, that by
virtue of its adoption by the state would require an amendment to this chapter,
this chapter shall be deemed amended to adopt the newer version of the code on
the effective date thereof. (Ord. 2019-24, 8-20-2019)
CHAPTER 2
CONSTRUCTION CODES
SECTION:
10-2-010: Defined
10-2-020: Building Code
10-2-030: Residential Code
10-2-040: Plumbing Code
10-2-050: Mechanical Code
10-2-060: Fuel Gas Code
10-2-070: Electrical Code
10-2-080: Energy Conservation Code
10-2-090: Manufactured Housing Codes
10-2-100: Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings Code
10-2-110: Property Maintenance Code
10-2-112: Fire Code
10-2-114: Local Amendments
10-2-115: Conformance With Other Ordinances
10-2-116: Definition
10-2-117: Later Enactments
10-2-010: DEFINED:
The codes adopted in this chapter shall be referred to collectively as the
"Construction Codes" for Farmington City. (Ord. 2010-29, 6-15-2010, eff. 7-1-
2010)
10-2-020: BUILDING CODE:
The International Building Code (IBC), 2015 edition, issued by the
International Code Council, as adopted and amended by the State of Utah,
including appendix J, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference as
the Building Code of Farmington City. (Ord. 2016-27, 9-6-2016, eff. retroactive
to 9-1-2016)
10-2-030: RESIDENTIAL CODE:
The International Residential Code (IRC), 2015 edition, issued by the
International Code Council, as adopted and amended by the State of Utah,
including appendix E (subject to the provisions of section
10-2-090 of this chapter), is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference as the Residential Code of Farmington City. (Ord. 2016-27, 9-6-2016,
eff. retroactive to 9-1-2016)
10-2-040: PLUMBING CODE:
The International Plumbing Code (IPC), 2015 edition, issued by the
International Code Council, as adopted and amended by the State of Utah, is
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference as the Plumbing Code of
Farmington City. (Ord. 2016-27, 9-6-2016, eff. retroactive to 9-1-2016)
10-2-050: MECHANICAL CODE:
The International Mechanical Code (IMC), 2015 edition, issued by the
International Code Council, as adopted and amended by the State of Utah, is
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference as the Mechanical Code of
Farmington City. (Ord. 2016-27, 9-6-2016, eff. retroactive to 9-1-2016)
10-2-060: FUEL GAS CODE:
The International Fuel Gas Code (IFGC), 2014 edition, issued by the
International Code Council, as adopted and amended by the State of Utah, is
hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference as the Fuel Gas Code of
Farmington City. (Ord. 2016-27, 9-6-2016, eff. retroactive to 9-1-2016)
10-2-070: ELECTRICAL CODE:
The National Electrical Code (NEC), 2017 edition, issued by the National Fire
Protection Association as amended and adopted by the State of Utah, is hereby
adopted and incorporated herein by reference as the Electrical Code of
Farmington City. (Ord. 2019-06, 2-5-2019)
10-2-080: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
The International Energy Conservation Code (IECC), 2015 edition, issued by the
International Code Council, as adopted and amended by the State of Utah,
subject to Utah Code Annotated section 15A-2-102(1), the HUD Code, and subject
to Utah Code Annotated section 15A-4-103, and appendix E of the 2015 edition of
the International Residential Code, is hereby adopted and incorporated herein
by reference as the Energy Conservation Code of Farmington City. (Ord. 2016-27,
9-6-2016, eff. retroactive to 9-1-2016)
10-2-090: MANUFACTURED HOUSING CODES:
Subject to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 15A-2-104, as amended,
the following codes and standards are hereby adopted by Farmington City and
incorporated herein by reference: the federal manufactured housing construction
and safety standards act (HUD code), issued by the department of housing and
urban development and published in 24 CFR parts 3280 and 3282, as revised April
1, 1990, and as adopted by the state of Utah; appendix E of the 2015 edition of
the international residential code as adopted herein in section
10-2-030 of this chapter and adopted by the state of Utah; the 2005 edition of
the NFPA 225 model manufactured home installation standard issued by the
National Fire Protection Association, as adopted by the state of Utah. (Ord.
2016-27, 9-6-2016, eff. retroactive to 9-1-2016)
10-2-100: ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS CODE:
The uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings, 1997 edition, issued
by the International Conference Of Building Officials, is hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference as the abatement of dangerous buildings code
of Farmington City. (Ord. 2010-29, 6-15-2010, eff. 7-1-2010)
10-2-110: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The international property maintenance code, 2012 edition, as issued by the
International Conference Of Building Officials, is hereby adopted and
incorporated herein by reference as the property maintenance code of Farmington
City. (Ord. 2013-16, 7-2-2013, eff. retroactive to 7-1-2013)
10-2-112: FIRE CODE:
The international fire code (IFC), 2015 edition, issued by the International
Code Council, as adopted and amended by the state of Utah, including
appendices: appendix B, fire flow requirements for buildings; appendix D, fire
apparatus access roads (sections D101 through D105); appendix F, hazard
ranking; appendix I, fire protection systems-unsafe conditions; and appendix J,
emergency responder radio coverage; the National Fire Protection Association,
NFPA 96, standard for ventilation control and fire protection of commercial
cooking operations, 2008 edition, as adopted and amended by the state of Utah;
and the National Fire Protection Association, NFPA 1403, standard on live fire
training evolutions, 2007 edition, as adopted and amended by the state of Utah,
are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference as the fire code of
Farmington City. Local amendments adopted by Farmington City that are in effect
on June 30, 2013, imposing requirements relating to automatic sprinkler systems
for structures built in accordance with the IRC, shall remain in full force and
effect and are hereby grandfathered pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section
15A-5-301 of the state fire code adoption act. (Ord. 2016-27, 9-6-2016, eff.
retroactive to 9-1-2016; amd. 2016 Code)
10-2-114: LOCAL AMENDMENTS:
The construction codes adopted herein shall include any and all local
amendments adopted by Farmington City and approved by the state in accordance
with applicable local amendment procedures. (Ord. 2010-29, 6-15-2010, eff. 7-1-
2010)
10-2-115: CONFORMANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES:
Any construction, alteration or improvement of any building or structure within
the city shall also comply with other relevant city ordinances and regulations,
including, but not limited to, subdivision, zoning and fire provisions. The
provisions of this title and the construction codes adopted herein are intended
to be interpreted and administered in conformance with such other ordinances.
Whenever a conflict exists between any provisions, the more restrictive
standard or provision shall prevail. Where there is a conflict between a
general requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall
govern. (Ord. 2010-29, 6-15-2010, eff. 7-1-2010; amd. Ord. 2014-31, 9-2-2014)
10-2-116: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, the phrase "as adopted and amended by the state of
Utah" shall mean the code referenced in each section of this chapter (e.g.,
international building code, national electrical code, etc.), duly adopted by
the city; and shall also mean and include any later amendments or revisions to
the code approved by the state of Utah or by the city. (Ord. 2014-31, 9-2-2014)
10-2-117: LATER ENACTMENTS:
In the event the state of Utah adopts or enacts a more recent version of any
code referenced in this chapter or in Utah Code Annotated title 15A, that by
virtue of its adoption by the state would require an amendment to this chapter,
this chapter shall be deemed amended to adopt the newer version of the code on
the effective date thereof. (Ord. 2014-31, 9-2-2014)
CHAPTER 3
PERMITS
SECTION:
10-3-010: Permit Required
10-3-020: Application For Permit
10-3-030: Expiration Of Application
10-3-040: Issuance Of Permit
10-3-050: Approved Plans
10-3-060: Retention Of Plans
10-3-070: Validity Of Permit
10-3-080: Expiration Of Permit
10-3-090: Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit
10-3-100: Fees Required
10-3-110: Work Commencing Before Permit Issued
10-3-120: Fee Refunds
10-3-130: Public Improvements Required
10-3-140: Bond Required
10-3-150: Connection Of Utilities
10-3-010: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any owner or authorized agent who intends to construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, demolish or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or to erect,
install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any electrical,
gas, mechanical or plumbing system, the installation of which is regulated by
this title or the construction codes, or to cause any such work to be done,
shall first apply for and obtain the required permit from the City. (Ord. 2007-
16, 3-6-2007)
10-3-020: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
To obtain a permit, the applicant shall file a complete application on a form
furnished by the City for the purpose. Each permit application shall include
supporting construction documents, site plans, specifications, plans and data
required by the construction codes and applicable City ordinances, rules and
regulations (hereinafter "construction documents") and in accordance with
applicable provisions of section 106 (construction documents) of the
International Building Code. All permit applications shall be filed with the
Community Development Director and shall comply with the standardized building
permit forms approved by the State of Utah, in accordance with Utah Code
Annotated section 15A-1-209, as amended. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
section 15A-1-209, as amended, single-family residential building permit
applications shall also include in the application, or attached to the building
permit the following notice prominently placed in at least 14-point font:
"Decisions Relative to This Application Are Subject to Review by the Chief
Executive Officer of the Municipal Entity Issuing the Single- Family
Residential Building Permit, or His or Her Designee, and Appeal Under the
International Residential Code". The building official or Community Development
Director may require additional construction drawings, data, studies and
reports, such as, but not limited to, soils studies or geotechnical hazards
studies, when deemed necessary. (Ord. 2017-23, 9-19-2017)
10-3-030: EXPIRATION OF APPLICATION:
An application for a permit for any proposed work shall be deemed abandoned one
hundred eighty (180) days after the date of filing, unless such application has
been pursued in good faith or a permit has been issued; provided, the building
official is authorized to grant one or more extensions of time for additional
periods not to exceed ninety (90) days each. Any extension shall be requested
in writing by the applicant or authorized agent prior to the expiration of the
application and justifiable cause demonstrated. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-3-040: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Applications for permits and supporting construction documents shall be
reviewed by the building official, the Community Development Director, and any
other appropriate officials or departments, within a reasonable time after
filing. If the building official and the Community Development Director are
satisfied that the proposed work, application and construction documents
conform to the requirements of the construction codes and other pertinent laws
and ordinances, and that the fees and bonds required herein have been paid to
the City, a permit shall be issued to the applicant, signed by both the
building official and the Community Development Director. The applicant or
authorized agent shall keep the permit or copy of the permit on the site of the
work until the completion of the project. If the proposed work, application or
construction documents do not conform to the requirements of the construction
codes or pertinent laws and ordinances, the building official and/or Community
Development Director, shall reject such application in writing, stating the
reasons therefor. All building permits issued by the City shall utilize the
standardized numbering system required by the State of Utah, in accordance with
Utah Code Annotated section 15A-1-209, as amended. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007;
amd. 2016 Code)
10-3-050: APPROVED PLANS:
When the building official issues a permit, any and all applicable construction
drawings shall be approved, in writing or by stamp, as "Reviewed For Code
Compliance". Such approved construction drawings shall not be changed, modified
or altered without authorizations from the building official, and all work
regulated by the construction codes shall be done in accordance with the
approved construction documents. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-3-060: RETENTION OF PLANS:
One set of approved construction documents shall be retained by the city for a
period of not less than one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of
completion of the permitted work, and thereafter in accordance with the Utah
government records access and management act, as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 63G-2-101 et seq., as amended. One set of approved
construction documents shall be returned to the applicant and kept at the site
of work open for inspection by the building official or duly authorized
representative until the completion of the project. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007;
amd. 2016 Code)
10-3-070: VALIDITY OF PERMIT:
The issuance or granting of a permit shall not be construed to be a permit for,
or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of the construction
codes or of any other pertinent law or ordinance. Permits presuming to give
such authority to violate or cancel the provisions of the construction codes or
other pertinent law or ordinance shall not be valid. The issuance of a permit
based upon plans, specifications and other data shall not prevent the building
official or the city from thereafter requiring the correction of errors in such
documents. The building official is also authorized to prevent occupancy or use
of a structure in violation of the construction codes or any other applicable
law, ordinance, rule or regulation. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-3-080: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
Every permit issued by the city shall expire by limitation and become invalid
unless the work on the site authorized by such permit is commenced within one
hundred eighty (180) days after its issuance, or if the work authorized on the
site by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of one hundred
eighty (180) days after the time the work is commenced. The building official
is authorized to grant, in writing, one or more extensions of time, for periods
not more than one hundred eighty (180) days each. Any extension shall be
requested in writing prior to the expiration of the permit and justifiable
cause demonstrated. After expiration of a permit, a new permit must be obtained
prior to recommencing work. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-3-090: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
The building official is authorized to suspend or revoke a permit issued under
the provisions of this title and the construction codes wherever the permit is
issued in error or on the basis of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete
information, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation, or any provisions
of the construction codes. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-3-100: FEES REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided, all fees for permits shall be assessed in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by resolution of the city. A permit
shall not be issued or valid until the fees prescribed herein have been paid,
nor shall an amendment to a permit be released until the additional fees, if
any, have been paid. All applications for permit shall provide an estimated
permit value at the time of application in accordance with applicable
provisions of section 108 (fees) of the international building code. (Ord.
2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-3-110: WORK COMMENCING BEFORE PERMIT ISSUED:
Any person who commences work on a building, structure, electrical, gas,
mechanical or plumbing system before obtaining the necessary permits may be
subject to a special investigation as required by the city before a permit may
be issued for such work. An investigation fee may be collected for any such
investigation whether or not a permit is then or subsequently issued equal to
the amount of the permit fee required. In addition, any person who commences
work before obtaining the necessary permits shall be subject to additional
permit fees over and above the standard permit fees, as set forth in the fee
schedule adopted by the city. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-3-120: FEE REFUNDS:
The city may authorize the refunding of a fee paid hereunder which was
erroneously paid or collected when written request for such refund is filed by
the original permittee within one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of
fee payment. The city may authorize refunding of not more than eighty percent
(80%) of the permit fee paid when no work has been done under the permit. In
addition, the city may authorize refunding of not more than eighty percent
(80%) of the plan review fee paid when application for a permit is withdrawn or
canceled before any examination time has been expended. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-
2007)
10-3-130: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Duty To Install: Any person obtaining a permit hereunder to build or
alter any structure upon a lot which is not improved by public improvements,
such as asphalt, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and sewage, storm, flood and fire
control facilities, shall be required to install all such improvements along
the street frontage of said lot in accordance with the requirements set forth
in title 11 of this code and all construction standards, regulations and
applicable ordinances of the city. No certificate of occupancy or final
inspection shall be issued until all such required improvements are complete
and operable.
   B.   Duty To Repair: Any person obtaining a permit hereunder to build or
alter any structure upon a lot which is improved by public improvements, such
as asphalt, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and sewage, storm, flood and fire control
facilities, shall be required to repair any damage to such improvements
pursuant to the requirements set forth in title 11 of this code and in
accordance with all construction standards, regulations and applicable
ordinances of the city. No certificate of occupancy or final inspection shall
be issued until all such improvements are repaired.
   C.   Security: Applicants shall be required to enter into a bond agreement
acceptable to the city providing sufficient security to ensure installation,
completion and/or repair of public improvements required in subsections A and B
of this section, and as more particularly set forth in section
10-3-140 of this chapter.
   D.   Deferral: Prior to the issuance of a permit, the city may defer or
waive the installation of any or all required public improvements as, in its
judgment, are not requisite in the interest of public health, safety and
general welfare, or which are inappropriate because of the inadequacy or lack
of connecting facilities. Whenever it is deemed appropriate to defer the
construction of required improvements, the applicant shall pay his or her share
of the costs of such future improvements according to the reasonable estimate
of the city engineer, or may enter into an extension agreement satisfactory to
the city assuring completion of said improvements upon the demand of the city.
No permit shall be issued until the appropriate costs required herein are
deposited with the city or an extension agreement has been executed between the
parties assuring the completion of such improvements upon demand of the city.
No temporary certificate of occupancy shall be required when the appropriate
costs required herein are deposited with the city or an extension agreement has
been executed between the parties. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-3-140: BOND REQUIRED:
Prior to obtaining a permit hereunder, the applicant shall be required to enter
into a bond agreement acceptable to the city providing sufficient security to
ensure completion of the permitted work and the installation and/or repair of
public improvements required to be installed and compliance with all
construction code requirements and other applicable laws. If the public
improvements for the lot or parcel are not yet installed, the bond agreement
shall be in substantially the same form and subject to the same conditions as
set forth in section
12-6-160 of this code regarding security for public improvements within
subdivisions. In the event the applicant fails to timely and fully complete,
repair and/or replace said improvements, work or other construction code
requirements in a satisfactory manner, the city may thereafter use the funds
comprising the bond to cause the improvements, work or construction code
requirements to be completed, repaired and/or replaced. Any unexpended portion
of the bond retained by the city, less twenty percent (20%) of the total cost
to complete, repair and/or replace the improvements or work to cover overhead
and administrative costs of the city, shall be refunded to the applicant upon
timely and satisfactory completion, repair and/or replacement of said
improvements and work, and compliance with all other construction code
requirements and applicable laws. If the funds received from the bond are not
sufficient to pay the total cost of completion, repair and/or replacement of
the improvements, work and the twenty percent (20%) overhead fee, the applicant
shall be obligated to pay to the city all deficiency amounts. If the public
improvements are already installed on the lot or parcel, a bond shall be
provided for any potential damage to the installed public facilities in an
amount and form to be set by the city. The city may pursue all civil and
criminal legal remedies to ensure payment and/or reimbursement for deficiency
amounts. Permit fees and any other fees or bonds required herein shall be paid
to the city before a permit may be issued. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007; amd. 2016
Code)
10-3-150: CONNECTION OF UTILITIES:
No person shall make connections from a utility, source of energy, fuel or
power to any building or system that is regulated by this title and the
construction codes for which a permit is required until released by the
building official. The building official shall have the authority to authorize
the temporary connection of the building or system. The building official shall
have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the
building, structure or system regulated by this title or the construction codes
in case of emergency where necessary to eliminate an immediate hazard to life
or property in accordance with procedures set forth in applicable construction
codes, including, but not limited to, section 111 (service utilities) of the
international building code. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
CHAPTER 4
INSPECTIONS
SECTION:
10-4-010: Inspections Required
10-4-020: Inspection Requests
10-4-030: Duty To Keep Work Accessible And Exposed
10-4-040: Approval Required
10-4-050: Reinspection
10-4-060: Structural Observance
10-4-070: Surveys
10-4-080: Validity Of Inspection
10-4-090: Review Of Building Inspections For Single-Family Residential Permits
10-4-010: INSPECTIONS REQUIRED:
All construction or work for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the building official as specified in the construction codes.
Before issuing a permit, the building official is authorized to examine or
cause to be examined buildings, structures and sites for which an application
has been filed. The building official may also make or require other
inspections of any construction or work to ascertain compliance with the
construction codes and other pertinent laws or ordinances. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-
2007)
10-4-020: INSPECTION REQUESTS:
It shall be the duty of the holder of the permit or their duly authorized agent
to notify the building official when work is ready for inspection. Such
notification shall be provided to the building official in writing or by
telephone at least one business day before inspection is desired. (Ord. 2007-
16, 3-6-2007)
10-4-030: DUTY TO KEEP WORK ACCESSIBLE AND EXPOSED:
The permit holder shall cause the construction or work to remain accessible and
exposed for inspection purposes until approved by the building official.
Neither the building official, building inspectors, nor Farmington City shall
be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material
required to allow inspection. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-4-040: APPROVAL REQUIRED:
The building official, upon notification, shall make the requested inspection
within a reasonable time and shall either indicate that the construction, or
portion thereof, is satisfactory as completed, or notify the permit holder or
agent that the construction, or portion thereof, fails to comply with the
construction codes or pertinent laws. Any portions which do not comply shall be
corrected and such portions shall not be covered or concealed until authorized
by the building official. No construction or work shall be done beyond the
point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the
approval of the building official. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-4-050: REINSPECTION:
If reinspection is required, the applicant must present a request for
reinspection to the building official and pay any applicable reinspection fees
assessed by the city. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-4-060: STRUCTURAL OBSERVANCE:
Structural observance shall be performed as required by the construction codes.
(Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-4-070: SURVEYS:
A survey of any lot or parcel may be required by the building official to
verify that the structure is located in accordance with approved plans. (Ord.
2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-4-080: VALIDITY OF INSPECTION:
An inspection approval shall not be construed to be an approval of a violation
of any of the provisions of the construction codes or other pertinent law or
ordinance. Inspections presuming to give such authority or to cancel the
provisions of the construction codes or other pertinent law or ordinance shall
not be valid. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-4-090: REVIEW OF BUILDING INSPECTIONS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PERMITS:
   A.   Request: Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 15A-1-209, as amended,
an applicant for a single-family residential building permit from Farmington
City may request an administrative review of an inspection conducted by the
city building inspector(s) for such single-family residential building permit.
The city manager is hereby designated by the mayor as the mayor's designee to
hear and determine all requests for review of an inspection under the
provisions of this section. Any such request for review shall be in writing and
filed with the city recorder within ten (10) days from the date of the
inspection. The request for review shall specifically state the grounds for
review and how or why the inspection fails to constitute a fair administration
of the building code. The person requesting the review of an inspection under
this section shall bear the burden of proving that the inspection fails to
constitute a fair administration of the building code. Upon receipt of the
request for review, the city manager shall, with reasonable diligence, review
the inspection to determine whether the inspection constitutes a fair
administration of the building code. (Ord. 2009-19, 5-5-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Restrictions And Limitations: An inspection review, as provided herein,
is subject to the following restrictions and limitations:
      1.   An inspection review is separate and unrelated to an appeal under
the IRC;
      2.   An inspection review may not be used to review a matter that may be
brought by appeal under the IRC;
      3.   An inspection review may not result in the waiver or modification of
an IRC requirement or standard;
      4.   An inspection review may not conflict with an appeal, or the result
of an appeal, under the IRC; and
      5.   An inspection review does not prohibit a person from bringing an
appeal under the IRC.
   C.   Appeal: The applicant for an inspection review request may appeal the
city manager's determination regarding the same by filing a written appeal with
the city recorder within ten (10) days from the date of the city manager's
determination. The appeal of the request for review determination shall be on
the record and shall merely be a review to determine if the city manager erred
in his or her determination. The appeal shall specifically state the grounds
for review and how or why the city manager erred in his or her determination.
The person filing the appeal under this subsection shall bear the burden of
proving that the city manager erred in his or her determination. Upon receipt
of the appeal, the mayor shall, with reasonable diligence, review the appeal
and the record to determine whether the city manager erred in his or her
determination. The mayor's review of the appeal shall be subject to the same
restrictions and limitations as set forth in this section regarding an
inspection review. (Ord. 2009-19, 5-5-2009)
CHAPTER 5
CERTIFICATES
SECTION:
10-5-010: Certificate Required
10-5-020: Improvements And Repairs
10-5-030: Issuance Of Certificate
10-5-040: Notice Of Disapproval
10-5-050: Temporary Certificates
10-5-060: Posting Of Certificate
10-5-070: Revocation Of Certificate
10-5-080: Violation Of Certificate Requirement
10-5-090: Validity Of Certificate
10-5-010: CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
No building or structure shall be used or occupied, in whole or in part, for
any purpose, and no change in the existing occupancy classification of a
building or structure or portion thereof, shall be made until the city has
issued a final inspection certificate, certificate of occupancy or temporary
certificate of occupancy as provided herein. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-5-020: IMPROVEMENTS AND REPAIRS:
No certificate of occupancy or final inspection shall be issued for any
building or structure until all public improvements, such as asphalt, curbs,
gutters, water meter boxes and sidewalks, sewage, storm, flood and fire control
facilities, and any other required improvements, are completed and operable. If
any public or other required improvements are damaged during construction, no
certificate of occupancy or final inspection certificate shall be issued until
such improvements are repaired. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-5-030: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE:
After the building official performs the final inspection of a building or
structure and finds that all improvements have been completed or repaired as
required herein, and finds no violations of the construction codes or any other
applicable laws or ordinances, the building official shall, with the approval
from the community development director, issue a certificate of occupancy or
final inspection certificate containing such information as required by the
construction codes. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-5-040: NOTICE OF DISAPPROVAL:
After the building official performs the final inspection of a building or
structure and finds that such building or structure does not conform to the
construction codes or other pertinent laws or ordinances or that all
improvements have not been completed or repaired as required herein, the
building official, with the approval of the community development director,
shall issue a written notice of disapproval to the applicant stating the
reasons for such disapproval. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-5-050: TEMPORARY CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Generally: The building official, with the approval of the community
development director, is authorized to issue a temporary certificate of
occupancy before the completion of the entire work covered by the permit;
provided, that such portion or portions shall be occupied safely. The building
official shall set a time period during which the temporary certificate is
valid.
   B.   Limitations: No temporary certificate shall be issued for any
incomplete code requirements which would result in substantial hazard or be
injurious to the health, safety or welfare of any person.
   C.   Procedure: In order to obtain a temporary certificate, the applicant
must execute a written agreement to fully complete, repair and/or replace
improvements or work within the time prescribed, not to exceed thirty (30) days
from the date of issuance of the certificate, and pay any required fees and
bonds. A bond shall be required providing sufficient security to ensure
completion of the required work. The bond amount shall be set by the building
official based upon the work to be completed, provided, in no event, shall the
bond amount be less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   D.   Extension: An applicant holding an unexpired temporary certificate may
apply in writing for an extension of time within which work may be completed
showing that circumstances beyond the control of the applicant have prevented
action from being taken within the time required. Upon sufficient showing, and
payment by the applicant of an extension fee, the city may extend the time for
completion. Such extension shall only be permitted once and shall not exceed a
period of ninety (90) days.
   E.   Breach: In the event the applicant fails to timely and fully complete,
repair and/or replace said improvements in a satisfactory manner, the city may
thereafter use the funds comprising any bond retained to cause the improvement
to be completed, repaired and/or replaced. If the funds received from the bond
are not sufficient to pay the total cost of completion, repair and/or
replacement of the improvements and the fifteen percent (15%) overhead fee, or
if a bond was not retained, the applicant shall be obligated to pay to the city
all deficiency amounts. The city shall pursue all civil and criminal legal
remedies to ensure payment and/or reimbursement for deficiency amounts,
including, but not limited to, the lien provisions set forth in subsection G of
this section.
   F.   Compliance: Upon timely and satisfactory completion, repair and/or
replacement of said improvements, and compliance with all other construction
code provisions and applicable laws, the building official shall issue a
certificate of occupancy or final inspection certificate and release any
unexpended portion of any bond retained by the city to the applicant less
fifteen percent (15%) of the total cost to complete, repair and/or replace the
improvements to cover overhead and administrative costs of the city.
   G.   Lien: In addition to the breach provisions set forth in subsection E of
this section, in the event the terms and conditions of the temporary
certificate of occupancy are not complied with, the city may file a certificate
of noncompliance with the Davis County recorder's office constituting a lien on
the property, and/or pursue any other legal remedy available by law to ensure
the necessary completion of any and all deficiencies. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-5-060: POSTING OF CERTIFICATE:
The certificate of occupancy shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises and shall not be removed except by the building official. (Ord. 2007-
16, 3-6-2007)
10-5-070: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
The building official is authorized to, in writing, suspend or revoke any
certificate of occupancy, final inspection certificate or temporary certificate
issued under the provisions of this title and the construction codes wherever
the certificate is issued in error, on the basis of incorrect information
supplied, where conditions or requirements contained within the certificate
have not been met, or when it is determined that the building or structure or
portion thereof is in violation of any provision of the construction codes or
any other applicable law or ordinance. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-5-080: VIOLATION OF CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENT:
   A.   Use Or Occupation: Any person, firm or corporation using or occupying
any building or structure prior to obtaining a certificate of occupancy, final
inspection certificate or temporary certificate shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or
portion thereof during which any violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Permitting Use Or Occupation: Any person, firm or corporation
permitting any person to use or occupy a building or structure prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy, final inspection certificate or
temporary certificate shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and shall be
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-5-090: VALIDITY OF CERTIFICATE:
Issuance of any certificate of occupancy, final inspection certificate or
temporary certificate shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of
any of the provisions of the construction codes or other pertinent law or
ordinance. Certificates presuming to give such authority shall not be valid.
(Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
CHAPTER 6
UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10-6-010: Unsafe Buildings Or Structures
10-6-020: Abatement Of Unsafe Buildings Or Structures
10-6-010: UNSAFE BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
Buildings, structures or existing equipment that are or hereafter become
unsafe, insanitary or deficient because of inadequate means of egress
facilities, inadequate light and ventilation, or which constitute a fire
hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life or the public welfare, or that
involve illegal or improper occupancy or inadequate maintenance, shall be
deemed an unsafe condition. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-6-020: ABATEMENT OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
Unsafe buildings, structures or equipment shall be taken down and removed or
made safe, as the building official deems necessary, in accordance with
procedures set forth in the applicable construction codes, including, but not
limited to, the abatement of dangerous buildings code, the international
property maintenance code, and applicable provisions of the international
building code, as adopted by the city. (Ord. 2010-29, 6-15-2010, eff. 7-1-2010)
CHAPTER 7
VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-7-010: Enforcement Authority
10-7-020: Violation Of Construction Codes
10-7-030: Right Of Entry
10-7-040: Stop Work Order
10-7-050: Failure To Comply With Order
10-7-060: Notice Of Violation
10-7-070: Prosecution Of Violation
10-7-080: Criminal Penalties
10-7-090: Civil Penalties
10-7-100: Continuing Violation
10-7-110: Cumulative Remedies And Other Relief
10-7-010: ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
The building official is authorized to enforce the provisions of this title and
the construction codes. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-7-020: VIOLATION OF CONSTRUCTION CODES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, construct,
alter, extend, repair, move, remove, demolish or occupy any building, structure
or equipment regulated by this title and the construction codes, or cause the
same to be done, in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
this title or the construction codes. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-7-030: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of this
title or the construction codes, or where the building official has reasonable
cause to believe that there exists in a structure or upon a premises a
condition which is contrary to or in violation of this title or the
construction codes which makes the structure or premises unsafe, dangerous or
hazardous, the building official is authorized to enter the structure or
premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by
this title or the construction codes. If the structure or premises are occupied
the building official shall present his or her credentials and request entry.
If the structure or premises is unoccupied, the building official shall first
make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or
control of the structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused,
the building official shall have the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
(Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-7-040: STOP WORK ORDER:
Whenever the building official finds any work regulated by this title or the
construction codes being performed in a manner either contrary to the
provisions of this title or the construction codes or dangerous or unsafe, the
building official is authorized to issue a stop work order. The stop work order
shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property involved,
or to the owner's agent, or to the person doing the work. Upon issuance of a
stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work order
shall state the reason for the order and the conditions under which the cited
work will be permitted to resume. It shall be unlawful for any person to
continue work after having been served with a stop work order, except such work
as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or dangerous or
unsafe condition. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-7-050: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to fail to comply with
a lawful order of the building official or building inspector. (Ord. 2007-16,
3-6-2007)
10-7-060: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
The building official is authorized to serve a notice of violation or order on
the person responsible for the erection, construction, alteration, extension,
repair, moving, removal, demolition or occupancy of a building or structure in
violation of the provisions of this title or the construction codes, or in
violation of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this title
or the construction codes. Such notice or order shall direct the discontinuance
of the illegal action or condition and the abatement of the violation. (Ord.
2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-7-070: PROSECUTION OF VIOLATION:
If the notice of violation or order as provided in section
10-7-060 of this chapter is not complied with promptly, the building official
is authorized to request the city prosecutor to institute the appropriate
proceeding at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or
to require the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the building
or structure in violation of the provisions of this title or the construction
codes, or of the notice, order or direction made pursuant thereto. (Ord. 2007-
16, 3-6-2007)
10-7-080: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise specifically provided by law, any person who violates any
provisions of this title or the construction codes, fails to comply with any of
the requirements thereof, who erects, constructs, alters or repairs a building
or structure in violation of the approved construction drawings or directive of
the building official, or of a permit or certificate issued under the
provisions of this title or the construction codes, shall be guilty of a class
B misdemeanor. Persons found guilty of a class B misdemeanor shall be subject
to fines, forfeitures, penalties and/or imprisonment as provided by law for
class B misdemeanors, including, but not limited to, Utah Code Annotated
sections 76-3-204 and 76-3-301, as amended. Corporations, associations,
partnerships or governmental instrumentalities shall be subject to fines and
sanctions for violations as set forth in Utah Code Annotated sections 76-3-302
and 76-3-303, as amended. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-7-090: CIVIL PENALTIES:
The city may establish and impose civil penalties for various violations of
city ordinances to the extent permitted by and in accordance with applicable
provisions of state law, including, but not limited to, Utah Code Annotated
sections 10-3-703 and 10-3-703.7, as amended. In accordance with such
provisions, the city has adopted a civil enforcement program including civil
penalties for ordinance violations, as more particularly set forth in title 1,
chapter 6 of this code, as amended. (Ord. 2010-29, 6-15-2010, eff. 7-1-2010)
10-7-100: CONTINUING VIOLATION:
In instances where the violation of this title or the construction codes is a
continuing violation, a separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day
in which the violation occurs or continues to occur. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-7-110: CUMULATIVE REMEDIES AND OTHER RELIEF:
To the extent permitted by law, the enforcement provisions and remedies set
forth in this chapter shall be cumulative and nonexclusive. This chapter shall
not limit the authority of the city or any court of competent jurisdiction to
impose any other sanction or order any other relief as may be appropriate and
lawful under the laws of the state of Utah. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
CHAPTER 8
BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
10-8-010: Board Of Appeals Established
10-8-020: Members
10-8-030: Organization And Procedure
10-8-040: Filing Appeal
10-8-050: Notice And Hearing
10-8-060: Decision
10-8-070: Limitation
10-8-010: BOARD OF APPEALS ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created a building board of appeals in Farmington City to hear
and decide appeals of orders, decisions and determinations made by the building
official relative to the application and interpretation of the construction
codes and this title ("board of appeals"). (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-8-020: MEMBERS:
   A.   Number And Qualification: The board of appeals shall consist of five
(5) members who are qualified by experience or training to pass on matters
pertaining to building construction and who are not employees of Farmington
City.
   B.   Alternates: At least two (2) alternate members shall be appointed to
the board of appeals. All alternate members shall meet the qualification
requirements for regular members. Alternate members may be called by the board
chairperson to hear appeals during the absence or disqualification of a member.
   C.   Appointment And Term: Members of the board of appeals shall be
appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council to
staggered terms of four (4) years; provided, that members may be appointed to
terms shorter than four (4) years when necessary to provide for staggered
terms. All terms should be set to expire in December.
   D.   Compensation: Members of the board of appeals may receive a per diem
allowance for each day or portion of a day spent performing board duties, and
all necessary travel and accommodation expenses incurred in the discharge of
such duties, as the city council may approve.
   E.   Removal: Members of the board of appeals shall serve at the pleasure of
the city council and may be removed with or without cause by a majority vote of
the city council. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-8-030: ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   Chairperson: The board of appeals shall elect a chairperson who shall
administer oaths, compel the attendance of witnesses and oversee the
proceedings of the board. In the event the chairperson is absent from any
proceeding, a chairperson pro tempore may be appointed by a majority vote of
the members present.
   B.   Building Official: The building official of Farmington City shall be an
ex officio member of the board of appeals. As such, the building official shall
attend all proceedings of the board, but shall not vote upon any matter before
the board.
   C.   Rules Of Procedure: The board of appeals may adopt rules of procedure
for conducting its business. Any such rules of procedure shall be reviewed and
approved by resolution of the city council.
   D.   Meetings: The board of appeals shall hold meetings at such times as the
board determines is necessary and as called by the chairperson or the city
manager. Except as otherwise provided by law, all meetings of the board of
appeals shall be open to the public.
   E.   Records: The board of appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
including the vote of each member on each question, or the member's absence or
failure to vote, and records of its examinations or other official actions.
Such records shall be filed with the city recorder and shall be open to the
public pursuant to the government records access and management act.
   F.   Quorum: A majority of the members of the board of appeals shall
constitute a quorum and may act in behalf of the board. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-
2007)
10-8-040: FILING APPEAL:
Unless otherwise provided in the applicable construction code, any order,
decision or determination of the building official relative to application and
interpretation of the construction codes may be appealed to the board of
appeals by filing within fifteen (15) days from the date of said decision an
original and three (3) copies of a written statement of the grounds for the
appeal and a request for a hearing on said decision, if desired, with the city
recorder during regular business hours. An application for appeal shall be
based on a claim that the true intent of the construction code or the rules
legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of
the construction codes do not fully apply or an equally good or better form of
construction is proposed. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-8-050: NOTICE AND HEARING:
The board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing of the appeal,
give any required public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in
interest. Any party may appear in person or by authorized agent at the hearing.
The appellant, the building official and any person whose interests are
affected shall be given the opportunity to be heard at the appeal hearing.
(Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-8-060: DECISION:
After the hearing, the board of appeals shall make a decision on the matter.
Except as provided in section
10-8-070 of this chapter, the board of appeals may, by majority vote, affirm,
reverse or modify the appealed order, decision or determination of the building
official; provided, that any decision granting an appeal shall require votes
from at least three (3) members of the board in support of such decision. The
board of appeals shall render its decision and findings in writing to the
appellant with duplicate copies to the building official and the city manager.
(Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
10-8-070: LIMITATION:
The board of appeals shall have no authority to waive requirements of the
construction codes or this title. (Ord. 2007-16, 3-6-2007)
CHAPTER 9
BUSINESS OCCUPANCY RESUMPTION PROGRAM (BORP)
SECTION:
10-9-010: Business Occupancy Resumption Program Established
10-9-020: Definitions
10-9-030: Administration
10-9-040: Adoption Of Rules And Regulations
10-9-050: Participation In The BORP Program
10-9-060: Implementation Of BORP Inspections
10-9-070: Termination Of BORP Program Eligibility
10-9-010: BUSINESS OCCUPANCY RESUMPTION PROGRAM ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a voluntary business occupancy resumption program
("BORP") through which participants who satisfy the requirements set forth in
this chapter can provide for the accelerated inspection and reoccupancy of
their building after a significant earthquake that results in damage to
buildings. (Ord. 2015-09, 2-17-2015)
10-9-020: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
APPROVED INSPECTOR: An inspector who has been approved by the city for the
roles of: a) reviewing and signing off on those portions of the applicant's
BORP plan pertinent to the inspector's area of expertise; and b) performing
inspections of appropriate qualifying buildings subsequent to a triggering
event.
BORP: Building occupancy resumption program.
BORP CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL: A certificate issued by the city to the building
owner upon approval of the BORP plan pertaining to that particular building.
BORP LIST: The city's list of buildings that have a current BORP certificate of
approval and are eligible for inspection by approved inspectors following a
triggering event.
BORP PLAN: A package of information pertaining to a particular building that
has been prepared for the purpose of determining whether that building will be
included on the city's BORP list.
TRIGGERING EVENT: An earthquake large enough to create a declared state of
emergency within the city. (Ord. 2015-09, 2-17-2015)
10-9-030: ADMINISTRATION:
The BORP program will be administered by the city building official or by the
city building official's designee. (Ord. 2015-09, 2-17-2015)
10-9-040: ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city building official or designee may adopt rules and regulations approved
by the mayor to implement the provisions of this chapter. Such rules and
regulations shall not conflict with this chapter or any other law effective
within the boundaries of the city. (Ord. 2015-09, 2-17-2015)
10-9-050: PARTICIPATION IN THE BORP PROGRAM:
Applicants desiring to add a particular building to the city's BORP list may
petition for the inclusion of the building by submitting a BORP plan to the
city building official or designee for review and approval. The building will
only be added to the city's BORP list if the city building official or designee
determines the submitted BORP plan satisfies all requirements set forth in this
chapter and in any rules or regulations adopted by the city building official
or designee in accordance with section
10-9-040 of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-09, 2-17-2015)
10-9-060: IMPLEMENTATION OF BORP INSPECTIONS:
Upon the occurrence of a triggering event, any building that is included on the
city's BORP list may be inspected by the appropriate approved inspectors
pursuant to the procedures as set forth in this chapter and in any rules and
regulations adopted by the city building official or designee in accordance
with section
10-9-040 of this chapter. (Ord. 2015-09, 2-17-2015)
10-9-070: TERMINATION OF BORP PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY:
A building may be removed from the city's BORP list for one or more of the
following reasons:
   A.   The period of BORP list eligibility specified in the rules and
regulations adopted by the city building official or designee in accordance
with section
10-9-040 of this chapter has expired, and the applicant has not submitted any
requisite renewal form required by such rules and regulations; or
   B.   The approved inspectors who participated in the review and preparation
of the BORP plan are no longer available to provide necessary inspections.
(Ord. 2015-09, 2-17-2015)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-010: Short Title
11-1-020: Declaration Of Purpose
11-1-030: Interpretation
11-1-040: Effect Of Other Ordinances And Regulations
11-1-050: Effect Of Private Covenants And Agreements
11-1-060: Effect On Previous Zoning Ordinance
11-1-070: Severability
11-1-080: Licenses To Conform
11-1-010: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as and may be cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF
FARMINGTON CITY, UTAH. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-1-020: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
   A.   This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the
health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the
present and future inhabitants of Farmington City by, among other things:
      1.   Lessening congestion in the streets;
      2.   Securing safety from fire, panic and other dangers, and providing
adequate light and air;
      3.   Securing economy in governmental expenditures;
      4.   Encouraging the orderly growth and expansion of the city and
avoiding the overcrowding of land and the undue concentration of population;
      5.   Facilitating the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewage, schools, parks, recreation and other public requirements;
      6.   Stabilizing and preserving the property values and encouraging the
expansion of the tax base; and
      7.   Fostering the city's industries and encouraging the development of
an attractive and beautiful community.
   B.   The general purpose of this title shall also be to guide in a
coordinated and harmonious manner the development of the city in accordance
with the adopted master plan. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-1-030: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying this title, the requirements provided herein shall
be considered the minimum requirements for the purposes set forth. (Ord. 1986-
07, 5-14-1986)
11-1-040: EFFECT OF OTHER ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS:
Wherever higher or more restrictive standards are established by the provisions
of any other applicable statute, ordinance or regulation than are established
in this title, the provisions of such other statute, ordinance or regulation
shall govern. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-1-050: EFFECT OF PRIVATE COVENANTS AND AGREEMENTS:
This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of private
covenants and agreements entered into between private persons, but shall
prevail over any such provisions which are less restrictive. Enforcement of
private covenants and agreements affects only the parties in interest and the
responsibility of enforcement thereof may not be assumed by the city or its
agents. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-1-060: EFFECT ON PREVIOUS ZONING ORDINANCE:
The existing zoning ordinance of Farmington City and the map at the time of
adoption of the ordinance codified herein are hereby superseded and amended to
read as set forth herein; provided, however, that the ordinance codified
herein, including the attached maps, shall be deemed a continuation of the
previous ordinance, and not a new enactment insofar as the substance of
revisions, whether in the same or different languages; and this title shall be
so interpreted upon all questions of construction relating to tenure of
officers and boards established by previous ordinance and to questions of
conforming and nonconforming uses, buildings and structures, and to questions
as to the dates upon such uses, buildings or structures became conforming or
nonconforming. All ordinances in force immediately prior to the adoption of
this title shall continue in force after said adoption for the purpose of all
rights acquired, fines, penalties, forfeitures and liabilities incurred and
actions therefor. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986; amd. 2016 Code)
11-1-070: SEVERABILITY:
If any chapter, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or part of this
title is for any reason declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
such judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remaining provision of
this title. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-1-080: LICENSES TO CONFORM:
All departments, officials and employees of Farmington City charged with the
duty of issuing permits or licenses shall comply with the provisions of this
title and shall issue no such permits or licenses which would be in conflict
with the provisions of this title. Any such permit or license, if issued in
conflict with the provisions of this title, shall be null and void. (Ord. 1986-
07, 5-14-1986)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-010: General
11-2-020: Definitions Of Words And Terms
11-2-010: GENERAL:
For the purposes of this title, the following terms and words and their
derivations shall have the meaning as given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future; words in the
singular number include the plural; and the plural, the singular. The word
"shall" is always mandatory. Words not included herein or in the building code
shall be given their usual meaning as found in the English dictionary, unless
the context of the words clearly indicates a different meaning. (Ord. 1991-21,
4-21-1991)
11-2-020: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND TERMS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: A building, structure or use incidental, customarily
appropriate, and subordinate to the main use of the building or property.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU): A Detached Accessory Dwelling unit (DADU) or an
Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit (IADU) both as defined herein.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, DETACHED (DADU): A detached dwelling unit consisting
of all or any part of a detached accessory building, as defined by the Building
Code, to a single-family dwelling which is architecturally compatible to the
neighborhood and single-family dwelling and located on the same lot.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT, INTERNAL (IADU): An attached dwelling unit within, or
adding to, the footprint of a single-family dwelling and is architecturally
compatible with the single-family dwelling and neighborhood.
ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS: A dwelling unit within an accessory building to a
nonresidential use located on the same premises with the main building or
within the main building to be used solely for persons employed on the
premises, not rented or otherwise used as a separate building.
ADAPTIVE REUSE: Rehabilitation or renovation of existing building(s) or
structure(s) limited to residential and/or office use(s) other than the present
use(s); and in the BR zone only, it also includes commercial use(s) set forth
in the C zone (except for signs and major commercial outdoor recreation uses)
so long as the area of site remains the same or does not increase in size to
exceed the minimum commercial lot size in the BR zone.
AGRICULTURE: A farming activity limited to the tilling of the soil, the raising
of crops, horticulture and gardening.
ALTERATION: Any change in the construction of, or addition to, a building which
would permit an increase in capacity, or change of use.
ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
AMUSEMENT PARK: Any place of amusement not conducted wholly within a completely
enclosed building.
ARCHITECTURAL AND INTEGRAL PART OF: Any portion of, appendage to or part of the
general building layout of a main use planned for and/or constructed within the
buildable area of a lot; and which is a functional part thereof; and which may
be a structural part of or a detached accessory separated from the main
building by a court not less than four feet (4') in width; and which is of the
same general design or style as and comparable in excellence of quality and
construction to the main building.
BALCONY: A platform enclosed by a wall or balustrade on the outside of the
building, with access from an upper-floor window or door.
BASEMENT HOUSE: A one-story dwelling where more than fifty percent (50%) of the
exterior wall surface is below the average finished surface grade.
BOARDING HOUSE AND/OR ROOMING HOUSE: A dwelling having one kitchen and used for
the purpose of providing meals or lodging, or both meals and lodging, for pay
or compensation of any kind for three (3) or more persons.
BUILDABLE AREA: That portion of a building lot not included within any required
yard or open space upon which a main building may be located and excluding all
portions thereof which may exceed the coverage limits as specified in the zone
regulations.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, intended
for or used for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any person, animal,
chattel or any property of any kind.
BUILDING LOT: See definition of Lot, Building.
BUILDING, MAIN: The principal building or one of the principal buildings upon a
lot, or the building or one of the principal buildings housing the principal
use upon the lot; also includes all of the appendages to a principal building
constructed as an architectural and integral part thereof.
BUILDING OR STRUCTURE HEIGHT:
   A.   The vertical distance above a reference datum measured to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof or mansard roof, or to the midpoint of the
highest gable of a pitched, hipped or shed roof, or to a point two-thirds (2/3)
the height of a quonset, parabolic or round roof. The reference datum shall be
selected by either of the following, whichever yields a greater height of
building:
      1.   The elevation of the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground surface
within a five foot (5') horizontal distance of the exterior wall of the
building when such sidewalk or ground surface is not more than ten feet (10')
above lowest grade of the building, except where such lowest grade is directly
in front of a door.
      2.   An elevation ten feet (10') higher than the lowest grade of the
building, except where such lowest grade is directly in front of a door, when
the sidewalk or ground surface described in subsection A1 of this definition is
more than ten feet (10') above such lowest grade of the building.
   B.   The following shall apply to dwellings and accessory buildings
regulated by the Agricultural Zones (Chapter 12-10), Single-Family Residential
Zones (Chapter 12-11), or the Original Townsite Residential Zone (Chapter 11-
17):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3205.png]
      1.   Exterior walls exceeding twenty two feet (22') in height (exclusive
of roofs) shall be interrupted by stepping or terracing the building or
structure. Each step shall project horizontally at least eight feet (8') and
cover no less than two-thirds (2/3) the length of the wall exceeding twenty two
feet (22') in height.
BUSINESS SERVICES: Uses which are primarily the serving of the daily needs of
the business community. Examples of such uses include banks, stationery and
business supply stores, duplication, employment services, etc.
CLINIC, DENTAL OR MEDICAL: A building in which a group of physicians, dentists
and allied professional assistants are associated for the carrying on of their
professions. The clinic may include a dental or medical laboratory; but, it
shall not include inpatient care or operating rooms for major surgery.
CONDITIONAL USE: Uses, other than permitted uses, that may be allowed in a
specific zone but requiring additional safeguards to maintain and assure the
health, safety, morals and general welfare of the public and to maintain the
character of the zone.
CONDOMINIUM: A residential structure consisting of two (2) or more units, each
under individual ownership, but each subject to certain joint agreements and
covenants.
CONSERVANCY LOTS: A lot created as a part of an approved subdivision or other
procedure used to create such a lot which has a percentage of the land which
can be occupied or built upon as approved and which requires the remainder to
be left in permanent open space.
CONSERVATION DESIGN: A design of land parcels which recognizes and includes
adaptation of the features promulgated in this title which encourage the
preservation of open space and sensitive development of lands in and around
areas having land development potential.
CONSERVATION LANDS: Land within development areas which is identified in the
design, development and approval processes and which is designated as permanent
open space and which is not constrained by environmentally constrained or
sensitive lands.
CONSERVATION MEADOWS: A part of conservation land areas which are identified as
having the characteristics of meadow or pastureland significance and use.
CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION: A recorded subdivision within Farmington City that
has utilized the provisions of the city's development ordinances, which include
conservation land that is required to be created and reserved through the
design, layout and subdivision approval process. Such subdivisions are subject
to permanent conservation easements prohibiting future subdivision or
development of defined conservation areas and variance to permitted uses.
CONSTRAINED OR SENSITIVE LANDS: Land that has been identified as having
building or residential subdivision development constraints or sensitivity
based upon the existence of conditions identified generally on the Farmington
City existing resources and site analysis plan and in the Farmington City
comprehensive general plan.
CONSTRUCTION SERVICES: An establishment which primarily sells services
constituting the construction, remodeling or maintenance of buildings or
grounds. This definition includes general, electrical, plumbing, heating,
roofing, landscaping, pest control, etc. This use also includes lumberyards.
CONVENIENCE GOODS: Stores or shops intended for retail sales of convenience
goods or performance of convenience services. Included in this definition is
grocery store, drugstore, hardware store, variety store, etc.
CONVENTIONAL LAYOUT: A subdivision design which generally reflects historical
or past standard layouts wherein all the land is divided into lots for
residential building development and which does not involve planned unit
development approaches or permanent open space concepts in the design.
COURT: An unoccupied space on the lot, other than a required yard, designed to
be partially surrounded by a building or group of buildings.
DAYCARE CENTER OR NURSERY SCHOOL: A building and premises which are used for
caring for children for less than twenty four (24) hour periods.
DAYLIGHT PLANE: An inclined plane, beginning at a stated height above grade at
a side or rear property line, and extending into the side at a stated upward
angle to the horizontal, which may limit the height or horizontal extent of
structures at any specific point on the site where the daylight plane is more
restrictive than the height limit or the minimum yard applicable at such point
on the site.
DEMAND OR SHOPPING GOODS: Stores or shops intended for retail sales of goods or
merchandise, but not including convenience foods, liquor, motor vehicles,
campers, trailers, farm equipment, lumber or heavy equipment. This definition
shall include department and discount stores.
DEMOLITION: Any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of public or
private structures, sites, surfaces, utilities or other improvements, except
partial demolitions.
DEMOLITION, PARTIAL: Any act which destroys a portion of a structure consisting
of not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area of the structure;
and in the case of a historic resource on the Farmington City historic
landmarks register or Farmington City historic sites list where the portion of
the structure to be demolished is not readily visible from the street and also
includes the demolition or removal of additions or materials not of the
historic period on any exterior elevation exceeding twenty five percent (25%)
when the demolition is part of an act of restoring original historic elements
of a structure and/or restoring a structure to its historical mass and size.
DENSITY, GROSS: The number of dwelling units per acre of total land (including
public streets and other public property).
DENSITY, NET (NET DWELLING ACRE): Net residential land that is devoted to
residential uses and accessory uses on the same lots, such as open spaces,
drives and service areas, but excluding land for public streets, public parking
and nonresidential buildings.
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE: The Development Review Committee (DRC) consists
of City departments, special districts, governmental boards, bureaus, utility
companies and other agencies, as determined by the City's Community Development
Department, necessary for the review, recommendation and comment of
applications for development, other inquiries, or issues important to the City.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof which is designed for use for
residential purposes, except hotels, apartment hotels, boarding houses, short-
term rentals and/or rooming houses, tourist courts and automobile house
trailers.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A detached building containing three (3) or more
dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: An attached or detached building designed for the
occupation exclusively by one (1) family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A detached building containing two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: One (1) or more rooms connected together, but structurally
divided from all other rooms in the same building and constituting a separate
independent housekeeping unit which may be used for permanent residential
occupancy by humans, with facilities for such humans to sleep, cook and eat.
DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY, DETACHED OR ATTACHED (OR INTERNAL): A detached
dwelling unit within an accessory building, which is subordinate to a single-
family dwelling located on the same lot, or, an attached internal accessory
dwelling unit (IADU) within the footprint of a single-family dwelling with
both, a detached dwelling unit or an attached IADU, as an architectural and
integral part thereof. A maximum of one (1) accessory dwelling unit whether
detached or an IADU shall be allowed per home, and the owner shall live on-
site.
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, or a group of not more than five (5) persons who are not so related,
living together as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit doing their own
cooking, and domestic servants for such family or group.
FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION OR FARM ANIMALS: The keeping of domestic animals and
fowl for the production of food for the sole use of the family occupying the
premises.
FARM OPERATIONS: Operations carried out to support agricultural activities on a
tract or parcel of land.
FARMING: A farm industry which includes generally all phases of farm operation:
the keeping and raising of animals and/or fowl for domestic or commercial use,
fur farms, livestock feed yards, pig farms, dairy farms and similar uses, and
accessory uses thereto.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of the
building or buildings, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls.
FRONTAGE: All the property fronting on a public street.
GARBAGE: Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris or other waste or salvage materials; dismantled, junked or
wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof; and old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous
metal materials.
GRADE, FINISHED SURFACE: The average level of the finished surface of the
ground adjacent to the foundation of a building or structure.
GREENWAY LANDS: See definition of Conservation Lands.
HOSPITAL: An institution for human beings providing health services primarily
for inpatients, and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured, and
including such other services and accessory uses as normally provided for its
administration and operation.
KENNEL: Land or buildings, whether private or commercial, used in the keeping
of three (3) or more dogs, which are four (4) months of age or older for sale,
boarding, breeding, training or other similar purposes. The terms “kennel” and
“boarding kennel” may be used interchangeably throughout the title.
LANDSCAPING: The placement of ornamental fixtures, such as fountains,
ornamental walls, fences and benches, along with vegetative plants or trees,
shrubs, grass, flowers, etc. This definition shall also include the designing
of and the placement of such materials.
LIVE/WORK RESIDENTIAL: A dwelling unit which combines residential and non-
residential uses allowed in the underlying zone where the proprietor of the
business is also the resident of the same dwelling unit. The non-residential
use of the dwelling unit may be licensed as either a home occupation which
complies with the standards of chapter 11-35 or a commercial business if the
impact exceeds the standards for a home occupation including use of signs as
allowed in section
15-5-070(C) with the ability to hold open office or store hours rather than
accepting customers by appointment only. Non-residential use of the unit shall
be limited to uses permitted in the applicable zoning district. The business
operation of a live/work residential unit shall be limited to the main floor of
a building. No additional off-street parking is required beyond what the
chapter requires for a residential unit.
LOT: Any parcel of land.
LOT, BUILDING: A parcel of land which is of such dimensions as to comply with
the minimum requirements of this title for area and width and depth, where
applicable, in the zone in which it is located. This parcel must also have
frontage on a public street equal to at least fifty percent (50%) of its
minimum required width, except for flag lots which shall have a minimum
frontage on a public street as provided by subsection
12-7-030B. Frontage used to meet these requirements shall not include any part
of a temporary end or dead end of a street.
LOT, CORNER: A building lot situated within a corner created by the
intersecting lines of a street or streets.
LOT COVERAGE: The total horizontal area of a lot covered by any building or
structure, including any covered automobile parking area (not including walks,
patios, etc.).
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: Any building lot, the centerline of which intersects two
(2) front lot lines and which has no rear lot lines.
LOT, FLAG: A lot in the shape of a flag, with the staff portion having frontage
on a public street with less than the minimum lot width as defined in the zone
in which the lot is located.
LOT, INSIDE: Any building lot other than a corner lot. Any building lot
situated at the intersection of two (2) street lines where a corner is not
clearly distinguishable, the street being constructed on a long radius curve,
shall be classified as an outside lot.
LOT LINES: The property lines bounding a lot. For purposes of establishing yard
spaces, all right of way lines for streets shall be considered the lot lines of
abutting property.
LOT WIDTH: The width of a lot is the distance of a straight line for inside
lots from side lot line to side lot line, or for corner lots from side lot line
to the other front lot line that is not used to designate the front of the lot,
tangent to the required minimum front setback line, which is parallel to the
frontage of the lot, at a point and angle ninety degrees (90°) to the
centerline of the lot. (See appendix I of this section)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2823.png]
MASTER PLAN (COMPREHENSIVE PLAN): The officially adopted document by the
Farmington City council that sets forth the policies for the future development
of Farmington City.
MOBILE HOME: A vehicle with or without motive power designed for or used for
human habitation; also a trailer coach.
MODERATE INCOME HOUSING: Housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by
households with a gross household income equal to or less than eighty percent
(80%) of the median gross income for households of the same size in the county.
NATIVE VEGETATION (OR MATERIAL): Land areas, parcels, tracts or lots containing
native plant materials which are indigenous based upon climate, soils,
topography, wildlife habitat or other native conditions.
NATURAL WATERWAYS: Those areas, varying in width, along streams, creeks,
springs, gullies or washes which are natural drainage channels as determined by
the city council or as shown on the master drainage plan when adopted.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING LOT: A parcel of land of record with frontage on a
public street, that was held in separate ownership from adjacent property on
the effective date hereof, the dimensions of which do not meet the minimum
requirements for a building lot in the zone in which it is located. Adjacent
property in the same ownership but described under separate deeds shall be
deemed to be one property for the purpose of this title.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure, or portion
thereof, lawfully existing at the time this title became effective, which does
not conform to all the height, area and yard regulations prescribed in the zone
in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the time
this title became effective and which does not conform with the use regulations
of the zone in which it is located.
OFFICES, BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONAL: A building, room or department wherein a
business or service for others is transacted, but not including storage or sale
of merchandise on the premises. Examples of such uses are accountant,
architect, medical and dental, etc.
OVERHEAD SPRAY IRRIGATION: Systems that deliver water via pressure through the
air. Examples include pop-ups, impulse sprinklers, spray heads, rotors, micro-
sprays, and the like.
PARKING LOT: An open area, other than a street, used for the temporary parking
of more than two (2) automobiles and available for public use, whether free,
for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: A space within a building, lot or parking lot for the temporary
parking or storage of one vehicle. For the purposes of this title, the area and
size of a parking space to fill this requirement shall be a minimum of nine
feet (9') wide and twenty feet (20') in length, and adequate ingress and egress
drives provided to each space.
PERMITTED USE: Uses allowed as a matter of right and listed as permitted uses
in the various zone specifications.
PERSONAL SERVICES: Uses which are primarily the serving of the daily
convenience needs of individuals. Examples of such uses are bakeries,
drugstores, newspaper and magazine stores, gift shops, banks, beauty and barber
services, laundry and dry cleaning, etc.
PLANNED DWELLING GROUP: A group of two (2) or more detached buildings located
on one building lot arranged in a harmonious and spacious configuration.
PLOT PLAN: A plat of a lot, drawn to scale, showing its actual measurements,
the size and location of any existing buildings and buildings to be erected,
and showing the location of the lot and abutting streets.
PORCH: A covered shelter projecting in front of the entrance of a building.
PRIMARY CONSERVATION AREAS: Conservation land areas which must be included in
any conservancy subdivision design or layout or site plan and which consists of
primary constrained land inherently unfit for development, including all areas
designated in the Farmington City resource and site analysis plan.
PRODUCTIVE SOILS: Soils within agricultural and other zones of the city where
various farming activities may or can take place, including pasture use, hay
operations, fruit growing and agriculture related activities.
PUBLIC USE: A use or facility owned or operated exclusively by a public entity,
having the purpose of serving the public health, safety or general welfare.
These include such uses as library, parks, community buildings, schools, fire
station, police station (with jail), etc.
PUBLIC UTILITY: A structure or facility used by a public agency to store,
distribute or chemically treat water, power, gas, sewer, equipment or other
services.
QUASI-PUBLIC USE: A use or facility owned or operated exclusively by a private
nonprofit religious, recreational, charitable or philanthropic institution.
Such use shall have the purpose of serving the general public, and would
include such uses as a church, hospital, civic or social club, museum, etc.
RECREATIONAL POOL: A structure of concrete, masonry or other materials used for
bathing, swimming and other aquatic activities. These include such uses as
swimming pools, strip pools, prefabricated pools, hot tubs, spas and jacuzzi.
RESIDENTIAL AREA: Includes a lot or parcel in any residential subdivision or
any property on which a dwelling is located, except for lots or parcel located
within the AA or A zoning districts.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE ELDERLY: A single-family or multiple-family
dwelling unit that meets the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 10-9-
103(m), as amended, and does not exceed sixteen (16) beds per unit.
RESOURCE AND SITE ANALYSIS PLAN: The Farmington City existing resources and
site analysis adopted by the city as part of the comprehensive general plan and
which contains areas indicated as having future trailways, greenway systems,
wetlands, floodplains, wildlife habitats, native vegetation areas, sensitive
topographic conditions or other development constraints which must be
recognized in the site plan approval and subdivision development processes of
the city.
SECONDARY CONSERVATION AREAS: Land areas which must be shown in any conservancy
subdivision design or layout consisting of property which may ordinarily be
overlooked or ignored during conventional design and development processes,
such as orchards, pastures, native tree groups and similar features which may
become an integral part of a conservancy subdivision.
SETBACK: The shortest horizontal distance between any point along the side of a
building and either: a) the nearest point of a property line or lot line,
measured at right angles to the property or lot line; or b) for a concave curve
of the property to be measured, the point of the curve nearest any point on the
side of the building; or c) for a convex curve of the property, the point
nearest the building and on a straight line extending from the points of the
curve nearest the rear property or lot line. The mode of measuring a setback
for which no provision is made in this definition may reasonably be determined
by the zoning administrator. For purposes of measuring setback, rounded corners
shall be treated as if square.
SHORT TERM RENTAL (STR): A residential unit or any portion of a residential
unit that the owner of record or the lessee of the residential unit offers for
occupancy for fewer than thirty (30) consecutive days.
SILVICULTURE: The art of cultivating a forest or woodlands.
SMALL AUTO DEALERSHIP: An auto dealership licensed by the state of Utah
displaying for sale no more than three (3) cars at any one time.
STREET, PRIVATE: A thoroughfare, held in private ownership and controlled by
one or more persons, firms or corporations and used or held for use primarily
as a means of access to adjoining properties.
STREET, PUBLIC: An open way, space and/or thoroughfare fifty feet (50') or more
in width provided or dedicated and/or accepted by Farmington City, Davis
County, or the state of Utah, for public use, designated primarily for
vehicular travel.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: See definition of Alterations, Structural.
STRUCTURE: That which is framed, erected, constructed or placed upon the
ground, but not including fences which are eight feet (8') or less in height.
SUBDIVISION YIELD PLAN: A preliminary conceptual design with conventional lot
and street layout where all the land ordinarily permitted in a conventional
layout if allocated to house lots and to streets, and where all lots must
contain buildable unconstrained land as required in the zoning district where
the property is located.
TRACT: Any parcel of land. See definition of Lot.
TRAILER COACH: A mobile home designed and equipped for temporary and
semipermanent occupancy by humans.
TRAILER PARK OR COURT: Any premises where one or more trailer coaches or mobile
homes are parked for living and sleeping purposes, or any premises set apart
for the purpose of supplying to the public parking space for such mobile homes
for living and sleeping purposes; also includes any buildings, structures,
vehicles or enclosures used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of
such trailer park, court or camp.
UNCONSTRAINED LAND: Land that is substantially free of building or residential
development constraints, such as wetlands and soils classified as very poorly
drained, utility easements or high tension electrical transmission lines (<69
kV), steep slopes of greater than thirty percent (30%), floodways and
floodplains within 100-year floodplains, areas identified as part of the city's
major streets or trail systems and waterways, channels and attendant corridors.
USE, ACCESSORY: See definition of Accessory Building Or Use.
YARD: An open space on a lot unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided in this title.
YARD, FRONT: Any yard between the front lot line and the front setback line of
a main building and for inside lots extending between side lot lines, or for
side corner lots extending between a side lot line and the other front lot line
that is not used to designate the front of the structure, parallel to the
frontage of the lot. On lots that are other than rectangular in shape, the
front setback may be an average of the distance measured from the front corners
of a dwelling to the nearest point of the front lot line, however, the shortest
distance used in determining the average may not be less than twenty feet
(20').
YARD, REAR: A yard between the rear lot line and the rear setback line of a
main building and for inside lots extending between side lot lines, or for
corner lots extending between the side lot line and the side yard corner lying
opposite thereto, parallel to rear lot line. On lots that are other than
rectangular in shape, the rear setback may be an average of the distance
measured from the rear corners of a dwelling to the nearest point of the rear
lot line, however, the shortest distance used in determining the average may
not be less than twenty feet (20').
YARD, REQUIRED FRONT: Any yard between the front lot line and the minimum front
setback distance required in a particular zone extending between side lot
lines, or for side corner lots extending between a side lot line and the other
front lot line that is not used to designate the front of the structure,
parallel to the frontage of the lot. On lots that are other than rectangular in
shape, the required minimum front setback may be an average of the distance
measured from the front corners of a dwelling to the nearest point of the front
lot line, however, the shortest distance used in determining the average may
not be less than twenty feet (20').
YARD, REQUIRED REAR: A yard between the rear lot line and the minimum rear
setback distance required in a particular zone for inside lots extending
between side lot lines, and for corner lots extending between the side lot line
and the side yard corner lying opposite thereto, parallel to the rear lot line.
On lots that are other than rectangular in shape, the required minimum rear
setback may be an average of the distance measured from the rear corners of a
dwelling to the nearest point of the rear lot line, however, the shortest
distance used in determining the average may not be less than twenty feet
(20').
YARD, REQUIRED SIDE: Any yard between the side lot line and the minimum side
setback distance required in a particular zone, extending from the front yard
to the rear yard.
YARD, REQUIRED SIDE CORNER: Any yard between the other front lot line that is
not used to designate the front of the main building and the minimum side
corner setback of a main building required in a particular zone extending
between the rear lot line and the front yard parallel to the street.
YARD, SIDE: Any yard between the side lot line and the side setback of a main
building, extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
YARD, SIDE CORNER: Any yard between the other front lot line that is not used
to designate the front of the main building and the setback of a main building
and extending between the rear lot line and the front setback parallel to the
street.
ZONE: A portion of the incorporated territory of Farmington City which has been
given a zone designation which provides for certain yards and open spaces and
certain height and other limitations for buildings and which provides for
certain uses. May also be referred to as a district.
(Ord. 1999-21, 4-21-1999; amd. Ord. 2000-15, 4-19-2000; Ord. 2002-14, 1-24-
2002; Ord. 2002-48, 12-11-2002; Ord. 2003-31, 8-6-2003; Ord. 2007-18, 3-6-2007;
Ord. 2008-19, 3-18-2008; Ord. 2011-18A, 9-20-2011; Ord. 2013-08, 4-16-2013;
Ord. 2014-17, 6-3-2014; Ord. 2015-16, 5-26-2015; 2016 Code; Ord. 2017-13, 5-16-
2017; Ord. 2020-07, 5-5-2020; Ord. 2021-20, 8-3-2021; Ord. 2021-21, 8-3-2021;
Ord. 2021-22, 8-3-2021; Ord. 2021-25, 9-21-2021; Ord. 2022-8, 1-18-2022; Ord.
2022-14, 2-1-2022; Ord. 2022-26, 5-17-2022; Ord. 2023-13, 3-14-2023; Ord. 2023-
56, 9-19-2023; Ord. 2023-68, 11-14-2023; Ord. 2024-41, 7-16-2024; Ord. 2024-53,
10-15-2024; Ord. 2024-62, 12-17-2024; Ord. 2025-21, 5-20-2025)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
11-3-010: Planning Commission
11-3-020: Members
11-3-030: Organization And Procedure
11-3-040: Functions And Duties
11-3-045: Special Exceptions
11-3-050: Appeals
11-3-010: PLANNING COMMISSION:
There is hereby created, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-301 et
seq., as amended, a planning commission of the city to recommend and monitor
the planning and development of the city, whose primary duty shall be to act as
an advisory commission to the city council on all matters pertaining to
planning and zoning. The planning commission shall be known and may be referred
to as the Farmington City planning commission. (Ord. 1997-55, 11-19-1997; amd.
2016 Code)
11-3-020: MEMBERS:
   A.   Number: The planning commission shall be comprised of seven (7)
members, who shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the
city council.
   B.   Terms: The members shall be appointed to staggered terms of four (4)
years; provided, that members may be appointed to terms shorter than four (4)
years when necessary to provide for staggered terms and efficient operation of
the commission. Members may be reappointed for successive terms.
   C.   Alternate Members: Two (2) alternate members may be appointed by the
mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council. An alternate member may
take the place and serve in the same capacity as a regular member in the event
that a regular member is absent from a meeting. Alternate members shall serve
for terms of one year, which may be renewed annually at the discretion of the
mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council.
   D.   Removal: The members shall serve at the pleasure of the city council,
and the mayor may remove any member of the planning commission upon majority
vote of the city council, with or without cause.
   E.   Vacancy: A vacancy occurring on the planning commission by reason of
death, resignation, removal or disqualification, shall be promptly filled by a
replacement appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city
council, for the unexpired term of the replaced member.
   F.   Compensation: The city council may fix per diem compensation for the
members of the planning commission, based upon necessary and reasonable
expenses and on meetings actually attended by the members. (Ord. 2007-08, 2-6-
2007)
   G.   Status: The members shall be deemed "volunteers" for purposes of city
ordinances, rules, regulations and policies concerning personnel; provided,
however, they shall be included in the definition of "employee" for purposes of
the Utah governmental immunity act as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
63G-7-101 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 2007-08, 2-6-2007; amd. 2016 Code)
11-3-030: ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE:
The planning commission shall be organized and exercise its powers and duties
as follows:
   A.   Chair: The planning commission shall elect one of its members as chair
to oversee the proceedings and activities of the planning commission and one of
its members to act as vice chair to assist the chair and to act as chair in the
event the chair is unable to attend a meeting or act for any reason. The chair
and vice chair shall serve for a term of one year. The chair or vice chair
acting as the chair shall have the power to vote on all matters. The chair and
vice chair may be elected for successive terms.
   B.   Rules: The Planning Commission may adopt reasonable policies and
procedures for governing the conduct of its meetings, the processing of
applications, and for any other purposes considered necessary for the
functioning of the Planning Commission. Such policies and procedures shall be
approved by the City Council before taking effect.
   C.   Meetings: The Planning Commission shall generally meet in person but
may conduct an electronic meeting on the first and third Thursday of each month
at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., and/or such other times as deemed
necessary by the Chair, City Manager or City Council. All meetings shall be
properly noticed and held in accordance with the Open Meetings Law set forth in
Utah Code Annotated title 52, chapter 4, as amended. Written minutes of all
meetings of the Planning Commission shall be prepared and filed in the Office
of the City Recorder for review and access by the public in accordance with the
City government records access and management ordinance.
   D.   Quorum: No official business shall be conducted by the Planning
Commission unless a quorum of the members is present. Four (4) members of the
Planning Commission shall constitute a quorum. While participation in person is
preferred, members may also participate remotely via electronic communication
as necessary. Unless otherwise provided by law or City ordinance, the minimum
number of yes votes required for the Planning Commission to take action on any
matter shall be by majority vote of the members of the quorum present. The
concurring vote of four (4) members is necessary to reverse any order,
requirement, decision or determination of any administrative official or agency
or to decide in favor of the appellant. (Ord. 1997-55, 11-19-1997; amd. Ord.
2022-13, 3-15-2022)
11-3-040: FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the function of the Planning Commission to oversee the proper
development of property within the City in accordance with pertinent City
ordinances and provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as
amended. The duties of the Planning Commission shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following: (Ord. 1997-55, 11-19-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
   A.   Prepare and recommend a General Plan, street plan, zoning map, zoning
ordinances, and any other relevant proposals or recommendations to the City
Council for the proper development of property within the City;
   B.   Prepare and recommend any additions, changes or amendments to the
City's General Plan, street plan, zoning map, zoning ordinances or other
relevant items to the City Council for the proper development of the City;
   C.   Administer the provisions of the zoning ordinances;
   D.   Recommend subdivision ordinances and regulations and amendments thereto
to the City Council;
   E.   Review non-conventional subdivision applications;
   F.   Advise the City Council on matters requested by the City Council;
   G.   Hear or decide any matter that the City Council designates, including
the approval or denial of, or recommendations to approve or deny, conditional
use permits;
   H.   Prepare and recommend programs for public improvements and the
financing thereof to the City Council; and
   I.   Exercise any other powers that are necessary to enable the Planning
Commission to perform its function or that are delegated to it by the City
Council. (Ord. 1997-55, 11-19-1997; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
11-3-045: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   A special exception is:
      1.   An activity or use incidental to or in addition to a principal use
permitted in a zoning district;
      2.   An adjustment to a fixed dimension standard permitted as an
exception to the requirements of this title;
      3.   A transfer of development right (TDR), or rights, established
because of blight which results in an additional lot, or lots, or a dwelling
unit, or units;
      4.   An adaptive reuse of a building or structure eligible, or that may
be eligible, for the National Register of Historic Places so long as the
adaptive reuse does not compromise such eligibility; or
      5.   Additional dwelling units to provide housing for moderate-income
households, subject to written agreement by the city at the sole discretion of
the City Council.
      A special exception requires careful review of such factors as location,
design, configuration and/or impacts to determine the desirability of
authorizing its establishment on any given site. This section sets forth
procedures for considering and approving special exceptions to the provisions
of this title.
   B.   Authority: When expressly provided for under the provisions of this
title, the Planning Commission is authorized to approve special exceptions to
the provisions of this title in accordance with the terms and provisions set
forth in this section. When pertaining to an adjustment to the height of a
building, the Planning Commission may authorize an adjustment of up to twenty
percent (20%) of the prescribed requirement.
   C.   Initiation: A property owner, or the owner’s agent, may request a
special exception to the provisions of this title in accordance with the
procedures set forth herein.
   D.   Procedure: An application for a special exception shall be considered
and processed as follows:
      1.   A complete application shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator in a form established by the City along with any fee established
by the City’s fee schedule. The application shall include at least the
following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant’s agent, if any.
         b.   The address and parcel identification of the subject property.
         c.   The zone, zone boundaries and present use of the subject
property.
         d.   A complete description of the proposed special exception.
         e.   A plot plan showing the following:
            (1)   Applicant’s name;
            (2)   Site address;
            (3)   Property boundaries and dimensions;
            (4)   Layout of existing and proposed buildings, parking,
landscaping and utilities; and
            (5)   Adjoining property lines and uses within one hundred feet
(100') of the subject property.
         f.   Such other and further information or documentation as the Zoning
Administrator may deem necessary for a full and proper consideration and
disposition of a particular application.
      2.   After the application is determined to be complete, the Zoning
Administrator shall schedule a public hearing before the Planning Commission.
Notice of public hearings shall be given as required by law and according to
policies established by the commission. The Planning Commission shall take
action on the application within a reasonable time after the filing of a
complete application.
      3.   A staff report evaluating the application shall be prepared by the
Zoning Administrator.
      4.   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing and thereafter
shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the application pursuant to the
standards set forth in subsection E of this section. Any conditions of approval
shall be limited to conditions needed to conform to the special exception to
approval standards.
      5.   After the Planning Commission makes a decision, the Zoning
Administrator shall give the applicant written notice of the decision.
      6.   A record of all special exceptions shall be maintained in the Office
of the Zoning Administrator.
   E.   Approval Standards: The following standards shall apply to the approval
of a special exception:
      1.   Conditions may be imposed as necessary to prevent or minimize
adverse effects upon other property or improvements in the vicinity of the
special exception, upon the City as a whole, or upon public facilities and
services. These conditions may include, but are not limited to, conditions
concerning use, construction, character, location, landscaping, screening,
parking and other matters relating to the purposes and objectives of this
title. Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the motion authorizing
the special exception.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall not authorize a special exception
unless the evidence presented establishes the proposed special exception:
         a.   Will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare
of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
improvements in the vicinity;
         b.   Will not create unreasonable traffic hazards;
         c.   Is located on a lot or parcel of sufficient size to accommodate
the special exception.
   F.   Effect Of Approval: A special exception shall not authorize the
establishment of any use nor the development, construction, reconstruction,
alteration or moving of any building or structure, but shall merely authorize
the preparation, filing and processing of applications for any approvals or
permits that may be required by this title or other applicable provisions of
this Code.
   G.   Amendments: The procedure for amending a special exception shall be the
same as the original procedure set forth in this section.
   H.   Expiration: Subject to an extension of time, a special exception which
is not exercised within one hundred eighty (180) days shall expire and have no
further force or effect. (Ord. 2002-48, 12-11-2002; amd. Ord. 2018-11, 3-6-
2018; Ord. 11-12-2019; Ord. 2021-13, 5-18-2021; Ord. 2022-8, 1-18-2022)
11-3-050: APPEALS:
Any interested person aggrieved of a final decision of the Planning Commission
may appeal such decision in accordance with the procedures set forth in chapter
4 of this title regarding rights of appeal. (Ord. 1997-55, 11-19-1997)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
11-4-010: Building Official
11-4-020: City Planner
11-4-030: Zoning Administrator
11-4-040: Duties Of The City Planner
11-4-050: Duties Of The Zoning Administrator
11-4-060: Building Permit Required
11-4-070: Completion Of Required Improvements
11-4-080: Violations
11-4-090: Right Of Appeal
11-4-100: Reasonable Accommodations
11-4-010: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
The building official shall enforce the provisions of the building code which
are adopted by the state of Utah. For such purposes, he shall have the powers
of a law enforcement officer. The building official shall also have duties and
powers as provided in this title and may be assisted by other persons as the
city council may direct or authorize. (Ord. 1991-26, 7-17-1991)
11-4-020: CITY PLANNER:
There is hereby created the office of city planner. The city planner shall be
appointed by the city manager, with advice from the planning commission and
with the advice and upon the consent of the governing body. The city planner
shall receive and review applications for development approval as required by
this title and title 12 of this code. The city planner may set the agenda for
planning commission meetings. (Ord. 1991-26, 7-17-1991; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-
16-2023)
11-4-030: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
There is hereby created the office of zoning administrator. The zoning
administrator shall administer and enforce this title. The zoning administrator
shall be appointed by the city manager, with the advice and consent of the
planning commission and the advice and upon the consent of the governing body.
The zoning administrator may be assisted by other persons as authorized. (Ord.
1991-26, 7-17-1991)
11-4-040: DUTIES OF THE CITY PLANNER:
   A.   Site Plan Review: In addition to application for a building permit, all
developments listed in section
11-7-020 of this title shall submit application for site plan review as
provided in section
11-7-030 of this title. No building permit for these developments shall be
issued until a site plan is reviewed and approved as provided in chapter 7 of
this title. The city planner shall review and make recommendations on all
applications which are required to comply with the site development standards
specified in chapter 7 of this title and shall ensure that all information and
items required in this title are included in the application.
   B.   Conditional Use Review: The city planner shall receive all applications
for conditional use permits as provided for in chapter 8 of this title. The
city planner shall see that all information and items required for this
application are included in the submittal. This application shall be in
addition to the application for building permit.
   C.   Amendments To The Zoning Map Or Text: Applications for amendment to
this title shall be submitted to the city planner. The amendment process shall
proceed as provided for in chapter 6 of this title.
   D.   Administration And Amendment Of The Master Plan: It shall be the
responsibility of the city planner to administer the Farmington City master
plan, to periodically review the plan, and to make recommendations for updating
the plan as the city grows and develops. Requests to amend the master plan
shall be processed in the same manner as an application for a zoning amendment.
(Ord. 1991-26, 7-17-1991)
11-4-050: DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The zoning administrator shall represent Farmington City in carrying out the
stated purposes of this title and in so doing shall also cause that all
required permits be obtained as required herein. (Ord. 1991-26, 7-17-1991)
   A.   Variances: Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-702, as
amended, the zoning administrator shall have the power to decide routine and
uncontested matters of the board of adjustment pursuant to its established
guidelines as outlined in chapter 5 of this title. All variances granted by the
zoning administrator shall be reviewed and approved by the city manager prior
to issuance. (Ord. 1991-26, 7-17-1991; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Building Permits: The zoning administrator shall review all building
permit applications to determine compliance with this title. All applications
for building permits shall be accompanied by a plot plan in duplicate. Such
plot plan shall be drawn to scale and shall show the actual dimensions of the
lot to be built on, any existing buildings or structures, and the buildings or
structures to be erected. The plan should also show the location of driveways
into the property, off street parking facilities, abutting streets (including
right of way width) and such other information as may be necessary to
accurately locate the lot, to provide for the enforcement of this title and to
comply with the site development standards of this title.
   C.   Certificate Of Occupancy:
      1.   No land shall be changed in use or occupancy and no building shall
be changed in use or structurally altered until a certificate of occupancy
shall have been issued by both the zoning administrator and the building
official.
      2.   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless the contemplated
use of the land and/or buildings for which said certificate is requested is in
full compliance with the requirements of this title and applicable building
codes.
      3.   A certificate of occupancy shall be required for the purpose of
maintaining, renewing, changing or extending a nonconforming use.
      4.   No person shall live in an accessory building unless that person has
a valid certificate of occupancy for such building. The certificate of
occupancy may only be issued if the accessory building is safe for human
occupancy and if the main building or use is incomplete but is reasonably
expected to be completed within one month from the date of issuance. Such a
certificate of occupancy may be issued for a maximum time period of thirty (30)
days. Violation of this subsection is a class C misdemeanor. For purposes of
this section only, "live in" means to dwell in or use as a home, sleeping place
or shelter for human beings.
   D.   Home Occupation Permit: All applications for a home occupation permit
shall be submitted to the zoning administrator and shall include all
information as required in chapter 35 of this title. The zoning administrator
shall review all applications for compliance with the home occupation standards
of this title and may either approve or deny such applications.
   E.   Sign Permits: As provided in the sign ordinance of Farmington City, the
zoning administrator shall be responsible for issuance of permits for signs,
and for the enforcement of the sign regulations.
   F.   Administrative Determination For Uses Not Listed: Determination as to
the classification of uses not specifically listed in chapters 10 through 26 of
this title may be made by the zoning administrator:
      1.   An application requesting such determination shall be filed with the
zoning administrator. The application shall include a detailed description of
the use and other such information as may be required.
      2.   The zoning administrator shall make such investigations as are
deemed necessary to compare the nature and characteristics of the proposed use
with those of uses specifically listed in this title and shall make a
determination of its classification based on his investigations. The
determination shall state the zone classification(s) in which the use will be
allowed and whether the use will be a permitted use or a conditional use in the
zone(s).
      3.   The determination and all information pertaining to it shall be
assigned a file number classifying it as an administrative determination and
shall become a permanent public record in the office of the planning and zoning
department.
   G.   Appeals From Decisions Of The Zoning Administrator: Any appeal of an
action or decision of the zoning administrator shall be made to the board of
adjustment as outlined in section
11-5-060 of this title. (Ord. 1991-26, 7-17-1991)
11-4-060: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
The erection of any building, structure, any part thereof, or any alteration of
an existing building that would permit the extension or enlargement of any use
therein, or the preparation of any building site, shall not be commenced except
after the issuance of a building permit, signed by both the building official
and the zoning administrator. (Ord. 1991-26, 7-17-1991)
11-4-070: COMPLETION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Single-Family And Two-Family Dwellings: All applications for
construction of a single-family or two-family dwelling on an individual lot
shall be accompanied by a bond agreement to ensure maintenance of public
improvements and provide an incentive for completion of the construction for
which a permit is issued. No building permit shall be issued for construction
or development on any lot before the applicant completes, or agrees to
complete, construction of improvements as required herein within two (2) years
from the date of issuance of said permit and to ensure the satisfactory
condition of the improvements installed on, and in close proximity to, said lot
by posting a bond as set forth hereafter, nor shall said bond be released until
the construction for which the building permit was issued is completed. The
bond agreement shall be signed by the owner of the lot to be improved or by the
contractor. The bond shall be in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00), or
five dollars ($5.00) per front foot, whichever is the greater amount. In no
case shall the bond amount exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per lot. The
purpose of the bond agreement shall be to ensure the satisfactory condition of
the curbs, gutter, sidewalk, drive approaches, landscaping, paving (including
proper patching of asphalt cuts when required), and other public improvements
installed on and in close proximity to the individual lot or lots for which the
building permit was issued. In addition, the bond is required as an incentive
only for the satisfactory completion of the construction for which the permit
was issued. Where building permits are issued for houses on lots not abutting
city streets, the bond amount may be reduced to a minimum of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) to satisfy the construction completion requirement, if the
owner or contractor produces evidence a bond is in place warranting public
improvements to the affected entity who owns the street right of way. The bond
shall not obligate the city to complete any construction authorized by the
issuance of the permit. The bond agreement shall terminate and the bond,
together with accumulated interest, will be released at the time the
certificate of occupancy is issued; provided, that the building official has
made his inspection and found the construction to be complete and the
improvements to be in satisfactory condition. In the event no certificate of
occupancy has been issued within two (2) years after the issuance of the
building permit, the bond agreement shall terminate and the bond, together with
accumulated interest, shall be forfeited to the city.
   B.   On Site Improvements: Any on site improvements required by this title
for multiple-family residential uses, commercial uses, commercial recreation
uses, industrial uses or any conditional use, including, but not limited to,
landscaping, fencing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, parking lot paving or flood
control improvements shall be satisfactorily installed prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy and/or a business license. In lieu of actual
completion of required improvements, a developer may file with the city a cash,
escrow or irrevocable letter of credit, on a form acceptable to the city, to
ensure completion of such improvements. The bond amount shall be based on the
city engineer's estimated cost of improvements, plus twenty percent (20%). Only
the three (3) types of bond agreements specified herein shall be accepted. The
maximum time period for a bond to guarantee completion of on site improvements
shall be not more than one year. The bond may be extended by the city council
upon a request by the developer. Upon completion of the improvements for which
an on site bond agreement has been filed, the developer shall call the planning
department for inspection.
   C.   Off Site Improvements And Other Public Improvements: Off site and/or
other public improvements required by this title for multiple-family
residential uses, commercial uses, commercial recreation uses, industrial uses
or any conditional use, including, but not limited to, curb, gutter and
sidewalk, paving, fire hydrants, water distribution lines or flood control
improvements shall be installed before permits will be issued for development.
In lieu of actual completion of required improvements, a developer may file
with the city a cash, escrow, irrevocable letter of credit or property bond
agreement, on a form acceptable to the city, to ensure completion of such
improvements. The bond amount shall be based on the city engineer's estimated
cost of improvements, plus twenty percent (20%). Only the four (4) types of
bond agreements specified herein shall be accepted. The maximum time period for
a bond to guarantee completion of on site improvements shall be not more than
two (2) years. The bond may be extended by the city council upon a request by
the developer. Upon completion of the improvements for which an off site bond
agreement has been filed, the developer shall call the city for inspection.
   D.   Inspections: Inspection shall be made within a reasonable time after a
request is received. If the inspection shows the city standards and
specifications have been met in completion of the required improvements, the
bond may be released within a reasonable time after the inspection. If the bond
is not released, refusal to release and the reasons therefor shall be given to
the developer within a reasonable time from the time of the inspection. The
bond may be partially released based on the percentage of completion of the
required improvements.
   E.   Existing Buildings: The building official may require a bond on any
alteration or remodel of any existing building if, within his discretion, such
alteration or remodel could potentially cause damage to existing public
improvements. Any ruling of the building inspector regarding the amount of
required bond or the release date of the bond on remodels or alterations may be
appealed to the city manager, by filing a written notice of appeal with the
city recorder within ten (10) calendar days of the ruling. Appeals shall
proceed as provided in chapter
3-7 of this code. The purpose of a bond on any alteration or remodel, if
required, shall be for the sole purpose of warranting the maintenance of public
improvements, and not for the purpose of assuring construction completion for
which the permit was taken out. Said bond shall be released immediately after
the risk of damaging public improvements has passed.
   F.   Bond Refused: If the city determines that issuance of a certificate of
occupancy prior to completion of any required improvement may be injurious to
the health, safety or welfare of the city or its inhabitants, the city may
refuse to accept a bond agreement in lieu of actual completion of required
improvements or it may limit the time period of the bond to lesser periods than
specified herein. (Ord. 1991-26, 7-17-1991; amd. Ord. 2016-07, 2-16-2016; Ord.
2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-4-080: VIOLATIONS:
If the zoning administrator finds that any of the provisions of this title are
being violated, he shall notify, in writing, the person responsible for such
violation, indicating the nature of the violation and the action necessary to
correct it. The zoning administrator shall order the discontinuance of illegal
buildings, structures or additions to buildings or structures, discontinuance
of any illegal work being done, or shall take other action authorized by this
title to ensure compliance. (Ord. 1991-26, 7-17-1991)
11-4-090: RIGHT OF APPEAL:
Any person with standing who is aggrieved by any decision of the zoning
administrator or the planning commission in the administration of this title
may appeal such decision in accordance with the provisions of this section:
   A.   Land Use Appeal Authority: An appeal of an action or decision of the
zoning administrator or planning commission made in the administration of this
title shall be made to the administrative hearing officer. Such appeals must be
taken within ten (10) calendar days of the action or decision by filing a
written notice with the city recorder, unless otherwise specified in this code
or the Utah Code. The appeal shall specify the grounds for appeal. Only those
grounds specified in the appeal shall be considered by the administrative
hearing officer.
   B.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from unless the planning commission certifies to the
administrative hearing officer that, by reason of fact stated in the
certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
cases, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by restraining order
which may be granted by the appropriate appeal body or by the district court on
application and notice and on due cause shown.
   C.   The appeal shall be conducted in accordance with chapter
3-7 of this code. (Ord. 1991-26, 7-17-1991; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-4-100: REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS:
   A.   Purpose. This section establishes procedures and standards for requests
for reasonable accommodation due to disability.
   B.   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this section:
 
ADMINISTRATIVE A hearing officer appointed pursuant to section
HEARING        11-5-045 of this Code.
OFFICER:
ADMINISTRATOR: The Farmington Zoning Administrator established in Chapter 11-4 of this Code.
               A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of a person's
               major life activities, including a person having a record of such a problem or being
DISABILITY:    regarded as having such an impairment. It does not include current illegal use of, and/
               or resulting addiction to, any federally controlled substance as defined in section 102
               of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 802, or as defined under Utah Code Ann.
               Title 58, Chapter 37, as amended.
MAJOR LIFE     Functions such as caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing,
ACTIVITIES:    hearing, speaking, breathing, learning and working.
               Includes the following:
                     a.   Any psychological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or
               anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: neurological,
               musculoskeletal; special sense organs, respiratory, including speech organs,
               cardiovascular, reproductive, digestive, genitourinary, hemic and lymphatic, skin, and
PHYSICAL OR    endocrine;
MENTAL               b.   Any mental or physiological disorder, such as mental retardation, organic
IMPAIRMENT:    brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning disabilities; or
                     c.   Diseases or conditions such as orthopedic, visual, speech and hearing
               impairments, cerebral palsy, autism, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis,
               cancer, heart disease, diabetes, human immunodeficiency virus, drug addiction (other
               than addiction caused by current, illegal use of controlled substances), and
               alcoholism.
REASONABLE     A change in any rule, policy, practice, or service that is necessary to afford a person
ACCOMMODATION: with a disability an equal opportunity to use and enjoy a dwelling.
 
   C.   An applicant who wishes to make a request for a reasonable
accommodation from any requirement under this Title must provide the following
to the Administrator, in writing:
      1.   The name, mailing address, and phone number or email of the
applicant;
      2.   The nature and extent of the disability;
      3.   An exact statement of the ordinance or policy from which the
applicant needs a reasonable accommodation;
      4.   The applicant's proposed reasonable accommodation;
      5.   A statement detailing why such reasonable accommodation is
necessary;
      6.   The physical address of the property where the applicant requests
the reasonable accommodation; and
      7.   Proof or a declaration that the applicant resides or reasonably
intends to reside at the residence at the time of application, or that the
entity will benefit residents who will benefit and qualify for reasonable
accommodation.
   D.   The burden of production and persuasion rests upon the applicant to
establish the existence of a disability and that the requested relief is a
reasonable accommodation.
   E.   In determining whether an accommodation is reasonable, the
Administrator determines whether the requested accommodation meets three main
criteria:
      1.   Reasonableness. An accommodation is reasonable ifit will not
undermine the legitimate purpose of existing zoning regulations notwithstanding
the benefit that the accommodation will provide to a person with a disability.
      2.   Necessity. An accommodation must be necessary, meaning that but for
the accommodation, one or more persons with a disability likely will be denied
an equal opportunity to enjoy the housing of their choice.
      3.   Equal Opportunity. The accommodation achieves equal results as
between a person with a disability and a nondisabled person.
      4.   In considering these three criteria, the Administrator shall
consider the following facts, as applicable:
         a.   Applicable zoning ordinances;
         b.   Anticipated traffic, parking, and noise impact on the
neighborhood if the accommodation is granted;
         c.   Whether the accommodation will be an undue burden or expense to
the City;
         d.   The extent to which the accommodation will or will not benefit
the applicant;
         e.   The extent to which the accommodation will or will not benefit
the community;
         f.   Whether the accommodation fundamentally alters the citywide
zoning ordinance and whether or not the accommodation would likely create a
fundamental change in the character of a residential neighborhood;
         g.   Whether the applicant has demonstrated that the accommodation
will affirmatively enhance the applicant's life or ameliorate the effects of
the applicant's disability, or the lives or disabilities of those on whose
behalf the applicant is applying;
         h.   Whether or not, without accommodation, similar housing is
available in the city for the applicant or group of applicants;
         i.   The anticipated impact of the accommodation on the immediate
neighborhood;
         j.   Any other requirements of applicable federal or state laws and
regulations; and
         k.   Whether the applicant has submitted an incomplete application.
   F.   The Administrator shall render a written decision within thirty (30)
calendar days after the application is received by the Administrator, and send
a copy of that decision to the mailing address or email address provided by the
applicant. An additional thirty (30) days are available if the Administrator
determines that the request is complicated or requires more extensive study, or
if the process was delayed by the applicant.
   G.   Appeal from the Administrator's decision may be made by an aggrieved
person with standing to the Administrative Hearing Officer, within ten (10)
business days after the decision is rendered. Notice of appeal is made by
delivering a copy of the notice to the City Recorder.
   H.   The Administrative Hearing Officer hears the case de novo, applying the
same standard and receiving testimony and evidence. The Administrative Hearing
Officer shall render a written decision to the applicant within fifteen (15)
days of the hearing. Appeals from the Administrative Hearing Officer's decision
may be made by an aggrieved person with standing to the Second District Court
of Utah, within thirty (30) calendar days of the decision. (Ord. 2023-7, 2-7-
2023)
CHAPTER 5
APPEALS, VARIANCES AND NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
11-5-010: Designation Of Land Use Appeal Authority
11-5-020: [Reserved]
11-5-030: Reserved]
11-5-040: Appeal Authority
11-5-045: [Reserved]
11-5-050: Zoning Administrator's Determinations
11-5-060: [Reserved]
11-5-070: Nonconforming Use Of Buildings, Structures And Land
11-5-080: Variances
11-5-010: DESIGNATION OF LAND USE APPEAL AUTHORITY:
Except as otherwise provided in this title, the administration hearing officer
appointed pursuant to section
3-7-030 of this code is the land use appeal authority, as required by Utah Code
Annotated section 10-9a-701 et seq., as amended. Appeals shall proceed as
provided in chapter
3-7 of this code. (Ord. 2009-08, 2-3-2009; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-
2023)
11-5-020: [RESERVED]:
11-5-030: [RESERVED]:
11-5-040: APPEAL AUTHORITY:
The appeal authority shall have the power and duty to hear and decide, through
processes identified in chapter
3-7 of this code appeals from any order, requirement, determination or decision
of the zoning administrator, city planner or planning commission. Such appeals
may be made by any person with standing who is aggrieved, or by any officer,
department, or board of the city which is affected by such order, requirement,
decision or determination. (Ord. 2009-08, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-
2023)
11-5-045: [RESERVED]:
11-5-050: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR'S DETERMINATIONS:
The zoning administrator may decide certain matters as designated by code,
consistent with guidelines established by this chapter and state law. Pursuant
to that authority, the zoning administrator may decide all cases which are
routine in nature, uncontested and do not impact the character of the
neighborhood; or are primarily brought about as a result of recent changes in
this title which create a large number of nonconforming structures or uses. The
specific types of decisions the zoning administrator is authorized to make
shall include:
   A.   Setback Variances: Variances to setback requirements in which the
proposed reduction is not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the normal
required setback;
   B.   Parking Variances: Variances to parking requirements where a reduction
in the number of parking spaces is not more than ten percent (10%) of the
normal requirement;
   C.   Nonconforming Use Determination: Determination of a nonconforming use
which can be verified by substantial evidence. "Substantial evidence", for the
purpose of this section, shall mean official documents, such as written
correspondence from a public body or agency, receipts, permits, tax notices or
other property information which may establish the truth of the matter asserted
by the applicant;
   D.   Additions, Alterations: Consider additions or alterations to existing
buildings or structures which are nonconforming as to yard regulations,
provided the addition follows the existing wall lines and does not increase the
extent of the nonconformity;
   E.   Change In Status: Consider a change in status of a nonconforming use to
a less intense use than that which exists;
   F.   Final Review And Approval: Final review and approval of plans where the
appeal authority has required that a final plan be submitted, which includes
all requirements imposed by the appeal authority as conditions of granting an
approval.
A person aggrieved by a zoning administrator's decision under this section may
file an appeal to the Appeal Authority by filing a written appeal with the city
recorder within ten (10) business days from the date of the zoning
administrator's decision. (Ord. 2009-08, 2-3-2009; Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-5-060: [RESERVED]:
11-5-070: NONCONFORMING USE OF BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND LAND:
   A.   Determinations Of Nonconforming Buildings And Uses: All matters
regarding the nonconforming use of buildings and land shall be determined by
the administrative hearing officer, except as otherwise provided herein. Upon
application, and conducting a hearing on the matter, the administrative hearing
officer shall determine if the use or building is nonconforming in respect to
the provisions of this title. The zoning administrator may determine routine
and uncontested requests to verify nonconforming uses as provided in section
11-5-050 of this chapter.
   B.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record: The requirements of this title as to
minimum lot area or lot width shall not be construed to prevent the development
of any lot or parcel of land for a use allowed in the zone in which the lot or
parcel is located; provided, that the property has access to a public street
and is a legally divided lot, held in separate ownership, at the time such
requirements became effective. The zoning administrator shall make a
determination as to the nonconformity of such lots based on documentation
submitted by the lot owner. Reduction in required yards for such lots shall
require variances, which shall be requested and processed as outlined in this
chapter.
   C.   Nonconforming Use Of Open Land: A nonconforming use of land lawfully
existing on the effective date of this title may be continued, provided such
nonconforming use shall not be expanded or extended into any other open land,
except as provided herein. The administrative hearing officer, after holding a
public hearing, may allow the expansion of a nonconforming use of land,
provided such change is in harmony with the surrounding neighborhood and meets
the intent of the master plan and this title. Reasonable conditions may be
attached to the approval in order to ensure neighborhood compatibility. If said
nonconforming use is discontinued for a continuous period of one year or more,
the use shall be considered to be abandoned and any future use of such land
shall conform to the provisions of the zone in which it is located.
   D.   Alteration Of Nonconforming Buildings And Structures: Buildings and
structures which are determined to be nonconforming in respect to setbacks or
height may be continued. Additions or structural alterations may be made to the
extent that they are required by law. In addition, the administrative hearing
officer, after conducting a hearing on the matter, may allow an enlargement or
structural alteration, provided such change is in harmony with the surrounding
neighborhood and meets the intent of the master plan and this title. Reasonable
conditions may be attached to the approval in order to ensure neighborhood
compatibility. If a nonconforming building or structure is removed or
destroyed, every future use of the land on which the building or structure was
located shall conform to the provisions of this title.
   E.   Nonconforming Use Of Structures And Buildings: The nonconforming use of
any structure or building lawfully existing on the effective date of this title
or amendment may be continued as provided in this chapter. A nonconforming use
may be extended to include the entire floor area of the existing structure or
building in which it was conducted at the time the use became nonconforming. If
said nonconforming use is discontinued for a continuous period of one year or
more, the use shall be considered abandoned and any future use of such
structures and buildings shall conform to the provisions of the zone in which
they are located.
   F.   Change In Status Of Nonconforming Use: A nonconforming use may be
succeeded, upon approval by the zoning administrator, by a less intense and
more restrictive nonconforming use of a more desirable nature. Such change must
be effected within one year from the first day on which the previous use is
discontinued. After a change to a less intensive use occurs, the use shall not
change back to a more intensive use.
   G.   Reconstruction Of Nonconforming Building Or Structure Partially
Destroyed:
      1.   A nonconforming building or structure, other than a dwelling of two
(2) dwelling units or less, damaged or destroyed to the extent of not more than
fifty percent (50%) of its reasonable replacement value at the time of its
destruction by fire, explosion, other casualty, act of God or action of a
public enemy, may be restored. Occupancy or use of such building or structure
which existed at the time of such partial destruction may be continued subject
to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   A nonconforming dwelling of two (2) dwelling units or less which has
been damaged or destroyed by fire, explosion, other casualty, act of God or
action of a public enemy, may be restored or reconstructed to the same
nonconforming building or structure as existed before such damage or
destruction, provided there is no increase in any nonconformity. The city must
issue a building permit for such restoration or reconstruction within one year
of the damage or destruction, and construction shall be carried on without
interruption.
   H.   Amortization Of Nonconforming Uses: The administrative hearing officer
may provide for the timely modification or removal of a nonconforming use of
land for open storage or signs deemed to be incompatible with the surrounding
neighborhood. A reasonable period may be granted in which the nonconforming use
shall be modified or removed to comply with the master plan and this title.
(Ord. 2009-08, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-5-080: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authorized: The administrative hearing officer may authorize upon
appeal, variance from the provisions of this title where it can be shown that
due to special circumstances the literal enforcement of this title would result
in undue hardship to the property owner. In granting a variance, the
administrative hearing officer may affix any conditions it feels are necessary
to carry out the intent of this title.
   B.   Variance Criteria: Unless otherwise provided in this title, the
administrative hearing officer may grant a variance from the requirements of
any provision of this title to the extent that such a grant shall be consistent
with the limitations and requirements of section 10-9a-702 of the Utah Code, as
amended.
   C.   Hardship, as used herein, shall be distinguished from a mere
inconvenience to the property owner or a desire to reduce financial costs.
Personal, family or financial difficulties, loss of prospective profits or
neighboring violations of the zoning code are not hardships justifying a
variance.
   D.   Special circumstances that warrant a variance shall apply to a specific
parcel of property and include such things as exceptional narrowness,
shallowness or shape of the property; exceptional topographic conditions; or
other extraordinary and exceptional situations or conditions.
   E.   Each case shall be considered only on its individual merits; a previous
variance or examples of noncompliance by other properties shall not be deemed
to set a precedent or require the granting of a variance in the case before the
administrative hearing officer. (Ord. 2009-08, 2-3-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-
14-2023)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING ORDINANCE AND MAP AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
11-6-010: Amendments Permitted
11-6-020: Procedure For Proposed Amendments
11-6-030: Fees And Costs
11-6-040: Approval Not Affecting Other Requirements
11-6-050: Required Commencement Of Construction
11-6-060: Documentation
11-6-070: Disapproval Of Proposed Amendment
11-6-010: AMENDMENTS PERMITTED:
The city council may from time to time amend any of the provisions of the
Farmington City zoning ordinance or the official zoning map of the city in
accordance with the procedures set forth herein, including amendments to the
number, shape, boundaries or area of any zoning district; any regulation of or
within the zoning district; or any other provision of this title. The
provisions set forth herein shall not apply to amendments to the city general
plan, which procedure is more specifically provided for elsewhere in this
title, nor temporary regulations which may be enacted without public hearing in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-504, as amended. (Ord. 1997-
55, 11-19-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
11-6-020: PROCEDURE FOR PROPOSED AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Interested Parties: Proposed amendments to this title or zoning map may
be initiated by the city council, planning commission, zoning administrator or
any other interested party.
   B.   Application: Proposed amendments submitted by interested parties as
provided herein, other than the city council, planning commission or zoning
administrator, shall be submitted to the city planner for consideration by the
planning commission in the form of an application containing, at a minimum, the
following information:
      1.   The name and address of applicant and the name and address of every
person or company that the applicant represents;
      2.   The requested amendment and the reasons therefor;
      3.   If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning map, the
application shall include an accurate property map showing all areas which
would be affected by the proposed amendment, all abutting properties and the
present and proposed zoning classifications; and an accurate legal description
of the area to be rezoned and approximate common address; and
      4.   If the proposed amendment would require a change in the text of the
ordinance, the application shall include the chapter and section, and a draft
of the proposed wording that is desired.
   C.   City Planner Review: The city planner shall review the application to
verify that all of the information required by this chapter and other
applicable ordinances, rules and regulations, are included.
   D.   Planning Commission Review: All proposed amendments must be first
submitted to the planning commission for review and recommendations. Notice and
public hearing requirements shall be as provided in Utah Code Annotated
sections 10-9a-205, 10-9a-502 and 10-9a-503. The planning commission shall
study and examine each application and proposed amendment. The planning
commission should consider the following issues when reviewing each proposed
amendment: 1) is the proposed amendment reasonably necessary; 2) is the
proposed amendment in the public interest; and 3) is the proposed amendment
consistent with the city general plan and in harmony with the objectives and
purpose of this title. After study and analysis, the planning commission shall
prepare written recommendations regarding the application and proposed
amendment and forward the same to the city council for its consideration.
   E.   City Council Review: Except as provided herein, the city council shall
review the proposed amendment to this title or zoning map and shall schedule
and hold a public meeting on the proposed amendment in accordance with Utah
Code Annotated sections 10-9a-502 and 10-9a-503. The city council shall provide
notice of the public meeting in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-
9a-205. After the public meeting, the city council may make any modifications
to the proposed amendment to this title or zoning map that it considers
appropriate and in accord with the city general plan and may thereafter adopt
the amendment as proposed, modify the amendment and adopt or reject the
modified amendment, or reject the proposed amendment. (Ord. 1997-55, 11-19-
1997; amd. Ord. 2010-39, 9-21-2010; 2016 Code; Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-6-030: FEES AND COSTS:
Proposed amendments submitted by interested parties other than the city
council, planning commission or zoning administrator, shall be accompanied by
the appropriate fee as set forth in the city fee schedule adopted by the city
by resolution. (Ord. 1997-55, 11-19-1997; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-6-040: APPROVAL NOT AFFECTING OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
Any approval of an amendment to this title or zoning map by the city council
shall in no way imply or constitute an approval of any conditional use permit,
building permit site plan or improvements thereon. Approval of site plans,
conditional use permits, building permits and other approvals must be obtained
in accordance with applicable city ordinances. (Ord. 1997-55, 11-19-1997)
11-6-050: REQUIRED COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION:
Except as otherwise provided in writing by the city council, any rezone
approval initiated by an interested party other than the city shall be
conditioned upon commencement of actual construction or improvements on the
affected property or the actual occupancy and utilization for the use of the
proposed development upon the affected property within two (2) years from the
date of such approval. If the applicant fails to commence such construction or
improvements, or any other conditions imposed by the city council, to the
satisfaction of the city, within the required time frame, the property's zoning
classification and zone district shall automatically, and without further
notice or hearings thereon, revert to its prior zoning classification and
district. For purposes of this section, "commencement of actual construction or
improvements" shall mean that the city has either inspected and approved
completion of all designated improvements or the city has inspected and
approved completion of construction of all footings of the proposed development
or structure on the affected property. (Ord. 1997-55, 11-19-1997)
11-6-060: DOCUMENTATION:
All documents required to effect the amendment or rezone shall be prepared,
executed and filed as directed by the city. All recorded documents concerning a
rezone shall contain a recital of all conditions imposed by the city council
and notice of automatic reversion if such conditions and the required
commencement of construction are not completely fulfilled, executed and
satisfied within the required time frame. (Ord. 1997-55, 11-19-1997)
11-6-070: DISAPPROVAL OF PROPOSED AMENDMENT:
Disapproval of an application to amend this title or zoning map shall preclude
the filing of another application to amend such ordinances or map regarding the
same property, or any portion thereof, to the same zone classification within
one year of the date of the final disapproval of the application by the city
council, unless the planning commission determines that there has been a
substantial change in the circumstances to merit consideration of a second
application prior to the expiration of such time. (Ord. 1997-55, 11-19-1997)
CHAPTER 7
SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-7-010: Purpose
11-7-020: Applicability
11-7-030: Application
11-7-040: Site Development Plan Review Process
11-7-050: Standards For Development Of A One-Family Or Two-Family Dwelling On
An Individual Lot
11-7-060: Standards For Building Additions, Site Modifications Or Change Of Use
For Permitted Uses On A Developed Site
11-7-070: Standards For Construction Of Multiple-Family Residential,
Commercial, Commercial Recreation Or Industrial Conditional Uses, Or Permitted
Uses On An Undeveloped Site
11-7-080: Off Site Improvements And Public Streets
11-7-090: Amendment Or Modifications
11-7-100: Compliance With The Site Plan
11-7-110: Final Plan Requirements
11-7-120: Appeal
11-7-010: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards for the
review of development applications to ensure that the general appearance,
interrelationships and functioning of buildings, structures and the
improvements upon the land shall be compatible and contribute to the stability
of land values, the encouragement and protection of investments, the
enhancement of the urban environment and streetscape, the preservation and
promotion of the City's unique characteristics and values, and the general
welfare of the community, while mitigating negative impacts upon adjacent
neighborhoods. It is not the purpose of this chapter that design should be so
rigidly controlled so as to stifle creativity or individual expression.
   B.   It is the intent of this chapter that the standards, as outlined, shall
be supplemented by other requirements of this title when additional review is
specified for projects such as a planned unit development, a planned dwelling
group, a conditional use permit or a development in the foothill zone. Wherever
the provisions of these various chapters conflict, the more restrictive
standards or provisions shall prevail. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-7-020: APPLICABILITY:
Site plan review and approval shall be required for:
   A.   All new developments on a previously undeveloped site;
   B.   Additions to existing structures;
   C.   Changes to a site which include expansion into a previously undeveloped
area of a site, addition or modification of parking lots, modification of
vehicular access points, modification of required landscaping, modifications
which may result in additional impermeable area causing an increase in the
volume of storm runoff, modification to existing drainage patterns, or the
addition of outside storage areas; or
   D.   Changes in use. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-7-030: APPLICATION:
Application for site plan review shall be made by the property owner, or an
authorized agent certified in writing by the property owner, by submitting to
the City Planner site plans, drawn to a standard scale, which is not less than
one inch equals forty feet (1" = 40'), showing lot configuration, dimensions
and north arrow, on a suggested sheet size of approximately twenty four inches
by thirty six inches (24" x 36"), but not less than eight and one-half inches
by eleven inches (81/2" x 11"), and including any or all of the specifications
outlined herein. The City Planner shall review the site plan to verify that the
minimum requirements are satisfied. If the application is not complete, or if
revisions or additions are necessary, it shall be returned to the applicant.
Building permits for conditional uses shall not be issued until the Planning
Commission has approved the use and the conditional use permit has been issued.
(Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-7-040: SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Submission: The applicant shall prepare and make a submission to the
City consistent with the standards contained in this chapter, the general plan
and other ordinances and resolutions. The applicant shall not engage in any
site development or building construction until the necessary approvals, as
outlined herein, have been obtained.
   B.   Referral To Entities: Proposed site plans shall be delivered by the
applicant to such City departments, special districts, governmental boards,
bureaus, utility companies and other agencies, which will need to provide
facilities and services to the site, for their information and comment. The
Planning Department is responsible for coordinating the comments received from
all public and private entities, and shall decide which agencies to refer
proposed site plans to.
   C.   Site Plan Review: The Planning Department shall review the site plan
for conformance with the standards outlined herein; for conformance with the
comprehensive plan and this title; for environmental impacts which may be
associated with the design; and shall process the site plan and reports as
provided in this chapter.
   D.   City Engineer, Public Works Director: The City Engineer and Public
Works Department shall review the site plan and make recommendations
concerning: flood control requirements; engineering requirements for street
widths, grades and alignments; sewer and water requirements; whether the
proposed public improvements conform to the requirements of this chapter and
other applicable ordinances; and shall be responsible for the approval and
inspection of all public improvements.
   E.   City Planner: The City Planner shall review all applications for
single- family and two-family dwellings, and all permitted uses not reviewed by
the Planning Commission. If desired, an applicant may request a review by the
Planning Commission of a permitted use. This provision is intended to resolve
conflicts or differences of opinion between the applicant and City staff
concerning the requirements or interpretation of this chapter.
   F.   Planning Commission: The Planning Commission shall review all
conditional uses. The Planning Commission shall also review all applications
for multiple-family residential, commercial, commercial recreation, office,
agricultural use or industrial permitted uses, which are subject to the
requirements of this chapter if the application meets one of the following
conditions: l) the application includes a structure that exceeds (30,000)
square feet in size, 2) the application includes a development area in excess
of 5 acres in size. The Planning Commission may, at its discretion, delegate
such review to the Planning Department. After adequate review, an application
may be approved, approved with conditions, continued for further study or
disapproved for the use and/or site plan.
   G.   Notification To Applicant: The applicant shall be notified within a
reasonable time after receipt of the application of the City’s decision. The
City may either issue a building permit, advise the applicant of the approval
of the application, or advise the applicant of additional information required
by the City in order to act upon the application.
   H.   Expiration and extension of site plan approval: The final approval of a
site plan shall become null and void unless a building permit and/or excavation
permit is issued for the project within (12) months after approval, or
conditional approval of the site plan by the City. The time period may be
extended up to twelve (12) months for good cause if the applicant delivers a
petition to the City in writing for an extension along with the payment of any
applicable fees before the expiration date of the site plan approval. Only one
extension of the site plan approval may be granted. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991;
amd. Ord. 2018-18, 5-15-2018; Ord. 2020-03, 2-18-2020; Ord. 2021-12, 5-4-2021)
11-7-050: STANDARDS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF A ONE-FAMILY OR TWO-FAMILY DWELLING ON
AN INDIVIDUAL LOT:
Applications for construction of a one-family or two-family dwelling on an
individual lot shall be accompanied by, and shall comply with, the following:
   A.   Application: A completed building permit application;
   B.   Site Development Plans: Two (2) sets of site development plans, which
include the following information:
      1.   Date, north arrow and appropriate scale to clearly show the detail
necessary to describe what is proposed. The drawing shall be accurate in terms
of scale and dimensions;
      2.   A title block showing the name, address and phone number of the
applicant and the designer, and the name (if applicable) and address of the
proposed project, and date of preparation. When required by the City, the
drawings shall be prepared and stamped by a registered engineer and/or
architect;
      3.   The location and width of existing and proposed abutting streets,
property lines, easements and holding strips;
      4.   The location of all existing and proposed structures on the property
and the location of existing structures on adjoining properties;
      5.   The location of existing fencing and significant existing trees and
shrubbery;
      6.   The location of off street parking, driveways and hard surfaced
areas; and
      7.   The location of existing and proposed curb, gutter and sidewalk, and
curb cuts.
   C.   Grading: Final grading of individual lots shall be performed in such a
way that excess water shall either be entirely contained on the site, directed
to an improved street, or directed to an approved drainage inlet, drainage
channel or drainage easement. Excess water shall not be allowed to drain onto
adjacent private property unless approved as part of an overall system, as
reflected in a subdivision approval or otherwise. At the discretion of the
city, a grading plan may be required, which shall include the existing and
proposed grades in contour intervals of two feet (2') or less as well as
intermediate spot elevations.
   D.   Foothill Development: Residential site development in the foothill
overlay districts shall comply with the provisions of chapter 11-30 of this
title.
   E.   Water Efficient Landscaping:
      1.   No more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the front and side yard
landscaped area may be lawn
      2.   No lawn or landscaping requiring overhead spray irrigation may be
planted in any parkstrip or area less than eight feet (8') wide. Where
vegetation requiring irrigation is used outside of approved lawn areas, drip
irrigation equipped with a pressure regulator and filter shall be used.
      3.   Additional requirements outlined in subsection
11-7-070D shall only apply to one-family or two-family dwellings on an
individual lot which are part of a PUD or subdivision with common open space.
One and two-family dwellings on an individual lot are encouraged to follow the
water wise requirements of
11-7-070D. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991; amd. Ord. 2022-14, 2-1-2022; Ord. 2023-39,
6-20-2023)
11-7-060: STANDARDS FOR BUILDING ADDITIONS, SITE MODIFICATIONS OR CHANGE OF USE
FOR PERMITTED USES ON A DEVELOPED SITE:
Applications for building additions, site modifications, or changes in use for
permitted uses, on a developed site shall include all applicable information
specified in section
11-7-050 of this chapter and, in addition, shall be accompanied by, and shall
comply with, the following:
   A.   Application; Fee: A completed permitted use application and fee, as
well as a building permit application, if applicable, shall be submitted.
   B.   Site Development Plans: The application shall be accompanied by three
(3) sets of site development plans. Additional sets of plans may be required
depending on the number of reviewing agencies involved.
   C.   Information Required: Site development plans shall include the
following information:
      1.   A title block showing the name, address and phone number of the
applicant and the designer, the name and address of the proposed project (if
applicable), and the date of preparation. When required by the city, the
drawings shall be prepared and stamped by a registered engineer and/or
architect;
      2.   The location and width of existing and proposed abutting streets,
property lines, easements and holding strips;
      3.   The location of all existing and proposed structures on the property
and the location of existing structures on adjoining properties. If building
additions are proposed, architectural plans and elevations shall be included,
which indicate the materials and colors to be used. Building additions shall be
architecturally integrated with the existing building in terms of design and
materials;
      4.   The location of existing fencing and landscaping. If landscaping is
disturbed or displaced, a landscape plan shall be submitted showing
rehabilitation of disturbed areas and/or establishment of landscaping elsewhere
on the site that is at least equal to the amount displaced. Fencing and/or
landscaping, at least six feet (6') in height, shall be used to screen any
proposed service or storage areas;
      5.   The location of off street parking, driveways, loading facilities
and hard surfaced areas;
      6.   The location of existing and proposed curb, gutter and sidewalk, and
curb cuts. If property abuts a state highway, approval of the Utah state
department of transportation right of way engineer must be obtained for
location of curb, gutter and sidewalk. Location and number of curb entrances
must also be approved by the Utah department of transportation. Necessary
improvements shall be installed at the applicant's expense;
      7.   If the site is modified to the extent that there is a significant
impact on the existing storm drainage system, plans shall be submitted which
illustrate how this impact will be mitigated and a storm drainage fee may be
assessed. Necessary improvements shall be installed at the applicant's expense;
      8.   The location, height and size of proposed signs and lighting; and
      9.   Water efficient landscaping requirements as outlined in subsection
11-7-70D shall apply to the following:
         a.   Any multiple-family residential, commercial, or industrial site
where a proposed addition increases the footprint of buildings within the
development by thirty percent (30%) or more.
         b.   Property modifications where thirty percent (30%) or more of the
development site less any buildings is undergoing change (i.e. parking lot
addition or alteration). (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991; amd. Ord. 2022-14, 2-1-2022)
11-7-070: STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL,
COMMERCIAL, COMMERCIAL RECREATION OR INDUSTRIAL CONDITIONAL USES, OR PERMITTED
USES ON AN UNDEVELOPED SITE:
Applications made pursuant to this section shall include all applicable
information specified in section
11-7-060 of this chapter and, in addition, shall be accompanied by, and shall
comply with, the following:
   A.   Application Form: A completed conditional use application form,
permitted use application form and/or building permit application, with
appropriate fees, shall be submitted.
   B.   Development Plans: Three (3) sets of site development plans shall be
submitted for permitted uses and five (5) sets shall be submitted for
conditional uses. Additional sets of plans may be required depending on the
number of reviewing agencies involved.
   C.   Architectural Plans: Architectural plans shall include the following:
      1.   Architectural drawings, sketches, perspectives and/or exterior
elevations of proposed structures and an indication of the materials and colors
to be used. Include height of structures and indicate screening of roof based
mechanical equipment, parking, dumpsters, etc. All commercial, commercial
recreation and industrial developments shall be designed to include, as a part
of the exterior facade of buildings or as architectural elements in the
landscape, an element of “Farmington Rock”.
      2.   Plans shall illustrate the visual impact of the structures and the
location of the structures in relationship to each other, the adjacent
development and the neighborhood in general. Development shall be harmonious
and not negatively impact adjoining structures and neighborhoods. The developer
shall use design in screening features to mitigate the visual effect of
contrast in height, mass and scale, etc.
      3.   Plans shall illustrate the relationship between the exterior design
of the proposed structures, adjacent structures and the neighborhood in
general. Exterior design and materials of the project shall be compatible with,
and shall not detract from, that of structures in the neighborhood.
   D.   Landscaping Plan: A landscaping plan shall be submitted which
illustrates proposed landscaping and fencing in enough detail that the
screening and aesthetic qualities of the landscaping can be effectively
reviewed by the planning commission. All required landscape plans shall
include:
      1.   Percent Of Site To Be Landscaped: A minimum of forty percent (40%)
of a multiple-family residential site, fifteen percent (15%) of a commercial
site and five percent (5%) of an industrial site shall be landscaped. The
required landscape area may include natural open space as determined by the
planning commission. Where landscape areas are to be improved, items D2 through
D7 of this section shall apply. Upon a request by the applicant, landscaping
percentages may be reduced if the planning commission finds that, due to the
size of the parcel, the amount of landscaping required is unreasonable and
cannot be located in useful locations. The planning commission may also require
an increase in landscaping as a requirement for conditional use approval if it
is determined that such an increase is necessary to help mitigate some aspect
of a proposed use;
      2.   A plant legend specifying the total number of each type of plant,
each plant’s common name and size of plants at time of installation;
      3.   Location of individual trees, shrubs, ground covers and other
planting areas showing approximate distances from roadways, sidewalks and
buildings. The retention of healthy existing trees and other vegetation is
strongly encouraged;
      4.   Description and location of any proposed ornamental landscaping
elements (colored and crushed rock, gravel, large boulders, etc.);
      5.   Description, location and dimensions of fences and landscaping
protective devices;
      6.   All landscaped areas shall be provided with an automatic irrigation
system that will maintain the living material in a good and healthy condition;
      7.   Water Efficient Landscaping:
         a.    Commercial/Office/Institutional/Industrial/Multi-Family/Mixed-
Use/ Townhome/Community Use/PUD And Common Open Space Development Requirements:
            (1)   Drip irrigation shall be used outside of lawn areas. Drip
irrigation shall be equipped with pressure regulator, filter, etc.
            (2)   Irrigation valves shall irrigate landscapes with similar
site, slope, and plant materials with similar water needs (lawn and planting
beds shall be irrigated on separate valves). No drip irrigation and overhead
spray irrigation are permitted on the same irrigation valve. No combination of
differing sprinkler heads is permitted on the same irrigation valve.
            (3)   A WaterSense labeled smart irrigation controller, equipped
with rain delay, shall be installed to operate the automatic pressure
irrigation system.
            (4)   A minimum of three inches (3") of cover such as rock or mulch
is required in planted beds.
            (5)   No lawns shall be permitted in park strips, on slopes greater
than twenty five percent (25%), parking landscapes and buffer areas, or in
areas less than eight feet (8') wide.
            (6)   Lawn shall not to exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the total
landscaped area.
               (A)   Exception: Lawn area shall not exceed thirty five percent
(35%) of the total landscaped area on one-family or two-family residential lots
which are part of a PUD or common open space subdivision.
               (B)   Exception: Designated passive or active recreational areas
are an exception to the amount of allowed lawn. The Zoning Administrator may
approve up to an additional twenty five percent (25%) lawn above the applicable
fifteen percent (15%) or thirty five percent (35%) where an applicant has
demonstrated usable lawn area. Additional lawn may be approved above the limits
allotted to the Zoning Administrator as a special exception by the Planning
Commission.
            (7)   Governing Documents: Any portion of a governing document,
such as bylaws, operating rules, covenants, conditions, and restrictions that
govern the operation of a common interest development, is void and
unenforceable if it:
               (A)   Requires the use of any uniform plant material requiring
overhead spray irrigation in landscape areas less than eight feet (8') wide or
require any uniform plant material requiring overhead spray irrigation in other
areas that exceed thirty five percent (35%) of the landscaped area; or
               (B)   Prohibits, or includes conditions that have the effect of
prohibiting, the use of water-conserving plants as a group; or
               (C)   Has the effect of prohibiting or restricting compliance
with this section or other water conservation measures.
   E.   Lighting Plan: For developments for which outdoor lighting is proposed,
lighting plans shall be required which illustrate the type and location of
lighting proposed for structures, walkways and parking lots. Lighting shall be
designed, located and directed so as to eliminate glare and minimize reflection
of light into neighboring properties.
   F.   Utility Locations:
      1.   Site plans shall clearly show the locations of refuse containers,
service yards, storage areas and utility installations.
      2.   Locations of refuse containers shall be sufficiently sized for both
regular waste containers and recycling containers.
   G.   Screening: Screening shall be provided in the following situations and
according to the following standards:
      1.   The site plans shall indicate the location, height, design and
materials of walls, fences, hedges and other buffers. These features shall be
used to screen or conceal storage areas (including refuse containers), service
yards, utility installations or other unsightly features, to minimize any
negative impacts on adjacent property, and to create a harmonious streetscape,
as determined by the planning commission at that time when a site plan
application is reviewed.
      2.   A six foot (6') high masonry fence and a ten foot (10') buffer zone
with sufficient plantings of trees and shrubs to provide adequate suppression
of sound and light, as approved by the city planner, shall be constructed
between a residential property line or zone boundary and any parking area, road
or driveway of a proposed use determined to be of a commercial, office or
institutional nature. All fences shall be engineered to withstand wind loads up
to one hundred fifty (150) miles per hour and shall be approved by the city
engineer. The planning commission may consider an alternative fence on its own
initiative or upon petition by affected property owners.
      3.   An eight foot (8') masonry fence and a thirty foot (30') buffer zone
with sufficient plantings of trees and shrubs to provide adequate suppression
of sound and light, as approved by the city planner, shall be constructed
between a residential property line or zone boundary and any parking area, road
or driveway of a proposed use determined to be of an industrial nature. All
fences shall be engineered to withstand wind loads up to one hundred fifty
(150) miles per hour and shall be approved by the city engineer. The planning
commission may consider an alternative fence on its own initiative or upon
petition by affected property owners.
      4.   Where visual barrier fencing containing wood, metal, plastic or
vinyl strips is either proposed by the applicant or required by the city, such
strips shall be properly secured. Fences shall be constructed so that
significant variation in top line, bottom line and/or height does not occur due
to erratic grading of the site.
      5.   Where a parking lot is located across a street from a residential
use or residential zone (except residential uses in mixed use zones), a
landscaped berm, three feet (3’) in height with a slope ratio not exceeding one
vertical foot for each three feet (3') of horizontal distance, shall be
provided within the required setback along the street. The height of the berm
shall be measured from the top of the parking lot curb.
   H.   Sign Plan: Sign plans shall indicate the location, height and
appearance of signs upon the site and the effects upon parking, ingress and
egress, and adjacent properties. Such signs shall be compatible with the
character of the neighborhood.
   I.   Grading, Drainage Plans: Grading and drainage plans shall include the
following:
      1.   Plans shall clearly delineate the design and adequacy of the
proposed stormwater drainage system and the impact of the project on the
existing system. All impacts shall be mitigated at the developer’s expense by
project design, off site improvements and/or impact fees;
      2.   Plans shall be prepared by a registered civil engineer and shall be
reviewed and approved by the city engineer prior to final approval;
      3.   The existing and proposed grades shall be indicated in contour
intervals of two feet (2') or less;
      4.   The location and design of the surface and subsurface stormwater
drainage system shall be shown, including locations and calculations for on
site detention;
      5.   Waterways and ditches on and within fifty feet (50') of the property
shall be shown. The relocation, covering or fencing of irrigation ditches,
drainage channels and similar facilities shall be approved in writing by the
appropriate water master and/or water users prior to issuance of a building
permit;
      6.   Plans shall delineate all areas within 100-year floodplains as
designated by the federal emergency management agency and the city storm
drainage master plan; and
      7.   A soils report shall accompany the grading and drainage plan and
shall include, among other things, a detailed water table analysis.
Developments which are five (5) acres or larger shall submit a plan for erosion
and sediment control which is consistent with current federal NPDES
regulations.
   J.   Transportation, Circulation Plans: Transportation and circulation plans
shall include the following:
      1.   The impact of the project on the traffic conditions of the abutting
streets. A traffic impact study may be required by the city and shall be
prepared by an engineer specializing in traffic analysis. The traffic study
shall include an analysis of on site circulation, capacities of existing
streets, number of additional trips which will be generated, origin/destination
studies and peak traffic volumes and movements. All negative impacts shall be
mitigated at the developer’s expense and shall be approved by the city
engineer;
      2.   The location of ingress, egress, internal traffic circulation, off
street parking and loading facilities, pedestrianways, etc., and their
interrelationship. Said interrelationship shall not compromise but protect the
safety and convenience of occupants of the proposed project and neighborhood.
The relationship shall also enhance the appearance of the project while
mitigating adverse effects of noise and pollution;
      3.   The location, existing width and, if applicable, proposed widening
of all rights of way in or adjacent to the subject property. All driveways and
intersections within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the property shall also
be shown;
      4.   Compliance with the off street parking and loading facilities
standards within chapter 32 of this title;
      5.   When a project requires the construction and/or dedication of a
public street, the site plan application shall also include drawings for all
utilities and other public improvements. The design and construction of these
improvements shall be in compliance with standards established by the city.
Plans shall be prepared by a registered civil engineer and shall be reviewed
and approved by the city engineer prior to final approval.
      6.   Reciprocal Access: Provisions for reciprocal access and common
driveways are required between all abutting developments in planned commercial
centers and between abutting, separately owned commercial developments, unless
not found to be practical by the Director in consultation with the City
Engineer. This will provide for a continuous flow of vehicles from one parking
lot to another and prevent the need for unnecessary ingress and egress to the
public street.
   K.   Water, Sewer Plans: Water and sewer plans shall include the following:
      1.   Plans shall illustrate the impact of the proposed project on the
water and sewer system in the city. Negative impact shall be mitigated at the
developer’s expense. Unacceptable and unmitigated negative impacts are grounds
for denial;
      2.   Plans shall show the location and size of all existing or proposed
sewer lines, water lines and fire hydrants that will provide service to the
project and which are necessary to protect existing uses in the zone and to
provide for the orderly development of land.
   L.   General Information: The following general information shall also be
required, if applicable:
      1.   The site plan shall include a table indicating the total area of the
site and the percentage of that total which is occupied by structures, by
parking and service areas, and by landscaping. For multiple-family residential
developments, the table shall also include the proposed density in terms of the
number of dwelling units per acre;
      2.   If a project is to be developed in phases, phasing lines shall be
shown on the plans. Phased areas shall be carefully planned so that each phase
is capable of functioning independently;
      3.   Any other information, plans or modifications specifically required
by the following departments, divisions or agencies shall be attached or
incorporated into the final plans:
         a.   Farmington City building inspection department, fire department,
public works department, city engineer, police department, planning department
or city attorney;
         b.   County agencies;
         c.   State agencies;
         d.   Pressure irrigation or sewer districts;
         e.   School district; or
         f.   Public utilities;
      4.   Any additional plans or information specifically required by the
planning commission in conjunction with a conditional use application;
      5.   Any other information, exhibits or models that the applicant deems
to be pertinent. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991; amd. Ord. 2016-07, 2-16-2016; Ord.
2020-23, 10-6-2020; Ord. 2021-01, 1-19-2021; Ord. 2022-14, 2-1-2022; Ord. 2023-
04, 1-17-2023)
11-7-080: OFF SITE IMPROVEMENTS AND PUBLIC STREETS:
   A.   Requirements: The developer of a site requiring site plan approval
shall dedicate to the city and improve all streets within or adjacent to the
proposed development which are necessary to serve the vehicular and pedestrian
needs of that development. Minimum improvements shall include high back curb,
gutter and sidewalk along the entire property line which abuts any public
street. These off site improvements shall comply with the minimum requirements
for construction of public improvements as established by the city.
   B.   Adjustments: Where, because of topographical or other conditions
peculiar to the site, a departure may be made from the requirements of this
section without destroying the intent of such requirements, and after receiving
a recommendation from the city engineer and the planning commission, the city
council may approve an adjustment in street cross section standards, street
width and right of way side treatment standards, or may waive the requirement
for sidewalks herein and elsewhere in this title as set forth in section
12-8-100 of this code.
   C.   State Rights Of Way: Any improvement or modifications within state
rights of way shall require the approval of the Utah state department of
transportation.
   D.   Agreement For Delay: If, after a favorable recommendation by the city
engineer, and in the judgment of the planning commission, the immediate
installation of public improvements is not in the best interest of the area,
the applicant may be permitted to execute an agreement, in a form acceptable to
the city attorney, delaying the installation of any or all of the public
improvements required pursuant to this title. This agreement shall be recorded
in the office of the Davis County recorder. This agreement shall run with the
land and shall be binding on the original applicants, their heirs, successors
and assigns. (Ord. 2009-11, 2-17-2009)
11-7-090: AMENDMENT OR MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Request: Modifications to an approved site plan approval may be granted
when it can be determined that such changes or modifications are necessary or
desirable to accommodate special circumstances related to the location, siting
or implementation of the approved development. The request for amendment shall
be made in writing and documented on the site plan of the project. Where, after
favorable review by the city engineer, building inspector and planning staff,
the staff finds such modifications are so insignificant and minor as not to
measurably change the approved site plan approval or the intent of conditions
that may have been imposed, the city planner shall review and approve the
modifications. Modifications so approved by the city planner shall be reported
at the next planning commission meeting. Amendments which are determined to
constitute a significant change to the site plan, or where there is not
unanimous staff approval, shall be heard by the planning commission.
   B.   Record: Once revisions are approved, they shall be clearly marked and
dated on the approved site plan and kept on file in the office of the planning
department. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-7-100: COMPLIANCE WITH THE SITE PLAN:
The building official and city planner shall ensure that development is
undertaken and completed in compliance with the approved site plan and any
conditions pertaining thereto. Any required on site or off site improvements
shall be installed or bonded for as specified in section
11-4-070 of this title. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-7-110: FINAL PLAN REQUIREMENTS:
The following information shall be required after a permitted or conditional
use is approved, and must be received by the planning department prior to
issuance of any building permits:
   A.   Revised site plans incorporating all recommendations and requirements
established during the preliminary review;
   B.   Final landscape plans and details;
   C.   Final building construction plans and details;
   D.   Complete engineering plans, including final construction drawings for
streets, utilities, grading and storm drainage; and
   E.   All required improvements shall be installed or bonded for as required
by section
11-4-070 of this title. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-7-120: APPEAL:
Any decision made in administration of this chapter may be appealed as outlined
in section
11-4-090 of this title. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
CHAPTER 8
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
11-8-010: Purpose And Intent
11-8-020: Application
11-8-030: Application Review
11-8-040: Public Hearing
11-8-050: Conditional Use Standards
11-8-060: Amendment Or Modification Of A Conditional Use
11-8-070: Planning Commission Action
11-8-080: Notice Of Planning Commission Action
11-8-090: Issuance Of Conditional Use Permit And Building Permit
11-8-100: Compliance With Conditional Use Permit Before Issuance Of Certificate
Of Occupancy
11-8-110: Expiration
11-8-120: Revocations
11-8-130: Appeal
11-8-010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Specified: The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for
certain land uses which, because of their unique characteristics or potential
impacts on the city, surrounding residential neighborhoods or other adjacent
land uses, may not be compatible in some areas, or may be compatible only if
certain conditions are required which mitigate or eliminate the detrimental
impacts. The standards for the issuance of a conditional use permit are
established to ensure compatibility with surrounding land uses, conformity with
the Farmington City comprehensive plan, and the protection, preservation and
promotion of the public interest, health, safety, convenience, comfort,
prosperity and general welfare.
   B.   Site Development Standards: To help achieve this purpose, any
conditional use application which includes new development on a previously
undeveloped site, additions to existing structures, changes to a developed site
or a change in use, shall conform to the site development standards contained
in chapter 7 of this title. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-8-020: APPLICATION:
   A.   Requirements: Application for a conditional use permit shall be filed
with the city planner. The application shall be signed by the property owner or
his authorized agent and shall be accompanied by the following:
      1.   Five (5) sets of the site development plans required by section
11-7-070 of this title;
      2.   A fee as specified in the current fee schedule;
      3.   The applicant shall provide to the planning department the names and
addresses of all property owners within three hundred feet (300') from the
boundary of the subject property as listed in the current records of the Davis
County recorder.
   B.   Consideration: After all the information required by this section is
received by the planning department, the application may be placed on an agenda
for consideration by the planning commission. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-8-030: APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   Departmental Review:
      1.   Documents required for the application shall be delivered by the
applicant to those departments and entities designated by the planning
department, which may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Farmington City building inspection department, fire department,
public works department, city engineer, police department, planning department
or city attorney;
         b.   County agencies;
         c.   Utah department of transportation and other state agencies;
         d.   Pressure irrigation districts, sewer districts or other special
districts in which the property is located;
         e.   School districts; or
         f.   Public utilities.
      2.   All information and comments received from these departments and
entities shall be returned to the planning department.
   B.   Planning Department Review: The planning department shall review each
application for conformance to the standards outlined in this chapter; for
conformance with the comprehensive plan and all applicable city ordinances; for
conformance with good planning practice; for environmental impacts which may be
associated with the site development; and shall present its recommendations to
the planning commission.
   C.   Public Works, Engineer Review: The public works department and city
engineer shall review and make comments concerning flood control requirements;
engineering requirements for street widths, grades and alignments; whether the
proposed public improvements conform to sound engineering practice and design
standards established by the city; and shall be responsible for the approval
and inspection of all public improvements. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-8-040: PUBLIC HEARING:
The planning commission shall hold a public hearing on all conditional use
applications. Notice of public hearings shall be given as required by law and
according to policies established by the commission. The planning commission
shall take action on the application within a reasonable time after the filing
of a complete application. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-8-050: CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS:
Conditional use applications shall be reviewed in accordance with, and shall
conform to, all of the following standards:
   A.   Necessity: The proposed use of the particular location is necessary or
desirable to provide a service or facility which will contribute to the general
well being of the community;
   B.   Compliance: The proposed use shall comply with the regulations and
conditions in this title for such use;
   C.   Comprehensive Plan: The proposed use shall conform to the goals,
policies and governing principles of the comprehensive plan for Farmington
City;
   D.   Compatibility: The proposed use shall be compatible with the character
of the site, adjacent properties, surrounding neighborhoods and other existing
and proposed development;
   E.   Adequate Improvements: Adequate utilities, transportation access,
drainage, parking and loading space, lighting, screening, landscaping and open
space, fire protection, and safe and convenient pedestrian and vehicular
circulation are available or may be provided; and
   F.   Use Not Detrimental: Such use shall not, under the circumstances of the
particular case, be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of
persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
improvements in the vicinity. A proposed use shall be considered detrimental:
      1.   If it will cause unreasonable risks to the safety of persons or
property because of vehicular traffic or parking, large gatherings of people,
or other causes;
      2.   If it will unreasonably interfere with the lawful use of surrounding
property; or
      3.   If it will create a need for essential municipal services which
cannot be reasonably met. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-8-060: AMENDMENT OR MODIFICATION OF A CONDITIONAL USE:
Once granted, a conditional use shall not be enlarged, changed, extended,
increased in intensity or relocated unless a new conditional use application is
made and approved by the planning commission, except as provided below:
   A.   Necessity: Modifications to an approved conditional use permit may only
be granted when it can be determined that such changes or modifications are
necessary to accommodate special circumstances related to the location, siting
or implementations of the approved development and where such modifications are
found to be so insignificant and minor so as not to measurably change the
approved conditional use permit or the intent of conditions that may have been
imposed. The request for amendment shall be made in writing and documented on
the site plan of the project.
   B.   Request: The applicant may specifically request that the conditional
use permit be modified by enlarging or diminishing the size of the structure
(s), shifting the location of the structure(s), or changing the use to a
different permitted use in the underlying zone.
   C.   Review: The city planner may review and approve requests for
modification of a conditional use permit. Amendment requests which are
determined to constitute a significant change to the approved use shall be
heard by the planning commission. A revised conditional use permit shall be
filed by the city planner and replace the previously approved permit. (Ord.
1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-8-070: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Public Hearing: At the public hearing, testimony may be given by the
applicant and all other persons either in support or opposition to the
application. After consideration of the testimony, the application, and all
other evidence presented, the planning commission may approve the application,
approve the application with conditions, continue the application to a
subsequent meeting, or disapprove the application.
   B.   Conditions Attached: Appropriate conditions may be attached to any
approval where, and to the extent that, the planning commission finds that the
imposition of such conditions will directly mitigate or eliminate some impact
created by the proposed use which violates the intent of this chapter and
title.
   C.   Conditions Documented: All conditions shall be entered into the minutes
of the planning commission and on the conditional use permit. Except as
specified in section
11-8-110 of this chapter, all conditions shall run with the land, and shall be
binding on the original applicants, their heirs, successors and assigns. (Ord.
1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-8-080: NOTICE OF PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
Within a reasonable time following the public hearing, the applicant shall be
notified, by letter, of the planning commission's action. If the application is
approved, the action letter shall outline conditions attached to the approval,
if any, the procedures to be followed prior to obtaining a business license or
building permit, and the expiration date of the approval. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-
1991)
11-8-090: ISSUANCE OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT AND BUILDING PERMIT:
A building permit shall not be issued for any building or structure requiring a
conditional use permit until the permit is approved by the planning commission.
The city planner shall review and approve the final plans and, if all
conditions are met, may sign and issue the conditional use permit on behalf of
the planning commission and may recommend approval of the building permit.
(Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-8-100: COMPLIANCE WITH CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT BEFORE ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE
OF OCCUPANCY:
The building official shall not issue a certificate of occupancy unless the
land and/or structures for which the certificate is requested is in full
compliance with the conditions of the conditional use permit. The certificate
shall be reviewed and approved by the zoning administrator. The bonding
requirements as outlined in section
11-4-070 of this title shall apply to all conditional uses. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-
17-1991)
11-8-110: EXPIRATION:
   A.   Specified: Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use
permit within a period of twelve (12) months from the date of planning
commission approval, the permit shall expire. Substantial action shall be
demonstrated by submitting final plans for approval and obtaining, and
maintaining, a current building permit. If construction is not proposed as an
element of the conditional use, a business license shall be obtained to satisfy
this requirement.
   B.   Extension: If the conditional use permit is to expire pursuant to
subsection A of this section, a request for extension may be filed with the
planning department not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration
date. The original conditional use approval shall remain valid until the
request for extension is acted upon by the planning commission. Failure to
request the extension in a timely manner shall cause a conditional use permit
to expire without further notice. A new conditional use application shall be
requested prior to any reinstatement of the use.
   C.   Additional Extension: The planning commission for reasonable cause may,
after evaluating the applicant's progress in the previous year and after
considering the planning department's recommendation, grant an extension of up
to one year on the conditional use permit.
   D.   Termination: If the approved use or activity should cease for any
reason for a continuous period of one year or more, the conditional use permit
shall automatically terminate without notice. Application for, and approval of,
a new conditional use shall be required prior to any subsequent reinstatement
of the use. (Ord. 2000-41, 10-18-2000)
11-8-120: REVOCATIONS:
   A.   Authorized: Any violation of a conditional use permit, any conditions
thereof or any requirement of this title shall be grounds for the review and
possible revocation of a conditional use permit by the planning commission.
   B.   Hearing: The planning commission shall provide the property owner an
opportunity to be heard in a hearing following notice. Upon hearing, the
planning commission shall either sustain or revoke the permit. The planning
commission may grant a period in which the property may come into compliance
with the conditions of the conditional use permit. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
11-8-130: APPEAL:
Any decision made in administration of this chapter may be appealed as outlined
in section
11-4-090 of this title. (Ord. 1991-27, 7-17-1991)
CHAPTER 9
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
SECTION:
11-9-010: Establishment Of Zones
11-9-020: Zoning Map Amendments
11-9-030: Zoning Boundary Interpretation
11-9-040: Zoning Of Annexed Territory
11-9-050: Zone Requirements
11-9-010: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES:
Farmington City is hereby divided into the zones as shown on the official
zoning map, Farmington City, Utah, which, together with all notations,
references and other information shown thereon, is hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this title. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-9-020: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS:
If, in accordance with the provisions of chapter 6 of this title, changes are
made in zone boundaries or any other matter portrayed on the official zoning
map, such changes shall be entered on the map promptly after the amendment has
been approved by the city council, along with an entry giving the date and
ordinance number of the approved amendment. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-9-030: ZONING BOUNDARY INTERPRETATION:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various zones,
the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where the indicated boundaries on the zoning map are approximately
street, railroad or public or private rights of way, or alley lines, the
centerline of said rights of way shall be construed to be the zone boundaries.
   B.   Where the indicated boundaries are approximately lot lines, said lot
lines shall be construed to be the zone boundaries unless otherwise indicated.
   C.   Where the indicated boundaries are approximately canals, watercourses
or other clearly defined natural features, the centerlines of such features
shall be construed to be the zone boundaries unless otherwise indicated.
   D.   In the absence of any street, land survey, lot, canal, watercourse or
other natural feature, the zone boundary shall be determined by the use of
scale or measurement shown on the map.
   E.   Where uncertainty continues to exist, the zoning administrator shall
interpret the map, subject to appeal to the administrative hearing officer as
provided in chapter
3-7 of this code. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-9-040: ZONING OF ANNEXED TERRITORY:
All property hereafter annexed to Farmington City shall be automatically
classified in the A (agriculture) zone unless official action is taken at the
time of annexation to have it classified to a different zone. All regulations
of the A (agriculture) zone shall apply to such property unless and until
action is taken to classify the annexed property to a different zone. Any
zoning hearing, whether held at the time of annexation or at a later date,
shall conform to the requirements of chapter 6 of this title. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-
14-1986; amd. 2016 Code)
11-9-050: ZONE REQUIREMENTS:
The use of all real property within the corporate limits of the city shall be
limited and restricted as follows:
   A.   Use Of Land: No land shall be used or occupied except as specifically
permitted in the regulations for the zone in which it is located. Such uses
shall either be a use by right, a conditional use or an accessory use.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: The requirements set by this title within each
zone shall be the minimum requirements and shall apply uniformly to each class
or kind of structure or land.
   C.   Supplementary Regulations: In addition to the specific requirements of
each zone, the user of this title should consult chapter 28, "Supplementary And
Qualifying Regulations", of this title. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
CHAPTER 10
AGRICULTURAL ZONES
SECTION:
11-10-010: Purpose
11-10-020: Schedule Of Uses
11-10-030: Conservation Subdivision Options
11-10-040: Lot Area, Width, And Setback Standards
11-10-050: Maximum Building Height
11-10-060: Site Development Standards
11-10-010: PURPOSE:
   A.   The AA, A and AE Zones are intended to provide areas for the keeping of
farm animals and fowl in conjunction with single- family dwelling units to an
extent consistent with said development and in proportion to the amount of land
area provided for this purpose.
   B.   The AE Zone is expressly established to accommodate residential
developments which are oriented to a lifestyle that includes farming which is
generally noncommercial. To accomplish this purpose, this chapter includes
provisions which encourage the design of residential communities to include
noncommercial stables, training areas and equestrian trails as part of the
development.
   C.   Property in the AA and A Zones is intended to be used primarily for
commercial agriculture, farming and large estate parcels for residential
living. Additionally, the AA Zone is created to apply to environmentally
sensitive areas, such as floodplains, wetlands, debris flow areas, areas within
one hundred feet (100') of a stream channel, all land above an elevation of
five thousand two hundred feet (5,200') above sea level, all land below an
elevation of four thousand two hundred eighteen feet (4,218') above sea level.
(Ord. 1999-17, 4-21-1999)
   D.   All lands within agricultural zones are intended, to some extent, for
either private or commercial agricultural production, farming, protection of
environmentally sensitive areas and/or open space. Owners, occupants and users
of these properties, or neighboring properties, may be subjected to
inconvenience, discomfort and the possibility of injury to property and health
arising from normal and accepted agricultural practices and operations,
including, but not limited to, noise, odors, dust, the operation of machinery,
including crop dusting aircraft, the storage and disposal of manure, and the
application of fertilizers, soil amendments, herbicides and pesticides. Owners,
occupants and users of these properties, or neighboring properties, should be
prepared to accept such inconveniences, discomfort and possibility of injury
from normal agricultural operations and are hereby put on official notice that
Utah Code Annotated section 78B-6-1104, as amended, may bar them from obtaining
a legal judgment against such normal agricultural operations. (Ord. 1999-17, 4-
21-1999; amd. 2016 Code)
11-10-020: SCHEDULE OF USES:
The following table identifies permitted uses by the letter “P” and conditional
uses by the letter “C”. The letter “X” indicates that the use is not allowed.
Uses not listed shall not be allowed, except as provided in subsection 11-4-
050F of this title:
Use Agricultural Zones
    AA A AE
Use                                                         Agricultural Zones
                                                            AA A AE
Accessory dwelling unit                                     P  P P
Accessory living quarters                                   C  X X
Agriculture                                                 P  P P
Boarding kennel                                             X  C X
Class A animals (small animals)                             P  P P
Class B animals (large animals)                             P  P P
Class C animals (commercial farming)                        P  P C
Class D animals (dangerous animals)                         X  X X
Daycare, preschool (16 students or less)                    X  C C
Fruit and vegetable stands for sale of produce grown on the P  P P
premises
Home occupations complying with provisions of the home
occupation chapter of this title, except as specified in    P  P P
section
11-35-040 of this title
Home occupations specified in section                       C  C C
11-35-040 of this title
Internal accessory dwelling unit                            P  P P
Public school                                               X  C C
Public uses                                                 X  C C
Public utility installations (not including lines and       C  C C
rights-of-way)
Quasi-public uses                                           X  C C
Radio, television and telephone transmission and relay
towers and facilities, except as specified in section       C  C C
11-28-190 of this title
Residential facilities for the elderly                      X  C C
Residential facilities for the disabled                     P  P P
Signs complying with title 15 of this Code                  P  P P
Single-family dwelling                                      P  P P
Sportsman’s kennel (3 to 5 dogs for noncommercial use)    C  C C
Trails and parks                                            C  C C
Uses customarily accessory to a listed conditional use      C  C C
Uses customarily accessory to a listed permitted use        P  P P
Veterinary clinic                                           C  C C
 
(Ord. 2017-13, 5-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2020–7, 5-5-2020; Ord. 2021-25, 9-21-2021;
Ord. 2022-62, 12-6-2022; Ord. 2023-13, 3-14-2023; Ord. 2023-40, 6-20-2023)
11-10-030: CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION OPTIONS:
Residential subdivisions within agricultural zones greater than five (5) acres
in size, or located in the Conservation Subdivision Overlay Zone, as described
on the Farmington City zoning map, may be developed in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 12 of this title providing innovative and flexible
subdivision design options. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-10-040: LOT AREA, WIDTH, AND SETBACK STANDARDS:
   A.   Conventional Standards: The following shall be the minimum lot areas,
widths and main building setbacks in agricultural zones:
 
Zone Lot Area Lot Width       Front Side                   Side Corner Rear
              Interior Corner
AA   10 acre  150'     160'   40'   15' minimum, total 30' 30'         40'
A    2 acre   100'     110'   30'   10' minimum, total 24' 25'         30'
AE   1 acre   100'     110'   30'   10' minimum, total 24' 25'         30'
*   Buildings shall not be built over utility easements that may run along
the side and rear property lines, unless an exception is provided from the
zoning administrator with the consent of the City's Development Review
Committee and other applicable utility providers in writing.
 
   B.   Additional Lot Alternatives And Standards:
      1.   Alternatives:
         a.   Open Space: As an incentive for a subdivider to provide open
space, the City, at its discretion, may approve a transfer of development right
(TDR) or conservation subdivision as follows:
            (1)   Additional lots are those the City approves in exchange for a
TDR as set forth in section
11-28-240 of this title; or in exchange for which the City obtains improved or
unimproved land in fee title, or easement, for public purposes, such as parks,
trails, detention basins, etc. The value of which, and the total number of lots
related thereto, shall be determined by the City at its sole discretion as part
of the subdivision process. Any applicant seeking additional lots under this
section must provide a subdivision yield plan as defined in
Chapter 2 of this title consistent with the underlying zone and the
conventional subdivision standards within that zone to establish the base
number of lots allowed prior to a request for additional lots, and the yield
plan must also conform to subsections
11-12-070A and B of this title.
            (2)   Additional lots under this section may also be available for
subdivisions consisting of five (5) acres or more, or for subdivisions located
in the Conservation Subdivision Overlay Zone as set forth in Chapter 12 of the
title “Conservation Subdivision (CS) Overlay Zone And Development Standards”;
or
         b.   Moderate Income Housing: The City may approve a smaller lot size
as set forth in the following table which will result in additional lots than
what is conventionally allowed in the underlying zone as an incentive to a
subdivider to provide moderate income housing.
 
Zone Lot Area
AA   5 acres
A    1 acre
AE   ½ acre
 
            (1)   Minimum Requirement: Subdividers must provide or set aside
lots (or dwelling units at the option of the City) equal in number to at least
ten percent (10%) of the total number of lots approved for the subdivision for
moderate income housing subject to recording a deed restriction(s) to ensure
the required number of lots or units are available for a qualifying moderate
income household; unless, at the sole discretion of, and by agreement with the
City, the subdivider provides:
            (a)   A fee in lieu thereof determined in consideration of factors
set forth in Section 11-28-270 of this Title;
            (b)   Preserve an existing on-site historic resource (standards for
historic resources are set forth in Chapter 11-39 of this Title); or
            (c)   Some other public benefit; or
            (d)   A combination of (a), (b), and/or (c) above.
      2.   Alternate Standards:
         a.   Following the subdivision yield plan defined in Chapter
11-2 and using the minimum standards of subsection A to establish a maximum
number of lots, a subdivider may alter the lot area, width, setback, and other
dimensional requirements of lots within a subdivision using standards set forth
in subsection
11-12-070C.
         b.   Lot area, width, setback, and other dimensional requirements for
additional lots may meet such standards set forth in Chapter
12 of this title, but the number of lots in the subdivision cannot exceed the
total number of lots resulting from the respective yield plan identified in
section
11-12-070.
   C.   Lot Coverage. The gross area of a lot covered by the main building,
accessory buildings and other structures shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Lots Less than 0.5 Acres in Area. The coverage and size requirements
set forth in Chapter
11 of this title shall apply.
      2.   Lots Equal to or Greater than 0.5 acres in Area. A coverage base of
6,000 square feet plus one square foot of additional coverage for every eight
(8) square feet of gross lot area more than 0.5 acres (or 21,780 square feet),
but the base plus additional coverage shall not exceed 20,000 square feet. For
illustrative purposes, the table below shows a few of the many possible
coverage outcomes on the continuum between 6,000 and 20,000 square feet.
 
Gross Lot Area Acres 0.5   1.0   1.5    2.0    2.5    3.0
Coverage Area (S.F.)
 Base               6,000 6,000 6,000  6,000  6,000  6,000
 Additional *       0     2,750 5,500  8,250  11,000 13,750
 Total              6,000 8,750 11,500 14,250 17,000 19,750
*   Additional Coverage = One S.F. coverage for every 8 S.F. of gross
lot area over 21,780 S.F. or 0.5 acres
 
   D.   Area Required For Class B Animals: Not more than two (2) horses or
cows, or four (4) sheep, goats, pigs or similar size animals shall be kept on a
one- half (1/2) acre lot. For lots larger than one-half (1/2) acre, one
additional horse or cow, or two (2) additional sheep, goats, pigs or similar
size animals may be kept for each five thousand (5,000) square feet over one-
half (1/2) acre. Animals younger than six (6) months in age shall not be
counted in determining the total number of animals on the lot.
   E.   Area Required For Class C Animals: The minimum lot size for Class C
animals (commercial farming) shall be five (5) acres. Class C animal operations
shall not include hog, mink, turkey and chicken farms.
   F.   Area Required For Sportsman Kennel: The minimum lot size for a
sportsman kennel shall be one acre.
   G.   Conservation Subdivisions: Land within greenbelt corridors, waterways
and trail dedications shall not be used in calculating final lot area in
conservation subdivisions.
   H.   Accessory Buildings And Structures:
      1.      a.   Accessory buildings, except those listed in subsection H.2.
of this section, shall be separated from the main building by a distance in
compliance with applicable Building Codes, shall be at least five feet (5')
from all property lines, shall not encroach on any recorded easement.
         b.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City may approve accessory
buildings with standards for the same as set forth in Chapter 11 of this Title
(and exceptions allowed in that Chapter), and comply with lot coverage
standards herein.
      2.   Accessory buildings shall not be located in the required front yard.
Accessory building located to the rear or side of the main building shall not
occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the required rear yard or thirty
three percent (33%) of a required side yard; when located in the front yard,
but not the required front yard, accessory buildings shall not occupy more than
twenty-five percent (25%) of that area.
      3.   No farm animal structure, hay barn, stable, silo, coop, corral or
other similar building or structure which is accessory to the agricultural use
of land may be located closer than ten feet (10') to any side or rear boundary
line or fifty feet (50') to any public street or to any dwelling on adjacent
properties. This provision shall not apply to pastures.
      4.   Equipment or materials stored or located in accessory buildings,
yards or structures in AE Zones shall be permitted only for the personal use of
the occupants of the property. No such storage or use related to a
nonagricultural commercial business shall be allowed.
      5.   Accessory buildings which contain or constitute an accessory
dwelling unit shall, without exception, be subordinate in height and area
footprint to the main building.
   I.   Transmission Towers: Transmission towers, except as specified in
section
11-28-190  of this title, shall be set back from all property lines a distance
equal to the height of the tower plus thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-
2014; amd. Ord. 2015-16, 5-26-2015; Ord. 2018-18, 5-15-2018; Ord. 2019-23, 7-
16-2019; Ord. 2020-08, 5–5-2020; Ord. 2021-20, 8-9-2021; Ord. 2022-62, 12-6-
2022; Ord. 2023-13, 3-14-2023; Ord. 2023-42, 7-18-2023; Ord. 2024-06, 1-16-
2024; Ord. 2024-41, 7-16-2024; Ord. 2025-32, 6-17-2025)
11-10-050: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Main Buildings: Main buildings shall not exceed twenty seven feet (27')
in height unless the Planning Commission approves an increased height after
review of a special exception application filed by the property owner per
section
11-3-045.
   B.   Accessory Buildings: The height of accessory buildings and structures
shall not exceed twenty- five feet (25') unless the Planning Commission
approves an increased height after review of a special exception application
filed by the property owner per section
11-3-045.
   C.   Transmission Towers: Transmission towers have no restriction on height,
provided they meet the setbacks established in section
11-10-040 of this chapter and section
11-28-190 of this title. (Ord. 1999-17, 4-21-1999; amd. Ord. 2000-15, 4-19-
2000; Ord. 2021-01, 1-19-2021; Ord. 2022-7, 1-18-2022; Ord. 2022-8, 1-18-2022)
11-10-060: SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Site Development Standards: Site development on agricultural lots shall
conform to applicable requirements of chapter 7 of this title.
   B.   Parking Restrictions: In an AE Zone, minimum parking required by this
title shall not be located within the minimum required front or side yard
setback adjacent to a public or private street. Surfacing of access drives to
such parking shall be either gravel, asphalt or concrete in order to minimize
tracking of dirt onto public roads.
   C.   Temporary Buildings: Temporary buildings, or the temporary use of a
building or yard, shall only be allowed in conjunction with a construction
project. Temporary buildings may be used only as an office or for storage of
equipment or materials. The temporary building or use shall be removed and/or
terminated not less than thirty (30) days after final inspection of the
construction project or one year after issuance of the building permit,
whichever comes first.
   D.   Trail Dedications: Developers of major subdivisions in agricultural
zones may be required by the City to dedicate equestrian and/or pedestrian
trails, waterways or other open space corridors in order to allow internal
circulation, separated from vehicular traffic, and connections to a regional
trail system. At the discretion of the City, such dedications may be made in
lieu of the park acquisition and development fee required by, and according to
the standards established in, the subdivision ordinance.
   E.   Major Street Plan: All developments shall comply with recommendations
of the City's major street plan. (Ord. 1999-17, 4-21-1999)
CHAPTER 11
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES
SECTION:
11-11-010: Purpose
11-11-020: Permitted Uses
11-11-030: Conditional Uses
11-11-040: Development Options
11-11-050: Lot Area, Width And Setback Standards
11-11-060: Accessory Buildings And Structures
11-11-070: Building Height
11-11-080: Nonconforming Subdivisions
11-11-090: Parking Restrictions
11-11-100: Site Development
11-11-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide areas in the City for low to medium
density single-family residential development. Four (4) zoning districts are
provided for this purpose: R (Residential); LR (Large Residential); S
(Suburban); and LS (Large Suburban). These zones are distinguished primarily by
differences in lot size and setback standards, and development option
standards. (Ord. 1999-20, 4-21-1999)
11-11-020: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in all single-family residential zones. No
other permitted uses are allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
   Accessory dwelling unit.
   Agriculture.
   Class A animals.
   Class B animals (except in the R Zone).
   Home occupations complying with the home occupation chapter of this title,
except as specified in section
11-11-030 of this chapter.
   Internal accessory dwelling unit.
   Residential facilities for the disabled.
   Signs complying with title 15 of this Code.
   Single-family residential dwellings.
   Uses customarily accessory to a listed permitted use. (Ord. 2017-13, 5-16-
2017; amd. Ord. 2021-25, 9-21-2021; Ord. 2023-40, 6-20-2023)
11-11-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in all single-family residential zones. No
other conditional uses are allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
   Home occupations as identified in section
11-35-040 of this title.
   Private school or hospital.
   Public uses.
   Public utility installations (except lines and rights-of-way).
   Quasi-public uses.
   Residential facilities for the elderly. (Ord. 2017-13, 5-16-2017; amd. Ord.
2020-07, 5-5-2020; Ord. 2021-25, 9-21-2021; Ord. 2023-40, 6-20-2023)
11-11-040: DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS:
   A.   Subdivisions within the single-family residential zones may be
developed as a nonconservation subdivision in accordance with the standards set
forth in this chapter. Alternatively, subdivisions within the single-family
residential zones may be developed as a conservation subdivision in accordance
with the provisions of chapter 12 of this title providing innovative and
flexible design opportunities.
   B.   Subdivisions within single-family residential zones greater than ten
(10) acres in size, or located in the Conservation Overlay Zone, as described
on the Farmington City zoning map, may be developed in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 12 of this title providing innovative and flexible design
opportunities. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
11-11-050: LOT AREA, WIDTH AND SETBACK STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Standards: The following shall be the minimum lot areas, widths
and main building setbacks for conventional layout subdivision development in
single-family residential zones:
 
Zone Lot Area In Lot Width       Front Side               Side Corner Rear
     Square Feet Interior Corner
R    16,000      75'      85'    25'   8' minimum, total  20'         30'
                                       18'
LR   20,000      85'      95'    25'   10' minimum, total 20'         30'
                                       22'
S    30,000      95'      100'   25'   10' minimum, total 20'         30'
                                       22'
LS   40,000      100'     110'   30'   10' minimum, total 25'         30'
                                       24'
*   Buildings shall not be built over utility easements that may run along
the side and rear property lines, unless an exception is provided from the
zoning administrator with the consent of the City's Development Review
Committee and other applicable utility providers in writing.
 
   B.   Additional Lot Alternatives And Standards:
      1.   Alternatives:
         a.   Open Space: As an incentive for a subdivider to provide open
space, the City, at its discretion, may approve a transfer of development right
(TDR) or conservation subdivision as follows:
            (1)   Additional lots are those the city approves in exchange for a
TDR as set forth in section
11-28-240 of this title; or in exchange for which the City obtains improved or
unimproved land in fee title, or easement, for public purposes, such as parks,
trails, detention basins, etc. The value of which, and the total number of lots
related thereto, shall be determined by the City at its sole discretion as part
of the subdivision process. Any applicant seeking additional lots under this
section must provide a subdivision yield plan as defined in Chapter 2 of this
title consistent with the underlying zone and the conventional subdivision
standards within that zone to establish the base number of lots allowed prior
to a request for additional lots, and the yield plan must also conform to
subsections
11-12-070A. and B. of this title.
            (2)   Additional lots under this section may also be available for
subdivisions consisting of ten (10) acres or more, or for subdivisions located
in the conservation subdivision overlay zone as set forth in Chapter 12 of the
Title “Conservation Subdivision (CS) Overlay Zone And Development Standards”;
or
         b.   Moderate Income Housing: The City may approve a smaller lot size
as set forth in the following table which will result in additional lots than
what is conventionally allowed in the underlying zone as an incentive to a
subdivider to provide moderate income housing.
 
Zone Lot Area
R    8,000
LR   10,000
S    15,000
LS   20,000
 
            (1)   Minimum Requirement: Subdividers must provide or set aside
lots (or dwelling units at the option of the City) equal in number to at least
ten percent (10%) of the total number of lots approved for the subdivision for
moderate income housing subject to recording a deed restriction(s) to ensure
the required number of lots or units are available for a qualifying moderate
income household; unless, at the sole discretion of, and by agreement with the
City, the subdivider provides:
            (a)   A fee in lieu thereof determined in consideration of factors
set forth in Section 11-28-270 of this Title;
            (b)   Preserve an existing on-site historic resource (standards for
historic resources are set forth in Chapter 11-39 of this Title); or
            (c)   Some other public benefit; or
            (d)   A combination of (a), (b), and/or (c) above.
      2.   Alternate Standards:
         a.   Following the subdivision yield plan defined in Chapter
11-2 and using the minimum standards of subsection
11-11-050A to establish a maximum number of lots, a subdivider may alter the
lot area, width, setback, and other dimensional requirements of lots within a
subdivision using standards set forth in subsection
11-12-070C.
         b.   Lot area, width, setback, and other dimensional requirements for
additional lots may meet such standards set forth in
Chapter 12 of this title, but the number of lots in the subdivision cannot
exceed the total number of lots resulting from the respective yield plan
identified in section
11-12-070.
   C.   Class B Animals: In zones allowing class B animals, twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet shall be required for two (2) sheep or goats or for one
horse or cow. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014; amd. Ord. 2015-16, 5-26-2015; Ord.
2020-08, 5-5-2020; Ord. 2021-20, 8-3-2021; Ord. 2023-42, 7-18-2023; Ord. 2024-
06, 1-16-2024)
11-11-060: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Location: Accessory buildings, except those listed in subsection B of
this section:
      1.   Shall be separated from the main building by a distance in
compliance with applicable building codes;
      2.   Cannot encroach on any recorded easement;
      3.   Must be located at least fifteen feet (15') from any dwelling on an
adjacent lot;
      4.   Accessory buildings located to the rear or side of the main building
shall not occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the required rear yard
or thirty three percent (33%) of the required side yard. On lots greater than
0.40 acres, additional accessory building coverage percentage in the required
rear yard may be considered as a special exception according to
11-3-045 ;
      5.   Accessory buildings shall, without exception, be subordinate in
footprint to the main building.
      6.   Any eave, or part of an Accessory building, shall not overhang or
extend past a property line.
      7.   An accessory building may be located in a side corner yard or front
yard of a lot; providing, that the building is of the same general design or
style as and comparable in excellence of quality and construction to the main
building, and in no event shall the accessory building encroach into the
required front yard or required side corner yard.
   B.   Animal Shelters And Similar Structures: Animal shelters, hay barns,
coops, corrals or other similar buildings or structures shall be located not
less than ten feet (10') from any side or rear property line and fifty feet
(50') from any public street or from any dwelling on an adjacent property.
   C.   Double Frontage Lots: On double frontage lots, accessory buildings
shall be located not less than twenty five feet (25') from each street upon
which the lot has frontage.
      1.   Exception: An accessory building which is less than ten feet (10')
in height and two hundred (200) square feet in ground floor area may be located
in a rear yard fronting a street so long as that yard does not abut the front
yard of a neighboring property. The ten feet (10') shall be measured to the
peak of a pitched roof. An accessory building located in the rear yard with
street frontage shall be screened from view of the right of way by a visual
barrier fence or landscaping. (Ord. 2005-11, 4-6-2005; amd. Ord. 2015-16, 5-26-
2015; Ord. 2019-23, 7-16-2019; Ord. 2022-8, 1-18-2022; Ord. 2023-42, 7-18-2023;
Ord. 2024-41, 7-16-2024; Ord. 2025-22, 5-20-2025)
11-11-070: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Main Buildings:
      1.   Main buildings shall not exceed twenty seven feet (27') in height;
unless the Planning Commission approves an increased height after review of a
special exception application filed by the property owner per section
11-3-045;
      2.   No dwelling or structure shall contain less than one story.
   B.   Accessory Buildings Or Structures (which does not include fences):
      1.   Accessory buildings or structures shall not exceed fifteen feet
(15') in height unless an increased height is approved by the planning
commission after review of a special exception application filed by the
property owner per section
11-3-045.
      2.   Accessory buildings within one foot (1') of a side property line
located in the side yard or front yard shall be limited to ten feet (10') in
height and an increase in height of one (1') may be allowed for each additional
foot setback from the side property, but not to exceed the maximum height for
such buildings unless as otherwise provided herein.
      3.   Accessory buildings shall, without exception, be subordinate in
height to the main building, unless the main building is less than fifteen feet
(15') in height. (Ord. 2005-11, 4-6-2005; amd. Ord. 2019-23, 7-16-2019; Ord.
2021-01, 1-19-2021; Ord. 2022-8, 1-18-2022; Ord. 2024-41, 7-16-2024)
11-11-080: NONCONFORMING SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Lots in subdivisions approved and recorded prior to May 14, 1986, which
were located in R-1-4 zones which have subsequently been rezoned to R, may be
approved for construction of new single-family homes with the minimum side yard
setbacks established for the R zone. These minimum setbacks were five feet (5')
on each side of the home. Front and rear yard setbacks shall comply with the
current zoning. Subdivisions in which this provision may be applied include
Oakridge Country Club Estates III, Woodridge Village 1 and 2, Fairway Fields
and Aegean Village A and B.
   B.   The four thousand (4,000) square foot minimum lot size, twin home use,
and the minimum setbacks as were approved and recorded in Woodridge Village 1
and 2 shall be allowed in the adjacent 2.63 acres, preliminarily approved as
the Farmington Court Subdivision by the planning commission on March 20, 1984,
and by the city council on March 21, 1984, as a conditional use, to allow
reasonable use of the land and conformity with, the use of the street that will
serve the property. (Ord. 1999-20, 4-21-1999)
11-11-090: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
Minimum parking required by this title shall not be located within the minimum
required front or side yard setback adjacent to a public or private street in
any single-family residential zone. (Ord. 1999-20, 4-21-1999)
11-11-100: SITE DEVELOPMENT:
Site development on single-family residential lots shall conform to section
11-7-050 of this title. (Ord. 1999-20, 4-21-1999)
CHAPTER 12
CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION (CS) OVERLAY ZONE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-12-010: Purpose
11-12-020: Applicability
11-12-030: Definitions
11-12-040: Development
11-12-050: Approval Process
11-12-060: Development Activities Prohibited
11-12-065: Waiver
11-12-068: Fee In Lieu; Conservation Land Dedication
11-12-070: Subdivision Yield Plan
11-12-080: Sensitive Area Designation Plan
11-12-085: Master Development Plan
11-12-090: Dimensional Standards
11-12-100: Design Standards
11-12-110: Reserved
11-12-120: Use Regulations
11-12-130: Conservation Land Design Standards
11-12-140: Permanent Protection Of Conservation Lands
11-12-150: Ownership Of Conservation Lands
11-12-160: Maintenance Of Conservation Lands
11-12-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for subdivision development within
the CS overlay zone and elsewhere in Farmington City in a manner that:
   A.   Protects constrained and sensitive lands, including those areas
containing sensitive and undevelopable features, such as steep slopes,
floodplains and wetlands, by setting them aside from development;
   B.   Conserves conservation and open space land, including those areas
containing unique or natural features, such as meadows, grasslands, tree
stands, streams, stream corridors, floodwalls, berms, watercourses, farmland,
wildlife corridors and/or habitat, historical buildings and/or sites,
archaeological sites and green space, by setting them aside from development;
   C.   Provides greater design flexibility and efficiency in the siting of
services and infrastructure, including the opportunity to reduce length of
roads, utility runs and the amount of paving required for residential
development;
   D.   Reduces erosion and sedimentation by the retention of existing
vegetation and the minimization of development on steep slopes and other
constrained and sensitive lands;
   E.   Provides for a diversity of lot sizes to accommodate a variety of age
and income groups and residential preferences, so that the community's
population diversity may be enhanced;
   F.   Provides incentives for the creation of greenway systems and open space
within the city for the benefit of present and future residents;
   G.   Implements adopted city policies to conserve a variety of irreplaceable
and environmentally sensitive resource lands as set forth in the comprehensive
general plan;
   H.   Implements adopted land use, environment, natural hazards,
transportation and community policies, as identified in the comprehensive
general plan;
   I.   Protects areas of the city with productive agricultural soils for
continued agricultural use by conserving blocks of land large enough to allow
for viable farm operations;
   J.   Creates neighborhoods with direct visual and/or recreational access to
constrained, sensitive and conservation land;
   K.   Provides for the conservation and maintenance of constrained, sensitive
and conservation land within the city to achieve the above mentioned goals;
   L.   Provides incentives and design alternatives for landowners to minimize
impacts on environmental resources, such as sensitive lands, wetlands,
floodplains and steep slopes, and to minimize disturbance of natural or
cultural features, such as mature woodlands, tree lines, wildlife habitats and
corridors, historic buildings and floodplain walls;
   M.   Provides standards accommodating to some extent the varying
circumstances and interests of individual landowners and the individual
characteristics of their properties; and
   N.   Conserves scenic views and elements of the city's rural and scenic
character and minimizes perceived density by minimizing views of new
development from existing roads. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-020: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Standards And Regulations: Any lot or parcel located within the CS
overlay zone, as shown on the official zoning map, depicted within the future
land use map of the general plan, shall be subject to the standards and
regulations of this chapter. The CS is in an overlay zone. Such standards and
regulations are intended to be in addition to the existing standards and
regulations of the underlying zone of the property and other applicable
regulations of this title; and
Any lot or parcel located in agriculture and single-family residential zones
greater than five (5) and ten (10) acres respectively and not located in the CS
overlay zone.
   B.   Scope Of Applicability: The election to apply and develop property as a
conservation subdivision is voluntary and provided to developers as an
alternative to development of property as a conventional subdivision pursuant
to other applicable provisions of this title. The intent of this chapter and
the conservation subdivision options is to encourage the creation and
development of flexibly designed open space subdivisions. Conservation
subdivisions may be developed within applicable agricultural and residential
zones of the city. Conservation subdivisions shall be developed in accordance
with and subject to the development standards, conditions, procedures and
regulations of this chapter and with all other applicable subdivision
ordinances and zoning regulations of the city which are not otherwise in
conflict with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-030: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings set
forth herein:
CONSERVATION LAND: Land containing unique, historic, cultural, archaeological,
natural or other significant features, including, but not limited to, meadows,
grasslands, tree stands, streams, stream corridors, floodwalls, berms,
watercourses, farmland, wildlife corridors and/or habitat, historic buildings
and/or sites, archaeological sites and open space.
CONSTRAINED AND SENSITIVE LAND: Land which is generally unbuildable and which
contains constrained and sensitive features, including, but not limited to,
wetlands, floodplains, steep slopes, faults and other geologically or
environmentally sensitive features. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-040: DEVELOPMENT:
Developers desiring to develop property as a conservation subdivision in
accordance with and subject to the development standards, conditions,
procedures and regulations of this chapter may submit a subdivision application
for residential development at the base density permitted in the relevant zone
provided herein, which may result in more lots than using conventional lot
dimensions standards set forth in chapters 10 and 11 of this title. The
development must utilize a conservation design which sets aside and preserves
all constrained and sensitive lands, natural hazards and resources, and
provides the required percentage of conservation land within the development.
(Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-050: APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   Application: Applications for a conservation subdivision shall be
submitted and processed in accordance with the requirements and procedures set
forth in the city subdivision ordinance, including submission and approval of
schematic, preliminary and final plans or plats, and any additional procedural
requirements set forth in this chapter, including, but not limited to,
submission of a subdivision yield plan, sensitive area designation plan and/or
master development plan. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
   B.   Consideration: The planning commission shall consider all applications
for conservation subdivisions and prepare a recommendation to the city council
as an amendment to the zoning ordinance in accordance with chapter 6 of this
title and the municipal land use, development and management act as set forth
in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a. The city must provide notice of
meetings and public hearings, and required third party notices related thereto.
As part of its recommendation, the planning commission and the city council
must determine whether or not a proposed conservation subdivision meets the
purpose of this chapter and the review standards set forth in chapter 6 of this
title and elsewhere in this code. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014; amd. 2016 Code)
11-12-060: DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED:
In order to ensure the preservation and enhancement of existing conditions of
certain property within the city, including, but not limited to, constrained
and sensitive lands, natural and cultural resources, wildlife habitat and other
unique and sensitive lands, no new development activity shall be permitted on
property proposed for development as a conservation subdivision prior to final
plat approval as provided herein. Upon final plat approval, all development
activity shall be conducted in accordance with and subject to applicable permit
and development approval processes required by city ordinances, rules and
regulations. For purposes of this section, "development activity" shall include
any disturbance or alteration of the property in any way, but shall not include
continuation of any currently existing permitted use of the property. (Ord.
2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-065: WAIVER:
   A.   Circumstances: Subject to the provisions set forth herein, any
provision of this chapter may be waived by the city upon a vote of not less
than four (4) members of the city council. Such waiver(s) shall be granted only
in limited circumstances as deemed appropriate and necessary by the city
council. No waiver shall be granted absent a finding of good cause based upon
specific special circumstances attached to the property. No waiver should be
granted that would be contrary to the public interest or contrary to the
underlying intent of this chapter. Any waiver of the required minimum
conservation land dedication shall require comparable compensation, off site
improvements, amenities or other consideration of comparable size, quality and/
or value.
   B.   Good Cause Standards: Good cause, as referenced herein, shall include,
but not be limited to, the following standards:
      1.   The subdivision shall be located within a half mile of an existing
public park located within the Farmington City limits. This distance shall be
determined by the actual walking distance from the subdivision to the park.
      2.   In the event the park is located off site pursuant to subsection B1
of this section, or on site, a waiver shall not result in usable park space
less than one acre in size.
      3.   A waiver shall not result in lots or building setbacks smaller than
the minimum lot size.
      4.   All subdivision standards regarding dead end street length, ingress
and egress, and block dimensions shall be met.
      5.   No waiver shall result in the creation of additional lots or a flag
lot. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-068: FEE IN LIEU; CONSERVATION LAND DEDICATION:
In the event a proposed conservation land dedication does not, in the city's
legislative discretion, produce sufficient public benefit, the city may require
the payment of a fee in lieu of the dedication of conservation land. The fee to
be paid to the city shall be established as follows:
   A.   Amount: The city shall establish the amount of the fee to be paid by
determining the value of land of the same general characteristics as the
conservation land dedication which would be required absent the application of
the provisions of this section. The city's determination of value may be based
on land sales data in the city's possession or reasonably available, and the
basis of the city's determination shall be made available to the applicant.
   B.   Appraisal Report: In the event the applicant disagrees with the city's
determination of the amount of the fee in lieu, the applicant may, at its sole
expense, submit an appraisal report from a licensed and certified general
appraiser to establish the value of the proposed conservation land dedication.
The value, as established in a qualifying appraisal, shall be the amount of the
fee in lieu of conservation land dedication.
   C.   Use Of Fee: Any amount received by the city in lieu of conservation
land dedication shall be set aside solely for open space and/or park
acquisition and/or development. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-070: SUBDIVISION YIELD PLAN:
All applications for a conservation subdivision shall include a subdivision
yield plan prepared in accordance with the provisions set forth herein. The
subdivision yield plan is utilized to determine and calculate the base number
of dwelling units for any given property to be developed as a conservation
subdivision.
   A.   Preparation Of Subdivision Yield Plan: Applicants shall prepare a
subdivision yield plan for the proposed project showing how the property within
the project could be developed under a conventional subdivision layout using
the dimensional standards set forth in subsection C of this section. The
subdivision yield plan is not intended to propose or permit the actual
development of the property in accordance with the dimensional standards set
forth herein, but is prepared merely to determine the base number of dwelling
units to be used in calculating the permitted number of dwelling units and lot
size for the actual conservation subdivision. No subdivision may be developed
in accordance with the dimensional standards set forth in subsection C of this
section or a proposed subdivision yield plan. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
   B.   Realistic Layout: The subdivision yield plan must be drawn to scale and
must exhibit a realistic layout reflecting a conventional subdivision layout
that could reasonably be expected to be implemented in consideration of
dimensional standards set forth herein and calculating and addressing the
presence of nonbuildable or infrastructure areas, including, but not limited
to, rights of way, public improvement areas, wetlands, floodplains, steep
slopes, restricted areas subject to the Farmington City foothill development
standards, and existing easements or encumbrances. A sample subdivision yield
plan is set forth in exhibit A, attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated herein by this reference, providing an example of a hypothetical
yield plan for land zoned large suburban. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014; amd. 2016
Code)
   C.   Dimensional Standards: The subdivision yield plan shall reflect the
following dimensional standards:
   SUBDIVISION YIELD PLAN DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Zone Lot Area Lot Width
              Interior Corner
Zone                                Lot Area           Lot Width
                                                       Interior Corner
R (Residential)                     8,000 square feet  75 feet  85 feet
LR (Large residential)              10,000 square feet 85 feet  95 feet
S (Suburban)                        15,000 square feet 95 feet  100 feet
LS (Large suburban)                 20,000 square feet 100 feet 110 feet
AE (Agriculture estates)            1/2 acre           100 feet 110 feet
A (Agriculture)                     1 acre             100 feet 110 feet
AA (Agriculture - very low density) 5 acres            150 feet 160 feet
 
   D.   Approval: The subdivision yield plan must be approved in writing by the
city planner for compliance with the standards and provisions of this section
prior to the submission of a schematic plan for a conservation subdivision.
(Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-080: SENSITIVE AREA DESIGNATION PLAN:
All applications for a conservation subdivision shall include a sensitive area
designation plan prepared in accordance with the provisions set forth herein.
The sensitive area designation plan shall identify all constrained and
sensitive lands within the property boundaries and within four hundred feet
(400') outside of the property boundaries, including, but not limited to,
floodplains, wetlands, steep slopes and restricted areas as regulated by the
Farmington City foothill development standards. The sensitive area designation
plan shall also clearly identify all natural or cultural resources present on
the property and within four hundred feet (400') outside of the property,
including, but not limited to, geographic features, including, but not limited
to, meadows, grasslands, tree stands, streams, stream corridors, floodwalls,
berms, watercourses, farmland, wildlife corridors and/or habitat; historic
buildings and/or sites; archaeological sites; cultural features and green
space. Some, but not all, of certain constrained and sensitive lands are
designated and shown on the Farmington City resources and site analysis plan
which may be utilized by applicants for the purpose of preparing a sensitive
area designation plan. Applicants are solely responsible for checking and
ensuring the accuracy and designation of constrained and sensitive lands and
natural and cultural resources on the sensitive area designation plan for their
particular project and applicable adjacent property. If site analysis,
surveying and/or identification of constrained and sensitive lands and natural
and cultural resources require entry onto adjacent properties, applicants are
solely responsible for obtaining all required permits and/or approvals for such
entry and analysis, surveying and/or identification. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-085: MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
When deemed necessary or desirable by the City, application and approval for a
conservation subdivision may require the submission and approval by the City of
a master development plan and/or development agreement. Such master development
plan and/or development agreement may be required by the City at any stage of
the subdivision approval process. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-090: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Required Conservation Land: All conservation subdivisions shall
provide at least the minimum percentage of conservation land within the
conservation subdivision in accordance with the following chart, hereinafter
referred to as the "development chart". The minimum percentage of required
conservation land for any given conservation subdivision shall be calculated
based upon the total acreage of property within the proposed subdivision, less
areas containing constrained and sensitive lands. Required conservation land
shall not include any constrained or sensitive lands, as defined herein. Except
as otherwise provided herein, conservation land shall not be included within
any residential lot:
   DEVELOPMENT CHART
Zone Conservation Land Typical Lot Area Lot Size Minimum
Zone Conservation Land Typical Lot Area    Lot Size Minimum
R    15 percent        6,800 square feet   5,500 square feet
LR   15 percent        8,500 square feet   6,500 square feet
S    20 percent        12,000 square feet  8,000 square feet
LS   30 percent        16,000 square feet  9,000 square feet
AE   30 percent        11,667 square feet  9,000 square feet
A    40 percent        20,000 square feet  12,000 square feet
AA   40 percent        108,900 square feet 12,000 square feet
 
   B.   Lot Area: The lot area and minimum lot size for lots within a
conservation subdivision shall be determined in accordance with the development
chart set forth in subsection A of this section. The typical lot area is likely
to be much closer in size to the established threshold for each zone because
that lot size can be delivered by developers while still meeting the minimum
conservation land requirements set forth herein.
   C.   Lot Width At Building Line: The minimum lot width at the building line
for main buildings within a conservation subdivision shall be seventy five feet
(75'), except in the R and LR Zones the minimum lot width shall be sixty feet
(60').
   D.   Yard Regulations: The builder or developer of a conservation
subdivision may consider variations in the principal building position and
orientation, but shall observe the following minimum standards for buildings
within a conservation subdivision. Exceptions to these minimum setback
regulations may be approved by the City, in its sole discretion, during plat
approval process when deemed appropriate and desirable under the circumstances.
      1.   Front Setback: The minimum front yard setback for main buildings in
a conservation subdivision shall be twenty feet (20'). Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the minimum front yard setback for front-loaded attached garages
which extend past the front of the dwelling toward the front property line in
any conservation subdivision shall be thirty feet (30').
      2.   Rear Setback: The minimum rear yard setback for main buildings
within a conservation subdivision shall be thirty feet (30').
      3.   Side Setback: The minimum side yard setback for main buildings
within a conservation subdivision shall be ten feet (10') for lots within the
S, LS, AE and AA Zones, and a minimum of five feet (5') for lots within the R
and LR Zones, but the total of both side setbacks in the R and LR Zones shall
be no less than thirteen feet (13').
      4.   Side Corner Setback: The minimum side corner setback for main
buildings within a conservation subdivision shall be fifteen feet (15') from
the property line in compliance with clear vision standards set forth in
section
11-28-150 of this title.
      5.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings on lots less than one-half
(1/2) acre in size shall be located at least six feet (6') to the rear of the
dwelling, shall not encroach on any recorded easement, shall not occupy more
than twenty five percent (25%) of the rear yard, and shall be located at least
fifteen feet (15') from any dwelling on an adjacent lot. Such buildings may be
located within one foot (1') of the side or rear property line. Accessory
buildings shall, without exception, be subordinate in height and area to the
main building.
      6.   Animal Shelters: Animal shelters, hay barns, coops, corrals or other
similar buildings or structures shall be located not less than ten feet (10')
from any side or rear property line and fifty feet (50') from any public street
or from any dwelling on an adjacent property.
      7.   Detached Garage: A detached garage, or other architecturally
compatible structure as approved by the planning commission, may be located in
the side yard of a lot, providing that a six foot (6') separation is maintained
from the residence and all front, side and rear setbacks are provided as
specified in section
11-11-050 of this title.
      8.   Double Frontage Lots; Accessory Buildings: On double frontage lots,
accessory buildings shall be located not less than twenty five feet (25') from
each street upon which the lot has frontage.
   E.   Height; Less Than One-Half Acre: Building height on lots less than one-
half (1/2) acre:
      1.   Main Buildings:
         a.   Main buildings shall not exceed twenty seven feet (27') in
height;
         b.   No dwelling or structure shall contain less than one story.
      2.   Accessory Buildings Or Structures: Accessory buildings or structures
shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height unless an increased height is
approved by the planning commission after review of a special exception
application filed by the property owner.
   F.   Accessory Building Height; More Than One-Half Acre: Accessory buildings
on lots greater than one-half (1/2) acre in size shall meet the setback and
height requirements of the underlying zone in which they are located. (Ord.
2014-33, 10-7-2014; amd. Ord. 2015-16, 5-26-2015; Ord. 2016-07, 2-16-2016; Ord.
2018-26, 7-17-2018; Ord. 2021-01. 1-19-2021)
11-12-100: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Individual Lots: Individual lots in conservation subdivisions shall be
laid out pursuant to the dimensional standards set forth herein. Except as
otherwise provided for herein, individual residential lots shall not encroach
upon or contain any of the required minimum designated conservation land for
the subdivision or any constrained or sensitive lands, as defined herein.
   B.   Views Of House Lots: Views of house lots from exterior roads and
abutting properties shall be minimized by the use of changes in topography,
existing vegetation or additional landscaping which meets the city's
landscaping requirements for residential subdivisions.
   C.   Conservation Lands: Standards pertaining to the quantity, quality,
configuration, use, permanent protection, ownership and maintenance of the
conservation land within a conservation subdivision shall be complied with as
provided herein.
   D.   Constrained And Sensitive Lands: Restrictions and regulations regarding
the preservation, protection, ownership and maintenance of constrained and
sensitive lands within a conservation subdivision shall be complied with as
provided herein. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-110: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-120: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Subdivision: Subject to use and development restrictions of constrained
and sensitive lands as set forth herein, land within conservation subdivisions
may be used for the following purposes:
      1.   Permitted Uses: Any uses permitted in the relevant zone.
      2.   Conservation Land: Conservation land, subject to the use and
development restrictions of conservation land as set forth herein.
      3.   Accessory Uses: Any permitted accessory uses as provided in the
relevant zoning regulations.
   B.   Conservation Land: Conservation land may be used for the following
purposes:
      1.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in conservation
land areas:
         a.   Conservation of open land in its natural state; e.g., meadow,
grassland, tree stands, farmland, etc.;
         b.   Agricultural and horticultural uses, including raising crops or
class B livestock and associated buildings that support an active, viable
agricultural or horticultural operation, excluding commercial livestock
operations involving swine, poultry and mink;
         c.   Pastureland for sheep, cows and horses;
         d.   Equestrian facilities for class B animals;
         e.   Underground utility easements for drainage, access, sewer or
water lines, or other public purposes;
         f.   Aboveground utility and street rights of way may traverse
conservation land if permitted under city ordinances; provided, areas
encumbered by such facilities and/or rights of way shall not be counted toward
the minimum required conservation land for the subdivision.
      2.   Conditional Uses: The following uses shall be considered as
conditional in conservation land areas:
         a.   Agricultural uses, not otherwise permitted, including class C
animals, but excluding commercial livestock operations involving swine, poultry
and mink;
         b.   Wholesale nurseries and associated buildings that are
specifically needed to support active, viable horticultural operations;
         c.   Silviculture, in keeping with established standards for selective
harvesting and sustained yield forestry;
         d.   Neighborhood open space uses, such as village greens, commons,
picnic areas, community gardens, trails and similar low impact passive
recreational uses specifically excluding motorized off road vehicles, rifle
ranges and other uses similar in character and potential impact;
         e.   Active noncommercial recreation areas, such as playing fields,
playgrounds, courts and bikeways;
         f.   Golf courses, not including miniature golf;
         g.   Water supply and sewage disposal systems, and stormwater
detention areas designed, landscaped and available for use as an integral part
of the conservation land;
         h.   Fencing, when deemed necessary and appropriate for the particular
use, condition, purpose and/or location of the conservation land.
      3.   Prohibited Uses: Except as otherwise approved and permitted by the
city as a permitted or conditional use in conjunction with the conservation
subdivision approval, the following uses shall be considered prohibited in
conservation land areas:
         a.   Any residential, commercial or industrial activity;
         b.   Any development, construction or location of any manmade
modification or improvements, such as buildings, structures, roads, parking
lots or other improvements;
         c.   Any filling, dredging, excavating, mining, drilling or
exploration for and extraction of oil, gas, minerals or other resources from
the property;
         d.   Any dumping or storing of ashes, trash, garbage or junk;
         e.   Burning of any materials, except as necessary for agricultural,
drainage and fire protection purposes;
         f.   The use of motor vehicles, including snowmobiles, all-terrain
vehicles, motorcycles and other recreational vehicles, except as may be
necessary to maintain and operate the property and/or utility facilities within
the property;
         g.   Hunting or trapping for any purpose other than predatory or
problem animal control;
         h.   Advertising of any kind or nature and any billboards or signs;
provided, directory and information signs may be displayed describing the
easement and prohibited or authorized use of the same;
         i.   Any cutting of trees or vegetation, except as necessary for fire
protection, thinning, elimination of diseased growth, control of nonnative
plant species, maintenance of landscaped areas and similar protective measures
or those activities relating to permitted agricultural uses;
         j.   The change, disturbance, alteration or impairment of significant
natural ecological features and values of the property or destruction of other
significant conservation interests on the property;
         k.   The division, subdivision or de facto subdivision of the
property;
         l.   Changing the topography of the property by placing on it any
soil, dredging spoils, landfill or other materials, except as necessary to
conduct specific permitted purposes; and
         m.   All other uses and practices inconsistent with and detrimental to
the stated objectives and purpose of the easement.
      4.   Constrained And Sensitive Lands: No development or residential uses
shall be permitted within constrained and sensitive lands. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-
2014)
11-12-130: CONSERVATION LAND DESIGN STANDARDS:
Designated conservation land within a conservation subdivision shall meet the
following standards:
   A.   Significant Areas And Features: Conservation land should include the
most unique and sensitive resources and locally significant features of the
property within the subdivision, such as meadows, grasslands, tree stands,
streams, stream corridors, floodwalls, berms, watercourses, farmlands, wildlife
corridors and/or habitat, historic buildings and/or sites, archaeological
sites, cultural features, green space, scenic views, etc.
   B.   Contiguous Land: Conservation lands within a development shall be
contiguous to provide for large and integrated open space areas within the
subdivision. Noncontiguous parcels of conservation lands may be approved by the
city during plat approval process upon a finding that such exception is
necessary and/or desirable based upon consideration of the size of the project,
the size of the conservation parcels, the types of features and resources
included within the conservation lands, and other relevant considerations. Long
thin strips of conservation land (less than 100 feet wide) are prohibited,
unless approved by the city during plat approval process upon a finding that
such configuration of the conservation land is necessary and/or desirable to
connect other significant areas, to protect linear resources, such as streams
or trails, or to provide a buffer.
   C.   Open Space Network Connection: Conservation land within a conservation
subdivision shall be designed and laid out as part of a larger continuous and
integrated open space system in general accordance with the Farmington City
resources and site analysis plan to ensure that an interconnected network of
open space will be provided throughout the city.
   D.   Visibility: Conservation land shall be located and designed within the
conservation subdivision to add to the visual amenities of neighborhoods and to
the surrounding area by maximizing the visibility of internal open space. Such
enhanced visibility of conservation land may be accomplished through design and
location of such open space as terminals at the ends of streets or along
"single loaded" street segments, particularly along the outside edges of street
curves, and by maximizing the visibility of external open space as perimeter
"greenbelt" conservation land.
   E.   Resource Uses: A substantial amount of the minimum required
conservation land may be devoted to active resource uses, such as agriculture,
horticulture or equestrian uses; provided, at least a portion of the minimum
required conservation land remains available for the common use and enjoyment
of the subdivision residents or the public.
   F.   Recreational Uses: A substantial amount of the minimum required
conservation land may be comprised of active recreation facilities, such as
playing fields, golf courses, tennis courts, etc., exclusive of parking lots;
provided, at least a portion of the minimum required conservation land remains
available for common use and enjoyment of the subdivision residents or the
public.
   G.   Buffering: Conservation land shall be designed to provide buffers and
to protect scenic views as seen from existing roadways and from public parks.
Where the proposed development abuts a national forest or other public park,
open space, wildlife sanctuary or preserve, a natural greenway buffer at least
fifty feet (50') wide shall be provided within the development along its common
boundary with said land, within which no new structures shall be constructed,
nor shall any clearing of trees or understory growth be permitted (except as
may be necessary for street or trail construction or fire safety). Where this
buffer is unwooded, the city may require vegetative screening to be planted at
developer's sole cost and expense and/or that the buffer be managed to
encourage natural forest succession through "no mow" policies and the periodic
removal of invasive alien plant and tree species.
   H.   Pedestrian Access: Developer shall provide adequate pedestrian access
to conservation land which is open to public or resident use.
   I.   Maintenance Access: Developer shall provide sufficient maintenance
access to all conservation land and constrained and sensitive lands within the
conservation subdivision.
   J.   Landscaping: All conservation land that is not wooded, farmed or
maintained as conservation meadows, grassland or other approved open space,
shall be landscaped at developer's sole cost and expense in accordance with
landscaping requirements for subdivisions. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-140: PERMANENT PROTECTION OF CONSERVATION LANDS:
   A.   Conservation Easement: All conservation land shall be permanently
restricted from future development by a conservation easement or other method
of protection and preservation acceptable to the city. Under no circumstances
shall any development be permitted in the conservation land at any time, except
for those permitted or conditional uses listed herein and approved in
conjunction with the conservation subdivision. All conservation easements, or
other acceptable method of protection and preservation of the conservation land
within a conservation subdivision, shall be approved by the city and recorded
prior to or concurrent with the recording of the final plat for the
conservation subdivision.
   B.   Terms And Conditions: All conservation easements, or other acceptable
method of protection and preservation of the conservation land within a
conservation subdivision, shall be in substantially the same form as the
standard conservation easement form provided by the city and shall include, at
a minimum, the following terms and/or conditions:
      1.   Legal description of the easement;
      2.   Description of the current use and condition of the property;
      3.   Permanent duration of easement;
      4.   Permitted and conditional uses;
      5.   Prohibited development and/or uses;
      6.   Maintenance responsibilities and duties; and
      7.   Enforcement rights and procedures.
   C.   Grantee: Unless otherwise approved by the city, the grantee of a
conservation easement shall consist of one of the following acceptable
entities, which entity shall be qualified to maintain and enforce such
conservation easement: land trust, conservation organization or governmental
entity. The city may, but shall not be required to accept, as grantee, a
conservation easement encumbering conservation lands within a conservation
subdivision, provided there is no cost of acquisition to the city for the
easement and sufficient access to and maintenance responsibilities regarding
the conservation land are provided. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-150: OWNERSHIP OF CONSERVATION LANDS:
   A.   Undivided Ownership: Unless otherwise approved by the city and subject
to the provisions set forth in this chapter, the underlying fee ownership of
the conservation land shall remain in single ownership and may be owned and
maintained by one of the following entities: homeowners' association, land
trust, conservation organization, governmental entity or private individual.
   B.   Subdividing Prohibited: Property subject to a conservation easement, or
other acceptable method of protection and preservation, shall not be
subdivided.
   C.   Owners' Association: Conservation land may be held in common ownership
by a condominium homeowners' or other acceptable owners' association, subject
to all of the provisions for owners' associations set forth in state
regulations and the city's subdivision regulations. In addition, the following
regulations shall be met:
      1.   A description of the organization of the proposed association,
including its bylaws, and all documents governing ownership, maintenance and
use restrictions for conservation land, including restrictive covenants for the
subdivision, shall be submitted by the developer with the preliminary plat
application.
      2.   The proposed association shall be established and operating (with
financial subsidization, if necessary) prior to or concurrent with the
recording of the final plat for the subdivision.
      3.   Membership in the association shall be mandatory for all purchasers
of property within the subdivision and their successors in title.
      4.   The association shall be responsible for maintenance and insurance
of conservation land.
      5.   The bylaws of the association and restrictive covenants for the
subdivision shall confer legal authority on the association to place a lien on
the real property of any member who falls delinquent in dues. Such dues shall
be paid with the accrued interest before the lien may be lifted.
      6.   Written notice of any proposed transfer of conservation land by the
association or the assumption of maintenance for the conservation land must be
given to all members of the association and to the city no less than thirty
(30) days prior to such event.
      7.   The association shall have adequate staff to administer, maintain
and operate such conservation land. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
11-12-160: MAINTENANCE OF CONSERVATION LANDS:
   A.   Costs: Unless otherwise agreed to by the city, the cost and
responsibility of maintaining conservation land shall be borne by the owner of
the underlying fee of the conservation land.
   B.   Plan: The developer shall submit a maintenance plan providing for and
addressing the means for permanent maintenance of the conservation land within
the proposed conservation subdivision with the preliminary plat application for
the subdivision. The maintenance plan shall provide the following:
      1.   The plan shall define ownership.
      2.   The plan shall establish necessary regular and periodic operation
and maintenance responsibilities for the various kinds of open space (e.g.,
lawns, playing fields, meadow, pasture, wetlands, stream corridors, hillsides,
cropland, woodlands, etc.).
      3.   The plan shall estimate staffing needs, insurance requirements and
associated costs, and define the means for funding the maintenance of the
conservation land and operation of any common facilities on an ongoing basis.
Such funding plan shall include the means for funding long term capital
improvements as well as regular yearly operating and maintenance costs.
      4.   At the city's discretion, the applicant may be required to escrow
sufficient funds for the maintenance and operation costs of common facilities
for up to one year.
   C.   Approval: The maintenance plan must be approved by the city prior to or
concurrent with final plat approval for the subdivision. The maintenance plan
shall be recorded against the property and shall include provisions for the
city's corrective action rights as set forth herein. Any changes or amendments
to the maintenance plan shall be approved by the city.
   D.   Failure To Maintain: In the event that the organization established to
maintain the conservation land and the common facilities, or any successor
organization thereto, fails to maintain all or any portion thereof in
reasonable order and condition, the city may assume responsibility, as a right
but not an obligation, for maintenance, in which case any escrow funds may be
forfeited and any permits may be revoked or suspended.
   E.   Corrective Action: The city may enter the premises and take corrective
action, including extended maintenance. The costs of such corrective action may
be charged to the property owner and may include administrative costs and
penalties. Such costs shall become a lien on said properties. Notice of such
lien shall be filed by the city in the county recorder's office. The
maintenance plan and all other documents creating or establishing any
association or conservation organization for the property shall reference the
city's corrective action authority set forth herein and shall be recorded
against the property. (Ord. 2014-33, 10-7-2014)
CHAPTER 13
MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES
SECTION:
11-13-010: Purpose
11-13-020: Permitted Uses
11-13-030: Conditional Uses
11-13-035: Moderate Income Housing
11-13-040: Minimum Lot And Setback Standards
11-13-050: Accessory Buildings And Structures
11-13-060: Building Height
11-13-070: Parking Restrictions
11-13-080: Site Development
11-13-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide areas in the City for medium density
residential development. Three (3) zoning districts are provided for this
purpose: R-2, R-4 and R-8. These zones are distinguished primarily by
differences in lot size and setback standards. (Ord. 1992-14, 4-15-1992)
11-13-020: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in multiple-family residential zones. No other
permitted uses are allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
   Accessory dwelling units (only in the R-2 Zone).
   Agriculture.
   Class A animals.
   Home occupations complying with the home occupation chapter of this title,
except as specified in section
11-13-030 of this chapter.
   Internal accessory dwelling units (only in the R-2 Zone).
   Residential facilities for the disabled.
   Signs complying with title 15 of this Code.
   Single-family dwellings.
   Two-family dwellings.
   Uses customarily accessory to a listed permitted use. (Ord. 2018-18, 5-15-
2018; amd. Ord. 2020-07, 5-5-2020; Ord. 2021-25, 9-21-2021; Ord. 2023-40, 6-20-
2023)
11-13-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in multiple-family residential zones. No
other conditional uses are allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
   Apartment dwelling group.
   Class B animals.
   Class D animals.
   Daycare center.
   Dwellings, five- to eight-family in R-8 Zone only (may exceed density
standard established by section
11-13-040 of this chapter as approved by the Planning Commission up to a
maximum density of 15 dwelling units per acre).
   Dwellings, four-family (R-4 and R-8 Zones only).
   Dwellings, three-family (R-4 and R-8 Zones only).
   Greenhouses, private with no retail sales.
   Home occupations, as identified in section
11-35-040 of this title.
   Private school or hospital.
   Professional offices (except in R-2 Zones).
   Public uses.
   Public utility installations (except lines and rights-of-way).
   Quasi-public uses.
   Residential facilities for the elderly.
   Temporary uses. (Ord. 2018-18, 5-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-25, 9-21-2021; Ord.
2023-40, 6-20-2023)
11-13-035: MODERATE INCOME HOUSING:
   A.   Minimum Requirement: Developers must provide or set aside dwelling
units equal in number at least to ten percent (10%) of the total number of
dwelling units approved for the development for moderate income housing subject
to recording a deed restriction(s) to ensure the required number of lots or
units are available for a qualifying moderate income household; unless, at the
sole discretion of, and by agreement with the City, the developer provides:
      1.   Open space;
      2.   A fee in lieu thereof determined in consideration of factors set
forth in Section 11-28-270 of this Title;
      3.   Some other public benefit; or
      4.   A combination of 1, 2, and 3 above.
   B.   Exemption: Developments resulting in two (2) or fewer additional units
are exempt from the minimum moderate-income housing requirements of this
Section.
   C.   Additional Dwelling Units: The City Council may approve additional
dwelling units than what is conventionally allowed in the underlying zone as an
incentive to a developer to provide moderate income housing. (Ord. 2021-20, 8-
3-2021; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 1-16-2024)
11-13-040: MINIMUM LOT AND SETBACK STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Standards: The following shall be the minimum lot areas, widths
and main building setbacks in multiple-family residential zones:
 
Zone Lot Area          Lot Width       Front Side         Side Corner Rear
                       Interior Corner
     10,000 square
     feet for each
     single-family or
     two-family                              10' minimum,
R-2  dwelling.         85'      95'    30'   total 22'    20'         30'
     Maximum of 2
     dwelling units
     per building per
     lot.
     10,000 square
     feet for each
     single-family or
     two-family
     dwelling, plus
     4,000 square feet                       12' minimum,
R-4  for each          90'      100'   30'   total 24'    20'         30'
     additional
     dwelling unit to
     a maximum of 4
     dwelling units
     per building per
     lot.
     10,000 square
     feet for each
     single-family or
     two-family
     dwelling, plus
     4,000 square feet
     for each
     additional
     dwelling unit
     with a maximum of
     4 dwelling units
     per building and
R-8  not more than 2   100'     110'   30'   15' minimum, 30'         30'
     buildings per                           total 30'
     lot, unless a
     greater number of
     dwelling units or
     buildings are
     approved as
     specified in
     section
     11-13-030 of this
     chapter,
     "Dwellings, five-
     to eight-
     family...".
*   Buildings shall not be built over utility easements that may run along
the side and rear property lines, unless an exception provided from the
zoning administrator with the consent of the City's Development Review
Committee and other applicable utility providers in writing.
 
   B.   Class B Animals: Class B animals may be approved by the Planning
Commission only if the area of the lot is twenty thousand (20,000) square feet
or larger. Class B animals shall be limited to not more than one horse or cow
and not more than two (2) sheep or goats for each twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet of a lot.
   C.   Increase In Side Yards For Future Use: If a garage or carport is not
proposed as part of the original construction of a single-family or two-family
dwelling, side yards shall be increased by a minimum of twenty feet (20') to
accommodate future garage or carport additions. (Ord. 1992-14, 4-15-1992; amd.
Ord. 2023-42, 7-18-2023)
11-13-050: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Location: Accessory buildings, except those listed in subsection B of
this section:
      1.   Shall be separated from the main building by a distance in
compliance with applicable building codes;
      2.   Cannot encroach on any recorded easement;
      3.   An accessory building shall not be located closer than five feet
(5') from a side or rear property line unless a special exception is approved
by the Planning Commission to reduce these setbacks in accordance with section
11-3-045;
         a.   Exception: An accessory building which is less than ten feet
(10') in height and under two hundred (200) square feet in ground floor area
may be located within a side and/or rear yard closer than five feet (5') to a
side property line so long as it complies with the other provisions of this
Section.
      4.   Accessory buildings located to the rear or side of the main building
shall not occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the rear yard or thirty
three percent (33%) of the side yard;
      5.   Accessory buildings shall, without exception, be subordinate in
footprint to the main building.
      6.   Any eave, or part of an Accessory building, shall not overhang or
extend past a property line.
      7.   An accessory building may be located in a side corner yard or front
yard of a lot; providing, that the building is of the same general design or
style as and comparable in excellence of quality and construction to the main
building, and in no event shall the accessory building encroach into the
required front yard or required side corner yard beyond the nearest corner of
the main building.
   B.   Animal Shelters And Similar Buildings: Animal shelters, hay barns,
coops, corrals or other similar buildings or structures shall be located not
closer than ten feet (10') from any side or rear property line and fifty feet
(50') from any public street or from any dwelling on an adjacent property.
   C.   Double Frontage Lots: On double frontage lots, accessory buildings
shall be located not less than twenty five feet (25') from each street upon
which the lot has frontage. (Ord. 2005-11, 4-6-2005; amd. Ord. 2015-16, 5-26-
2015; Ord. 2019- 23, 7-16-2019; Ord. 2023-42, 7-18-2023; Ord. 2024-41, 7-16-
2024)
11-13-060: BUILDING HEIGHT:
   A.   Main Buildings:
      1.   Main buildings shall not exceed twenty seven feet (27') in height.
      2.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
   B.   Accessory Buildings Or Structures (which does not include fences):
      1.   Accessory buildings or structures shall not exceed fifteen feet
(15') in height unless an increased height is approved by the planning
commission after review of a special exception application filed by the
property owner.
      2.   Accessory buildings within one foot (1') of a side property line
located in the side yard or front yard shall be limited to ten feet (10') in
height and an increase in height of one (1') may be allowed for each additional
foot setback from the side property line, but not to exceed the maximum height
for such buildings unless as otherwise provided herein.
      3.   Accessory buildings shall, without exception, be subordinate in
height to the main building, unless the main building is less than fifteen feet
(15') in height. (Ord. 2005-11, 4-6-2005; amd. Ord. 2019-23, 7-16-2019; Ord.
2021- 01, 1-19-2021; Ord. 2024-41, 7-16-2024)
11-13-070: PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Location: Minimum parking required by this title shall not
be located within the minimum required front or side yard setback adjacent to a
public or private street in any multiple-family residential zone.
   B.   Rear Yard Location: Required parking for multiple-family buildings
shall be located in the rear yard of the lot unless fully enclosed and covered
parking is attached to, and designed as an architecturally integrated element
of, the main building. (Ord. 1992-14, 4-15-1992)
11-13-080: SITE DEVELOPMENT:
Site development for multiple-family residential development shall conform to
sections
11-7-050 through
11-7-070 of this title. (Ord. 1992-14, 4-15-1992)
CHAPTER 14
BUSINESS PARK ZONE (BP)
SECTION:
11-14-010: Purpose
11-14-020: Permitted Uses
11-14-030: Conditional Uses
11-14-040: Conceptual Plan And Site Plan Review
11-14-050: Minimum Lot And Setback Standards
11-14-055: Accessory Buildings And Structures
11-14-060: Height Standards
11-14-070: Design Standards
11-14-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide areas primarily for planned general
office and business park developments and related services which will be
compatible with, and serve as a transition to, nearby residential areas and
will promote a quiet, clean environment. In certain unique locations,
residential planned unit developments may also be appropriate to provide this
transition. Development in this zone should emphasize a high level of
architectural and landscape excellence. These zone districts will generally be
established along high volume arterial streets in order to buffer the impacts
of these streets from less intensive land uses. The intent is to create an
attractive environment that will complement, and serve as a transition to,
surrounding land uses. (Ord. 1994-22, 5-18-1994)
11-14-020: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in the BP zone after a conceptual development
plan has been approved as provided in this chapter. No other permitted uses are
allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
   Agriculture.
   Business and professional offices.
   Commercial testing laboratories and services.
   Data processing services.
   Daycare/preschool.
   Funeral home.
   Internal accessory dwelling unit (in conjunction only with detached single-
family dwellings in a Planned Unit Development (PUD)).
   Printing/publishing.
   Public or quasi-public administrative offices (excluding temporary or
portable buildings).
   Public park.
   Public utility lines and rights of way.
   Research services.
   Residential facility for the elderly.
   Residential facility for the handicapped.
   Seasonal fruit/produce vendor stands.
   Signs complying with provisions of the sign ordinance.
   Uses customarily accessory to a listed permitted use. (Ord. 1994-22, 5-18-
1994; amd. Ord. 2021-25, 9-21-2021)
11-14-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in the BP zone. No other conditional uses
are allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
   Any development which includes multiple buildings or is proposed on a site
which is over one acre in size.
   Athletic or tennis club.
   Commercial outdoor recreation, minor (family reunion center, outdoor
reception facilities, picnic grounds, tennis courts, etc.).
   Light manufacturing uses (fabrication, assembly, treatment or packaging
operations conducted in a totally enclosed building using previously prepared
materials).
   Outside storage.
   Public and quasi-public uses, other than administrative offices, developed
on an undeveloped site (excluding those not specifically listed as a permitted
or conditional use) and material additions or modifications on a developed
site.
   Public utility substations, wireless transmission towers, except as
specified in section
11-28-190 of this title, generating plants, pumping stations and buildings.
   Restaurants (traditional sit down only).
   Storage/warehousing, as an accessory use, as necessary to maintain a
principal use.
   Temporary uses.
   Uses customarily accessory to a listed conditional use. (Ord. 2014-07, 3-4-
2014; amd. Ord. 2019-30, 10-29-2019; Ord. 2021-25, 9-21-2021; Ord. 2023-40, 6-
20-2023; Ord. 2023-67, 11-14-2023)
11-14-040: CONCEPTUAL PLAN AND SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Required: When a development will include multiple buildings or is
proposed on a site which is over one (1) acre in size, an overall conceptual
development plan, encompassing the entire site, shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission for conditional use and site development review. The intent
of this requirement is to commit the developer to a general plan within which
individual businesses can be placed. Once approved, any material change to the
conceptual plan shall require the approval of the Planning Commission. A
material change shall be interpreted as any change which substantially alters
the original plan and/or has the potential of causing a significant impact
beyond the site.
   B.   Information Required: The conceptual development plan shall include the
following specific information and shall also comply with all other applicable
standards contained in chapter 7 of this title. The plan shall:
      1.   Indicate the location of existing streets and, if applicable, the
proposed street layout for the entire development;
      2.   Identify the general location of building pads and the height of all
proposed buildings and structures;
      3.   Identify the general location and extent of existing and proposed
parking areas;
      4.   Include a conceptual landscape plan showing the general location,
density and size of trees, shrubs and ground cover;
      5.   Identify proposed phasing of the project (if any);
      6.   Illustrate the architectural design of buildings, including type of
materials, colors, and any proposed signs;
      7.   Illustrate the relationship of the proposed development to
surrounding uses. (Ord. 1994-22, 5-18-1994)
11-14-050: MINIMUM LOT AND SETBACK STANDARDS:
   A.   Setback From Streets: The minimum setback from public or private
streets shall be twenty feet (20') for buildings or structures twenty feet
(20') or less in height. Buildings or structures over twenty feet (20') in
height shall be set back an additional ten feet (10') (30 feet total). The
minimum side and rear setback from streets may be reduced through Planning
Commission review and approval in conjunction with a conditional use and site
plan application. Parking lots shall not be permitted within the minimum
required street setback(s).
   B.   Commercial Side And Rear Setbacks: The minimum side and rear setbacks
from property lines shall be twenty feet (20') for buildings and structures
twenty feet (20') or less in height. Buildings or structures over twenty feet
(20') in height shall be set back an additional ten feet (10') (30 feet total).
If the area of the side or rear setback is used for parking or as a service
area, a landscaped strip, not less than ten feet (10') in width, shall be
maintained along the property lines. The minimum side and rear setback for
commercial buildings and structures may be reduced through Planning Commission
review and approval in conjunction with a conditional use and site plan
application.
   C.   Residential Side And Rear Setbacks:
      1.   The minimum side yard setback from nonresidential zone boundaries
for a new residence in a BP Zone shall be twenty feet (20'). A mix of evergreen
and deciduous trees and shrubs shall be planted in such yard area to help
mitigate potential impacts from adjacent nonresidential uses;
      2.   The minimum rear setback from nonresidential zone boundaries shall
be forty feet (40'). A landscaped strip, not less than twenty feet (20') in
width, shall be maintained along the rear property line to help mitigate
potential impacts from adjacent nonresidential uses;
      3.   Side and rear yard setbacks from boundaries of zones which are
exclusively residential shall be the same as the adjacent residential zone.
   D.   Minimum Lot Size:
      1.   The minimum lot size for a nonresidential use or development in the
BP Zone shall be one-half (1/2) acre.
      2.   The minimum development acreage for a residential planned unit
development or condominium shall be not less than three (3) acres. Lot size,
dimensions and/or arrangement of buildings shall be determined by the Planning
Commission after review of the conceptual development plan. Gross density shall
not exceed eight (8) dwelling units per acre. (Ord. 2017-07, 3-21-2017)
   E.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width in a BP Zone, except in a residential
planned unit development or condominium, shall be one hundred feet (100'). For
individual lots with a single use, one hundred feet (100') of frontage shall be
provided on a fully improved public street.
   F.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The maximum percentage of coverage for all
buildings and structures in a BP Zone shall be fifty percent (50%).
   G.   Minimum District Size: A BP Zone District shall contain not less than
five (5) acres. (Ord. 1994-22, 5-18-1994)
11-14-055: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Requirements: Accessory buildings shall be located to the rear of the
main building, shall not encroach on any recorded easement, shall not cause the
maximum lot coverage ratio to exceed the standards set forth herein, shall,
without exception, be subordinate in height and area to the main building, and
shall be reviewed as a conditional use.
   B.   Setbacks: Accessory building setbacks:
      1.   Setback from rear and side property lines: No setback is required
except as specified below.
      2.   Where office/commercial development in a BP Zone share a common
property line with a residential zone or a residential use within the BP Zone,
the minimum setback for the accessory building abutting the residential zone
shall be the same as that required for such residential zone.
      3.   The placement of an accessory building shall not interfere with site
plan objectives such as traffic circulation, open spaces, landscaping, etc.
      4.   On double frontage lots, the setback from the rear lot line for
accessory buildings shall meet the setback requirement for main buildings.
      5.   Architecturally compatible accessory buildings, as approved by the
Planning Commission, may be located in the side yard of a lot if all front,
side and rear setbacks are provided as specified herein. (Ord. 2006-55, 8-15-
2006)
11-14-060: HEIGHT STANDARDS:
Nonresidential buildings or structures in a BP Zone shall not exceed forty five
feet (45') in height and three (3) stories, except accessory buildings, which
shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height unless approved otherwise as a
special exception. Residential main buildings and accessory buildings shall not
exceed thirty feet (30') in height. (Ord. 2014-10, 3-19-2014; amd. Ord. 2021-
01, 1-19- 2021)
11-14-070: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Landscaping: All areas of a developed site not occupied by buildings,
required parking, driveways, sidewalks or service areas, shall be appropriately
landscaped with lawn, trees, shrubs and other landscaping materials in
accordance with an approved landscaping plan. A minimum of fifteen percent
(15%) of the gross area of a commercial site and forty percent (40%) of a
residential site shall be landscaped. Gross area is interpreted as the total
site area remaining after any required street dedication.
   B.   Parking Lots: Parking lots shall be provided with landscaping around
the periphery and in islands and bays in the interior of the lot. If parking
lots are oriented parallel to the street, a landscaped berm, at least three
feet (3') in height, shall be provided between the parking lot and sidewalk in
order to help screen vehicles from view.
   C.   Street Trees: Street trees shall be planted along the street frontage
(s) of all sites and shall be spaced at not more than thirty feet (30') on
center. The minimum caliper size for street trees shall be two inches (2").
   D.   Buffers: In landscape buffers adjacent to residential zones and between
residential and nonresidential uses within the zone, a mix of evergreen and
deciduous trees shall be planted at a ratio of not less than one tree for each
three hundred (300) square feet of landscape area. For conditional uses, this
requirement may be increased if, in the opinion of the planning commission,
additional screening or buffering is necessary on a specific site.
   E.   Uses Within Fully Enclosed Building: All uses located in the zone shall
be conducted entirely within a fully enclosed building. There shall be no
outside storage of materials or equipment, other than motor vehicles licensed
for street use, except as specifically approved by the planning commission in
conjunction with a conditional use application.
   F.   Trash Storage: Trash storage and dumpsters shall be located in an area
convenient for pick up and shall be screened from public view by a six foot
(6') masonry wall.
   G.   Barrier Adjoining Residential Zone: A masonry or architectural concrete
wall or alternative visual barrier as approved by the planning commission, at
least six feet (6') in height, shall be erected along all development
boundaries adjoining a residential zone or a residential use within the BP
zone. The required wall shall be constructed prior to, or concurrently with,
construction of the first building on the site.
   H.   Utility Transmission Lines: All utility transmission lines shall be
placed underground. Transformers, meters and similar apparatus shall be at or
below ground level and shall be screened from public view by a wall or fence,
landscaping, earth berming, or special architectural treatment acceptable to
the planning commission.
   I.   Objectional Uses Prohibited: All uses shall be free from objectionable
or excessive odor, dust, smoke, noise, radiation or vibration. (Ord. 1994-22,
5-18-1994)
CHAPTER 15
BUSINESS/RESIDENTIAL ZONE (BR)
SECTION:
11-15-010: Purpose
11-15-020: Permitted Uses
11-15-030: Conditional Uses
11-15-040: Lot Standards For Residential Uses
11-15-050: Lot Standards For Office/Commercial Uses
11-15-060: Height Standards
11-15-070: Design Standards
11-15-010: PURPOSE:
The intent of this zone is to provide an area in the City for a mix of
professional and government offices, limited commercial uses and residential
land uses. The BR Zone, is integral to the cultural heritage of Farmington
City, and as such, the historic resources of the zone should be preserved,
rehabilitated or restored where appropriate. The standards and guidelines
contained herein are further intended to encourage compatibility between new
and existing development, to enhance the physical appearance of the district,
and, where applicable, to reinforce the historic character and development
pattern of the district. It is the City's intention to foster economic growth
and development within the BR Zone, but given the historic nature of the
district, most uses have been listed as conditional to give the City greater
flexibility in administering and determining that new businesses reflect the
cultural heritage within the zone. (Ord. 2014-40, 12-16-2014; amd. Ord. 2021-
01, 1-19-2021)
11-15-020: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in the BR Zone subject to site development
review. No other permitted uses are allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
   Residential facility for the disabled.
   Single-family dwelling.
   Two-family dwelling. (Ord. 2017-13, 5-16-2017)
11-15-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in the BR Zone. No other conditional uses
are allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
   Athletic/fitness center.
   Business and professional offices.
   Convenience store (sale of grocery items, nonprescription drugs and/or
gasoline from building with less than 5,000 square feet gross floor area).
   Daycare, preschool, that are not home occupations.
   Fast food establishments, attached (walk in service only, no exterior walk
up or vehicle drive-through service).
   Funeral home.
   Greenhouse/garden center (retail or wholesale).
   Hotels, motels and bed and breakfasts, all not to exceed five thousand
(5,000) square feet in size.
   Mixed use development, as defined in section
11-18-030 of this title.
   Museums.
   Neighborhood grocery (grocery store not exceeding 15,000 square feet in
gross floor area).
   Neighborhood service establishments (low impact retail and service uses,
such as bakery, bookstore, dry cleaning, hairstyling, pharmacy, art supply/
gallery, craft store, photocopy center, etc.).
   Pet store or pet grooming establishment.
   Public and quasi-public uses, except the following prohibited uses:
correctional/detention facilities, halfway houses, drug or alcohol
rehabilitation facilities, facilities for the treatment or confinement of the
mentally ill, homeless shelters, domestic violence shelters, and other similar
facilities, including those which may allow or require that clients stay
overnight or longer.
   Reception center.
   Residential facility for the elderly.
   Restaurant (traditional sit down).
   Small auto dealership.
   Temporary uses as set forth in subsection
11-28-120H1 of this title. (Ord. 2017-13, 5-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2023-67, 11-14-
2023)
11-15-040: LOT STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL USES:
   A.   The minimum lot size for single-family residential uses in the BR Zone
shall be eight thousand (8,000) square feet. Dimensions, setbacks, maximum
height of buildings and related provisions for single-family residential uses
in the BR Zone shall comply with standards for the R Zone as specified in
chapter 11 of this title.
   B.   Lot size, dimensions, setbacks, maximum height of buildings and related
provisions for multiple-family residential uses in the BR Zone shall comply
with standards specified in chapter 13 of this title.
   C.   Development of apartment dwelling groups shall comply with provisions
of section
11-13-080 of this title. (Ord. 1999-33, 7-7-1999)
11-15-050: LOT STANDARDS FOR OFFICE/COMMERCIAL USES:
   A.   Building Setbacks:
      1.   Front And Side Yards: No setback is required for office/commercial
buildings and structures, except as specified in subsection A3 of this section.
      2.   Common Property Line With Residential Zone: Where office/commercial
development in a BR Zone share a common property line with a residential zone,
the minimum setback for the yard(s) abutting the residential zone shall be the
same as that required for such residential zone.
      3.   Common Property Line with Residential Use: Where office/commercial
development in a BR Zone share a common property line with a residential use
within the zone, the minimum front, side and rear yard setbacks shall be ten
feet (10') unless, upon receipt and review of a special exception application,
a lesser, or no, setback is approved by the Planning Commission.
      4.   Parking Prohibited: Parking shall not be permitted within the
minimum required setbacks.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size: The minimum lot size for each separate office/
commercial use in the BR Zone shall be one-half (1/2) acre unless otherwise
provided by a conditional use permit. This standard shall not apply to lots
legally established prior to the effective date hereof.
   C.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width for commercial or office uses in a BR
Zone shall be one hundred feet (100') unless otherwise provided by a special
exception. For individual lots with a single use, one hundred feet (100') of
frontage shall be provided on a fully improved public street. These standards
shall not apply to lots legally established prior to the effective date hereof.
   D.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The maximum percentage of lot coverage for all
buildings and structures in a BR Zone shall be fifty percent (50%). (Ord. 2001-
28, 8-1-2001; amd. Ord. 2021-13, 5-18-2021)
11-15-060: HEIGHT STANDARDS:
No building or structure in a BR Zone shall exceed forty feet (40') in height.
(Ord. 1994-42, 10-19-1994)
11-15-070: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Landscaping: All areas of a developed site not occupied by buildings,
required parking, driveways, sidewalks or service areas, shall be appropriately
landscaped with lawn, trees, shrubs and other landscaping materials in
accordance with an approved landscaping plan.
   B.   Parking Lots: Parking lots shall be provided with landscaping around
the periphery and in islands and bays in the interior of the lot. The minimum
width of such landscaping shall be ten feet (10').
   C.   New Development: For new office/commercial development, landscaping
shall be required on a minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the gross area of
the site. For residential development, landscaping shall be required on forty
percent (40%) of the gross area of the site. Gross area is interpreted as the
total site area remaining after any required street dedication.
   D.   Street Trees: Street trees shall be planted along the frontage of
development sites and shall be spaced at not more than thirty feet (30') on
center. The minimum caliper size for street trees shall be two inches (2").
   E.   Landscape Buffers: In landscape buffers adjacent to residential zones
or uses, a mix of evergreen and deciduous trees shall be planted at a ratio of
not less than one tree for each three hundred (300) square feet of landscape
area. For listed conditional uses, this requirement may be increased if, in the
opinion of the planning commission, additional screening or buffering is
necessary on a specific site.
   F.   Uses Within Enclosed Building: All uses located in the zone shall be
conducted entirely within a fully enclosed building. There shall be no outside
storage of materials or equipment, other than motor vehicles licensed for
street use, except as specifically approved by the planning commission in
conjunction with a conditional use application.
   G.   Trash Storage: Trash storage and dumpsters shall be located in an area
convenient for pick up and shall be screened from view by a six foot (6')
masonry wall.
   H.   Utility Transmission Lines: All new utility transmission lines shall be
placed underground. Transformers, meters and similar apparatus shall be at or
below ground level and shall be screened from public view by a wall or fence,
landscaping, earth berming or special architectural treatment acceptable to the
planning commission.
   I.   Objectional Uses Prohibited: All uses shall be free from objectionable
or excessive odor, dust, smoke, noise, radiation or vibration. (Ord. 1994-42,
10-19-1994)
CHAPTER 16
GENERAL COMMERCIAL ZONE (C)
SECTION:
11-16-010: Purpose
11-16-020: Permitted Uses
11-16-030: Conditional Uses
11-16-040: District Standards
11-16-050: Vehicular Circulation And Parking
11-16-060: Design Standards
11-16-070: Hours Of Operation
11-16-080: Maintenance Of Improvements
11-16-010: PURPOSE:
This zone is established to provide locations for a full range of office and
retail commercial uses which are oriented to serve the city as a whole as well
as other areas in the region. These uses may develop as freestanding facilities
on individual lots, but are encouraged to occur in planned commercial centers
which reflect unified designs that are architecturally compatible and in scale
with the surrounding neighborhood. Property in the C zone is usually served by
high volume arterial streets providing adequate transportation access to the
sites. For this reason, control standards are established in this chapter to
ensure that the street system will continue to function as intended. (Ord.
2004-35, 6-16-2004)
11-16-020: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in the C zone. No other permitted uses are
allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
   Agriculture.
   Business and professional offices.
   Commercial outdoor recreation, minor (family reunion center, outdoor
reception facilities, picnic grounds, tennis courts, etc.).
   Commercial testing laboratories.
   Data processing services.
   Fast food establishments, attached (walk in service only, no exterior walk
up or vehicle drive-through service).
   Funeral home.
   Neighborhood service establishments (low impact retail and service uses,
such as bakery, bookstore, dry cleaning, hairstyling, coin laundry, pharmacy,
art supply/gallery, craft store, photocopy center, etc.).
   Printing/publishing services.
   Public or quasi-public administrative offices in an existing building
(excluding portable/temporary buildings).
   Public park.
   Public utility lines and rights of way.
   Research and development activities.
   Research services.
   Seasonal fruit/produce vendor stands.
   Signs complying with provisions of the sign ordinance.
   Uses customarily accessory to a listed permitted use. (Ord. 2004-35, 6-16-
2004; Ord. 2023-67, 11-14-2023)
11-16-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in the C zone. No other conditional uses are
allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
   Athletic or tennis club.
   Auto, truck, recreational vehicle and equipment sales and rental.
   Automobile and truck repair, not including bodywork.
   Car wash.
   Commercial complex (commercial center).
   Commercial indoor recreation (movie theater, video arcade, bowling alley,
etc.).
   Commercial outdoor recreation, major (miniature golf, batting cages, go-kart
tracks, drive-in theaters, etc.).
   Convenience store (sale of grocery items, nonprescription drugs and/or
gasoline from building with less than 5,000 square feet gross floor area).
   Daycare/preschool center.
   Department store.
   Fast food establishments, detached (may include vehicle drive-through
facilities).
   Fuel sales and/or storage.
   Greenhouse/garden center (retail or wholesale).
   Hotels and motels.
   Lumberyard.
   Neighborhood grocery (grocery store not exceeding 15,000 square feet in
gross floor area).
   Pet store or pet grooming establishment.
   Public utility substations, wireless transmission towers, except as
specified in section
11-28-190 of this title, generating plants, pumping stations and buildings.
   Reception center.
   Restaurants (traditional sit down).
   Self-service storage facilities.
   Supermarkets.
   Temporary uses.
   Uses customarily accessory to a listed conditional use.
   Veterinary hospital. (Ord. 2014-07, 3-4-2014)
11-16-040: DISTRICT STANDARDS:
   A.   Lot Size:
      1.   Nonresidential Use: Except in the case of a legal nonconforming lot,
each individual commercial use not located in an approved commercial complex
shall have a lot not less than one-half (1/2) acre in size. For the purpose of
this section, "pad" sites in a commercial complex shall be considered separate
commercial sites.
      2.   Residential Use: The minimum development acreage for a residential
planned unit development or condominium shall be not less than five (5) acres.
Lot size, dimensions and/or arrangement of buildings shall be determined by the
planning commission after review of the conceptual development plan. Gross
density shall not exceed twenty (20) dwelling units per acre.
   B.   Commercial Lot Width: Except in the case of a legal nonconforming lot
or residential planned unit development or condominium, the minimum width for a
commercial lot shall be one hundred feet (100'). For individual lots with a
single use, one hundred feet (100') of frontage shall be provided on a fully
improved public street except for "pad sites" in approved commercial centers.
   C.   Commercial Setback From Streets: The minimum setback from public or
private streets shall be twenty feet (20') for buildings or structures twenty
feet (20') or less in height. Buildings or structures over twenty feet (20') in
height shall be set back an additional foot for each foot of height over twenty
feet (20'). Any commercial building located adjacent to, or across the street
from, a residential zone shall have the same front yard setback as that
required in residential zone. Parking lots shall not be permitted within the
minimum required street setback(s). Such areas shall be permanently landscaped,
except for approved access drives.
   D.   Commercial Side And Rear Setbacks: There shall be no minimum setback
requirement, except where the C zone shares a common boundary with a
noncommercial zone. In such a case, the minimum side and rear setbacks from
property lines shall be twenty feet (20') for buildings and structures twenty
feet (20') or less in height. Buildings or structures over twenty feet (20') in
height shall be set back an additional foot for each foot of height over twenty
feet (20'). If the area of the side or rear setback is used for parking or as a
service area, a landscaped strip, not less than ten feet (10') in width shall
be maintained along the property lines.
   E.   Gasoline Pump Islands: Gasoline pump islands, as well as canopies that
may be constructed over such facilities, shall be set back a minimum of twenty
feet (20') from any property line.
   F.   Side And Rear Setbacks:
      1.   Side Setback For Nonresidential: The minimum side yard setback from
nonresidential zone boundaries for a new residence in a C zone shall be twenty
feet (20'). A mix of evergreen and deciduous trees and shrubs shall be planted
in such yard area to help mitigate potential impacts from adjacent
nonresidential uses;
      2.   Rear Setback For Nonresidential: The minimum rear setback from
nonresidential zone boundaries shall be forty feet (40'). A landscaped strip,
not less than twenty feet (20') in width shall be maintained along the rear
property line to help mitigate potential impacts from adjacent nonresidential
uses;
      3.   Residential: Side and rear yard setbacks from boundaries of zones
which are exclusively residential shall be the same as the adjacent residential
zone.
   G.   Building Height: Maximum building height shall be forty feet (40').
   H.   Lot Coverage: The maximum lot coverage shall be fifty percent (50%) for
all buildings. (The requirements for landscaped areas, building setbacks, and
off street parking may result in less than a 50 percent lot coverage.) (Ord.
2004-35, 6-16-2004)
11-16-050: VEHICULAR CIRCULATION AND PARKING:
   A.   Parking shall be provided for each use in conformance with chapter 32
of this title.
   B.   On a corner lot, no curb cut shall be located closer than forty feet
(40') to the property line corner at street intersections.
   C.   Curb cuts shall not be located closer than fifteen feet (15') to a side
or rear lot line, and the distance between separate curb cuts serving adjacent
land uses shall not be less than forty feet (40') unless the planning
commission approves an exception based on one or more of the following
circumstances:
      1.   A common curb cut serves adjacent land uses;
      2.   Curb cuts cannot meet separation standards due to narrow lot
frontage;
      3.   Curb cuts cannot meet separation standards due to location of
existing cuts on adjacent lots; or
      4.   A professional traffic engineer, after preparing a traffic study,
recommends in writing that curb cuts be located closer to interior lot lines in
order to maintain a safe distance from street intersections.
   D.   A commercial lot or commercial complex with three hundred feet (300')
of frontage or less shall have no more than two (2) curb cuts on any single
street right of way. One additional curb cut may be allowed for each additional
three hundred feet (300') of frontage on a single street right of way. Curb
cuts shall have a minimum distance of forty feet (40') between them. (Ord.
2004-35, 6-16-2004)
11-16-060: DESIGN STANDARDS:
Standards listed below shall supplement the design and development standards
contained in chapter 7 of this title:
   A.   Landscaping: All open areas in the required yard spaces, except
driveways, parking areas, walkways and storage areas shall be maintained with
suitable landscaping of plants, shrubs, trees and grass.
      1.   All landscaped areas shall be provided with an irrigation system
capable of complete coverage and designed to minimize runoff and other wasting
of water. Such system shall be maintained in a fully operational condition.
      2.   Street trees shall be planted along the frontage of commercial sites
and shall be spaced at not more than thirty feet (30') on center (except for
private streets). The minimum caliper size for street trees on public streets
shall be two inches (2").
      3.   In landscape buffers adjacent to residential zones, a mix of
evergreen and deciduous trees shall be planted at a ratio of not less than one
tree for each three hundred (300) square feet of landscape area. For
conditional uses, this requirement may be increased if, in the opinion of the
planning commission, additional screening or buffering is necessary on a
specific site.
   B.   Outside Storage: No outside storage shall be permitted except as
expressly approved by the planning commission.
   C.   Screening:
      1.   Garbage or other refuse shall be screened from public view by an
architectural concrete or masonry wall, or may be stored completely within an
enclosed building. Trash dumpsters shall be located a minimum of twenty feet
(20') from any common boundary with a noncommercial zone.
      2.   Where any commercial lot shares a common boundary with a residential
zone, a six foot (6') concrete or masonry wall and approved landscape buffer
shall be provided along such boundary. The wall shall be constructed
concurrently with the foundation of the first proposed building. However, in
the case of mixed use developments where the integration of commercial and
residential uses are a part of the overall plan, no fencing shall be required.
      3.   All mechanical equipment, including heating and air conditioning
units, shall be completely screened from surrounding properties by use of a
concrete or masonry wall or shall be enclosed within a building. Roof mounted
equipment shall be screened by parapet walls or other approved means. (Ord.
2004-35, 6-16-2004)
11-16-070: HOURS OF OPERATION:
The planning commission may limit hours of operation for conditional uses which
are determined to have a potential detrimental impact on noncommercial
properties in the immediate area. The planning commission may, from time to
time, review any previously granted conditional use permit for the purpose of
evaluating detrimental impact on surrounding noncommercial properties. Based
upon such evaluation, the planning commission may impose limitations on hours
of operation where such limitations were not previously imposed. (Ord. 2004-35,
6-16-2004)
11-16-080: MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
All landscaping shall be maintained in a healthy, neat and orderly condition,
free of weeds and litter. All paved areas, walls or fences shall be maintained
in good repair without broken parts, holes, potholes or litter. (Ord. 2004-35,
6-16-2004)
CHAPTER 17
ORIGINAL TOWNSITE RESIDENTIAL ZONE (OTR)
SECTION:
11-17-010: Purpose
11-17-020: Permitted Uses
11-17-030: Conditional Uses
11-17-040: Minimum Lot And Setback Standards
11-17-045: Alternative Lot And Setback Standards, And Additional Lots
11-17-050: Accessory Buildings And Structures (Including Attached Or Detached
Garages)
11-17-060: Fences
11-17-070: New Construction Design Guidelines
11-17-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to conserve and protect the beauty and historic
character of the original townsite residential area of Farmington City through
conservation of neighborhoods which reflect distinctive features of the
original townsite, to promote the public welfare by keeping the original
townsite area a desirable and attractive place in which to live, and to assure
compatibility of design of new residential units, additions, remodels and
accessory structures. In order to assure compatibility with the purpose of this
zone, these provisions shall also extend to existing or proposed conforming or
nonconforming land uses, such as commercial, public and industrial land uses
that are situated within the boundaries of the Original Townsite Residential
(OTR) Zone. (Ord. 2007-18, 3-6-2007)
11-17-020: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in the OTR Zone. No other permitted uses are
allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
   Accessory dwelling unit.
   Agriculture.
   Class A animals.
   Class B animals (as provided herein).
   Home occupations complying with the provisions of section
11-35-030 of this title.
   Internal accessory dwelling unit.
   Residential facility for the disabled.
   Single-family dwellings. (Ord. 2017-13, 5-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-25, 9-21-
2021; Ord. 2023-40, 6-20-2023)
11-17-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in the OTR Zone. No other conditional uses
are allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
   Class D animals.
   Daycare center.
   Greenhouses, private with no retail sales.
   Home occupations requiring a conditional use permit under section
11-35-040 of this title.
   Private school.
   Public uses (as provided herein).
   Public utility installations, except lines and rights-of-way (as provided
herein).
   Quasi-public uses (as provided herein).
   Residential facilities for the elderly. (Ord. 2017-13, 5-16-2017; amd. Ord.
2021-25, 9-21-2021; Ord. 2023-40, 6-20-2023)
11-17-040: MINIMUM LOT AND SETBACK STANDARDS:
   A.   Minimum Standards: The following shall be the minimum lot areas, widths
and main building setbacks in the OTR Zone:
 
Zone Lot Area                    Lot Width       Front Side Side Corner Rear
                                 Interior Corner
OTR  10,000 square feet for each 85'      95'    30'   10'  20'         30'
     single-family
*   Buildings may not be built over utility easements that may run along the
side and rear property lines, unless an exception is provided from the
zoning administrator with the consent of the City's Development Review
Committee and other applicable utility providers in writing.
 
   B.   Class B Animals: Class B animals are permitted in the OTR zone only if
the area of the lot is twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or larger. Class B
animals shall be limited to not more than one horse or cow and not more than
two (2) sheep or goats for each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of a lot.
   C.   Public Uses And Utility Installations: Public uses, public utility
installations and quasi-public uses are only allowed on lots less than forty
thousand (40,000) square feet in size.
   D.   Special Standards For Lot Width: Certain large, wide and deep lots
presently exist in the OTR zone. City records show that between 1969 and 1986,
the minimum lot width in the original townsite area was seventy feet (70').
Furthermore, for all the years prior to World War II, no minimum lot width or
lot size standards existed at all in the original townsite area. Consequently
scores of lots exist in this area with frontages less than eighty five feet
(85') in width. The purpose of this section is to provide special standards for
narrower lot width for the subdivision of large, wide lots located in the OTR
zone. A property owner may subdivide a parcel of land in the OTR zone resulting
in a lot width less than the minimum requirement set forth herein so long as
the following standards are met:
      1.   Any new construction on the building lot created therefrom, shall
conform to the new construction design guidelines contained herein.
      2.   The reduction in lot width shall not exceed fifteen feet (15').
      3.   The lot size must meet the minimum standard lot size described
herein.
      4.   The lot, and any use proposed for the lot, shall comply with the
minimum setback standards set forth herein, and standards related thereto set
forth in chapter 28 of this title.
      5.   Any structures existing prior to the subdivision shall meet the
setback requirements set forth in this chapter within the new subdivision.
   E.   Flag Lots: Flag lots, as defined by this code, shall be prohibited in
the OTR zone. (Ord. 2007-18, 3-6-2007; amd. Ord. 2015-11, 3-17-2015; Ord. 2023-
42, 7-18-2023)
11-17-045: ALTERNATIVE LOT AND SETBACK STANDARDS, AND ADDITIONAL LOTS:
   A.   Alternative Standards: Following the subdivision yield plan defined in
Chapter 11-2 and using the minimum standards of subsection
11-17-040A to establish a maximum number of lots, a subdivider may alter the
lot area, width, and side and side corner setbacks of lots for main buildings
within a subdivision using standards for the LR zone delineated in subsection
11-12-090, if the subdivider, at the sole discretion of, and by agreement with
the City, implements one of the following public benefits:
      1.   Provide or set aside lots (or dwelling units at the option of the
City) equal in number to at least ten percent (10%) of the total number of lots
approved for the subdivision (or an alternative proposal acceptable to the City
if the subdivision is less than 10 lots) for moderate income housing subject to
recording a deed restriction(s) to ensure the required number of lots or units
are available for a qualifying moderate-income household, or pays a fee in lieu
thereof for moderate income housing determined in consideration of factors set
forth in Chapter 11-28 of this Title; or
      2.   Preserve an existing on-site historic resource (standards for
historic resources are set forth in Chapter 11-39 of this Title); or
      3.   Create open space; or
      4.   Establish some other public benefit; or
      5.   Provide a combination of 1, 2, 3, and/or 4 above.
   B.   Additional Lots: The City Council may approve additional lots than what
is conventionally allowed in the underlying zone as an incentive to a
subdivider to provide a public benefit. (Ord. 2025-21, 5-20-2025)
11-17-050: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES (INCLUDING ATTACHED OR DETACHED
GARAGES):
   A.   Location: Accessory buildings, except for those listed in subsection C
of this section, may be located within one foot (1') of the side or rear
property line, provided they are at least six feet (6') to the rear of the
dwelling, do not encroach on any recorded easements, occupy not more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the rear yard. An accessory building which
contains an ADU shall be located a minimum of five feet (5') from a side or
rear property line unless a special exception is approved by the Planning
Commission to reduce these setbacks in accordance with section
11-3-045 .
      1.   An accessory building may be located in a side corner yard or front
yard of a lot; providing, that the building is of the same general design or
style as and comparable in excellence of quality and construction to the main
building, and in no event shall the accessory building encroach into the
required front yard or required side corner yard beyond the nearest corner of
the main building.
   B.   Footprint and Height: All accessory buildings shall, without exception,
be subordinate in height, unless the main building is less than fifteen feet
(15') in height, and subordinate in footprint to the main building.
   C.   Animal Shelters And Similar Buildings: Animal shelters, hay barns,
coops, corrals or other similar buildings or structures shall be located not
closer than ten feet (10') from any side or rear property line and eighty feet
(80') from any public street or from any dwelling on an adjacent property
(exceptions to these setback requirements may be reviewed by the planning
commission as a special exception).
   D.   Double Frontage Lots: On double frontage lots, accessory buildings
shall be located not less than twenty five feet (25') from each street upon
which the lot has frontage.
   E.   Garages: All garages and any similarly related accessory buildings,
whether attached or detached, shall be considered for approval as follows:
      1.   Notwithstanding subsection A, a garage shall not encroach into the
front yard or side corner yard, except side yards and the rear yard, of the
building lot, with the exception that if a garage currently does not exist on
the property and one could not fit within the side or rear yard, then a garage
may encroach into the side corner yard, but not the required side corner yard,
provided that it is designed so as to be an architectural and integral part of
the main dwelling.
      2.   Attached garages constructed even with the front setback line, or
that are set back (or recessed) from the front setback less than a distance
equal to half the depth of the main building shall comprise no more than thirty
three percent (33%) of the front plane of the home on lots greater than eighty
five feet (85') in width, and up to forty percent (40%) on lots less than
eighty five feet (85') in width if for every percentage point over thirty three
percent (33%) the garage is set back (or recessed) an additional one foot (1')
behind the front plane of the home. Side loaded garages where windows, openings
and fenestration of the front facade thereof are consistent with such features
of the main building and where the garage door does not face the street are an
exception to this standard.
      3.   All garages, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be considered
as a permitted use.
      4.   Garages must be compatible and consistent with existing garages in
the area. The placement of garages in the general vicinity and on adjoining
properties with respect to setbacks and the position of existing garages in
relation to the main buildings will be a consideration in determining site plan
approval for new garages. Property owners may be asked to provide information
regarding such during the building permit application review process. (Ord.
2007-18, 3-6-2007; amd. Ord. 2015-11, 3-17-2015; Ord. 2023-42, 7-18-2023; Ord.
2023-44, 7-18-2023; Ord. 2023-55, 9-19-2023; Ord. 2024-41, 7-16-2024; Ord.
2024-62, 12-17-2024)
11-17-060: FENCES:
   A.   Prohibited Fences: Fences consisting of chainlink or vinyl materials,
except such fences which have a wood grain appearance, located in the front
yard or side corner yard shall be prohibited.
   B.   Color Of Vinyl Fences: Vinyl fences shall only be installed with colors
consisting of flat, nongloss finishes. (Ord. 2007-18, 3-6-2007)
11-17-070: NEW CONSTRUCTION DESIGN GUIDELINES:
   A.   Applicability:
      1.   These standards apply to all structures requiring a building permit,
including new construction, additions and alterations. Creative solutions that
are compatible with the desired character of a historic neighborhood are
strongly encouraged. Designs that seek to contrast with the existing context
are discouraged. This guidance will help protect the established character of
each neighborhood, while also allowing new, compatible design.
      2.   The area within the OTR zone, including specific neighborhoods and
buildings, conveys a certain sense of time and place associated with its
history. It also remains dynamic, with alterations to existing structures and
construction of new buildings occurring over time. New buildings and/or
construction are not encouraged to look old, rather a new design should relate
to the fundamental characteristics of the district while also conveying the
stylistic trends of today.
      3.   New construction should, to the greatest extent possible, maintain
the established mass, scale, height, width and form of other buildings on the
street. New buildings and additions may be larger than earlier structures, but
should not be so dramatically greater in scale such that the visual continuity
of the street is compromised.
      4.   The planning department and/or planning commission may request a
recommendation from an ad hoc architecture committee established by the city
council or the Farmington City historic preservation commission regarding
applications for permitted uses or conditional uses.
   B.   Streetscape: New construction must be compatible and consistent with
buildings on adjoining lots and parcels in the general vicinity. To ensure
compliance with setback and orientation, mass and scale, building height,
building and roof form, materials and color standards set forth herein,
applicants for new construction may be required to provide a plan view of the
streetscape showing building elevations (similar to examples contained in the
appendices in this section), landscaping and other physical features of
adjacent lots, a series of abutting lots, or lots across the street. The city
may also review aerial photographs to ensure a compatible and consistent
streetscape.
   C.   Setback And Orientation: Situate new buildings such that they are
arranged on their sites in ways similar to existing buildings in the area. This
includes consideration of building setbacks, orientation and open space. The
zoning administrator may reduce the minimum setback standards contained herein,
provided such exception shall conform to the following standards:
      1.   The reduction in the setback shall not exceed fifteen feet (15');
      2.   The setback proposed shall be compatible with the character
(including historic qualities related thereto) of the site, and the existing
setback of structures on adjacent and surrounding properties;
      3.   The zoning administrator and/or planning commission may require
conditions consistent with the Farmington City general plan, the intent and
purpose of this title, and other provisions contained herein.
   D.   Mass And Scale:
      1.   New buildings and additions must be constructed to reinforce a sense
of human scale. This may be accomplished by employing techniques such as these:
         a.   Using building materials that are of traditional dimensions;
         b.   Providing one-story porch on a main building dwelling that is
similar to that seen traditionally;
         c.   Using a building mass that is similar in size to those seen
traditionally;
         d.   Using a solid to void ratio on all visible facades from the
public right of way that is similar to that seen traditionally, and using
window openings that are similar in size to those seen traditionally. At least
twenty five percent (25%) of street facing facades, excluding roofs, shall
consist of window and/or doors.
      2.   New buildings and additions shall appear similar in scale to the
scale that is established in the block or in the general vicinity. Subdivide
larger masses into smaller "modules" that are similar in size to buildings seen
traditionally. The area of a new construction or addition shall be equal to or
less than that of the main dwelling or original building unless otherwise
approved by the planning commission as a conditional use.
      3.   Front elevations shall be designed similar in scale to those seen
traditionally in the block. Fronts shall include a one-story element, such as a
front porch. In certain circumstances a two-story element, may be appropriate
if it provides cover to a second-story balcony. The primary plane of the front
should not appear taller than those of typical structures in the block. A
single wall plane should not exceed the typical maximum facade width in the
zone.
      4.   Where they are to be used, ornamental elements, ranging from corbels
to porches, should be in scale with similar historic features. The proportion
of elements such as brackets for example should appear to be functional as well
as decorative.
   E.   Building Height:
      1.   New main building height should be similar to those found
historically in the vicinity, and shall not exceed twenty seven feet (27') in
height, unless the Planning Commission approves an increased height after
review of a special exception application filed by the property owner per
section
11-3-045;
      2.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story;
      3.   Except as otherwise provided herein, the height of a new addition
shall be equal to or less than that of the original building;
      4.   Accessory buildings or structures shall be subordinate in height to
the main building and shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height unless
approved by the planning commission after a review of a special exception
application filed by the property owner.
   F.   Building And Roof Form: Building form is an indispensable component
which advances the purpose of this chapter, and visually, the roof is the
single most important element in an overall building. New construction,
including second story additions, shall comply with the following design
guidelines (see also the illustrations in the appendices in this section):
      1.   Building and roof forms should be consistent with other buildings
seen traditionally on the block and in the neighborhood;
      2.   Simple rectangular solids are typically appropriate in building
form;
      3.   Gable and hip roofs are appropriate for primary roof forms in most
residential areas. Shed roofs are appropriate for some additions. Roof pitches
must be within plus or minus two inches (±2") per foot of other roofs on that
property and/or adjacent properties of similar era ("shed style" roofs
excepted);
      4.   If a property owner is proposing to construct a second story but no
second story homes exist in the neighborhood, the property owner should
consider bringing portions of the roof down to the gutter or eave line of the
first story;
      5.   Major portions of second story and/or second story additions should
be set away from front, rear and side property lines, and placed over the house
and not the garage only; and
      6.   No structure shall extend above or beyond a daylight plane having a
height of twelve feet (12') at each side property line and extending into the
lot or parcel at an angle of forty five degrees (45°) with the following
encroachments allowed:
         a.   Television or radio antennas, chimneys, flues, eaves and
skylights;
         b.   Dormers or similar architectural features; provided, that the
horizontal length of all such features shall not exceed a combined total of
fifteen feet (15') on each side; and
         c.   Gables or similar architectural features; provided, that the
horizontal length of all such features shall not exceed a combined total of
nineteen feet (19') on each side, measured along the intersection with the
daylight plane; and provided, that the intersection of the gable with the
daylight plane closest to the front property line is along the roofline.
   G.   Materials: Building materials should contribute to the traditional
sense of scale of the block, this will reinforce the sense of visual continuity
in the district. New materials that are similar in character to traditional
materials may be acceptable with appropriate detailing. Alternative materials
should appear similar in scale, proportion, texture and finish to those used
historically. They also must have a proven durability in similar locations in
this climate. Except for the roof, fascia and soffit, exterior material on the
front and side elevations of said structures shall consist of brick, rock,
stucco, wood siding or combination thereof, metal and vinyl shall be
prohibited. Metal or vinyl exterior materials shall be permitted on windows and
doors and on the fascia and soffit, and on the entire rear elevations of said
structures. All exterior materials and colors are to be specified on plans for
said structures and shall be submitted for approval by the planning department
and/or planning commission.
   H.   Color: With respect to colors on a historic building, a scheme that
reflects the historic style is preferred, although some new color selections
can be compatible. For newer buildings and additions, a color scheme that
complements the historic character of the zone should be used. Property owners
are particularly encouraged to employ colors that will help establish a sense
of visual continuity for the block.
      1.   Keep color schemes simple. Using one base color for the building is
preferred. Muted colors are appropriate for the base color. Using only one or
two (2) accent colors is also encouraged, except where precedent exists for
using more than two (2) colors with some architectural styles.
      2.   Coordinating the entire building in one color scheme is usually more
successful than working with a variety of palettes. Using the color scheme to
establish a sense of overall composition for the building is strongly
encouraged.
   APPENDIX 1
   Building Envelope
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2825.png]
 
Large homes generally look less massive if they have more varied, rather than
simple building forms. If a common pattern or level of complexity exists in the
neighborhood, new houses should have a similar amount of variety in their
footprint and massing.
   Neighborhood Scale
The scale of a building is its perceived size relative to the size of
neighboring houses. Houses can be compatible by reducing the height, stepping
back the second story and providing variation in the roof and building forms.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2827.png]
   APPENDIX 2
   Roof Design And Massing Of Roof Forms
Roof shape and type are often the defining elements of appearance of a house
and neighborhood. Roofs should be compatible with the neighborhood through roof
forms, slope, materials and massing. All roof forms should be architecturally
compatible with the primary form's slope and material and be consistent with
the character of roof forms in the neighborhood.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2829.png]
   Lower Eave Line
Lower the roofline to make second story homes more compatible with single-story
homes. Lowering the eave line can reduce the apparent building mass making the
home compatible with the neighborhood.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2831.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2833.png]
   APPENDIX 3
   Second Story Setbacks
Locate second story additions away from the edges of the property. Set major
portions of second story additions away from front, side and rear property
lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2835.png]
   Second Story Location Over House
Place the primary volume of second story additions over the house instead of
over the garage only. Consider split level design when located between two-
story and single-story homes.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2837.png]
   APPENDIX 4
   Wall Articulation
Avoid creating long or tall blank side walls. Break up the appearance of long
side walls by adding steps or breaks in the building walls, and windows where
privacy can be respected.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2839.png]
   Window Placement
House additions should respect adjacent neighbor privacy by carefully locating
windows, use of landscape and other architectural solutions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2841.png]
   APPENDIX 5
   Daylight Plane
No structure shall extend above or beyond the daylight plane with a height of
twelve feet (12') and extending into the parcel at an angle of forty five
degrees (45°).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2843.png]
   Exceptions For Encroachment
The following encroachments are allowed: television and radio antennas,
chimneys, flues, eaves, skylights, dormers, gables or similar architectural
features.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2845.png]
(Ord. 2007-18, 3-6-2007; amd. Ord. 2016-23, 2-16-2016; Ord. 2021-01, 1-19-2021;
Ord. 2021-22, 8-3-2021; Ord. 2025-21, 5-20-2025)
CHAPTER 18
MIXED USE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-18-010: Purpose
11-18-020: Conflicts
11-18-030: Definitions
11-18-040: Regulating Plan
11-18-045: Moderate Income Housing
11-18-050: Uses
11-18-060: Building Form And Site Envelope Standards
11-18-070: Development Plan Review
11-18-080: Project Master Plan
11-18-090: Signs
11-18-100: Off Street Parking Space Standards
11-18-110: Landscaping And Street Furniture Standards
11-18-120: Master Development Guidelines
11-18-130: Common Area Management Plan
11-18-140: Alternative Approval Process; Development Agreements
11-18-010: PURPOSE:
The regulating plan, mixed use districts, plan review and development standards
and guidelines are enacted to provide and encourage a compatible mix of uses,
rather than a separation of uses, that is consistent with the objectives of the
Farmington City general plan. Flexibility in design and the uses allowed is
provided to encourage a diversity of uses that can respond to market forces
while being consistent with a design that promotes a transit and pedestrian
oriented pattern of development.
   A.   Regulating Plan: The regulating plan establishes a street network map
that identifies the location of existing streets and the layout and proposed
location of future streets. The layout of the street network forms the basis of
the sustainable and connected development pattern that is desired in the mixed
use districts. The regulating plan identifies street types within the network
and standards for each street type that establish the width, character and use
of the right of way. The standards shape the design of streets as public places
for multiple modes of travel, including the pedestrian and bicycle.
   B.   Mixed Use Districts: The provisions of the following mixed use
districts, and accompanying building form standards set forth herein, along
with the regulatory plan, shall establish and define the uses of land and the
siting and character of the improvements and structures allowed on the land in
a manner that allows a diversity of uses in a pedestrian friendly environment.
All of the mixed use districts provide a broad range of uses in order to
encourage the development of diverse, interesting neighborhoods. All uses and
structures will be sited and designed to be compatible with one another.
      1.   OS Open Space District: The OS district is intended for publicly and
privately owned parks, open space, natural habitats, trails and a limited range
of other uses throughout the mixed use districts that may enhance the use and
enjoyment of open space, especially the Shepard Creek corridor. An open space
district may be created through the aggregation of open space on a development
parcel.
      2.   RMU Residential Mixed Use District: The RMU district is primarily
residential, allowing single-, two- or multiple-family dwellings. Along
collector or arterial streets, development may be either residential or mixed
use, combining residential with neighborhood serving retail, office or service
uses. Commercial uses should be located on collector or arterial streets or in
areas that already have commercial uses. No maximum residential density is
prescribed; instead, the scale of buildings is determined by building form,
site envelope and open space standards, and parking ratios. The intent is to
encourage a full range of housing types, including affordable housing options.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2847.png]
      3.   OMU Office Mixed Use District: The OMU district is intended to be
primarily office and commercial, with multiple-unit dwellings allowed as a
secondary use. It includes commercial uses appropriate for high visibility
locations such as general office, campus uses, and employment centers near
collector or arterial streets. The purpose of the district is to encourage
office uses in general, allow for a higher intensity of commercial uses than in
the RMU, spatially define streets, encourage higher site and building
standards, and create an attractive pedestrian environment. Uses that are
incompatible with this purpose, including auto related uses, such as repair
shops, and industrial uses are not allowed. Detached, single-family dwellings
are also not allowed.
      4.   GMU General Mixed Use District: The GMU district provides for a mix
of commercial, office, retail and multiple unit and attached residential uses
of a higher density along or near arterials or major and minor collectors. Site
and building design will be of a quality that enhances the character of the
streets. A wide range of commercial and residential uses are allowed, including
regional scale retail; provided, that it is compatible with the overall
sustainable character of the area by fitting into an interconnected street
network in regard to block size, connectivity and the development standards
described in sections
11-18-040 and
11-18-060 of this chapter. No maximum residential density is prescribed.
Instead, building form, site envelope and open space standards, and parking
ratios will determine the scale of the buildings.
      5.   TMU Transit Mixed Use District: The TMU district consists of the
approved station park regional retail and mixed use project and other land
within proximity to the transit station. The TMU district is intended to be
developed in a manner that promotes walkability and enhances the desirability
of transit use, allowing residents, workers and shoppers to walk to transit and
other destinations within the district. Retail uses in addition to station park
are allowed; provided, that they can be designed without compromising
walkability within the district. While the TMU district allows the same uses as
the GMU, it is at a higher development intensity due to its proximity to mass
transit. The TMU district is intended for areas with adequate land adjacent to
a station to create a viable transit oriented development (TOD) and to
transition to the surrounding community. A TMU district must be proximate to a
mass transit railway system station and have a direct pedestrian connection to
that station. A TMU district shall have at least one point that is located
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of access to a rail station or
platform.
   C.   Compatibility And Review: All uses and structures shall be sited and
designed to be compatible with one another. To determine compatibility, a
review, including, but not limited to, the following characteristics of the
uses and structures shall be conducted relative to other affected uses and
structures: location, orientation, operation, massing, scale and visual and
sound privacy. Rules and regulations relating to the compatibility of uses and
structures based upon the above listed characteristics may be adopted by the
city. The plan review processes set forth herein and the associated rules and
regulations will assure that adjacent uses are compatible and consistent to the
extent feasible. Flexibility shall be allowed in the compatibility review
process given that adherence with the intents and purposes of the mixed use
districts and associated rules and regulations are met.
   D.   Development Guidelines And Standards: Adherence to the design standards
set forth herein will personify development of the mixed use districts and
facilitate the creation of vibrant areas and pedestrian friendly neighborhoods
where the private development frames the public space of the streets and, along
with integrated streetscape and landscaping elements, will help to create a
cohesive community. Public amenities such as streets with detached sidewalks
and park strips, parkways, parks, creek corridors, connected open spaces and
direct access to permanent and future mass transit facilities should also be
used to organize private development in the mixed use districts. (Ord. 2008-61,
12-9-2008)
11-18-020: CONFLICTS:
This chapter provides additional provisions to those set forth in the other
chapters of this title. In the event of conflict between other provisions of
this title and this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (Ord.
2008-61, 12-9-2008)
11-18-030: DEFINITIONS:
BLOCK FACE: The portion of a street block between two (2) street rights of way.
BUILDING LOT: (For full definition, refer to chapter 2 of this title.) A parcel
of land that is of such dimensions as to comply with the minimum requirements
of this title for area and width and depth where applicable in the zone in
which it is located. This parcel must also have frontage on a public street
equal to at least fifty percent (50%) of its minimum required width. A building
lot is to be used for the purposes of applying the building form and site
envelope standards of section
11-18-060 of this chapter.
DEVELOPMENT PARCEL: A legally recorded parcel of land. A development parcel may
include more than one zone lot (refer to definition of Zone Lot). Development
parcels shall provide interconnectivity between different uses in the
development parcel as well as tie in with adjacent development parcels.
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE: The development review committee (DRC) consists
of city departments, special districts, governmental boards, bureaus, utility
companies and other agencies, as determined by the city's community development
department, necessary for the review, recommendation and comment of
applications for development, other inquiries, or issues important to the city.
DEVELOPMENT STANDARD: Any standard, requirement, rule, regulation,
supplementary regulation, code provision, covenant, design or architectural
guideline, engineering standard or specification, setback, buffer, building
height or volume limitation, yard requirement, lot width or depth
specification, parking, loading, access or parking lot design requirement, road
or right of way specification, standard for lighting, signage, fencing or
walls, landscaping requirement or specification, sidewalk or trail requirement
or specification or other standard, requirement or specification that affects
the design, form, location, placement or configuration of any improvement to
real property, including private development land and public property or rights
of way.
FENESTRATION: The amount of openness on a building face, represented by
windows, doorways and other openings such as arcades or covered walkways.
MIXED USE: Any combination of nonresidential (e.g., retail, office and
entertainment) and/or residential uses in a pedestrian oriented environment,
integrated vertically in the same building (e.g., housing above retail) or
horizontally in the same area or on the same site, such as a planned
development area or development parcel (e.g., housing next to and/or integrated
with retail). In order to create a pedestrian oriented environment, horizontal
mixed use must be interconnected through a street network if the uses are not
on the same block.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2849.png]
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT AREA: One or more contiguous development parcels that are
planned at one time with a total area in excess of five (5) acres.
SITE PLAN AND ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW COMMITTEE: The site plan and architectural
review committee (SPARC) shall consist of at least three (3) members, one of
which shall be an outside planning or urban design consultant. The other two
(2) members will be one member of city planning staff and one planning
commission member. The SPARC may include additional members as appointed by the
mayor, but shall not exceed five (5) members at one time. No more than two (2)
members of the SPARC shall represent the same entity. The SPARC shall
participate in the review of project master plans, site plans and the
components of these processes to evaluate conformance with the established
rules and regulations and the purposes and intents of the mixed use zones. The
SPARC will make recommendations to City staff and the Planning Commission to
facilitate the approval process, but is not an approving body.
STREET TYPE: The type of street as defined in the regulating plan. Street types
are part of a street type hierarchy and, along with the different mixed use
districts, guide uses and the intensity of development.
ZONE LOT: A defined separate ground area that is designated for each structure
containing a use or uses by right or special review. Each zone lot shall have
at least one front property line from a public or private street and meet the
minimum lot width standards as defined in section
11-18-060 of this chapter. In addition to the principal structure, each zone
lot may have one or more subordinate structures containing only accessory uses.
A zone lot is to be used for the purposes of applying the building form and
site envelope standards of section
11-18-060 of this chapter when a building lot has not been recorded. A zone lot
does not need to be a platted area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2851.png]
 
(Ord. 2008-61, 12-9-2008)
11-18-040: REGULATING PLAN:
   A.   Scope: The regulating plan for the mixed use districts consists of the
street network map that identifies the location of existing streets and the
layout and proposed location of future streets. The regulating plan will
provide the framework for establishing the mixed use districts described in
this chapter. Uses and intensity of development, including transitions to
surrounding residential areas, will be based on the mixed use district and the
street types within each district.
   B.   Using The Regulating Plan:
      1.   Determine which street type the building lot or zone lot fronts. The
primary street frontage for corner lots will be determined based on the street
hierarchy in subsection C of this section.
      2.   Building form and site envelope standards for building lots or zone
lots are determined by the mixed use district and the street the lot fronts.
   C.   Street Type Hierarchy:
      1.   Arterial road (Park Lane): Primary vehicular access road, connecting
local neighborhoods and the transit station area to regional and interstate
highway infrastructure. Four (4) lane, divided road with landscaped median.
      2.   Principal road/major collector (Burke Lane, Clark Lane, new north/
south streets): Main roads bisecting the mixed use district area, principal
transportation circulation. Two (2) lane, divided road with landscaped median
and on street parking.
      3.   Promenade/minor collector (new east/west street connecting the new
north/south principal roads): Streets prioritizing pedestrian circulation and
activity, connecting desirable destinations to future transit nodes, with very
low speed vehicular circulation. Two (2) lane road, very wide sidewalks.
      4.   Local primary road: A road directly abutting a boundary of the
mixed-use district that is adjacent to single-family neighborhoods, similar to
a neighborhood road in scale and width, but has less impact as it restricts
building height, acting as a buffer.
      5.   Neighborhood road/local (new local streets): Low speed streets
connecting neighborhoods to principal roads. Two (2) lane road.
      6.   Rail access road/local (new street/walkway, designed to promote
access to the commuter rail station from the north side of Park Lane alongside
the UP and UTA rail lines): If right-of- way allows, two (2) lane road with
sidewalk on west side.
      7.   Alley (new rear accessways for parking areas and garages): Narrow
two (2) lane alley for interior circulation, generally oriented parallel to the
primary street.
      8.   Pedestrian walkway (new pedestrian walkways/trails): Pedestrian and
bicycle only routes, connecting green spaces, residential areas, commercial
nodes and transit nodes.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2853.png]
   D.   Street Network Design: The street network, street standards and street
type hierarchy form the basis of the regulating plan. The street network is
designed to provide connectivity and adaptability throughout the mixed use
districts as the area develops over time. New development shall follow the
street network design; however, if minor realignments are necessary due to
environmental and/or physical conditions, they will be evaluated during the
development plan review process. Major alternative alignments or flexibility
with the street network design may be proposed through the project master plan
process; provided, that the following provisions are met:
      1.   Maximum Block Size: The maximum perimeter of any block may not
exceed one thousand fifty-six feet (1,056') in the Office Mixed Use Districts,
two thousand feet (2,000') in the Residential, General and Transit Mixed Use
Districts, and two thousand eight hundred feet (2,800') in the Open Districts.
Each block face may not exceed two hundred sixty-four feet (264') in the Office
Mixed-Use Districts and seven hundred feet (700') in the Open Space,
Residential, General, and Transit Mixed Use Districts. Block faces may be
defined by any of the street types, including pedestrian walkways, that are
dedicated public rights-of-way or easements, with the exception of alleys.
However, if a pedestrian walkway is used to define a block of the maximum size
then the right-of-way for the walkway must be equal to that of the neighborhood
(local) road including the width of side treatments, and the City shall find
that there is appropriate consideration, in the form of benefit to the City or
the public, from the proposed exception and/or other appropriate reasons that
justify the determination of the City to allow for pedestrian walkways to be
used as a block face, and the applicant must obtain City approval as part of a
Development Plan Application set forth in section
11-18-070 of this chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2855.png]
      2.   Average Block Size: The average perimeter of all blocks within a
planned development area shall not exceed nine hundred feet (900') in the
Office Mixed Use Districts, one thousand six hundred feet (1,600') for
Residential, General and Transit Mixed Use Districts, and two thousand four
hundred feet (2,400') for the Open Space Districts. If a planned development
area includes multiple districts, the average block size may fall between nine
hundred feet (900') and two thousand four hundred feet (2,400').
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2857.png]
      3.   Connectivity: Connectivity throughout the area is critical for the
mixed use nature of the area to function as a pedestrian oriented environment.
While streets indicated on the regulating plan may be removed or designated as
pedestrian walkways, the number of surface street intersections within a
planned development area shall be proximate to the number of intersections
indicated for that area on the regulating plan and will be evaluated during the
project Master Plan and development plan review processes. Connectivity will be
evaluated for multiple modes of travel, including the pedestrian and bicycle.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2859.png]
      4.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be provided on both sides of each
motorized street in the street type hierarchy, with the exception of alleys and
the rail access road. For the rail access road, the sidewalk shall be on one
side as indicated. If the right-of-way for the rail access road is widened,
additional right-of-way should be acquired for a sidewalk on the other side.
      5.   Alleys: Alleys are allowed in any mixed use district in this chapter
to minimize curb cuts off of streets and to provide common access to parking
and service areas behind buildings. Alley locations are not fixed as part of
the street network design, but shall be designed and located to best
accommodate the purpose of the alley. Alleys should be generally oriented so
that they are parallel to the primary street to which they serve. Alleys may be
incorporated as drive aisles for rear parking lots or as a fire access.
However, alleys shall not be considered a fire access unless specifically
approved as such by the City Fire Department and the pavement width meets
Farmington City standards.
      6.   Curb Corners: Corner curb radii shall be twenty eight feet (28'). An
additional ten foot (10') clear zone shall be established beyond the radius
free of vertical obstructions. These obstructions shall include, but not be
limited to, telephone poles, sign poles, fire hydrants, utility boxes or
newspaper boxes.
   E.   Public Space Standards:
      1.   Each street type shall have a dedicated right-of-way or easement
that is considered to be public space. This right-of-way is measured from back
of curb to back of curb. Table 18.1, "Street Standards", of this subsection
shall dictate the use of the space between the curbs. Street standards follow
the general guidelines of existing Farmington City street standards. Additional
standards, outlined in table 18.2, "Side Treatment Standards", of this
subsection shall dictate the use and width of the space from the back of the
curb, on which a public access easement will be placed if not part of the
public right-of-way. The City may make adjustments to street standards and side
treatment standards herein as set forth in chapter 7 of this title and section
12-8-100 of this Code. Such adjustments should provide continuity and be
consistently applied where possible along the entire length of a given street.
      2.   Intersections shall be designed for pedestrian safety through the
use of bulb outs that narrow the crossing distance of the street. Bulb outs
shall extend into the roadway the depth of the curb, gutter and parking lane
(when present) collectively.
   TABLE 18.1
   STREET STANDARDS
            Right-Of-Way Travel Lanes                                  Curb And
Street Type Width        (Number And   Median Bike Lanes Parking Lanes Gutter
                         Width)
              Right-Of-Way Travel Lanes                   Parking    Curb And
Street Type   Width        (Number And  Median Bike Lanes Lanes      Gutter
                           Width)
Arterial      77'          4, 12'       14'    5', each   None       2.5', each
                                               side                  side
Principal                                      5', each   7.5', each 2.5', each
(major        64'          2, 11'       12'    side       side       side
collector)
Promenade                                      5', each   7.5', each 2.5', each
(minor        64'          2, 11'       12'    side       side       side
collector)
Local primary 37'          2, 11'       None   5', each   None       2.5', each
                                               side                  side
              32' (28'
              allowed if
Neighborhood  square foot  2, 13.5' (or None   Bike route Nonstriped 2.5', each
(local)       residential  2, 11.5')                      parking    side
              is on both
              sides)
Rail access                1, 11' or 2,                              2.0' to
(local)       16' to 22'   9'           None   None       None       2.5', each
                                                                     side
Alley         22'          2, 9'        None   None       None       2' gutter,
                                                                     each side
 
   TABLE 18.2
   SIDE TREATMENT STANDARDS
Street Type Total Side      Sidewalk          Park Strip/
            Treatment Width (Public Easement) Tree Grate
Street Type        Total Side      Sidewalk             Park Strip/
                   Treatment Width (Public Easement)    Tree Grate
Arterial           28' to 40'      6' to 10', each side 8' to 10', each side
Principal          40'             10', each side       10', each side
Promenade          50'             20', each side       5', each side
Local primary      36'             8', each side        10', each side
Neighborhood       28' to 36'      6' to 8', each side  8' to 10', each side
Rail access        3' to 9'        3' to 8', 1 side     0' to 3'
Alley              None            None                 None
Pedestrian walkway 20'             10' trail            5', each side
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2861.png]
(Ord. 2008-61, 12-9-2008; amd. Ord. 2017-13, 5-16-2017; Ord. 2018-06, 2-6-2018;
Ord. 2018-18, 5-15-2018; Ord. 2018-31, 8-21-2018; Ord. 2020-36, 12-15-2020)
11-18-045: MODERATE INCOME HOUSING:
   A.   Minimum Requirement: Developers must provide or set aside dwelling
units equal in number to at least ten percent (10%) of the total number of
dwelling units approved for the development for moderate income housing subject
to entering into an agreement with the City; unless, at the sole discretion of,
and by agreement with the City, the developer provides:
      1.   Open space;
      2.   A fee in lieu thereof determined in consideration of factors set
forth in Section 11-28-270 of this Title;
      3.   Some other public benefit; or
      4.   A combination of 1, 2, and 3 above.
   B.   Exemption: Developments resulting in two (2) or fewer additional
dwelling units are exempt from the minimum moderate-income housing requirements
of this Section.
   C.   Additional Dwelling Units: The City may approve additional dwelling
units than what is conventionally allowed in the underlying zone as an
incentive to a developer to provide moderate income housing. (Ord. 2021-20, 8-
3-2021)
11-18-050: USES:
   A.   Uses allowed in the TOD area are identified in table 18.3, "Allowable
Land Uses", of this section. A development parcel may have more than one main
building or dwelling, however each main building shall have its own zone lot.
   B.   More than one permitted use may be located on a development parcel and
within a building (refer to "mixed use" and "development parcel", as defined
herein).
   TABLE 18.3
   ALLOWABLE LAND USES
Key to allowable uses:
P - Permitted
N - Not permitted
  Mixed Use Districts
  OS RMU OMU GMU TMU
                                                            Mixed Use Districts
                                                            OS RMU OMU GMU TMU
Residential:                                                            
 Low density residential - single-family detached minimum  N  P   N   N   N
  of 5,000 square feet lot size
  Medium density residential - single-family small lots and
 attached units or townhomes/condominiums limited to       N  P   N   N   P
  duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes, fiveplexes, or sixplexes
 High density residential - condominium and apartment      N  N   N   N   P
  style
 Live/work residential                                     N  P   N   N   P
 Residential facilities for people with disabilities       N  P   N   P   P
 Assisted living facilities                                N  P   N   P   P
 Residential facilities for the elderly                    N  P   N   P   P
Commercial:                                                             
  Accessory buildings that do not in aggregate have a
 footprint greater than 25 percent of the main building(s) N  P   P   P   P
  on a development parcel
 Art studio                                                N  P   P   P   P
 Business, professional offices, outpatient medical        N  P   P   P   P
  facilities
 Entertainment                                             N  N   N   P   P
 Fitness and recreation facilities                         N  P   P   P   P
 Hospitals, inpatient medical facilities                   N  N   P   P   P
 Lodging - bed and breakfast                               N  P   N   P   P
 Lodging, limited to hotel, motel                          N  N   P1  P   P
 Neighborhood service establishments3                      N  P1  P1  P   P1
 Parking structure                                         N  N   P   P   P
 Restaurant - fast food                                    N  P1  P   P   P1
 Restaurant - traditional sit down                         N  P   P   P   P
 Retail and wholesale sales individual tenant use:                     
 Up to 5,000 square feet                                   N  P   P   P   P
 Greater than 5,000 square feet                            N  N   P   P   P
  and up to 20,000 square feet
 Vehicle service/convenience store (including gasoline     N  N   P   P   P
  sales but no auto repair)
Civic uses:                                                             
  Government - no point of service; no offices dealing
 directly or on a limited basis with the public (e.g.,     N  N   N   N   N
  public works yards, etc.)
 Parks and open space                                      P  P   P   P   P
 Schools:                                                              
 Preschool, daycare                                        N  P1  P   P   P
 Primary, secondary, colleges,                             N  P   P   P   P
  and vocational
 Service and fraternal clubs and organizations, and        N  P   P   P   P
  religious institutions
 Transit and related transportation facilities (not        N  N   P2  P2  P2
  including benches and bus stop signs)
 
Restrictions:
   1.    Drive up window/drop off lane (including a porte-cochere) allowed only
with special exception review by the Planning Commission as set forth in
section
11-3-045 of this title, as to use, and not fixed dimensional standards;
however, in the case of a lodging, the planning commission may approve
variations from the standards of 11-18-160 including permission to allow off-
street parking between the building and a secondary street by review of a
special exception. For any use not listed as P1, drive-up windows are expressly
prohibited. No additional curb cut shall be added to accommodate the drive up/
drop off lane.
   2.    Benches and bus stops are permitted, with development standards as
noted in section
11-18-110 of this chapter.
   3.    Neighborhood service establishments: Low impact retail and personal
service uses such as bakery, bookstore, dry cleaning, hairstyling, pharmacy,
art supply/gallery, craft store, photocopy center, corner market (with no gas
pumps).
(Ord. 2017-13, 5-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2020-21, 8-18-2020; Ord. 2021-10, 5-4-2021;
Ord. 2022-28, 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-67, 11-14-2023)
11-18-060: BUILDING FORM AND SITE ENVELOPE STANDARDS:
The following regulations and standards establish the parameters that guide the
form of building within the mixed use districts of this chapter, including the
site envelope for building placement. They direct and control the building
envelope and site in regard to configuration, orientation, function and
features that define and shape the public realm. The technique of the standards
is to use private buildings to define and shape the public space in a manner
that promotes walkability and provides functional connections between the
public space and the private buildings. The standards are designed to use a
minimum level of control to meet this goal.
The regulating plan identifies six (6) street types, including pedestrian
walkways. Alleys are not identified on the regulating plan. The building form
and site envelope standards are identified for each mixed use district and the
street types within. Standards for street types shall apply to all lots that
front that street. Lots may be either a recorded "building lot" or a "zone
lot", as defined in section
11-18-030 of this chapter. A development parcel may have more than one zone
lot. Standards will apply to the primary building on each zone lot. Lots that
front more than one street shall follow the standards for the primary street,
as determined by the street hierarchy. Standards for the arterial roads shall
only apply to lots that directly abut Park Lane at grade and shall not apply to
those portions of Park Lane and its access streets that are raised on an
embankment. Lots that are adjacent to an embankment shall also have frontage on
another street and will conform to the standards of the next nearest street
type. These standards shall address building height, siting of the building on
the lot and other elements. Character examples may be provided to depict the
context of the type and form of desirable development only, and not the actual
design or architectural style of buildings. Exceptions to the standards of this
section for large footprint commercial buildings over twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet are detailed in section
11-18-070 of this chapter.
   A.      Height:
      1.   The height of the principal building is measured in stories, with
the maximum height indicated in feet for the RMU and OS Districts.
      2.   Maximum height shall be measured to the midpoint of the roof (if a
sloped roof is used) following guidelines, as defined in "building or structure
height" in section
11-2-020 of this title. On flat roofs, additional parapet may be added above
the maximum height for decoration and/or screening of rooftop equipment, and
shall not exceed five feet (5') in height. Decorative parapet treatments in
excess of five feet (5') may be approved through the development plan review
process.
      3.   Street wall, fencing or landscaping heights are relative to the
adjacent sidewalk, or the ground elevation when not fronting a sidewalk.
   B.      Siting:
      1.   Buildings shall occupy the specified area of the lot, as indicated
on the site envelope standards in relation to the required building range and
other applicable setbacks. The required building range (RBR) shall be measured
from back of sidewalk.
      2.   Lot frontage percentages for corner lots shall apply to both the
primary and secondary street(s). A reduction in the lot frontage percentage on
the secondary street may be approved through the site plan review process.
      3.   Off street parking for vehicles shall not occupy any space located
between the building and the primary street on each zone or building lot, and
the secondary street where applicable for a corner lot. Parking areas located
to the side of structures shall meet all building form and site envelope
standards for the lot and be located a minimum of ten feet (10') back from the
back of the adjacent sidewalk.
      4.   For each zone lot that has a building associated with it, said
building shall meet the lot requirements of this section. Flag lots or lots
without street frontage are not permitted.
 
    Building Height Maximum (And Minimum Where Specified) In Stories (And Feet)
    Local Roads  Local Primary Collector/     I-15 Transition Area1
                               Arterial Roads
RMU 2 (27 feet)2 n/a           3 (40 feet)    n/a
GMU 3            n/a           4              n/a
OMU 4            3             6              5 (minimum)
TMU 6            n/a           8              5 (minimum
OS  1 (25 feet)  n/a           1 (25 feet)    1 (25 feet)
 
   Notes:
      1.   The I-15 Transition Area includes all property adjacent to and
within 600 feet of the west boundary of the Union Pacific right-of-way. The
height of buildings in this area must meet the standards set forth in the table
regardless of the local, local primary, and collector/arterial roads abutting
or located in the I-15 Transition Area.
      2.    If a transition area is created buffering rural residential density
areas from mixed use areas as follows: a) a distance of at least 300 feet must
be established between housing in a rural residential site and the mixed use
site; b) additional landscaping shall be provided on the mixed use site,
including medium to large size trees every 20 feet along the entire length of
the buffer; c) at least 3 different housing types (i.e., detached single-
family, townhomes, live/work units, etc.) shall be provided in the mixed use
site for every 15 acres of development; and d) the proposed uses in the mixed
use area shall be compatible with the character of the site, adjacent
properties, surrounding neighborhoods, and other existing and proposed
development; then at its sole discretion, the City may, or may not, increase
the building height on local roads in the RMU Zone to a maximum of 3 stories,
not to exceed 33 feet adjacent to existing rural residential development, or
areas contemplated for such development on the General Plan.
 Lot Width (In Feet)
 Local Roads     Collector/Arterial Roads
 Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
    Lot Width (In Feet)
    Local Roads                          Collector/Arterial Roads
    Minimum Maximum                      Minimum Maximum
RMU 32      120                          32      200 (300 for nonresidential)
GMU 25      150 (250 for nonresidential) 50      200 (300 for nonresidential)
OMU 25      200                          25      200
TMU 25      200                          25      300
OS  25      No maximum                   25      No maximum
 
 Front Required Build To Range (RBR) (In Feet)
 Local Roads     Collector/Arterial Roads
 Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum
    Front Required Build To Range (RBR) (In Feet)
    Local Roads                    Collector/Arterial Roads
    Minimum                Maximum Minimum Maximum
RMU 5 (10 for residential) 25      5       15
GMU 0                      20      0       20
OMU 0                      20      0       20
TMU 0                      10      0       10
OS  5                      None    5       None
 
 Minimum Side And Rear Setbacks (In Feet)
 Local Roads Collector/Arterial Roads
 Side Rear   Side Rear
    Minimum Side And Rear Setbacks (In Feet)
    Local Roads Collector/Arterial Roads
    Side Rear   Side                  Rear
RMU 5    15     0 (5 for residential) 15
GMU 0    10     0                     10
OMU 5    10     0                     10
TMU 0    5      0                     0
OS  5    15     5                     15
 
 Building Siting
 Local Roads                         Collector/Arterial Roads
 Minimum Lot      Minimum Percent Of Minimum Lot Frontage Minimum Percent Of
 Frontage Percent Building Within    Percent              Building Within
                  Front RBR                               Front RBR
    Building Siting
    Local Roads                         Collector/Arterial Roads
    Minimum Lot      Minimum Percent Of Minimum Lot Frontage Minimum Percent Of
    Frontage Percent Building Within    Percent              Building Within
                     Front RBR                               Front RBR
RMU 50               60                 60                   60
GMU 50               75                 60                   75
OMU 50               75                 60                   75
TMU 75               75                 80                   75
OS  n/a              n/a                n/a                  n/a
 
    Open Space Percent Requirements (For Zone Lots)
    Local Roads Collector/Arterial Roads
RMU 35          30
GMU 20          10
OMU 20          10
TMU 10          10
OS  n/a         n/a
 
   Notes:
      1.   Multiple-unit residential buildings that have a ground floor
commercial use may have the open space requirement reduced by 10 percent in any
district.
      2.   Open space requirements for a planned development area or an
aggregation of multiple zone lots may be reduced by up to 5 percent in the TMU
and 10 percent in the other districts if the open space is aggregated in 1 or
more areas and is entirely usable open space. The aggregated open space must
enhance the connection to transit facilities, plazas, or streets, or enhance
the pedestrian environment, or enhance or create a public space, and remain
publicly accessible. Aggregated open space must be shown and approved on a
Project Master Plan (PMP).
      3.   All building form and site envelope standards for local roads as set
forth in this section shall apply to local primary roads with the exception of
building height maximum in stories (and feet).
   C.   Public Parks And Open Space: Public parks and other public open spaces
will be provided in the mixed use districts as set forth in the City's Park
Master Plan or capital facilities plan. In the event a property owner works
with the City to provide such public places, a credit may be received on the
open space requirements as set forth herein.  (Ord. 2008-61, 12-9-2008; amd.
Ord. 2018-06, 2-6-2018; Ord. 2020-26, 10-27-2020; Ord. 2021-10, 5-4-2021)
11-18-070: DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Applicability: In the OS, RMU, OMU, GMU and TMU Districts, the review
procedures, standards and criteria set forth in this section shall be applied
during the development plan review process.
   B.   Review: All structures shall be subject to the design criteria and
development standards, and the review procedures set forth herein prior to
issuance of a building permit.
      1.   Review Process: Review shall consist of the following three (3)
phases. Review phases may be combined or eliminated by the city planner/zoning
administrator after consideration of a recommendation by the community
development director and/or city manager.
         a.   Presubmittal Conference: Prior to filing an application, the
applicant and the community development department shall have a presubmittal
conference to discuss the application and process. Information about the
proposed uses, project program and building footprint should be provided for
discussion.
         b.   Schematic (Concept) Design Phase: The architectural schematic
design application shall be submitted.
         c.   Design Development Phase: The architectural design development
application shall be submitted.
      2.   Application, How Filed And Noticed: All applications shall be filed
with the community development department. Such applications shall be reviewed
for completeness and, if found to be complete, shall be transmitted to the
planning office for review. The community development department shall notify
members of the city council and the planning commission of all applications
received for the schematic review phase for developments on sites equal to or
larger than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet. Such council or commission
member may request additional information and may submit written comments to
the planning office within twenty (20) days after notice is sent. After an
initial review by the city planning office for compliance with the rules and
regulations of this chapter, the application shall be transmitted to the site
plan and architectural review committee (SPARC) for review.
Plans and any accompanying information for each phase of the development plan
review process shall be delivered by the applicant to such city departments,
special districts, governmental boards, bureaus, utility companies and other
agencies, which will need to provide facilities and services to the site, which
together constitute the city's development review committee (DRC), for
information and comment. The community development department is responsible
for coordinating the comments received from all public and private entities,
and shall decide which agencies to refer site plans to, but the applicant is
responsible for obtaining the comments back from these entities within a
reasonable time in a manner and/or form as prescribed by the community
development department.
      3.   Application, Contents: Applications shall contain the following
information:
         a.   Schematic (Concept) Design Phase: Site plan and context photos of
the site and immediately adjacent properties, building elevations and other
supporting information as requested;
         b.   Design Development Phase: All information set forth in chapter 7
of this title, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, including, but not
limited to, such things as landscaping, lighting, screening and sign
requirements, and all items required to make a determination of consistency for
the schematic design phase, and other supporting information as requested.
      4.   Review, Recommendation Decision And Time Frames: Review shall comply
with the terms and conditions of the PMP and applicable city ordinances in
accordance with the site development review process set forth in chapter 7 of
this title and the following standards and criteria. Notwithstanding this, the
city planner/zoning administrator, and the site plan and architectural review
committee (SPARC) will review all applications in the mixed use districts.
After adequate review, the SPARC will provide recommendations to the city
planner/zoning administrator and an application, or particular phase of review,
may be approved, approved with conditions, continued for further study, or
disapproved. The SPARC will also provide recommendations to the planning
commission for applications that are forwarded to them for review and approval.
Appeals of any such decision may be submitted as set forth in this title.
         a.   Applications that meet one or all of the following conditions
will be forwarded to the planning commission for review and approval:
            (1)   The application includes a structure that exceeds thirty
thousand (30,000) square feet in size;
            (2)   The application is asking for flexibility with the design
criteria and development standards of this section, while still meeting the
intents and purposes of said criteria and standards;
            (3)   The application is a planned development area (in excess of 5
acres in size);
            (4)   The application includes a use or element that requires a
special review process.
         b.   Review at the schematic design phase shall be completed within
thirty (30) days after the submission of a complete application to the
community development department. The planning office, or the SPARC, shall
consider any written comments received and make a determination of consistency
of the application with adopted plans, the standards and criteria and any
applicable rules and regulations and guidelines and shall identify additional
design issues to be addressed in the design development phase. After adequate
review, the application may proceed to the design development phase of the
development plan review process.
         c.   Review by the community development department at the design
development phase shall be completed within thirty (30) days after the
submission of a complete application. The planning office shall make a
determination of consistency of the application with the adopted plans,
standards and criteria and any applicable rules and regulations and guidelines
and shall make a recommendation to the city planner/zoning administrator or the
SPARC. The city planner/zoning administrator shall have fifteen (15) days to
approve, approve with conditions, continue for further study, or deny the
application; or determine if review by the planning commission is necessary
according to the conditions stated above.
         d.   Review periods may be extended by an amount of time equal to any
delay caused by the applicant or by failure of the applicant to obtain comments
from related reviewing entities and delivering these comments to the community
development department, or with the applicant’s consent.
         e.   Any person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the city
planner/zoning administrator and/or the planning commission in the
administration of this development plan review process may appeal such decision
as provided in chapter
3-7 of this code.
         f.   If the applicant does not obtain and maintain a current building
permit within six (6) months of any development plan approval, such approval
shall be null and void. This time period may be extended for additional six (6)
month periods by the community development director if he or she finds it is
the best interest of the city and there are compelling reasons to do so. The
applicant must petition for an extension, prior to the expiration of the
original six (6) months, or an extension previously granted. An extension may
be granted only if it is determined that it will not be detrimental to the
city. If any of the fees charged as a condition of approval, including, but not
limited to, inspection fees, impact fees, as well as the amounts the city uses
to estimate bonds to ensure completion of improvements, have increased, the
community development director, after receiving approval from the city manager
may require that the bond estimate be recalculated and that the applicant pay
any applicable fee increases as a condition of granting the extension.
      5.   Standards And Criteria: Development plan review shall be based on
the following building and site design standards and criteria, which are
formulated to achieve the intents and purposes of the mixed use districts in
the short and long term. These standards and criteria shall be met unless an
acceptable alternative is proposed that, upon review by the city and the SPARC,
better meets the intents and purposes of the area:
         a.   General Criteria:
            (1)   Continue Farmington City's physical character of its
traditional neighborhoods, including mixed use development, tree lined streets,
detached sidewalks with park strips, interconnected street networks, and
convenient access to parks, open space, transit and trails;
            (2)   Provide an adaptable and interconnected transportation system
that allows multiple modes of transportation, disperses traffic and provides
streets that accommodate multiple transportation modes, including motor
vehicles, transit, bicycles and pedestrians;
            (3)   Use manmade and natural features, such as open spaces,
drainage corridors, parkways, streets and alleys, as development edges,
transitions and interconnections;
            (4)   Through a comprehensive site design approach, arrange
residential, employment, retail, services and open space uses to be convenient
to and compatible with each other and with transit;
            (5)   Define the public space using building location and
landscaping to promote pedestrian activity and create a high quality public
realm;
            (6)   Design early phases of development so as to be adaptable to
additional phases of development in order to promote sustainability through
long term quality and character;
            (7)   Encourage housing in a range of densities, sizes and types;
and
            (8)   Be consistent with an approved PMP, if applicable.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2863.png]
         b.   Site Design Criteria:
            (1)   Building Envelope:
               (A)    Dimensional requirements for each lot shall follow the
standards set forth in section
11-18-060, "Building Form And Site Envelope Standards", of this chapter;
               (B)    Side yards that exceed fifteen feet (15') in width
located adjacent to another side yard that exceeds fifteen feet (15') in width
should be avoided unless the areas are to be used as a unified public gathering
area or courtyard;
               (C)    The percentage of building frontage required along the
lot width may be reduced to accommodate site plan approved pedestrian plazas
located between buildings;
               (D)    Pedestrian breezeways between buildings shall be a
minimum of six feet (6') in width;
               (E)    The use of front yard areas for buildings that have
nonresidential uses on the ground floor shall be oriented toward the pedestrian
and shall include related amenities such as entrance walks, plazas, benches,
bike racks, raised flower boxes or other such features.
            (2)   Buffering And Transitions:
               (A)    Use design, siting or other approaches to mitigate any
potentially adverse impacts, such as noise, light and/or odor, to adjacent
incompatible uses;
               (B)    Locate, screen and buffer service, storage, delivery and
refuse areas to minimize the view from streets and open spaces. Decorative
walls, earthen berms, landscaping or architectural treatments may be used as
screening methods;
               (C)    Rear facing buildings, loading docks, service entries or
overhead doors are not allowed on primary street facades, but if necessary may
be located on secondary streets; provided, that such service functions meet the
general design intent. For the elevated portion of Park Lane, the rear portion
of buildings may face Park Lane. However, the upper levels of the sides that
face Park Lane shall meet the upper level fenestration requirements for street
facing facades.
            (3)   Parking And Circulation:
               (A)    Provide safe and attractive pedestrian and bicycle
connections to building entries and public sidewalks within parking lots and
transit areas;
               (B)    Minimize the visual impacts of parking areas, parking
structures and residential garages on streets, open spaces and adjoining
developments;
               (C)    Improve the efficiency of parking areas by allowing
multiple uses to share parking spaces, curb cuts and circulation drives;
               (D)    Parking, including residential garages, shall be located
to the rear of the building or in a side yard as allowed by the lot width and
building frontage percentage requirements and the off street parking standards
in section
11-18-100 of this chapter. Residential garage entrances wider than one bay
shall not be located on the primary facade;
               (E)    Building frontage percentage shall not be reduced to
further accommodate parking beyond what is allowed according to section
11-18-100 of this chapter.
            (4)   General Site Design:
               (A)    Incorporate required water quality and stormwater
management features into the overall site design;
               (B)    All new utilities shall be placed underground in all
public streets or in rear service alleys;
               (C)    Civic sites: Civic buildings, including, but not
necessarily limited to, libraries, schools, recreation facilities, municipal
buildings, or places of worship or assembly have a special public importance in
the community. Retail, residential or privately owned office buildings are not
included in the definition. Civic buildings may be allowed greater flexibility
in order to make an architectural statement or provide additional gathering
space. This flexibility may allow variation from the building frontage and
required build to range requirements subject to review and approval from the
planning commission. This flexibility does not, however, allow parking lots to
be located between the building and the primary street it faces.
            (5)   Large Footprint Buildings:
               (A)    Buildings with a footprint greater than twenty thousand
(20,000) square feet that are not retail and wholesale sales individual tenant
uses may be approved through the development review process. Such buildings
must meet the regulations of this title with the following exceptions:
                  (i)    Buildings are exempt from maximum lot width/size
requirements; however, building footprints may not be larger than a single
block. Block size is guided by the regulating plan and its associated design
criteria detailed in section
11-18-040 of this chapter;
               (B)    Each building shall orient to a public right of way;
               (C)    In all districts, except the TMU district, entrance
interval criteria may be adjusted, provided other entrance criteria in the
building design criteria section are met;
               (D)    In the office and general mixed use districts, street
level fenestration requirements may be applied to only seventy five percent
(75%) of the primary facade and will be evaluated during the development plan
review process for compatibility with the overall intents and purposes of the
district;
               (E)    In the TMU district, to meet facade requirements in
regard to entrances and fenestration, large footprint buildings may be wrapped
in a liner of smaller buildings with doors and windows that face the street.
The depth of these liner buildings shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20');
               (F)    Detailing at intervals of twenty five (25) to thirty feet
(30') shall be provided to break up expanses of blank walls with no openings.
Additionally, walls with no openings shall be set back from the public right of
way a minimum of fifteen feet (15') and buffered with landscaping. Landscaping
shall include trees spaced at thirty foot (30') intervals and at least one row
of additional plants and/or shrubs.
         c.   Building Design Criteria:
            (1)   Architectural Detail:
               (A)    Create buildings that provide human scale and interest
through use of varied forms, materials, details and colors;
               (B)    Provide architecturally finished and detailed elevations
for all exposures of the building;
               (C)    Primary street facing walls of buildings may not have
sections of blank walls that contain no openings in lengths that exceed twenty
feet (20') in length;
               (D)    Rooflines may be flat or pitched. Roofing shall not be of
vivid primary colors (i.e., red, blue or yellow). Rooftop equipment shall be
screened by roof components, parapets, cornices or other architectural
features. Galvanized hoods and vents shall be painted to match the roof color;
               (E)    Durable materials that complement Farmington City's
tradition of stone and masonry shall be used as either primary or secondary
building materials.
            (2)   Entrances/Pedestrian Access:
               (A)    Each building on a lot with street frontage shall have a
primary entrance either facing or clearly visible and accessible from the
public street;
               (B)   Entrances shall be accessible to the public as a regular
building entry from the public sidewalk;
               (C)    Along principal and promenade streets, entrances allowing
public access from the sidewalk, for any building which is greater than fifty
feet (50') in width, shall be provided with functional entrances at intervals
of fifty feet (50') or closer to maximize street activity and pedestrian access
opportunities, and to minimize expanses of inactive building wall;
               (D)    Nonresidential uses on the ground floor along other
streets shall follow the same entrance guidelines as set forth in building
design criteria of subsection B5c(2)(A) of this section;
               (E)    The street level floor elevation should match the
elevation of the sidewalk at the front of the building as closely as possible
to facilitate accessibility and primary street orientation.
            (3)   Street Frontage:
               (A)    A portion of the building frontage may be set back beyond
the required build to range (RBR) up to an additional twenty feet (20') if the
space is utilized as a site plan approved courtyard or entryway that is open
and accessible to the public sidewalk. This portion may be up to forty percent
(40%) of the actual building frontage and shall not be used for a parking area;
               (B)    Required building frontages shall be the percentage of
the total width of the lot that is required to be used as a building wall. A
covered drive-through (porte-cochere) may be counted as a building wall even
though it has no front or rear wall;
               (C)    Front porches, balconies or stoops may extend up to ten
feet (10') into front yards; provided, that walls, screened areas or railings
that are within the front yard do not exceed forty two inches (42") in height
above the floor of the porch, balcony or stoop.
            (4)   Fenestration:
               (A)    A minimum of sixty percent (60%) fenestration is required
on the street level of all street facing facades on arterials, principal,
promenade and rail access streets. Street level is considered to be between two
(2) and twelve feet (12') on these street types. Upper stories shall have a
minimum of thirty percent (30%) fenestration for each story;
               (B)    A minimum of sixty percent (60%) fenestration is required
on the street level of all street facing facades for all nonresidential uses on
neighborhood streets and pedestrian walkways. Residential uses on the street
level must have a minimum of forty percent (40%) fenestration on street facing
facades. Street level is considered to be between two (2) and ten feet (10') on
neighborhood streets and pedestrian walkways. Upper stories for all uses shall
have a minimum of thirty percent (30%) fenestration for each story;
               (C)    Windows of tinted or reflective glass may not be located
between two feet (2') and nine feet (9') above the sidewalk grade on street
facing facades;
         d.   Transit Mixed Use District Criteria: In addition to the general,
building design and site design criteria set forth in subsections B5a through
B5c of this section, the following criteria shall apply in the TMU districts:
            (1)   Buildings shall be sited to emphasize or reinforce the
relationship of the development to the transit facility;
            (2)   A primary building entrance facing or visible to the transit
facility or the primary pedestrian connection to the transit facility shall be
provided;
            (3)   Clear, safe and adequate pedestrian connections and linkages
between buildings and transit facilities, public rights of way and transit
facilities and between multiple modes of transit shall be provided;
            (4)   Maximize pedestrian amenities near transit facilities and
along primary pedestrian connections to transit facilities;
            (5)   Arrange building uses, heights and scaling devices to
reinforce the station area core and to transition to adjoining areas. (Ord.
2008-61, 12-9-2008; amd. Ord. 2011-19, 10-4-2011; 2016 Code; Ord. 2017-05, 2-7-
2017; Ord. 2022-55, 11-1-2022; Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-18-080: PROJECT MASTER PLAN:
   A.   Intent: The intent of the project master plan (PMP) is to establish a
framework for the development of large or phased projects. The issues that
relate to the following areas shall be identified and a conceptual plan that
addresses them provided as part of the PMP so that these issues are completely
addressed as the development proceeds:
      1.   Transportation, mobility and connectivity;
      2.   Stormwater management, drainage and grading;
      3.   Water quality systems;
      4.   Major utilities;
      5.   Open space and wetlands;
      6.   Land use and the mixture of residential and nonresidential uses.
An approved PMP constitutes an approved master plan for guiding all future
development within the area defined by the PMP.
   B.   Required PMP: A PMP is required if any part of a development is in the
TMU district. A PMP is required if a proposed development in the RMU, GMU and
OMU districts anticipates one of the following:
      1.   Establishing or causing a change in the alignment of the regulating
plan for the mixed use district area;
      2.   Establishing or causing a change in an existing water drainage
course;
      3.   Aggregating open space beyond a single zone lot as permitted
pursuant to section
11-18-060 of this chapter;
      4.   Reducing the amount of open space required through the aggregation
of open space as permitted pursuant to section
11-18-060 of this chapter.
Landowners, at their option, may elect to submit a PMP for their property,
regardless of size, in order to establish a coordinated development plan for
the project area. The city may also apply for a PMP if it is found necessary to
implement the general plan. The PMP shall contain the information required in
the applicable rules and regulations.
   C.   Application And Submittal: The PMP shall be submitted to the community
development department for review by the DRC and the SPARC.
   D.   PMP Requirements: In addition to the submittal requirements set forth
in any PMP rules and regulations adopted by the city, all PMPs shall include
the following information:
      1.   PMP Narrative Submittal Requirements: Unless waived by the DRC, the
following information shall be submitted in narrative form:
         a.   Descriptions of land use concepts; square footage ranges and
general location/distribution; parking concept; public and private open space
concept; on site circulation of primary auto, bicycle, pedestrian and transit
connections within the area and connections to other areas.
         b.   Preliminary transportation analysis that addresses roadway
network design and modal split.
         c.   Major stormwater drainage and management, water quality systems,
major utilities, open space or land use issues; discussion of how such issues
will be addressed as development proceeds.
         d.   Description of proposed development standards at the edge of the
PMP to promote compatibility between the PMP and adjacent land uses.
         e.   Sequence and timing, where known, of project construction, public
land and right of way dedications, site infrastructure improvements, off site
infrastructure improvements and supporting facilities.
         f.   Discussion of the incorporation of existing structures, if any,
in future development plans.
         g.   Other information as required by the PMP rules and regulations.
      2.   PMP Graphic Submittal Requirements: Unless waived by the DRC, the
following information shall be submitted in graphic form according to technical
requirements established by the adopted PMP rules and regulations:
         a.   Existing conditions as specified in the PMP rules and
regulations.
         b.   Diagram of conceptual land uses indicating the anticipated range
of square footage by use within the PMP area.
         c.   Diagram of circulation plans for primary vehicular, transit,
bicycle, and pedestrian modes of travel, including trail systems.
         d.   Concept plan that details the relationships between development
within the PMP and the ingress/egress within the PMP area and to public
amenities and/or open spaces.
         e.   Open space concept plan, showing both the general location and
general configuration of the intended public and private open space areas as
well as bicycle and pedestrian corridors and/or trails.
         f.   Preliminary utility and stormwater detention/retention plans.
         g.   Conceptual drawing showing the proposed size and layout of block
patterns that may vary from those in the regulating plan.
         h.   Preliminary transportation analysis that addresses street network
design, general internal circulation and modal split.
         i.   Proposed incorporation of any existing structures in future
development plans.
         j.   Sequence and timing, where known, of project construction, public
land and right of way dedications, site infrastructure improvements, off site
infrastructure improvements and supporting facilities.
         k.   Maps and legal description of the boundaries of the PMP area.
         l.   Any other information required by the PMP rules and regulations.
      3.   Development Standards And Design Guidelines: Development standards
and design guidelines shall be required for development in the mixed use
districts. These will be reviewed by the SPARC and may be approved as part of
the PMP process. The PMP may be approved without development standards and
design guidelines, but these shall be approved prior to development plan
approval for any development project within the PMP area.
      4.   Optional Submittals: The following may be required by the DRC or
requested by the applicant:
         a.   Conceptual location, size and configuration of proposed public
facilities, including schools.
         b.   Major issues not resolved in the PMP with discussion of how they
will be addressed as development proceeds.
         c.   Master sign plan.
         d.   Narrative and graphic description of any proposal for the
aggregation and/or reduction of open space that demonstrates compliance with
section
11-18-060 of this chapter.
         e.   Narrative and graphic description of any proposal for a reduction
in parking beyond twenty five percent (25%), as allowed in section
11-18-100 of this chapter.
         f.   Water quality best management practices may be included in the
master drainage study.
   E.   Waiver Of Specific Submissions: Any information required by the adopted
PMP rules and regulations, or this section, may be waived by the DRC on the
basis that the information is not necessary to review the proposed PMP and such
waiver shall be documented in writing by the zoning administrator.
   F.   Review Of PMP: Upon receiving a complete PMP application and pursuant
to the distribution process set forth in the development plan review section of
this chapter, the applicant shall deliver such applications and obtain comments
from the DRC. The community development department shall forward such
applications to seek review and obtain comments by the site plan and
architectural review committee (SPARC).
   G.   Recommendations: The DRC and SPARC shall prepare recommendations
regarding the PMP based on criteria set forth herein and in the PMP rules and
regulations. In response to a recommendation from any member of the DRC or
SPARC, the applicant may revise and resubmit the PMP to the DRC, or the city if
the recommendations are from the SPARC. The community development department
shall obtain recommendations as set forth in the development plan review
section of this chapter.
   H.   Planning Commission Public Hearing: Upon receipt of a recommendation
from the DRC, the planning commission shall hold a public hearing on the
proposed project master plan. The planning commission shall approve, approve
with conditions, continue the application for further study, or deny the PMP.
   I.   Criteria For Review: Except as provided in section
11-18-140 of this chapter for PMPs approved in connection with the approval of
a development agreement, the criteria for review of all PMPs by the planning
commission and city council shall be:
      1.   Consistency with the Farmington City general plan;
      2.   Compliance with all other city codes, rules, regulations and
standards applicable to the proposed PMP;
      3.   Compliance with all applicable codes, rules, regulations and
standards of any agencies or entities with regulatory jurisdiction over the
proposed PMP area.
   J.   Recording: All approved PMPs, and all approved amendments to such PMPs,
shall be recorded in the real property records with a notation that all land
within the PMP boundaries shall be subject to the provisions of such PMP or
amendment, unless or until amended.
   K.   Major And Minor Amendments: An approved PMP may be amended at any time
using the process set out herein, and may be amended simultaneously with the
processing of a site plan application or a site plan amendment. The city
planner/zoning administrator shall determine whether a proposed amendment is a
"major" or "minor" amendment and may seek a recommendation by the SPARC to make
such determination. In order to initiate an amendment, the applicant shall
submit to the city planner those PMP submission items that would change if the
proposed amendment were approved. Review of applications for amendment shall be
governed by those criteria set forth for a PMP. Approved amendments shall be
recorded as set forth for a PMP.
      1.   Major Amendments: Major amendments shall be reviewed by the city and
the SPARC and approved by the planning commission. Changes of the following
types shall define an amendment as major:
         a.   To significantly modify or reallocate the allowable height, mix
of uses or density of a development;
         b.   To significantly alter the location or amount of land dedicated
to parks, trails, open space, natural areas or public facilities;
         c.   To significantly change the location of land use areas as shown
on the original PMP;
         d.   Any change from, or addition to, the PMP of a type that would
require a PMP in a non-TMU district; or
         e.   Modify any other aspect of the PMP that would significantly
change its character.
      2.   Minor Amendments: Amendments that are not major amendments shall be
termed "minor amendments" and shall be referred to the city planner/zoning
administrator for review, who may also refer the application to the SPARC and
other departments or agencies for comment using the process set out in this
section. The city planner/zoning administrator shall approve, approve with
conditions, or deny such amendment within twenty (20) calendar days after the
date of applicant's submission of a complete application for amendment. Any
person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the city planner/zoning
administrator may appeal such decision as set forth in the development plan
review section of this chapter.
   L.   Effect Of Recorded Plans: All PMPs and PMP amendments shall be binding
upon the applicants and their successors and assigns and approving agencies,
and shall limit and control the issuance of all zoning permits and certificates
and the construction, location, use and operation of all land and structures
included within the PMP or PMP amendment.
   M.   Expiration; Extension:
      1.   Unless there is substantial action under a project master plan
within a period of twelve (12) months from the date of planning commission or
city council approval, the project master plan shall expire. Substantial action
shall be demonstrated by receiving approval for improvement drawings and
posting a bond and commencing construction related thereto, or submitting final
plans for approval and obtaining, and maintaining, a current building permit.
      2.   If the project master plan is to expire, a request for extension may
be filed with the community development department not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the expiration date. The original project master plan approval
shall remain valid until the request for extension is acted upon by the
planning commission or city council. Failure to request the extension in a
timely manner shall cause a project master plan to expire without further
notice.
      3.   The planning commission or city council for reasonable cause may,
after evaluating the applicant's progress in the previous year and after
considering the planning department's recommendation, grant an extension of up
to one year on the project master plan. Only one extension shall be granted.
   N.   Appeals Of Decision: The final decision of the planning commission to
approve, approve with conditions or deny a PMP may be appealed to the land use
appeal authority as provided in chapter
3-7 of this code. (Ord. 2008-61, 12-9-2008; amd. Ord. 2011-19, 10-4-2011; Ord.
2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-18-090: SIGNS:
Signs within the mixed use districts shall comply with other city sign
standards and any applicable rules and regulations that apply to the mixed use
districts. A signage plan must be submitted as part of the development plan
review process and should be addressed in the master development guidelines
submitted by an applicant. (Ord. 2008-61, 12-9-2008)
11-18-100: OFF STREET PARKING SPACE STANDARDS:
   A.   Scope: Within the mixed use districts, the building form, scale, mass
and uses need to be interrelated with the streetscape and mobility
opportunities to encourage interaction with one another. The following parking
lot configuration and space calculations are intended to allow such
interaction.
   B.   Requirements: Parking lots and their placement shall meet the following
requirements:
      1.   Parking lots that are located on a building or zone lot are
permitted only in side and rear yards as follows:
         a.   All parking areas shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10')
from the front lot (property) line of the building or zone lot.
         b.   When parking is located in a side yard and has frontage along a
public right of way, no more than twenty five percent (25%) of the total site
frontage or sixty feet (60'), whichever is less, shall be occupied by the
parking lot. The percentage of frontage may be adjusted to accommodate
additional landscaping located to either side of the parking area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2865.png]
(Left) Not Allowed: Parking between the front of a building and the street;
(Center) Preferred: Parking to the rear of a building; (Right) Allowed: One
double loaded aisle of parking between buildings; shared parking; corner
building placement.
(Ord. 2008-61, 12-9-2008)
         c.   For a corner lot at any intersection, the building shall be
located at the corner of the lot adjacent to the intersection. For corner lots
at a major intersection, an intersection that is intended as a neighborhood
town center, or a corner that is the location of an institutional building, or
a large footprint building as set forth in this chapter with a footprint
greater than forty five thousand (45,000) square feet, the cumulative total of
both frontages occupied by parking shall be no more than twenty five percent
(25%) or eighty feet (80'), whichever is less. Frontage used as a driveway
access only is not counted in the above total. (Ord. 2015-05, 2-17-2015)
         d.   For a corner lot that has frontages on three (3) streets,
building(s) shall be located at corners adjacent to intersections. For corner
lots at a major intersection or an intersection that is intended as a
neighborhood town center, the total of the primary and secondary streets
frontages occupied by parking on any frontage shall be no more than twenty five
percent (25%) or sixty feet (60'), whichever is less. If all the parking is
located off the secondary street, each secondary street frontage may have up to
twenty five percent (25%) or sixty feet (60'), whichever is less. Frontage used
as a driveway access only is not counted in the above total.
         e.   Parking may be allowed to exceed the above conditions; provided,
that it is located on a secondary frontage, is set back a minimum of twenty
feet (20'), and is buffered with landscaping that includes a combination of
trees and plants. Such exceptions will be evaluated during the development plan
review process.
         f.   For each block face in the TMU district and along promenade
streets, a side yard parking lot may not be located adjacent to another side
yard parking lot on an adjoining parcel. Rear lots may be located adjacent to
another parking area and designed to allow cross access through traffic between
parking areas is encouraged. Alley access is encouraged to reduce curb cuts on
the primary street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2867.png]
      2.   Primary access to rear parking areas shall be via dedicated
alleyways or drive aisles.
      3.   Where an off street parking lot is visible from the street in a side
yard, it shall be screened by either a two foot (2') tall screen wall or
eighteen inch (18") seat wall located between the parking lot and the sidewalk.
Where a parking lot is adjacent to a residential use, a three foot (3') screen
wall and landscaping, sufficient to screen up to the headlight level of
vehicles, shall be located between the residential use and the parking lot.
      4.   Where a parking structure is provided or parking is located on the
ground level and/or below the upper stories of the building, usable building
floor space on the ground floor, to a minimum depth of twenty feet (20') shall
be provided in front of the parking area, along the primary street frontage,
for the entire length of the building.
      5.   On street parking located along the frontage of a lot may be
credited toward meeting the parking requirements for that use.
      6.   Driveway access to off street parking lots shall be located to
provide safe separation from street intersections as noted in section
11-32-060 of this title. Driveways shall be aligned with driveways on the
opposite side of the street or offset to avoid turning movement conflicts. Two-
way driveways shall be a minimum width of twenty four feet (24').
      7.   Driveways and driveway lanes that are combined for adjacent
developments and shall be subject to recordation of shared access easements for
and/or between the adjacent lots.
      8.   Parking may be allowed off site according to joint use agreements or
use of shared parking districts, subject to subsection
11-32-030G, "Joint Use Parking Areas", of this title.
      9.   Parking related to a building on a development parcel shall be
located on the development parcel unless transferred off site or part of a
shared parking district that involves an adjacent development parcel. All
parking need not be located on each building's zone lot.
      10.   Sites requiring large areas of surface parking shall distribute the
parking into areas on the development parcel that are broken up in blocks using
the requirements of the street network, as well as through the use of
landscaping, open space or additional buildings.
   C.   Reductions: Parking requirements for any use in the mixed use districts
may be reduced by up to twenty five percent (25%) through the PMP process.
Table 18.4, "Off Street Parking Reductions", shall be used to modify the
minimum amount of parking spaces required by chapter 32, "Off Street Parking,
Loading And Access", of this title, which will be evaluated during the
development plan review process.
   TABLE 18.4
   OFF STREET PARKING REDUCTIONS
 
                  Within 1/8 Mile Of Within 1/4 Mile Of Within 1/2 Mile Of Rail
                  Rail Station       Rail Station       Station
Office            50%                40%                25%
Retail/commercial 50%                40%                25%
Residential       40%                25%                15%
Civic/public      50%                40%                25%
 
   D.   Structured Parking: Off street parking shall not exceed the
requirements established by chapter 32, "Off Street Parking, Loading And
Access", of this title, unless a shared parking analysis for uses within one-
eighth (1/8) mile of each building has been conducted to show that needs for
additional parking cannot be met through a shared parking arrangement. Parking
exceeding the requirements shall be in the form of structured parking. (Ord.
2008-61, 12-9-2008)
11-18-110: LANDSCAPING AND STREET FURNITURE STANDARDS:
The following landscaping standards shall apply to all new development within
the TOD mixed use districts. Additional landscaping standards may be set forth
and be more fully defined in the applicable MDG and maintained pursuant to a
CAMP. Species shall be selected from the approved plant list provided by the
city or within the MDG for the project.
   A.   Street Frontages: Street trees shall be provided on all street
frontages at a maximum spacing of forty feet (40') on center unless the species
to be used recommends spacing greater than forty feet (40'). Spacing should be
as uniform as possible, with exceptions allowed to preserve clear visibility
zones near intersections and driveway and alley access points.
   B.   Landscaped Park Strips: Street trees shall be planted within a
landscaped park strip of at least six feet (6') in width, between the roadway
and sidewalk, or tree grates of at least five feet (5').
   C.   Promenade Streets: On promenade streets where on street parking is
permitted and where no landscape strip is present, street trees may be planted
in sidewalk bulb out areas.
   D.   Distance To Light Standards: Street trees shall be planted no closer
than twenty feet (20') to light standards.
   E.   Species: Street tree species selections shall help define the public
space of the street, especially in residential neighborhoods. Different streets
should be planted with different species to provide interest, variety, and to
promote disease and pest resistance throughout a development area. More than
one species may be used to create a pattern and/or provide accent along a
street.
   F.   Location Of Lighting Fixtures: Lighting fixtures providing pedestrian
scaled illumination shall be placed on all principal and promenade streets
spaced no greater than forty feet (40') on center to stagger with street trees.
Spacing on other streets shall meet minimum required lighting levels.
   G.   Pole Height Of Pedestrian Lighting Fixtures: The pedestrian lighting
fixture pole height shall be fifteen feet (15'), with a base diameter of at
least twenty inches (20"). Materials shall be cast iron and steel with a black
finish. Single or double lamp fixtures may be used on principal, promenade or
arterial streets. Single lamp fixtures shall be used on neighborhood roads.
   H.   Pole Height Of Street Lighting, Parking Lot Lighting Fixtures: Street
lighting fixtures and parking lot lighting fixtures shall have a pole height of
twenty four feet (24').
   I.   Tree Grates: Tree grates shall be five feet (5') square and of cast
iron.
   J.   Tree Guards: Tree guards, if used, shall be a minimum of sixteen inches
(16") in diameter and five feet (5') in height. Material is fabricated steel
construction with a black high polish powder coat.
   K.   Trash, Recycling Receptacles: Trash and recycling receptacles shall be
of fabricated steel construction with a black high polish powder coat finish.
Receptacles shall be three feet (3') in diameter and four feet (4') in height.
Trash and recycling receptacles shall be placed side by side, with a lid to
distinguish the recycling receptacle. A minimum of two (2) pairs of receptacles
shall be placed per block face, unless otherwise approved by the city, on all
principal and promenade streets. Other locations shall be approved during the
development plan review process.
   L.   Bollards: Bollards shall be placed at all intersections along principal
and promenade streets. They shall be constructed of cast steel with a black
high gloss powder coat finish. Each bollard shall be four inches (4") in
diameter and three feet (3') high. Bollards may be cast in, bolt down (surface
mount), or removable. Bollards will be spaced a minimum of four feet (4') and a
maximum of six feet (6') apart.
   M.   Benches: Benches shall be placed along all principal and promenade
streets at a minimum of three (3) per block face. Benches shall be of a cast
iron with steel straps and finished in a black high gloss powder coat. Benches
shall be six feet (6') in length.
   N.   Bicycle Parking: Bicycle parking shall be placed in racks with a
minimum capacity of three (3) bikes and a maximum capacity of seven (7) bikes.
A minimum of one rack shall be placed on every block face for principal and
promenade streets.
   O.   Paving Accents: Paving accents may be used to articulate building
entries, pedestrian crosswalks, plazas, sidewalk bulb outs, or other areas as
approved during the development plan review process. Paving materials may be
brick, stained concrete or other durable materials that have a nonslip finish.
Stamped concrete is not to be used for paving accents that are part of the
streetscape area.
   P.   Alley Landscaping: Alleys in residential areas with rear access garages
shall be landscaped at the individual building lot level, for a minimum depth
and width of three feet (3'). Alleys that provide access to surface parking
areas shall have landscaping fronting on the alley at a minimum depth of three
feet (3') and trees spaced at sixty feet (60') on center; trees may need a
wider landscaped area as appropriate for the species used. Alleys that provide
access to structured parking shall have landscaping alongside the parking
structure for a minimum depth of two feet (2'). (Ord. 2008-61, 12-9-2008)
11-18-120: MASTER DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES:
   A.   Requirements: The developer of each area of land that is designated and
mapped on the Farmington City zoning map as a TOD mixed use districts shall
prepare and submit master development guidelines (MDG) to be recorded against
the property, which MDG shall define the standards for design within the
district for architectural controls, open space, buildings, structures,
landscaping, lighting, signs and similar external improvements. It is
specifically contemplated that development throughout the entire TOD mixed use
districts will meet certain development standards that are determined and
adopted by the city to assure compatible, high quality development within the
TOD mixed use districts, especially in regard to streetscape and landscaping
elements, and that such development standards will be incorporated into the
master development guidelines for each project. In addition to any other notice
provisions set forth in the city ordinances or state law, the city shall be
required to provide notice of all pending PMP approvals within a TOD mixed use
district area to all property owners within the same contiguous TOD mixed use
district area or within the TMU area identified in the land use master plan to
allow comment from such property owners regarding the consistency of any
proposed project or master development guidelines with those development
standards determined by the City to be applicable to all development within the
TOD Mixed Use Districts.
   B.   Preparation; Submittal: The MDG shall be prepared by the developer and
in all cases submitted to the City for review and comment by the SPARC before
the City shall grant any approval for any improvements within any mapped zone
district under the TOD Mixed Use Districts regulations. All construction in the
TOD Mixed Use Districts shall comply with applicable MDGs and common area
management plan (CAMP). The MDG and/or CAMP may contain specific lien and other
enforcement provisions to ensure adequate compliance. Any requirement of an MDG
or CAMP may be more restrictive or require a higher standard or quality than
the TOD Mixed Use Districts regulations or development standards determined by
the City to be applicable to all development within the TOD Mixed Use
Districts. (Ord. 2008-61, 12-9-2008)
11-18-130: COMMON AREA MANAGEMENT PLAN:
   A.   Required: Controls requiring the maintenance of open space, landscaping
and common areas shall be adopted via a CAMP to achieve the purposes of the TOD
Mixed Use Districts and the City's General Plan.
   B.   Preparation: The CAMP will be prepared by the developer and approved by
the City. All development within the TOD Mixed Use Districts shall conform to
the adopted CAMP provisions. (Ord. 2008-61, 12-9-2008)
11-18-140: ALTERNATIVE APPROVAL PROCESS; DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Alternative Development Agreement Approval Process: Projects within the
TOD Mixed Use Districts involving the development of at least twenty five (25)
acres of land may elect the alternative approval process described in this
section, resulting in the approval, execution and recordation of a development
agreement. An approved development agreement shall govern the specific uses,
densities and intensities of use proposed for the project area and the specific
development standards to be applied in the development of any necessary public
infrastructure and the private improvements to be located on the project site.
A development agreement must be consistent with the provisions of section
11-18-030, "Definitions", and the provisions of section
11-18-080, "Project Master Plan", of this chapter, to the extent not
inconsistent with this section, but may supersede and be inconsistent with the
provisions of sections
11-18-120, "Master Development Guidelines", and
11-18-130, "Common Area Management Plan", of this chapter, and with the
provisions of section
11-18-060, "Building Form And Site Envelope Standards", of this chapter, where
the City Council determines an alternative development standard proposed by the
project developer is appropriate for the development of the project and the
Council finds there is appropriate consideration, in the form of monetary,
tangible or intangible consideration of benefit to City or the public from the
proposed development and/or other appropriate reasons that justify the
determination of the City to alter generally applicable standards. The
development standards of an approved development agreement shall also govern
over any conflicting development standards contained in any other provisions of
Farmington City ordinances, including, without limitation, provisions relating
to site development standards in chapter 7 of this title, off street parking in
chapter 32 of this title, supplementary and qualifying regulations in chapter
28 of this title, and signage standards in title 15 of this Code.
   B.   Approvals: The processes for approval of a development agreement and
subsequent approvals for a project covered by a development agreement shall be
governed by the provisions of this section and any supplemental procedural
provisions agreed by the parties in an approved development agreement.
   C.   Application For Development Agreement: Simultaneously with the
application for a PMP, an applicant for a PMP involving at least twenty five
(25) acres may apply for approval of a development agreement. In addition to
the application requirements for a PMP, the applicant shall provide in
narrative form a proposed development agreement including a specific
description of the proposed uses and intensities of use proposed for the
project area and a statement of the specific development standards proposed by
the applicant to be applied in the development of any necessary public
infrastructure and the private improvements to be located on the project site.
The proposed uses, densities and intensities of use shall be consistent with
the purpose of the TOD Mixed Use Districts, but the other proposed development
standards may vary from those development standards set forth elsewhere in this
chapter, this zoning title or this Code. However, nothing herein shall be
construed to allow any deviation from uniform construction codes or standards
as set forth in this Code. Any application information required by this section
may be waived by the Zoning Administrator on the basis that the information is
not necessary to review the proposed PMP and development agreement.
   D.   Consideration And Approval Of Development Agreement: The development
agreement shall be considered at the same time as the PMP and following the
same approval process described in section
11-18-080 of this chapter. The criteria for review of a PMP and development
agreement application by the Planning Commission and City Council shall consist
of the following criteria in lieu of the criteria set forth in subsection
11-18-080I of this chapter:
      1.   Consistency with the Farmington City General Plan;
      2.   Compliance with applicable City codes, rules, regulations and
standards applicable to the proposed PMP, except that uses and development
standards specifically included in the development agreement may be different
from those contained in the Farmington City ordinances;
      3.   Consistency with any development standards determined by the City to
be applicable to all development within the TOD Mixed Use Districts;
      4.   Establishment of a mix of uses in locations that will promote and
encourage the goals of the TOD Mixed Use Districts and be consistent with the
objectives of section
11-18-050, "Uses", of this chapter; and
      5.   Establishment of circulation and transportation features sufficient
to meet the requirements of section
11-18-040, "Regulating Plan", of this chapter, to coordinate with anticipated
off site circulation and transportation features and to further any applicable
community wide transportation objectives.
   E.   Final Development Agreement: The final development agreement shall
incorporate the terms of the approved PMP, and shall contain development
standards for the development of the project site and any public infrastructure
required to be improved, the duration of the agreement and the rights granted
pursuant thereto and such conditions of approval as may be imposed by the City
Council and agreed to by the applicant. In addition to addressing uses,
densities and intensities of use and development standards governing the
project, the final development agreement shall include a common area management
plan, and processes for future approvals and amendments to the terms of an
approved development agreement consistent with the provisions of subsection F
of this section. The common area management plan, development standards and
architectural review provisions in the development agreement shall be
applicable to the project site only and not to the balance of the land within a
TOD Mixed Use District, but the foregoing shall not limit the discretion of the
City to require other developers to implement development standards adopted in
the development agreement through the master development guideline provisions
of section
11-18-120, "Master Development Guidelines", of this chapter. The final
development agreement may contain such other agreements between the City and
the applicant as may be agreed by such parties and necessary for the
development and financing of the project, including, without limitation,
agreements regarding the phasing of development, the vesting of development
rights and approvals, the terms and conditions for the extension of public
infrastructure, the extension by developer of infrastructure, and any payment
or repayment obligations associated therewith, the donation of any land or any
other agreement reflecting an agreement between developer and the City, not
covered within the description of the approved PMP. (Ord. 2017-18, 7-18-2017)
   F.   Controlling Provisions: The terms of a development agreement shall be
binding on the City and all successors in the ownership and occupancy of any
portion of the project site covered by the development agreement. The
provisions of the development agreement shall control over any inconsistent
provision in the zoning ordinance. Upon approval and recordation of a
development agreement, the property covered by the development agreement shall
be deemed to be established as a separate district for purposes of establishing
and enforcing the development regulations contained in the development
agreement.
   G.   Approval Processes After Approval Of Development Agreement:
      1.   Site Plan Review: Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of this
title, a final development agreement may contain such site plan review
processes as may be agreed between developer and the City, including such
application requirements and review processes.
      2.   Amendment: Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of this title,
a development agreement and a PMP for a project covered by a development
agreement may be amended on such terms and following such processes as is
provided in the final development agreement. A PMP shall be deemed amended by
any changes to the PMP approved at the time of final site plan review. No
amendment of a PMP or a development agreement shall be required to reflect
normal adjustments to the locations of improvements that occur as a result of
the development of more specific plats, plans and specifications.
   H.   Existing Development Agreements: Notwithstanding any inconsistent
provision of this section relating to the approval of development agreements or
any other provision of this chapter, the development of the Station Park area
shall be governed by the terms of that certain development agreement for
Station Park dated January 27, 2007, between Farmington City and Station Park
CenterCal LLC (the "Station Park Development Agreement"), which Station Park
Development Agreement was adopted by the City pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter in existence on January 27, 2007. The Station Park Development
Agreement contains all applicable development standards and approval processes
for the Station Park development and further describes the extent to which
other Farmington City ordinances apply to the Station Park area. The
development standards and processes in the Station Park Development Agreement
remain effective even though such provisions may be materially different from
the current provisions of this chapter. The current provisions of this chapter
may apply to the Station Park area only after termination of the Station Park
Development Agreement and then only to the extent not inconsistent with any
continuing rights granted by the Station Park Development Agreement. (Ord.
2008-61, 12-9-2008)
CHAPTER 19
COMMERCIAL MIXED USE (CMU) ZONE
SECTION:
11-19-010: Purpose
11-19-020: Conflicts
11-19-030: Definitions
11-19-035: Moderate Income Housing
11-19-040: Allowable Uses
11-19-050: Impact Analysis Studies
11-19-060: Density And Dimensional Standards
11-19-070: Design Standards
11-19-080: Pedestrian And Vehicle Circulation
11-19-090: Landscaping
11-19-100: Parking
11-19-110: Paving
11-19-120: Signage
11-19-130: Outdoor Lighting
11-19-140: Storm Drainage And Natural Springs
11-19-150: Fencing And Retaining Walls
11-19-160: Project Review And Approval
11-19-010: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purposes of the commercial mixed use (CMU) zone are to:
      1.   Provide for community commercial centers that allow for
complementary multiple-family residential uses.
      2.   Encourage a mix of uses in which nonresidential development
generates revenues for the city and creates jobs, shopping and entertainment
opportunities for residents, while residential development generates twenty
four (24) hour vitality in support of the commercial uses.
      3.   Through a planned center development process, provide standards for
site design, architecture, landscaping and circulation that segregate vehicular
and pedestrian traffic, encourage walking and bicycling for recreation and
daily errands, and buffer adjacent and internal residential uses from
nonresidential use impacts.
      4.   Employ the demand for higher residential density development
generated by mixed use design to help accomplish Farmington City's land
preservation goals.
   B.   The commercial mixed use zone is intended to be used for developments
that are primarily commercial in nature that are located near residential
areas. The character of the areas of the city in which the CMU zone may be
applied will differ depending on the size and location of the parcel proposed
to be rezoned, and the nature and intensity of uses in the vicinity of the
parcel. While the CMU zone may be applied to a property through a zoning
request, the appropriate locations, proportions and mix of residential and
nonresidential uses will be determined for each CMU zoned area through a
planned center site plan approval process, as set forth in this chapter, in
order to ensure that the purposes of the CMU zone are met. (Ord. 2005-68, 12-
14-2005)
11-19-020: CONFLICTS:
This chapter provides additional provisions to those set forth in the other
chapters of this title. In the event of conflict between other provisions of
this title and this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (Ord.
2005-68, 12-14-2005)
11-19-030: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall have the meaning set forth below:
COMMERCIAL MIXED USE: Areas near residential and commercial areas with a mix of
general commercial uses and multiple-family residential development within a
pedestrian/bicyclist friendly environment.
PLANNED CENTER DEVELOPMENT: An area of land, under unified control, master
planned for development of a mix of land uses that are internally complementary
and are compatible with and complement surrounding land uses by utilizing
effective site, structure, circulation and landscaping design in a coordinated
manner. (Ord. 2005-68, 12-14-2005)
11-19-035: MODERATE INCOME HOUSING:
   A.   Minimum Requirement: Developers must provide or set aside dwelling
units equal in number to at least ten percent (10%) of the total number of
dwelling units approved for the development for moderate income housing subject
to entering into an agreement with the City; unless, at the sole discretion of,
and by agreement with the City, the developer provides:
      1.   Open space;
      2.   A fee in lieu thereof determined in consideration of factors set
forth in Section 11-28-270 of this Title;
      3.   Some other public benefit; or
      4.   A combination of 1, 2, and 3 above.
   B.   Exemption: Subdivisions resulting in two (2) or fewer additional
dwelling are exempt from the minimum moderate-income housing requirements of
this Section.
   C.   Additional Dwelling Units: The City may approve additional dwelling
units than what is conventionally allowed in the underlying zone as an
incentive to a developer to provide moderate income housing. (Ord. 2021-20, 8-
3-2021)
11-19-040: ALLOWABLE USES:
The CMU zone provides for a broad variety of land uses. The purpose of the CMU
zone is to provide for a mix of uses rather than a single type of use. The
specific uses that will be allowed in a CMU zoned area will depend on the
location and character of the property to be zoned, the mix and intensities of
the uses proposed, and on the character of the surrounding neighborhoods and
land uses, and will be determined through the review and approval of either a
planned unit development pursuant to chapter 27 of this title, or as a planned
center development pursuant to the conditional use permit process. Among the
uses that may be considered for approval in the CMU zone as part of a planned
center development are the following:
Agriculture.
Athletic or tennis club.
Bed and breakfasts.
Business and professional offices.
Class A auto sales.
Class A self-storage.
Commercial complex (commercial center), with a maximum floor area of eighty
thousand (80,000) square feet for any single tenant.
Commercial indoor recreation (movie theater, video arcade, bowling alley,
etc.).
Commercial outdoor recreation, minor (family reunion center, outdoor reception
facilities, picnic grounds, tennis courts, etc.).
Commercial testing laboratories.
Convenience store (sale of grocery items, nonprescription drugs and/or gasoline
from building with less than 5,000 square feet gross floor area).
Data processing services.
Daycare/preschool center.
Department store.
Dwelling, multiple-family (minimum density: 5 units per acre; maximum density:
14 units per acre).
Fast food, detached, with drive-through.
Funeral home.
Greenhouse/garden center (retail or wholesale).
Hotels and motels.
Medical clinics, offices and outpatient surgical facilities.
Neighborhood service establishments (low impact retail and service uses such as
bakery, bookstore, dry cleaning, hair styling, coin laundry, pharmacy, art
supply/gallery, craft store, photocopy center, etc.).
Printing/publishing services.
Private school or hospital.
Public and quasi-public uses, except the following prohibited uses:
correctional/detention facilities, halfway houses, drug or alcohol
rehabilitation facilities, facilities for the treatment or confinement of the
mentally ill, homeless shelters, domestic violence shelters, and other similar
facilities including those which may allow or require that clients stay
overnight or longer.
Public park.
Reception center.
Research services and development activities.
Restaurants (traditional sit down).
Specialty retail stores.
Temporary uses.
Uses customarily accessory to a listed allowable use.
Veterinary hospital (no outdoor kennels). (Ord. 2015-17, 5-26-2015; amd. Ord.
2023-67, 11-14-2023)
11-19-050: IMPACT ANALYSIS STUDIES:
   A.   Traffic Impact Analysis: Upon request by the city when circumstances
warrant, an applicant for planned unit or planned center development approval
in the CMU zone shall provide a thorough traffic impact analysis, prepared by a
licensed professional engineer with traffic engineering expertise, which shall
be reviewed by the city traffic engineer. Cost of the analysis, including all
reviews and updates, shall be borne by the applicant.
   B.   Community And Economic Impact Analysis:
      1.   Upon request by the city when circumstances warrant, an applicant
for planned unit or planned center development approval in the CMU zone shall
provide a fiscal impact analysis, prepared by an expert acceptable to the city.
The purpose of assessing community and economic impact is to evaluate the
projected benefits and costs to the public and private sectors of the community
from the project, and to prescribe mitigation measures, if needed. Cost of the
analysis, including all reviews and updates, shall be borne by the applicant.
      2.   When a fiscal impact analysis is requested by the city, the analysis
shall include the following, at a minimum:
         a.   The estimated net impacts and/or benefits to local employment,
wages and salaries, retained profits, land values, property taxes and sales
taxes.
         b.   The estimated net impacts of increased local consumer spending.
         c.   The projected net costs to the city arising from increased demand
for and required improvements to public services and infrastructure.
         d.   The value of improvements to public services and infrastructure
to be provided by the project.
         e.   The impacts projected to occur because of the development.
      3.   The developer shall demonstrate the ability to complete the project
and to achieve long term financial stability. Final determination of the
appropriateness of a particular building use and size will take into account
the net benefits and impacts to the development itself, to the surrounding
neighborhoods, and to the community as a whole. (Ord. 2005-68, 12-14-2005)
11-19-060: DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Residential Development: Single-family dwelling residential development
is not allowed in the CMU zone. Residential development must be at a minimum
density of five (5) units per acre, but shall not exceed fourteen (14) units
per acre, and should complement and support the primary commercial uses in the
CMU zone district.
   B.   Nonresidential Development:
      1.   Maximum Single Tenant Floor Space: The maximum square footage for a
single nonresidential tenant in a commercial center shall be eighty thousand
(80,000) gross square feet.
      2.   Front Yard: Measured from property line or abutting public street or
private street edge, no front yard setback is required on local or important
local streets. For yards that front on streets with a functional classification
equal to or greater than minor collector, the required build to range (RBR) is
zero feet (0') minimum to twenty feet (20') maximum. The minimum building
street frontage percentage and the minimum percent of building within the front
RBR for local and important local streets is fifty percent (50%) and seventy-
five percent (75%) and for collector and arterial roads is sixty percent (60%)
and seventy-five percent (75%) respectively. Any building located adjacent to,
or across a street from, a residential zone shall have the same front yard
setback as that required in the residential zone.
Unless it can be demonstrated as necessary for traffic safety, off street
parking for vehicles shall not occupy any space located between the building
and the primary street, and the secondary street where applicable for a corner
lot. Parking areas located to the side of structures shall be located a minimum
of ten feet (10') back from the back of the adjacent public sidewalk. The
Planning Commission may approve variations to the distance separating parking
from a public sidewalk after review of a special exception in accordance with
section
11-3-045.
      3.   Side And Rear Setbacks: There shall be no minimum setback
requirement except where the CMU zone shares a common boundary with a
noncommercial zone. In such a case, the minimum side and rear setbacks from
property lines shall be twenty feet (20') for buildings and structures twenty
feet (20') or less in height. Buildings or structures over twenty feet (20') in
height shall be set back an additional foot for each foot of height over twenty
feet (20'). If the area of the side or rear setback is used for parking or as a
service area, a landscaped strip, not less than ten feet (10') in width shall
be maintained along the property lines. Accessory structures may be located on
a side or rear property line if: a) the structure is located more than ten feet
(10') from the primary structure on the lot; b) the structure has no openings
on the side contiguous to the property line, and the wall on that side has a
two (2) hour fire retardant rating; and c) all drainage from the accessory
structure is directed onto the lot on which it is located.
      4.   Side Yard Corner: Same as front yard.
      5.   Lot Size: No requirement.
      6.   Lot Width: No requirement.
      7.   Building Height: Maximum building height shall not exceed fifty five
feet (55'). (Ord. 2005-68, 12-14-2005; amd. Ord. 2008-35, 7-1-2008; Ord. 2021-
26, 9-21-2021; Ord. 2022-27, 6-7-2022)
11-19-070: DESIGN STANDARDS:
The following design standards shall be implemented throughout the community
mixed use zone in order to create a cohesive, attractive appearance that is
inviting and pedestrian friendly, and which encourages travel by foot,
bicycling, vanpooling, car pooling and public transportation, in addition to
traditional automobile transport:
   A.   Building Design: Structures in the zone shall incorporate a limited
number of architectural styles or motifs, which shall establish an identifiable
architectural character for the neighborhood. Building designs, including
accessory structures, shall be complementary throughout the zone in terms of:
1) consistency of roof and siding materials and colors; 2) similar window and
door patterns; and 3) similar streetscapes, including landscaping, light
fixtures and similar site amenities. The height, size, bulk and arrangement of
buildings on a development site should be designed to invite pedestrian
circulation and offer an attractive streetscape.
      1.   Buildings shall provide a clear visual division between all floors.
The top floor of any building shall contain a distinctive finish, consisting of
a roof, cornice or other architectural termination.
      2.   The facade of every floor greater than thirty (30) linear feet and
visible from a street shall incorporate architectural features designed to
provide human scale and visual interest. Compliance can be achieved through
balconies, alcoves, arches, columns, porticoes or wall segments that create at
least a two foot (2') variation in plane for at least ten (10) linear feet for
each thirty feet (30') of facade visible from a street.
      3.   For nonresidential development and the nonresidential floor of mixed
use buildings, at least seventy five percent (75%) the linear frontage of any
wall visible from a street shall incorporate windows, doors, display windows or
other architectural features described in subsection A2 of this section.
      4.   Flat roofs are prohibited on residential buildings within the zone.
      5.   When located on a roof, mechanical equipment shall be screened by
roof components, parapets, cornices or other architectural features.
   B.   Exterior Materials: Exterior materials shall be durable, require low
maintenance, and be of the same or higher quality as surrounding developments.
      1.   Details of proposed colors and materials, including color chips,
samples and colored building elevations, shall be shown on building plans when
a development project application is submitted.
      2.   Reflective surfaces shall not be used in locations which may produce
excessive reflections or glare that may create a potential safety problem.
      3.   Tile, architectural grade asphalt shingles, standing seam metal or
similar quality roofing materials shall be used on all visible pitched roofs.
      4.   Buildings on pads in commercial developments, including service
stations, convenience stores, restaurants, auto maintenance facilities and
similar uses, shall be designed in a compatible architectural style, and should
incorporate the same materials, colors and landscaping as the primary
development.
   C.   Building Entry: Main building entrances shall be easily identifiable,
and form a transition between inside and outside areas. Building entries shall
be provided with adequate lighting for security.
      1.   Buildings that are open to the public and are within thirty feet
(30') of the street shall have an entrance for pedestrians from the street to
the building interior. This entrance shall be designed to be attractive and
functional, be a distinctive and prominent element of the architectural design,
and shall be open to the public during all business hours.
      2.   Wherever practical, buildings shall incorporate arcades, roofs,
alcoves, porticoes and awnings that protect pedestrians from the rain and sun.
In plazas and courtyards lighting shall incorporate fixtures and standards
designed for pedestrian areas.
   D.   Exterior Storage And Equipment: There shall be no outside storage of
materials or equipment, other than motor vehicles licensed for street use
except as specifically approved by the planning commission in conjunction with
a conditional use application.
      1.   Trash storage areas, mechanical equipment, transformers, meters and
similar devices are not permitted to be visible from the street. Where site
constraints would otherwise force these uses into visible locations, they shall
be screened by decorative walls, earthen berms, landscaping or architectural
treatments capable of screening views from streets and sidewalks.
      2.   If in rooftop locations, mechanical equipment shall be screened by
roof components, parapets, cornices or other architectural features.
      3.   All new utility transmission lines shall be placed underground.
   E.   Architectural Review: Prior to the issuance of a building permit for
any conditional or permitted use, the planning director must review the
proposed plans for compliance with the design standards of this chapter. (Ord.
2005-68, 12-14-2005; amd. Ord. 2022-27, 6-7-2022; Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-19-080: PEDESTRIAN AND VEHICLE CIRCULATION:
   A.   Design Standards: The following site design standards shall apply to
all development within the commercial mixed use zone:
      1.   A network of convenient, safe and raised or textured pedestrian
paths and walkways should connect areas within the project, and through the
project to adjacent properties.
      2.   Public rights of way shall be wide enough to incorporate sidewalks.
In nonresidential areas, sidewalks shall be at least four feet (4') in width,
or a parallel sidewalk and bicycle/jogging lane, each four feet (4') in width.
      3.   Public seating and bicycle racks may be provided near entrances to
nonresidential and mixed use buildings or groups of buildings. Benches should
be provided at locations where they are most likely to be used, rather than at
regular intervals along the sidewalk; and should be placed together with other
street amenities, such as light poles, kiosks, waste receptacles, planters,
etc. All street amenities should share a common theme in their design that is
representative of the development.
      4.   Bikeways shall meet standards consistent with the Farmington City
trails and sidewalk master plan. These bikeways shall provide safe and inviting
access through development project areas and shall provide continued
circulation of trails identified in the Farmington City master trail plan,
including planned equestrian trails (otherwise equestrian trails or uses are
prohibited).
      5.   Vehicular traffic aisles within the project should provide a
circulation pattern which is convenient and safe. The location and number of
vehicle access points to the site, the interior circulation pattern, and the
separation between pedestrians and vehicles should be designed to maximize
safety and convenience.
      6.   Public art may be provided at key locations in a CMU zone area.
   B.   Adjacent To Major Streets: Development adjacent to major streets should
incorporate bus pullouts and shelters with dedicated pedestrian access,
turnarounds for transit vehicles, and provision for access by emergency
vehicles. Buildings should be oriented toward transit stops. (Ord. 2005-68, 12-
14-2005)
11-19-090: LANDSCAPING:
The following site landscaping standards shall apply to all new development in
the community mixed use zone:
   A.   Required Percentage: At least twenty percent (20%) of any development
site (but not each individual lot) shall be devoted to landscaping, exclusive
of required park strips and walks (except as otherwise provided in subsection
11-19-080B of this chapter). Wetlands may count toward one-half (1/2) of such
landscape requirement. Additional landscaping should be provided where needed
to buffer and achieve compatibility between different adjoining uses.
   B.   Approved Landscaping Plan: All areas of a developed site not occupied
by buildings, required parking, driveways, walkways or service areas shall be
landscaped according to an approved water efficient landscaping plan as
outlined in subsection
11-7-070D. These areas may also incorporate hardscape for patios, plazas and
courtyards, which areas shall be credited against the landscape requirement of
subsection A of this section.
   C.   Street Trees: Street trees shall be provided on all street frontages at
a maximum spacing of thirty feet (30') on center. Street trees shall be planted
within a landscape strip of at least six feet (6') in width, between the
roadway and sidewalk where feasible. Street trees shall be planted no closer
than twenty feet (20') to light standards.
   D.   Parking Areas: Parking areas shall be shaded by large broadleaf
canopied trees placed at a rate of one tree for each twelve (12) parking
spaces. Parking shall be adequately screened and buffered from adjacent uses.
   E.   Open Space: Open space should be an integral part of the development
project. Wetlands and vegetated drainage detention sites may be considered open
space. The open space within a project should be integral to the site design,
not small, leftover pieces of land. Open space may also be used as a buffer
between adjacent properties and uses. In mixed use projects with a multiple-
family component, common open space should equal or exceed the ground floor
area of all residential structures on site. To preserve an open look, fencing
in large projects should be limited to the perimeter of the project, using
visually open fencing materials.
   F.   Outdoor Lighting: Outdoor lighting should provide for the illumination
of buildings and grounds for safety purposes, but in an aesthetically pleasing
manner. Lighting should be focused downward, and placed and screened to limit
the emission of light beyond the development boundaries. A condition to
approval of a development may be that certain lighting be extinguished after
certain hours. (Ord. 2005-68, 12-14-2005; amd. Ord. 2022-14, 2-1-2022)
11-19-100: PARKING:
Parking shall be provided in accordance with chapter 32 of this title. In
addition, the following provisions shall apply:
   A.   Parking Lot Design: Parking lot design should include a useful
pedestrian circulation system, adequate turning radii and efficient traffic
movement pattern, a pleasant appearance, convenient parking locations,
efficient drainage and integration of parking with the character of the site
and proposed development.
   B.   Surface Parking Areas: Surface parking areas should be located behind
or at one side of the building. Surface parking may be located between a
building and the street, but must be screened from view from the street by
landscaping, perimeter buildings, berms or other screening materials. On street
parking within the public right of way is allowed.
   C.   Parking Lot Lighting: Parking lot lighting shall be down focused, and
designed to avoid direct illumination of adjacent property.
   D.   Pedestrian Drop Off Locations: Pedestrian drop off locations should be
incorporated within overall circulation patterns, and should be convenient and
safe for pedestrians.
   E.   Pedestrian Walkways: Where feasible, pedestrian walkways shall be
incorporated into parking lots of any size. Parking lots with more than one
hundred (100) spaces shall be divided by landscaped areas, including a walkway
at least ten feet (10') in width.
   F.   Bicycle Racks: Secure bicycle racks may be provided at likely
destination stops to encourage the use of bicycles as a way to access those
destinations. Racks shall be designed consistent with standards contained in
the Farmington City trails and sidewalks master plan.
   G.   Shared Parking: Developments incorporating a mix of uses generally
require fewer parking stalls due to shared patronage of retail stores and
varying hours of peak use by office users and retail customers. For mixed use
projects, developers shall provide an analysis of projected parking needs for
consideration to justify any reduction in required parking stalls, with a
maximum allowed reduction of twenty percent (20%). (Ord. 2005-68, 12-14-2005)
11-19-110: PAVING:
Sidewalks and major crosswalks within the commercial areas of a CMU zone shall
incorporate variations in pavement to add interest, help slow traffic and
increase safety. Pavements may include stained or textured concrete, colored
and/or stamped concrete, brick, stone or pavers. Other appropriate areas for
special paving would include outdoor patio areas and public plazas. (Ord. 2005-
68, 12-14-2005)
11-19-120: SIGNAGE:
In a CMU zone, businesses should be identified by an appropriate blend of the
six (6) sign types that are permitted hereunder. These include monument, facade
mounted, suspended/supported, projecting, awning/canopy and window signs.
   A.   Character: Sign character will be compatible with the character of
surrounding neighborhoods.
   B.   Materials: Wood and similar appearing material, metal, canvaslike
materials and window stencil are the materials of preference. Plastic, lexan
and other similar appearing materials will be allowed in limited amounts on
individual signs. Repetitive use of signs utilizing pan channel letters is not
allowed. No plastic face box signs shall be allowed.
   C.   Exterior Building Signs: All exterior building signs must present the
name of the business for that tenant space and may include the business/company
logo. The sign may identify products sold or produced by the business. Brand
names and logos shall not be allowed in a sign unless they are specifically
part of the name/trademark of the business in that tenant space.
   D.   Address Numbers: Address numbers shall be a maximum of six inches (6")
in vertical dimension, but may be larger if required by the city. The location
of the address sign shall be in close proximity to the main entrance to the
business/tenant space.
   E.   Sign Lighting:
      1.   Light may be cast directly onto the face of the sign by an external
light source. In such instances, the light must be focused on the sign face.
      2.   Halo signs are permitted.
      3.   Backlighting through routed letters/copy or through the material
that comprises the letters/copy in the sign face is permitted as long as the
light source is screened from direct view.
      4.   Exposed neon tubing and/or individual light bulbs forming the sign
copy shall not be permitted on any sign. Exposed neon signs shall be permitted
inside a business/tenant space but shall not be placed within ten feet (10') of
the inside surface of the storefront window.
   F.   Number: The number of signs permitted per business/tenant space shall
be as follows:
      1.   Highway orientation: Up to two (2) of the six (6) sign types
permitted.
      2.   Parking lot orientation: Up to two (2) of the six (6) sign types
permitted.
      3.   Pedestrian area orientation: Up to three (3) of the six (6) sign
types permitted.
   G.   Prohibited Signs: Handwritten and taped signs to storefronts are
prohibited.
   H.   Temporary Or Promotional Signs: Individual business temporary event,
sale, or promotional signs are permitted for the duration of the sales event
not to exceed thirty (30) days per sales event and four (4) times per year or
alternatively in conjunction with planned sales events carried out by a retail
business through its system of stores. Such signs shall be located in a window
display area and shall not exceed fifteen (15) square feet.
   I.   Restaurants, Food Service Tenants: Restaurants and food service tenants
shall be permitted one freestanding A-frame, signboard, which can be placed on
the sidewalk, provided the sign does not interfere with pedestrian movement.
The sign shall not exceed two feet (2') in width and three feet (3') in height.
   J.   Awnings, Canopies: Awnings and canopies are permitted without signs.
Once letters and/or graphics are attached, it must comply with the provisions
of this regulation.
   K.   Sign Types:
      1.   Facade Mounted Signs:
         a.   Up to two (2) facade mounted signs are permitted per tenant space
with a maximum of one per twenty (20) linear feet of frontage.
         b.   Restaurants may have one additional facade mounted menu sign,
which shall be a maximum of three (3) square feet in area.
      2.   Projecting Signs:
         a.   One pedestrian area oriented projecting sign (shingle) may be
attached to a building perpendicular to the facade facing a pedestrian
sidewalk.
         b.   A projecting sign may extend up to four feet (4') from the
facade.
         c.   Projecting signs shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in
size.
         d.   Projecting signs shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') above any
pedestrian walkway.
      3.   Suspended Or Supported Signs:
         a.   One pedestrian area oriented suspended sign or more supported
sign may be placed so as to be supported by building canopies of other elements
near the entrance to the business/tenant space.
         b.   Signs shall be limited in size to one square foot of sign area
for each four (4) linear feet of business/tenant space frontage, not to exceed
twenty five (25) square feet in size. Letters will not exceed twelve inches
(12") in height.
      4.   Window Signs:
         a.   A window sign may be up to eighteen inches (18") in height and
four feet (4') wide.
         b.   A window sign may be stenciled on two (2) windows of the facade
on which the sign will be located.
         c.   Storefront windows and doors shall be limited to a maximum of two
(2) square feet of coverage with stickers, credit card decals, hours of
operation, etc.
         d.   There may be one window sign listing the names of tenants of the
second floor commercial space near the entrance to the elevator/stairs to the
second floor. This sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet in size.
         e.   A second floor tenant may have two (2) stenciled window signs not
to exceed six (6) square feet, one with a parking lot orientation and one with
a pedestrian area orientation.
      5.   Awning/Canopy Signs:
         a.   The vertical drip of an awning or canopy may be stenciled with
letters that are up to seven inches (7") in vertical dimension by any length.
When the vertical drip of an awning exceeds the vertical dimension of the
slope, then it may be stenciled with letters that are up to nine inches (9") in
height.
         b.   The sloped portion of an awning may be stenciled with business
logo or graphic representation of nine (9) square feet.
         c.   All awning or canopy signs shall be constructed of a canvaslike
material or architectural metal. Primary colors and glossy finishes on the
fabric are not permitted.
      6.   Entry Arch Sign: An entry arch sign may be permitted for a master
planned project, depending on the character and proximity of existing uses in
the vicinity of the CMU zone area.
      7.   Directional And Street Name Signs: Street name identification signs
may be provided at key intersections. The street name signs shall be of a
design that is compatible with the neighborhood. (Ord. 2005-68, 12-14-2005)
11-19-130: OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
Outdoor lighting will be designed to assure that neighboring properties are
protected from direct light sources and where possible to not diminish the
night sky.
   A.   Light Fixtures In Parking Areas: Light fixtures in parking areas shall
be decorative type, not a typical "shoebox" type fixture. Fixtures shall be
mounted on poles not taller than thirty feet (30') having a one hundred percent
(100%) cutoff. The light rays may not be emitted by the installed fixture at
angles above the horizontal plane.
   B.   Light Fixtures Along Roadways: Light fixtures along roadways shall
match the style of parking lot lights, but not exceed twenty feet (20') in
height. Roadway light poles shall have brackets for the mounting of banners and
may contain hanging planters with integral drip irrigation.
   C.   Building Facades: Building facades may be lighted by wall sconces,
recessed soffit lights, landscape uplights or other sources that are directed
away from public view and not diminish the night sky.
   D.   Beacon Lights: Beacon lights are not permitted in the CMU zone, except
on a temporary basis as approved by the planning commission. (Ord. 2005-68, 12-
14-2005)
11-19-140: STORM DRAINAGE AND NATURAL SPRINGS:
   A.   Engineering; Landscaping: Storm drainage shall be engineered to city
standards and may include detention in parking areas and designated detention
ponds. All detention pond areas shall be landscaped and stabilized as approved
by the city engineer. Where detention is near continual drainage from natural
springs, the streambed shall be reestablished with a streambed appearance
approved by the city engineer.
   B.   Natural Drainage Maintained: Natural spring drainage shall be
maintained above grade where possible. (Ord. 2005-68, 12-14-2005; amd. Ord.
2022-14, 2-1-2022)
11-19-150: FENCING AND RETAINING WALLS:
   A.   Between Residential, Commercial Areas: Fencing between primarily
residential areas and commercial areas may be constructed up to seventy two
inches (72") in height. Appropriate materials include Farmington stone, precast
molded concrete panels embossed and stained with a stone pattern (both sides of
wall), wrought iron or colored masonry. Solid wood or solid vinyl fencing is
not permitted. Fencing should be augmented by a substantial landscape buffer.
   B.   Perimeter Around Master Planned Project: Fencing around the perimeter
of a master planned project may be constructed up to forty two inches (42") in
height. Appropriate materials would include Farmington stone, rail fencing or
combinations of those materials.
   C.   Multi-Family Areas: Fencing within multi-family areas within a CMU zone
between buildings or along streets is not permitted. Private patio areas may be
screened with fencing not to exceed sixty inches (60") in height and not
enclosing more than one hundred fifty (150) square feet in area. Generous
landscaping should be provided around any such enclosures.
   D.   Single-Family Residential Areas: Fencing within single-family
residential areas within a CMU zone shall be governed by the residential
sections of this code.
   E.   Retaining Walls Over Thirty Inches: If necessary within a CMU zone
area, retaining walls over thirty inches (30") in height shall be constructed
of landscape boulders, stone or concrete faced with stone or cultured stone.
Walls should generally not exceed four feet (4') in height unless terraced with
a planting area at least three feet (3') wide between tiers. (Ord. 2005-68, 12-
14-2005)
11-19-160: PROJECT REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
All projects proposed within the CMU zone shall be reviewed and approved either
as a planned unit development pursuant to chapter 27 of this title, or as a
planned center development in accordance with the conditional use permit
provisions of chapter 8 of this title. For projects proposed to be phased, each
individual phase approved must meet all of the standards and criteria of this
title and the objectives of this commercial mixed use zone. Revisions to
approved planned unit or planned center development projects must be reviewed
and approved as new development applications subject to the applicable
regulations then in effect. (Ord. 2005-68, 12-14-2005)
CHAPTER 20
NEIGHBORHOOD MIXED USE (NMU) ZONE
SECTION:
11-20-010: Purposes
11-20-020: Conflicts
11-20-030: Definitions
11-20-035: Moderate Income Housing
11-20-040: Allowed Uses
11-20-050: Impact Analysis Studies
11-20-060: Density And Dimensional Standards
11-20-070: Design Standards
11-20-080: Pedestrian And Vehicle Circulation
11-20-090: Landscaping
11-20-100: Parking
11-20-110: Paving
11-20-120: Signage
11-20-130: Site Furniture/Artwork
11-20-140: Outdoor Lighting
11-20-150: Storm Drainage And Natural Springs
11-20-160: Fencing And Retaining Walls
11-20-170: Project Review And Approval
11-20-180: Alternative Approval Process; Development Agreements
11-20-010: PURPOSES:
   A.   Specified: The purposes of the neighborhood mixed use zone are to:
      1.   Provide for a mix of single-family and multi-family residential
uses, together with appropriate scale, compatible commercial development,
limited in area, height and materials, as appropriate, to serve the nearby
neighborhood areas.
      2.   Through a planned center development process, designate appropriate
areas for each of the uses identified in subsection A1 of this section that may
be included in the development in relationship to existing housing, roadways
and interchanges.
      3.   Provide for the creation of developments that combine village scale
residential and complementary retail that can serve as the center for
surrounding residential neighborhoods.
      4.   Provide standards for site design, architecture, landscaping and
circulation that are representative of Farmington City's rural agricultural
heritage and encourage walking and bicycling for recreation and daily errands.
      5.   Provide for medium density residential development, where
appropriate, to serve as a buffer between single-family and commercial
development.
      6.   Preserve the residential character of main street and protect
residential uses within and adjacent to NMU zones.
      7.   Integrate the city's master transportation plans with internal
traffic circulation and pedestrian pathways to ensure public safety.
   B.   Intent; Character: The neighborhood mixed use zone is intended to be
used for developments that incorporate a generous mix of uses as described
above. The character of the areas of the city in which the NMU zone may be
applied will differ depending on the size and location of the parcel proposed
to be rezoned. While the NMU zone may be applied to a property through a zoning
request, the appropriate locations, proportions and mix of residential and
nonresidential uses will be determined for each NMU zoned area through a
planned center site plan approval process, as set forth in this chapter, in
order to ensure that the purposes of the NMU zone are met. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-
2006)
11-20-020: CONFLICTS:
This chapter provides additional provisions to those set forth in the other
chapters of this title. In the event of conflict between other provisions of
this title and this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (Ord.
2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-20-030: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall have the meaning set forth below:
NEIGHBORHOOD MIXED USE: Areas near single-family residential neighborhoods with
a mix of single-family, townhouse and medium density multiple-family
residential development, as well as limited neighborhood retail within a
pedestrian/bicyclist friendly environment.
PLANNED CENTER DEVELOPMENT: An area of land, under unified control, master
planned for development of a mix of land uses that are internally complementary
and are compatible with and complement surrounding land uses by utilizing
effective site, structure, circulation and landscaping design in a coordinated
manner.
RETAIL COMMERCIAL USES: The provision of goods, wares and merchandise to the
general public. Retail commercial does not include the provision of
professional offices or other services, and does not include fine dining where
food is prepared and served primarily for consumption on the premises. (Ord.
2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-20-035: MODERATE INCOME HOUSING:
   A.   Minimum Requirement: Developers must provide or set aside dwelling
units equal in number to at least ten percent (10%) of the total number of
dwelling units approved for the development for moderate income housing subject
to entering into an agreement with the City; unless, at the sole discretion of,
and by agreement with the City, the developer provides:
      1.   Open space;
      2.   A fee in lieu thereof determined in consideration of factors set
forth in Section 11-28-270 of this Title; or
      3.   Some other public benefit; o
      4.   A combination of 1, 2, and 3 above.
   B.   Exemption: Subdivisions resulting in two (2) or fewer additional
dwelling are exempt from the minimum moderate-income housing requirements of
this Section.
   C.   Additional Dwelling Units: The City may approve additional dwelling
units than what is conventionally allowed in the underlying zone as an
incentive to a developer to provide moderate income housing. (Ord. 2021-20, 8-
3-2021)
11-20-040: ALLOWED USES:
The NMU zone provides for a broad variety of land uses. The purpose of the NMU
zone is to provide for a mix of uses rather than a single type of use. The
specific uses that will be allowed in an NMU zoned area will depend on the
location and character of the property to be zoned, the mix and intensities of
the uses proposed, and on the character of the surrounding neighborhoods and
land uses, and will be determined through the review and approval of either a
planned unit development pursuant to chapter 27 of this title, or as a planned
center development pursuant to the conditional use permit process.
   A.   Specified: Among the uses that may be considered for approval as part
of a planned center development are the following:
Agriculture.
Athletic or tennis club.
Bed and breakfasts.
Business and professional offices.
Church, temple, synagogue or other place of worship.
Convenience store (sale of grocery items, nonprescription drugs, no gasoline
sales).
Daycare, preschool.
Dwellings, multiple-family with no more than four (4) units.
Fitness center.
Funeral home.
Home occupations as identified in section
11-35-040 of this title.
Medical or dental clinic.
Neighborhood grocery.
Neighborhood service establishments (low impact retail and service uses such as
bakery, bookstore, dry cleaning, hairstyling, coin laundry, pharmacy, art
supply/gallery, craft store, photocopy center, etc.).
Nursing home, convalescent center.
Pet store or pet grooming establishment.
Private school.
Public or quasi-public uses, material additions or modifications on a developed
site.
Reception center.
Research services.
Residential facilities for the disabled.
Residential facilities for the elderly.
Restaurant.
Single-family dwellings.
Temporary uses.
Two-family dwellings.
Uses customarily accessory to a listed conditional use.
   B.   North Main Street Restriction: In order to preserve the residential
character of Farmington City's Main Street north of 1600 North (North Main
Street), and to protect residential uses within and adjacent to neighborhood
mixed use zones, only residential, open space and agricultural land uses and
development are allowed adjacent to/along North Main Street. North of 1600
North, nonresidential buildings shall not be constructed within one hundred
feet (100') of the North Main Street right of way. Buildings directly facing
(or backing) on Main Street shall be of a residential scale and character and
any parking areas shall be buffered as required by the landscape provisions of
this chapter (see section
11-20-090 of this chapter). Open spaces along North Main Street will be
designed in such a manner as to screen all nonresidential uses from view from
Main Street, utilizing decorative walls, earthen berms, landscaping or
architectural treatments capable of screening views from the street and
sidewalks. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006; amd. Ord. 2014-07, 3-4-2014; Ord. 2023-67,
11-14-2023)
11-20-050: IMPACT ANALYSIS STUDIES:
   A.   Traffic Impact Analysis: Upon request by the city when circumstances
warrant, an applicant for planned unit or planned center development approval
in the NMU zone shall provide a thorough traffic impact analysis, prepared by a
licensed professional engineer with traffic engineering expertise, which shall
be reviewed by the city traffic engineer. Cost of the analysis, including all
reviews and updates, shall be borne by the applicant.
   B.   Community And Economic Impact Analysis:
      1.   Upon request by the city when circumstances warrant, an applicant
for planned unit or planned center development approval in the NMU zone shall
provide a fiscal impact analysis, prepared by an expert acceptable to the city.
The purpose of assessing community and economic impact is to evaluate the
projected benefits and costs to the public and private sectors of the community
from the project, and to prescribe mitigation measures, if needed. Cost of the
analysis, including all reviews and updates, shall be borne by the applicant.
      2.   At a minimum the fiscal impact analysis shall include the following:
         a.   The estimated net impacts and/or benefits to local employment,
wages and salaries, retained profits, land values, property taxes and sales
taxes.
         b.   The estimated net impacts of increased local consumer spending.
         c.   The projected net costs to the city arising from increased demand
for and required improvements to public services and infrastructure.
         d.   The value of improvements to public services and infrastructure
to be provided by the project.
         e.   The impacts projected to occur because of the development.
      3.   The developer shall demonstrate the ability to complete the project
and to achieve long term financial stability. Final determination of the
appropriateness of a particular building use and size will take into account
the net benefits and impacts to the development itself, to the surrounding
neighborhoods, and to the community as a whole. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-20-060: DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Residential Development: The minimum lot size for development of
single- and two-family dwellings is ten thousand (10,000) square feet. The
minimum lot size for multiple-family dwellings is twelve thousand (12,000)
square feet for the first two (2) units, two thousand (2,000) additional square
feet for each additional unit up to four (4) units and four thousand (4,000)
additional square feet for each additional unit beyond four (4) units. Maximum
residential density in the NMU zone is nine (9) units per acre. Setback, height
and other dimensional standards for residential development in the NMU zone are
as required in sections
11-11-050 through
11-11-090 and
11-13-040 through
11-13-090 of this title.
   B.   Nonresidential Development:
      1.   Maximum Single Building Size:
         a.   The maximum building footprint for nonresidential structures in
areas not abutting major arterial roadways and interchanges shall be seven
thousand five hundred (7,500) gross square feet, not exceeding one story in
height.
         b.   In areas abutting major arterial roadways and interchanges (as
defined in the Farmington City master transportation plan), the maximum
building footprint shall be ten thousand (10,000) gross square feet per floor
with a maximum height of two (2) stories, except as allowed by subsection B1c
of this section.
         c.   In some areas abutting major arterial roadways and interchanges
(as defined in the Farmington City master transportation plan), a single
building with a footprint larger than ten thousand (10,000) square feet, but in
no case larger than fifty five thousand (55,000) square feet, may be
appropriate as a part of a planned center development that contains a mix of
residential and nonresidential uses. In such areas, a special exception to the
ten thousand (10,000) square foot maximum building footprint may be granted on
planned center developments thirty (30) acres or larger in size, where it can
be shown that the overall project and its mix of uses enhance the character of
Farmington City, protect existing nearby uses, do not overwhelm the
surroundings, and will protect and contribute to the health, safety and welfare
of the community.
      2.   Maximum Aggregate Retail Space: The maximum aggregate interior
square footage dedicated to retail commercial uses in any one NMU zone district
shall be limited to one hundred fifty thousand (150,000) square feet. A special
exception to this limitation may be granted where it is shown that exceeding
the maximum is necessary to provide adequate retail space to meet the city's
needs and general plan objectives:
         a.   The uses with the planned center are located in such a manner as
to prevent adverse off site impacts, such as noise, dust and fugitive light;
         b.   The planning commission determines, after consideration of all
evidence that the proposed additional retail commercial uses above the one
hundred fifty thousand (150,000) square foot limit will not cause any public
street adjacent to the project to drop in its level of service from the level
of service that would have been reached without the additional retail
commercial use or uses; and
         c.   The planning commission determines, after consideration of all
evidence, that the proposed additional retail commercial uses above the one
hundred fifty thousand (150,000) square foot limit will not have an adverse
impact on the long term fiscal viability of the project.
      3.   Front Yard: Measured from property line or abutting a public street
or a private street edge, no front yard setback is required on local or
important local streets. On minor collectors and higher classification streets,
the front yard setback is twenty five feet (25').
      4.   Side Yards: Measured from face of building perpendicular to abutting
property line, are not required except to provide access to parking and
deliveries behind a building and as deemed necessary by the fire department for
emergency access.
      5.   Rear Yard: No specified requirements, except that a minimum of
thirty feet (30') shall be provided when adjacent to a low density residential
zone. If the rear yard abuts a minor collector or above street in the case of a
double frontage lot, the rear yard setback is twenty five feet (25').
      6.   Side Yard Corner: Same as front yard.
      7.   Lot Size: No requirement.
      8.   Lot Width: No requirement.
      9.   Building Height: Maximum building height shall not exceed two (2)
stories, thirty five feet (35') maximum. Nonresidential uses allowed through
the conditional use process are limited to single-story buildings or the first
floor of multi-story buildings. However, the second story of a building with
ground floor retail may be used for offices as well as residential. (Ord. 2006-
62, 9-19-2006)
11-20-070: DESIGN STANDARDS:
The following design standards shall be implemented throughout the neighborhood
mixed use zone in order to create a cohesive, attractive appearance that is
inviting and pedestrian friendly, and which encourages travel by foot,
bicycling, vanpooling, car pooling and public transportation, in addition to
traditional automobile transport.
   A.   Site Design:
      1.   Site design shall specifically encourage pedestrian friendly
development by eliminating large block parking areas and encouraging
landscaping and amenities which encourage pedestrian activity.
      2.   For residential uses, side load garages and/or garages set back from
the primary front facade of the residence are encouraged.
   B.   Building Design: The height, size, bulk and arrangement of buildings
within the NMU zone should be designed to invite pedestrian circulation and
offer an attractive streetscape. Building design should complement exterior
design and be coordinated throughout the project area.
      1.   Buildings shall provide a clear visual division between all floors.
The top floor of any building shall contain a distinctive finish, consisting of
a roof, cornice or other architectural termination.
      2.   The facade of every residential floor greater than thirty (30)
linear feet and visible from a street shall incorporate features designed to
provide human scale and visual interest. Compliance can be achieved through
balconies, alcoves or wall segments that create at least a two foot (2')
variation in plane for at least ten (10) linear feet for each thirty feet (30')
of facade visible from a street.
      3.   For nonresidential buildings and the nonresidential floor of mixed
use buildings, approximately fifty percent (50%) of the linear frontage of any
wall visible from a street shall incorporate windows, doors or display windows.
      4.   The sides and back of nonresidential and multi-family buildings
shall receive similar architectural treatment as the front facade to include
some openings, overhangs, features, decorative lighting, landscaping, etc., as
deemed appropriate for its exposure to surrounding areas.
      5.   Building facades of multi-family dwellings shall incorporate colors
and materials that are compatible with the neighborhood, including some
Farmington stone, and shall attempt to screen garage doors from public view.
The use of pitched roofs is encouraged.
   C.   Exterior Materials: Exterior materials shall be durable and require low
maintenance, and be of the same or higher quality as surrounding developments,
such as Farmington stone, factory finished composite board siding, acrylic
stucco (EIFS), standing seam metal roofing, cedar shake shingles, weathering
steel, etc.
      1.   Details of proposed colors and materials, including color chips,
samples and colored building elevations, shall be shown on building plans when
a development project application is submitted.
      2.   Reflective surfaces shall not be used in locations which may produce
excessive reflections or glare that may create a potential safety problem.
      3.   Tile, architectural grade asphalt shingles, standing seam metal or
similar quality roofing materials shall be used on all visible pitched roofs.
   D.   Building Entry: Main building entrances shall be easily identifiable,
and form a transition between inside and outside areas. Building entries shall
be provided with adequate lighting for security.
      1.   Buildings that are open to the public and are within thirty feet
(30') of the street shall have an entrance for pedestrians from the street to
the building interior. This entrance shall be designed to be attractive and
functional, be a distinctive and prominent element of the architectural design,
and shall be open to the public during all business hours.
      2.   Wherever practical, buildings shall incorporate arcades, roofs,
alcoves, porticoes and awnings that protect pedestrians from the rain and sun.
In plazas and courtyards, lighting shall incorporate fixtures and standards
designed for pedestrian areas.
   E.   Exterior Uses, Storage And Equipment: All uses located in the zone
shall be conducted entirely within a fully enclosed building, except for
outdoor dining.
      1.   There shall be no outside storage of materials or equipment, other
than motor vehicles licensed for street use except as specifically approved by
the planning commission in conjunction with a conditional use application.
      2.   Trash storage areas, mechanical equipment, transformers, meters and
similar devices are not permitted to be visible from the street. Where site
constraints would otherwise force these uses into visible locations they shall
be screened by decorative walls, earthen berms, landscaping or architectural
treatments capable of screening views from streets and sidewalks.
      3.   If in rooftop locations, mechanical equipment shall be screened by
roof components, parapets, cornices or other architectural features.
      4.   In plazas and courtyards, lighting shall incorporate fixtures and
standards designed for pedestrian areas that are compatible in design with
adjacent properties.
      5.   All new utility transmission lines shall be placed underground.
(Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-20-080: PEDESTRIAN AND VEHICLE CIRCULATION:
The following site design standards shall apply to all development within the
neighborhood mixed use zone:
   A.   Bike Pathways: Bike pathways at least four feet (4') in width shall be
provided in, out and through the NMU area to allow easy access to
nonresidential buildings. Sidewalks at least four feet (4') in width shall be
provided along each public right of way.
   B.   Pedestrian Sidewalks: Pedestrian sidewalks along major roadways (i.e.,
Main Street) shall incorporate generous landscaped park strips separating
vehicular traffic from pedestrian traffic. Crosswalks shall be clearly marked
and, where appropriate, signalized. Special measures shall be incorporated to
ensure safety for children as may be recommended by the city traffic engineer.
These measures could include special signage, reflectors or flashing crosswalk
indicator lights, handheld flags, etc.
   C.   Public Seating, Bicycle Racks: Public seating and bicycle racks shall
be provided near entrances to all nonresidential buildings or groups of
buildings.
   D.   Bikeway Standards: Bikeways shall meet standards consistent with the
Farmington City trails and sidewalk master plan. These bikeways shall provide
safe and inviting access through NMU areas and shall provide continued
circulation of trails identified in the Farmington City master trail plan,
including planned equestrian trails (otherwise equestrian trails or uses are
prohibited). (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-20-090: LANDSCAPING:
The following site landscaping standards shall apply to all new development in
the neighborhood mixed use zone. Species shall be selected from the approved
plant list provided herein:
   A.   Street Trees: Street trees shall be provided on all street frontages at
a maximum spacing of thirty feet (30') on center.
   B.   Planting Of Trees: Street trees shall be planted within a landscape
strip of at least six feet (6') in width, between the roadway and sidewalk
where feasible, and shall not be planted closer than three feet (3') from back
of curb. Trees shall not be planted closer than two feet (2') from any hard
surface paving or walkway. Sidewalk cuts for trees shall be at least ten (10)
square feet in area.
   C.   Space Between Hard Surface And Trees: Space between hard surface and
trees may be covered by permeable hard surfaces, such as grates, bricks on sand
or paver blocks. As they grow, trees shall be pruned to provide at least eight
feet (8') of clearance above sidewalks and twelve feet (12') above street
roadway surfaces.
   D.   Distance Of Trees To Light Standards: Street trees shall be planted no
closer than fifteen feet (15') to light standards.
   E.   Approved Landscape Plan: All areas of a developed site not occupied by
buildings, required parking, driveways, walkways or service areas shall be
landscaped according to an approved landscaping plan. These areas may also
incorporate hardscape for patios, plazas and courtyards.
   F.   Parking Areas: Parking areas shall be shaded by large broadleaf
canopied trees placed at a rate of one tree for each twelve (12) parking
spaces. Parking shall be adequately screened and buffered from adjacent uses.
   G.   Multi-Family Housing Areas: Multi-family housing areas shall be fully
landscaped in accordance with the water efficient landscape provisions of
subsection
11-7-070D7.
   H.   Review, Approval: All landscape plant materials must be specifically
reviewed and approved by the city. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006; amd. Ord. 2022-14,
2-1-2022)
11-20-100: PARKING:
Parking shall be provided in accordance with chapter 32 of this title. In
addition, the following provisions shall apply in the NMU zone:
   A.   Location: Parking areas shall be located behind or at one side of
buildings. Parking may not be located between a building and the street, but
may be located on the street within the public right of way.
   B.   Pedestrian Walkways: Where feasible, pedestrian walkways shall be
incorporated into all parking lots of any size.
   C.   Bicycle Racks: Secure bicycle racks shall be provided at likely
destination stops to encourage the use of bicycles as a way to access those
destinations. Racks shall be designed consistent with standards contained in
the Farmington City trails and sidewalks master plan.
   D.   Shared Parking: Developments incorporating a mix of uses generally
require fewer parking stalls due to shared patronage of retail stores and
varying hours of peak use by office users and retail customers. For mixed use
projects, developers shall provide an analysis of projected parking needs for
consideration to justify any reduction in required parking stalls, with a
maximum allowed reduction of twenty percent (20%). (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-20-110: PAVING:
Sidewalks and major crosswalks within the commercial areas of an NMU zone shall
incorporate variations in pavement to add interest, help slow traffic and
increase safety. Pavements may include stained or textured concrete, colored
and/or stamped concrete, brick, stone or CMU pavers. Nevertheless, the use of
pervious surfaces are encouraged. Other appropriate areas for special paving
would include outdoor patio areas and public plazas. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-20-120: SIGNAGE:
In an NMU zone, businesses should be identified by an appropriate blend of the
six (6) sign types that are permitted hereunder. These include monument, facade
mounted, suspended/supported, projecting, awning/canopy and window signs.
   A.   Character: Sign character will be compatible with the character of
surrounding neighborhoods.
   B.   Material: Wood and similar appearing material, metal, canvaslike
materials and window stencil are the materials of preference. Plastic, lexan
and other similar appearing materials will be allowed in limited amounts on
individual signs. Repetitive use of signs utilizing pan channel letters is not
allowed. No plastic face box signs shall be allowed.
   C.   Exterior Building Signs: All exterior building signs must present the
name of the business for that tenant space and may include the business/company
logo. The sign may identify products sold or produced by the business. Brand
names and logos shall not be allowed in a sign unless they are specifically
part of the name/trademark of the business in that tenant space.
   D.   Address Numbers: Address numbers shall be a maximum of six inches (6")
in vertical dimension, but may be larger if required by the city. The location
of the address sign shall be in close proximity to the main entrance to the
business/tenant space.
   E.   Sign Lighting:
      1.   Light may be cast directly onto the face of the sign by an external
light source. In such instances, the light must be focused on the sign face.
      2.   Halo signs are permitted.
      3.   Backlighting through routed letters/copy or through the material
that comprises the letters/copy in the sign face is permitted as long as the
light source is screened from direct view.
      4.   Exposed neon tubing and/or individual light bulbs forming the sign
copy shall not be permitted on any sign. Exposed neon signs shall be permitted
inside a business/tenant space but shall not be placed within ten feet (10') of
the inside surface of the storefront window.
   F.   Number: Number of signs permitted per business/tenant space shall be as
follows:
      1.   Highway orientation: Up to two (2) of the six (6) sign types
permitted.
      2.   Parking lot orientation: Up to two (2) of the six (6) sign types
permitted.
      3.   Pedestrian area orientation: Up to three (3) of the six (6) sign
types permitted.
   G.   Prohibited Signs: Handwritten and taped signs to storefronts are
prohibited.
   H.   Temporary Or Promotional Signs: Individual business temporary event,
sale or promotional signs are permitted for the duration of the sales event not
to exceed thirty (30) days per sales event and four (4) times per year or
alternatively in conjunction with planned sales events carried out by a retail
business through its system of stores. Such signs shall be located in a window
display area and shall not exceed fifteen (15) square feet.
   I.   Restaurants And Food Service Tenants: Restaurants and food service
tenants shall be permitted one freestanding A-frame, signboard, which can be
placed on the sidewalk, provided the sign does not interfere with pedestrian
movement. The sign shall not exceed two feet (2') in width and three feet (3')
in height.
   J.   Awnings, Canopies: Awnings and canopies are permitted without signs.
Once letters and/or graphics are attached, it must comply with the provisions
of this regulation.
   K.   Sign Types:
      1.   Facade Mounted Signs:
         a.   Up to two (2) facade mounted signs are permitted per tenant space
with a maximum of one per twenty (20) linear feet of frontage.
         b.   Restaurants may have one additional facade mounted menu sign,
which shall be a maximum of three (3) square feet in area.
      2.   Projecting Signs:
         a.   One pedestrian area oriented projecting sign (shingle) may be
attached to a building perpendicular to the facade facing a pedestrian
sidewalk.
         b.   A projecting sign may extend up to four feet (4') from the
facade.
         c.   Projecting signs shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in
size.
         d.   Projecting signs shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') above any
pedestrian walkway.
      3.   Suspended Or Supported Signs:
         a.   One pedestrian area oriented suspended sign or more supported
sign may be placed so as to be supported by building canopies of other elements
near the entrance to the business/tenant space.
         b.   Signs shall be limited in size to one square foot of sign area
for each four (4) linear feet of business/tenant space frontage, not to exceed
twenty five (25) square feet in size. Letters will not exceed twelve inches
(12") in height.
      4.   Window Signs:
         a.   A window sign may be up to eighteen inches (18") in height and
four feet (4') wide.
         b.   A window sign may be stenciled on two (2) windows of the facade
on which the sign will be located.
         c.   Storefront windows and doors shall be limited to a maximum of two
(2) square feet of coverage with stickers, credit card decals, hours of
operation, etc.
         d.   There may be one window sign listing the names of tenants of the
second floor commercial space near the entrance to the elevator/stairs to the
second floor. This sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet in size.
         e.   A second floor tenant may have two (2) stenciled window signs not
to exceed six (6) square feet, one with a parking lot orientation and one with
a pedestrian area orientation.
      5.   Awning/Canopy Signs:
         a.   The vertical drip of an awning or canopy may be stenciled with
letters that are up to seven inches (7") in vertical dimension by any length.
When the vertical drip of an awning exceeds the vertical dimension of the
slope, then it may be stenciled with letters that are up to nine inches (9") in
height.
         b.   The sloped portion of an awning may be stenciled with business
logo or graphic representation of nine (9) square feet.
         c.   All awning or canopy signs shall be constructed of a canvaslike
material or architectural metal. Primary colors and glossy finishes on the
fabric are not permitted.
      6.   Entry Arch Sign: An entry arch sign may be permitted for a master
planned project, depending on the character and proximity of existing uses in
the vicinity of the NMU zone area.
      7.   Directional And Street Name Signs: Street name identification signs
may be provided at key intersections. The street name signs shall be of a
design that is compatible with the neighborhood. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-20-130: SITE FURNITURE/ARTWORK:
The scale of the NMU zone is established with the pedestrian in mind. Places to
sit, gather, enjoy artwork and the outdoors should be provided to encourage
people out of their automobiles.
   A.   Placement Of Benches: Benches should be provided at locations where
they are most likely to be used, rather than at regular intervals along the
sidewalk. They should be within view of the action, but out of the way of the
pedestrian traffic.
   B.   Grouping Of Benches: Benches should not be lined up in a row but may be
grouped in pairs, generally set at ninety (90) to one hundred twenty degrees
(120°) from each other. Where possible, benches should be positioned to allow
space for a wheelchair to be accommodated at one side.
   C.   Common Theme: Benches should be placed together with other street
amenities such as light poles, kiosks, waste receptacles, planters, etc. All
street amenities should share a common theme in their design that is
representative of the development.
   D.   Public Art: Public art may be provided at key locations in an NMU zone
area.
   E.   Mailboxes: Mailboxes should be grouped together where possible, away
from public view, and in accordance with U.S. postal service requirements.
(Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-20-140: OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
Outdoor lighting will be designed to assure that neighboring properties are
protected from direct light sources and where possible to not diminish the
night sky.
   A.   Parking Areas: Light fixtures in parking areas shall be decorative
type, not a typical "shoebox" type fixture. Fixtures shall be mounted on poles
not taller than thirty feet (30') having a one hundred percent (100%) cutoff.
The light rays may not be emitted by the installed fixture at angles above the
horizontal plane.
   B.   Roadways: Light fixtures along roadways shall match the style of
parking lot lights, but not exceed twenty feet (20') in height. Roadway light
poles shall have brackets for the mounting of banners and may contain hanging
planters with integral drip irrigation.
   C.   Building Facades: Building facades may be lighted by wall sconces,
recessed soffit lights, landscape uplights or other sources that are directed
away from public view and not diminish the night sky.
   D.   Beacon Lights: Beacon lights are not permitted in the NMU zone, except
on a temporary basis as approved by the planning commission. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-
19-2006)
11-20-150: STORM DRAINAGE AND NATURAL SPRINGS:
   A.   Engineering; Landscaping: Storm drainage shall be engineered to city
standards and may include detention in parking areas and designated detention
ponds. All detention pond areas shall be landscaped and stabilized as approved
by the city engineer. Where detention is near continual drainage from natural
springs, the streambed shall be reestablished with a streambed appearance
approved by the city engineer.
   B.   Maintenance Of Drainage: Natural spring drainage shall be maintained
above grade where possible. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006; amd. Ord. 2022-14, 2-1-
2022)
11-20-160: FENCING AND RETAINING WALLS:
   A.   Between Residential, Commercial Areas: Fencing between primarily
residential areas and commercial areas may be constructed up to seventy two
inches (72") in height. Appropriate materials include Farmington stone, precast
molded concrete panels embossed and stained with a stone pattern (both sides of
wall), wrought iron or colored masonry. Solid wood or solid vinyl fencing is
not permitted. Fencing should be augmented by a substantial landscape buffer.
   B.   Perimeter Of Master Planned Project: Fencing around the perimeter of a
master planned project may be constructed up to forty two inches (42") in
height. Appropriate materials would include Farmington stone, rail fencing or
combinations of those materials.
   C.   Multi-Family Areas: Fencing within multi-family areas within an NMU
zone between buildings or along streets is not permitted. Private patio areas
may be screened with fencing not to exceed sixty inches (60") in height and not
enclosing more than one hundred fifty (150) square feet in area. Generous
landscaping should be provided around any such enclosures.
   D.   Single-Family Residential Areas: Fencing within single-family
residential areas within an NMU zone shall be governed by the residential
sections of this code.
   E.   Retaining Walls Over Thirty Inches: If necessary within an NMU zone
area, retaining walls over thirty inches (30") in height shall be constructed
of landscape boulders, stone or concrete faced with stone or cultured stone.
Walls should generally not exceed four feet (4') in height unless terraced with
a planting area at least three feet (3') wide between tiers. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-
19-2006)
11-20-170: PROJECT REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
All projects proposed within the NMU zone shall be reviewed and approved either
as a planned unit development pursuant to chapter 27 of this title, or as a
planned center development in accordance with the conditional use permit
provisions of chapter 8 of this title. For projects proposed to be phased, each
individual phase approved must meet all of the standards and criteria of this
title and the objectives of this neighborhood mixed use zone. Revisions to
approved planned unit or planned center development projects must be reviewed
and approved as new development applications subject to the applicable
regulations then in effect. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-20-180: ALTERNATIVE APPROVAL PROCESS; DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Alternative Development Agreement Approval Process: Projects within the
NMU Zone may elect the alternative approval process described in this section,
resulting in the approval, execution and recordation of a development
agreement. An approved development agreement shall govern the specific uses,
densities and intensities of use proposed for the project area and the specific
development standards to be applied in the development of the project, and
include where the City Council determines an alternative development standard
proposed by the project developer is appropriate for the development of the
project and the Council finds there is appropriate consideration, in the form
of monetary, tangible or intangible consideration of benefit to City or the
public from the proposed development and/or other appropriate reasons that
justify the determination of the City to alter generally applicable standards.
The development standards of an approved development agreement shall also
govern over any conflicting development standards contained in any other
provisions of Farmington City ordinances, including, without limitation,
provisions relating to site development standards in chapter 7 of this title,
standards or limitations in this chapter, off street parking in chapter 32 of
this title, supplementary and qualifying regulations in chapter 28 of this
title, and signage standards in title 15 of this Code.
   B.   Approvals: The processes for approval of a development agreement and
subsequent approvals for a project covered by a development agreement shall be
governed by the provisions of this section and any supplemental procedural
provisions agreed by the parties in an approved development agreement.
   C.   Application For Development Agreement: Simultaneously with the
application for a PMP (Project Master Plan) as set forth elsewhere in Section
11-18-080  of the Title, an applicant may apply for approval of a development
agreement. In addition to the application requirements for a PMP, the applicant
shall provide in narrative form a proposed development agreement including a
specific description of the proposed uses and intensities of use proposed for
the project area and a statement of the specific development standards proposed
by the applicant to be applied in the development of any necessary public
infrastructure and the private improvements to be located on the project site.
The proposed uses shall be consistent with the purpose of the NMU Zone, but the
other proposed development standards may vary from those development standards
set forth elsewhere in this chapter, this zoning title or this Code. However,
nothing herein shall be construed to allow any deviation from uniform
construction codes or standards as set forth in this Code. Any application
information required by this section may be waived by the Zoning Administrator
on the basis that the information is not necessary to review the proposed PMP
and development agreement.
   D.   Consideration And Approval Of Development Agreement: The development
agreement shall be considered at the same time as the PMP and following the
same approval process described in section
11-18-080  of this chapter 18 of the Title.
   E.   Final Development Agreement: The final development agreement shall
incorporate the terms of the approved PMP, and shall contain development
standards for the development of the project site and any public infrastructure
required to be improved, the duration of the agreement and the rights granted
pursuant thereto and such conditions of approval as may be imposed by the City
Council and agreed to by the applicant. In addition to addressing uses,
densities and intensities of use and development standards governing the
project, the final development agreement may contain such other agreements
between the City and the applicant as may be agreed by such parties and
necessary for the development and financing of the project, including, without
limitation, agreements regarding the phasing of development, the vesting of
development rights and approvals, terms for moderate income housing, the terms
and conditions for the extension of public infrastructure, the extension by
developer of infrastructure, and any payment or repayment obligations
associated therewith, the donation of any land or any other agreement
reflecting an agreement between developer and the City, not covered within the
description of the approved PMP.
   F.   Controlling Provisions: The terms of a development agreement shall be
binding on the City and all successors in the ownership and occupancy of any
portion of the project site covered by the development agreement. The
provisions of the development agreement shall control over any inconsistent
provision in the zoning ordinance. Upon approval and recordation of a
development agreement, the property covered by the development agreement shall
be deemed to be established as a separate district for purposes of establishing
and enforcing the development regulations contained in the development
agreement.
   G.   Approval Processes After Approval Of Development Agreement:
      1.   Site Plan Review: Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of this
title, a final development agreement may contain such site plan review
processes as may be agreed between developer and the City, including such
application requirements and review processes.
      2.   Amendment: Notwithstanding any inconsistent provision of this title,
a development agreement and a PMP for a project covered by a development
agreement may be amended on such terms and following such processes as is
provided in the final development agreement. A PMP shall be deemed amended by
any changes to the PMP approved at the time of final site plan or final plat
review. No amendment of a PMP or a development agreement shall be required to
reflect normal adjustments to the locations of improvements that occur as a
result of the development of more specific plats, plans and specifications.
(Ord. 2024-18, 4-9-2024)
CHAPTER 21
COMMERCIAL RECREATION TRANSITION (CRT)
SECTION:
11-21-010: Description
11-21-020: Permitted Uses
11-21-030: Conditional Uses
11-21-040: Single-Family And Two-Family Dwellings
11-21-050: Other Conditional Uses
11-21-060: Off Street Parking, Loading And Access
11-21-070: Signs
11-21-080: Site Plan Review
11-21-010: DESCRIPTION:
This zone is intended to cover certain areas within the city having unique
characteristics due to their location and proximity to commercial recreation
zones and/or uses as well as their relationship to residential neighborhoods
and noncommercial recreation uses. Areas included are unique, not only due to
their proximity to prime access, high visibility, special development problems
or proximity to commercial recreation uses and residential neighborhoods and
uses, but also due to their being situated in corridors or areas of high
pedestrian and/or vehicular traffic. This zone is established to assure safe
and pleasing development within those transition areas described above which
are located within the city. In order to allow proper interaction and
coordination of uses within the city and to protect the public, the uses
allowed within this zone are allowed for the most part only on the conditional
use review and the issuance of a conditional use permit. Public safety,
circulation, compatibility with surrounding existing and proposed land uses,
architectural character and impact upon existing services and tax base,
together with appropriate consideration of the desires of neighboring
landowners are all critical factors to be considered in the review process. It
is intended that creation of this commercial recreation transition zone shall
promote the health, safety, morals and welfare of the public by increasing the
awareness of the special nature of the areas which are designated as CRT in
accordance with the foregoing description and providing appropriate safeguards
for the public near these sensitive areas. (Ord. 2013-05, 4-16-2013)
11-21-020: PERMITTED USES:
Agriculture.
Park. (Ord. 2013-05, 4-16-2013)
11-21-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
Uses enumerated hereunder are principal uses. The location of these uses shall
be subject to review and approval by the planning commission as provided in
chapters 7 and 8 of this title, and the requirements of this chapter:
Daycare center.
Offices: business and professional.
Public and quasi-public uses.
Retirement living centers.
Single-family dwelling.
Two-family dwelling.
Any use determined to be similar to the other uses of this section and/or
compatible with the description of the CRT zone as set forth in section
11-21-010 of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-05, 4-16-2013)
11-21-040: SINGLE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
The following regulations shall apply to one-family and two- family dwellings:
   A.   Lots Standards: All lots shall be developed with the following minimum
standards:
      1.   Lot Size: Eight thousand (8,000) square feet;
      2.   Lot Width: Seventy feet (70');
      3.   Lot Width Corner: Eighty feet (80');
      4.   Front And Rear Setback: Twenty five feet (25') minimum front or rear
setback with a total minimum requirement of fifty five feet (55') (main
building only);
      5.   Side Yard Setback: Eight feet (8') one side and a total of eighteen
feet (18') for both sides (main building only); buildings shall not be built
over utility easements that may run along the side and rear property lines,
unless an exception is provided from the zoning administrator with the consent
of the City's Development Review Committee and other utility providers in
writing.
      6.   Side Yard Corner: Twenty feet (20'), on the side adjacent to the
street;
      7.   Accessory Buildings: An accessory building shall be located in the
rear yard and must be at least one foot (1') from all property lines. Accessory
buildings shall not be built over easements without the consent of the easement
holder and must be subordinated in height and area to the main building.
Accessory buildings over two hundred (200) square feet in size shall be at
least five feet (5') from a side or rear property line unless a special
exception is approved by the Planning Commission to reduce these setbacks in
accordance with section
11-3-045.
   B.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Main buildings shall not exceed thirty feet (30');
      2.   Accessory buildings and structures shall not exceed fifteen feet
(15');
   C.   Animals: The keeping of animals and fowl in this zone shall be pursuant
to chapter 29 of this title.
   D.   Location Of Accessory Structures: No animal shelters, hay barn, silo,
equipment shed, storage building and similar accessory buildings to the
agricultural use of land may be located closer than ten feet (10') to any side
or rear boundary line.
   E.   Special Limitations: The following limitations and additional
requirements shall apply:
   1.   The placement of any residential structure in the zone shall be subject
to a site plan review by the planning commission. The applicant must
demonstrate that the requirements of chapter 31, "Flood Damage Prevention", of
this title, are adhered to and that the problems associated with the high water
table will be solved. (Ord. 2013-05, 4-16-2013; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 2023-42,
7-18-2023)
11-21-050: OTHER CONDITIONAL USES:
The lot size, width, yard requirements, setbacks and other lot standards and
maximum building heights will be based on like uses elsewhere in this title.
(Ord. 2013-05, 4-16-2013)
11-21-060: OFF STREET PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
The requirements of chapter 32 of this title shall apply to this zone. (Ord.
2013-05, 4-16-2013)
11-21-070: SIGNS:
The requirements of Farmington City sign ordinance, title 15 of this code,
shall apply to this zone. (Ord. 2013-05, 4-16-2013)
11-21-080: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
The requirements of chapter 7 of this title shall be in force for any use
requiring site plan review. (Ord. 2013-05, 4-16-2013)
CHAPTER 22
B ZONE
SECTION:
11-22-010: Description
11-22-020: Permitted Uses
11-22-030: Conditional Uses
11-22-040: Single-Family And Two-Family Dwellings
11-22-050: Other Conditional Use Standards
11-22-060: Off Street Parking, Loading And Access
11-22-070: Signs
11-22-080: Site Plan Review
11-22-010: DESCRIPTION:
This zone covers a sensitive area with characteristics uncommon to other areas
in the city. Farmington Creek bisects this zone providing a wooded riparian
habitat for plants and wildlife. The area is bordered on the west by the Lagoon
Amusement Park and on the east by Farmington City's original townsite, which
includes many historic homes. The area is distinguished by open space,
pasturelands, a pedestrian and equestrian trail, and a few residences. These
characteristics combine to render any one of the existing zone requirements
inadequate in guiding future development. This zone was created to remedy this
deficiency. It is the intent of the city that this zoning district be limited
to the area currently zoned B. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-22-020: PERMITTED USES:
Agriculture.
Class A animals.
Class B animals.
Home occupations complying with the home occupation chapter of this title,
except as specified in section
11-22-030 of this chapter.
Park.
Uses customarily accessory to a listed permitted use. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-22-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
Uses enumerated hereunder are principal uses. The location of these uses shall
be subject to review and approval by the planning commission as provided in
chapter 8 of this title and the requirements of this chapter:
Athletic or tennis club.
Class C animals.
Greenhouses, private with no retail sales.
Home occupations as identified in section
11-35-040 of this title.
Outdoor recreation, including such things as picnic grounds and excluding
higher impact activities, such as water parks or miniature golf courses and any
commercial recreation amusement ride of any type.
Reception center.
Restaurant that provides traditional sit down service (as opposed to fast
food).
Seasonal fruit/produce vendor stands.
Single-family dwelling.
Sportsman kennel (3 to 5 dogs for noncommercial use).
Temporary uses.
Two-family dwelling.
Uses customarily accessory to a listed conditional use.
Any use which the city considers to be similar to the other uses of this
section and compatible with the description of the B zone as set forth in
section
11-22-010 of this section. (Ord. 2014-07, 3-4-2014)
11-22-040: SINGLE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
The following regulations shall apply to one- and two-family dwellings:
   A.   Lot Standards: All lots shall be developed with the following minimum
standards:
      1.   Lot Size: One-half (1/2) acre;
      2.   Lot Width: One hundred feet (100');
      3.   Lot Width Corner: One hundred ten feet (110');
      4.   Front And Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30') minimum front or rear
setback, main building only;
      5.   Side Yard: Ten feet (10'), one side and a total of twenty four feet
(24') for both sides, main building only; buildings shall not be built over
utility easements that may run along the side and rear property lines, unless
an exception is provided from the zoning administrator with the consent of the
City's Development Review Committee and other utility providers in writing;
      6.   Side Yard Corner: Twenty five feet (25'), on the side adjacent to
the street;
      7.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall be six feet (6') in
the rear of the main building and at least five feet (5') from all property
lines; and shall be fifteen feet (15') from dwellings on adjacent lots.
Accessory buildings shall not be built over utility easements that may run
along the side and rear property lines.
      8.   Farm Animal Buildings: No farm animal structure, hay barn, stable,
silo, coop, corral or other similar building or structure which is accessory to
the agricultural use of land may be located closer than ten feet (10') to any
side or rear boundary line or thirty feet (30') to any public street or to any
dwelling on adjacent properties.
      9.   Equipment Or Materials: Equipment or materials stored or located in
accessory buildings, yards or structures shall be permitted only for the
personal use of the occupants of the property. No such storage or use related
to a nonagriculture commercial business shall be allowed except for home
occupations as specified in section
11-22-030 of this chapter.
   B.   Maximum Building Height:
      1.   Main buildings shall not exceed thirty feet (30');
      2.   Accessory structures shall not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height
unless an increased height is approved by the planning commission after review
of a special exception application filed by the property owner. However,
accessory buildings shall, without exception, be subordinate in height and area
to the main building.
   C.   Special Limitations: To minimize the conflict between the amusement
park and residential structures in the B zone, the planning commission shall
require that the applicant demonstrate how the use of landscaping, building
materials and the placement of the structure on the lot will minimize noise and
visual impacts.
   D.   Animals: The keeping of animals and fowl in this zone shall be pursuant
to
chapter 29 of this title. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006; amd. Ord. 2021-01, 1-19-
2021; Ord. 2023-42, 7-18-2023)
11-22-050: OTHER CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS:
The lot size, width, yard requirements, setbacks, etc., will be determined by
the planning commission for all other conditional uses in the B zone. The
planning commission shall use the provisions of
chapter 8 of this title to review conditional use permits. In addition, a six
foot (6') high masonry fence or sufficient vegetation for sound suppression, or
a thirty foot (30') buffer zone, suitable to the planning commission, must be
placed between a residential property line and any parking area or driveway of
a conditional commercial use. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-22-060: OFF STREET PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS:
The requirements of
chapter 32 of this title shall apply to this zone. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-22-070: SIGNS:
The requirements of
title 15 of this code shall apply to this zone. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
11-22-080: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
The requirements of
chapter 7 of this title shall be in force for any use requiring site plan
review. (Ord. 2006-62, 9-19-2006)
CHAPTER 23
OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL (OP) ZONE
SECTION:
11-23-010: Purpose
11-23-020: Minimum District Size
11-23-030: Permitted Uses
11-23-040: Conditional Uses
11-23-050: Conceptual Plan And Site Plan Review
11-23-060: Minimum Lot And Setback Standards
11-23-070: Height Standards
11-23-080: Design Standards
11-23-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide areas for neighborhood scale, planned
professional office development which will be compatible with nearby
residential areas and will promote a quiet, clean environment. Development in
this zone will emphasize a high level of architectural and landscape
excellence. These zone districts will generally be established along collector
and arterial streets. The intent is to create an attractive professional office
environment that will complement surrounding land uses and is compatible with
the community's character. (Ord. 2006-38, 6-20-2006)
11-23-020: MINIMUM DISTRICT SIZE:
The minimum district size of an OP zone shall be five (5) acres. (Ord. 2006-38,
6-20-2006)
11-23-030: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in the OP zone after a conceptual development
plan has been approved as provided in section
11-23-050 of this chapter. No other permitted uses are allowed, except as
provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
Administrative and executive offices.
Financial planning offices, investment, planning offices, real estate,
insurance and other general business offices (excluding those with drive-up
service windows).
Marriage and family counseling services.
Medical and dental offices not including the manufacture of pharmaceutical or
other medical/health/dental products for general sale or distribution.
Professional offices for lawyers, engineers and architects. (Ord. 2006-64, 9-
19-2006)
11-23-040: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in the OP zone. No other conditional uses
are allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050F of this title:
Any development which includes multiple buildings or is proposed on a site
which is over one acre in size.
Public and private utility service administration offices (limited to offices
only; no on site equipment parking, storage, maintenance or repair). (Ord.
2006-38, 6-20-2006)
11-23-050: CONCEPTUAL PLAN AND SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   A.   Required: When a development will include multiple buildings or is
proposed on a site which is over one acre in size, an overall conceptual
development plan, encompassing the entire site, shall be submitted to the
planning commission for conditional use and site development review. The intent
of this requirement is to commit the developer to a general plan within which
individual businesses can be placed. Once approved, any material change to the
conceptual plan shall require the approval of the planning commission. A
material change shall be interpreted as any change which substantially alters
the original plan and/or has the potential of causing a significant impact
beyond the site.
   B.   Specific Information; Compliance: The conceptual development plan shall
include the following specific information and shall also comply with all other
applicable standards contained in
chapter 7, "Site Development Standards", of this title. At a minimum, the plan
shall:
      1.   Indicate the location of existing streets and, if applicable, the
proposed street layout for the entire development;
      2.   Identify the general location of building pads and the height of all
proposed buildings and structures;
      3.   Identify the general location and extent of existing and proposed
parking areas (
chapter 32 of this title);
      4.   Include a conceptual landscape plan showing the general location,
density and size of trees, shrubs and ground cover;
      5.   Identify proposed phasing of the project (if any);
      6.   Illustrate the architectural design of buildings, including type of
materials, colors and any proposed signs (title 15 of this code) and outdoor
lighting;
      7.   Illustrate the relationship of the proposed development to
surrounding uses. (Ord. 2006-38, 6-20-2006)
11-23-060: MINIMUM LOT AND SETBACK STANDARDS:
   A.   Setback From Streets: The minimum setback from public or private
streets shall be twenty feet (20') for buildings or structures twenty feet
(20') or less in height. Buildings or structures over twenty feet (20') in
height shall be set back an additional foot for each foot of height over twenty
feet (20'). Parking lots shall not be permitted within the minimum required
street setback(s).
   B.   Side And Rear Setbacks: Unless abutting a residential district, the
minimum side and rear setbacks from property lines shall be twenty feet (20')
for buildings and structures twenty feet (20') or less in height. Buildings or
structures over twenty feet (20') in height shall be set back an additional
foot for each foot of height over twenty feet (20'). If the area of the side or
rear setback is used for parking or as a service area, a landscaped strip, not
less than ten feet (10') in width, shall be maintained along the property
lines.
   C.   Side And Rear Setbacks From Adjacent Residential Zone Boundaries:
      1.   If a designated OP zone abuts a residential district, the minimum
side yard setback from the residential zone boundary shall be twenty feet (20')
for buildings and structures twenty feet (20') or less in height. Buildings or
structures over twenty feet (20') in height shall be set back an additional
foot for each foot of height over twenty feet (20'). If the area of the side
setback is used for parking or as a service area, a landscaped strip, not less
than twenty feet (20') in width, shall be maintained along the property lines.
      2.   The minimum rear setback from residential zone boundaries shall be
forty feet (40'). A landscaped strip, not less than twenty feet (20') in width,
shall be maintained along the rear property line to help mitigate potential
impacts to adjacent residential uses. See subsections
11-23-080A, B and D of this chapter, design standards.
   D.   Minimum Lot Size: The minimum lot size for office professional use or
development in the OP zone shall be one-half (1/2) acre.
   E.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width in an OP zone shall be one hundred
feet (100'). For individual lots with a single use, one hundred feet (100') of
frontage shall be provided on a fully improved public street.
   F.   Maximum Lot Coverage: No more than forty percent (40%) of a lot in an
OP zone shall be covered by buildings or structures. (Ord. 2006-38, 6-20-2006)
11-23-070: HEIGHT STANDARDS:
Buildings or structures in an OP zone shall not exceed thirty feet (30') in
height. No flat roofs shall be allowed on primary or accessory structures.
Structures shall be limited to two (2) stories. (Ord. 2006-38, 6-20-2006)
11-23-080: DESIGN STANDARDS:
All buildings, structures and other improvements in an OP zone shall comply
with all applicable standards contained in chapter 7, "Site Development
Standards", of this title. At a minimum:
   A.   Landscaping: All areas of a developed site not occupied by buildings,
required parking, driveways, sidewalks or service areas, shall be appropriately
landscaped with lawn, trees, shrubs and other landscaping materials in
accordance with an approved landscaping plan demonstrating compliance with
subsection
11-7-070D7.
   B.   Parking Lots: Parking lots shall be provided with landscaping around
the periphery and in islands and bays in the interior of the lot. If parking
lots are oriented parallel to the street, a landscaped berm, at least three
feet (3') in height, shall be provided between the parking lot and sidewalk in
order to help screen vehicles from view.
   C.   Street Trees: Street trees shall be planted along the street frontage
(s) of all sites and shall be spaced at not more than thirty feet (30') on
center. The minimum caliper size for street trees shall be two inches (2").
   D.   Landscape Buffers: In landscape buffers adjacent to residential zones,
a mix of evergreen and deciduous trees shall be planted at a ratio of not less
than one tree for each three hundred (300) square feet of landscape area. For
conditional uses, this requirement may be increased if, in the opinion of the
planning commission, additional screening or buffering is necessary on a
specific site.
   E.   Uses Conducted Within Enclosed Building: All uses located in the zone
shall be conducted entirely within a fully enclosed building. There shall be no
outside storage of materials or equipment, other than motor vehicles licensed
for street use, except as specifically approved by the planning commission in
conjunction with a conditional use application.
   F.   Trash Storage: Trash storage and dumpsters shall be located in an area
convenient for pick up and shall be screened from public view by a six foot
(6') decorative brick, stone or masonry capped wall and architecturally
compatible and attractive gate. The planning commission may require a developer
and/or property owner to paint (inside and outside) any block used in the
construction of the wall.
   G.   Barriers: A masonry or architectural concrete wall or alternative
visual barrier, or combination thereof, as approved by the planning commission,
at least six feet (6') in height, shall be erected along all development
boundaries adjoining a residential zone. The required wall shall be constructed
prior to, or concurrently with, construction of the first building on the site.
   H.   Utility Transmission Lines: All utility transmission lines shall be
placed underground. Transformers, meters and similar apparatus shall be at or
below ground level and shall be screened from public view by a wall or fence,
landscaping, earth berming or special architectural treatment acceptable to the
planning commission.
   I.   Objectionable Uses Prohibited: All uses shall be free from
objectionable or excessive odor, dust, smoke, noise, radiation or vibration.
(Ord. 2006-38, 6-20-2006; amd. Ord. 2022-14, 2-1-2022)
CHAPTER 24
COMMERCIAL HIGHWAY (C-H)
SECTION:
11-24-010: Description
11-24-020: Conditional Uses
11-24-030: Reserved
11-24-040: District Regulations
11-24-050: Off Street Parking And Loading
11-24-060: Signs
11-24-070: Other Regulations
11-24-010: DESCRIPTION:
This zone covers that portion of the city that most appropriately provides
services to the traveling public. It is generally intended to be located
adjacent to major thoroughfares or the interstate highway and to be kept
isolated from residential areas. This district is maintained in recognition of
the existence of an area presently committed to this type of development. It is
the intent of the city that this type of development be limited to the area
currently zoned C-H. To this end, no additional districts of C-H shall be
created. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-24-020: CONDITIONAL USES:
Uses enumerated hereunder are principal uses. The location of these uses shall
be subject to review and approval by the planning commission as provided in
chapters 7 and
8 of this title, and the requirements of this chapter:
   Automatic car wash.
   Automobile gasoline filling station which complies with all of the
provisions for pump location and which has but one building on the premises,
which is limited in size to two (2) single car service bays, plus restrooms and
office and/or accessory supply storage space, and which is limited in function
to dispensing gasoline, oil, grease, antifreeze, tires, batteries, automobile
accessories directly related to motor vehicles, and to washing, polishing and
servicing motor vehicles only to the extent of installation of the enumerated
items and which does not rent or sell motor vehicles, trailers or general
replacement parts, and does not overhaul or repair motors or bodies, and does
not provide brake relining service, upholstery work, auto glass work, painting,
welding, tire recapping or auto dismantling, and which has no aboveground bulk
storage facilities for gasoline or oil, except incidental supplies, within the
building, in tanks having a capacity of not more than fifty five (55) gallons
each, and which does not use auxiliary equipment or does not display any goods
or merchandise of any kind, for sale or otherwise, within any yard space
provided around the building.
   Beauty salons.
   Campgrounds.
   Confectionery, including incidental sales or minor grocery items.
   Launderette and clothes cleaning pick up stations.
   Motel and trailer parks, provided the requirements and conditions regulating
such uses are set forth in general ordinance.
   Public and quasi-public uses.
   Restaurants, including "drive-in" types, and soft drink and ice cream
stands.
   Any other commercial use the planning commission considers compatible to the
C-H zone. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986; amd. 2016 Code)
11-24-030: RESERVED:
(2016 Code)
11-24-040: DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: No requirements.
   B.   Lot Width: Minimum frontage on public street shall be thirty five feet
(35'), otherwise no width requirement.
   C.   Front Yard: Minimum front yard of ten feet (10'), unless the front yard
is used for public parking. In this case, the front yard shall be a size
sufficient to provide a ten foot (10') landscaped area at the front property
line. In commercial areas developed before this chapter was adopted, the front
yard shall be equal to the average existing front yards on all parcels of
property on the block face where the parcel in question is located.
   D.   Side Yards: No requirement, except that ten feet (10') shall be
provided where the lot line is coterminus with any residential boundary.
   E.   Side Yard Corner: Minimum side yard for all buildings on corner lots
shall be ten feet (10') on the side adjacent to a street.
   F.   Rear Yard: No minimum, except that thirty feet (30') shall be provided
where the lot line is coterminus with any residential zone boundary.
   G.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall not be located on front
of the main building. Accessory buildings shall be subject to the same yard
requirements cited above, except that accessory buildings may be located on the
rear yard line.
   H.   Building Height: Maximum building height for main buildings shall be
thirty feet (30'); accessory buildings, fifteen feet (15').
   I.   Lot Coverage: The maximum lot coverage shall be sixty percent (60%) for
all buildings. (The requirements for landscaped areas, building setbacks and
off street parking may result in less than a 60 percent lot coverage.) (Ord.
1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-24-050: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
The requirements of
chapter 32 of this title shall apply to this zone. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-24-060: SIGNS:
The requirements of title 15 of this code shall apply to this zone. (Ord. 1986-
07, 5-14-1986)
11-24-070: OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Site Plan Review: Site plan review shall be required for all buildings
and uses in the C-H zone, as specified in chapter 7 of this title.
   B.   Landscaping: All open areas in the required yard spaces, except
driveways, parking areas, walkways and storage areas shall be maintained with
suitable landscaping of plants, shrubs, trees, grasses and similar landscape
materials as well as ground cover such as mulch or rock.
   C.   Storage Of Garbage: No garbage or other refuse shall be stored in an
open area. All such materials shall be screened from public view by landscaping
or opaque fencing or wall; or may be stored completely within an enclosed
building.
   D.   Adjacent Residential Zone: A decorative wall or opaque fence or hedge
at least six feet (6') in height shall be erected along all said property lines
adjacent to a residential zone.
   E.   Gasoline Pump Islands: Gasoline pump islands, where permitted, shall be
set back twelve feet (12') from the front lot line.
   F.   Animals: The keeping of animals in this zone shall be pursuant to
chapter 29 of this title.
   G.   Location Of Accessory Structures: No animal shelter, hay barn, silo,
equipment shed, storage building and similar accessory buildings to the
agricultural use of land may be located closer than ten feet (10') to any side
or rear property line. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986; amd. Ord. 2022-14, 2-1-2022)
CHAPTER 25
COMMERCIAL RECREATION (C-R)
SECTION:
11-25-010: Description And General Limitations
11-25-020: Permitted Uses
11-25-030: Conditional Uses
11-25-040: Single-Family And Two-Family Dwellings
11-25-050: District Regulations
11-25-060: Off Street Parking And Loading
11-25-070: Signs
11-25-080: Other Regulations
11-25-090: Performance Standards And Requirements
11-25-010: DESCRIPTION AND GENERAL LIMITATIONS:
This zone covers any area developed as a privately owned commercial amusement
park or fairground open generally to the public. Such parks and fairgrounds
require a large area of property and are somewhat autonomous in that they
provide a variety of amusement, athletic and recreational facilities, food
preparation and consumption facilities for patrons and employees, exhibition
and display areas and buildings, living quarters for some employees,
construction, maintenance and warehouse facilities, fire protection, and health
and sanitation facilities. To that end, the permitted uses and conditional uses
enumerated below are collective in the sense that no one of such uses of
structures is permitted alone as an amusement park or fairground, but an
amusement park or fairground is not necessarily required to have all of the
uses or structures enumerated. Uses are not limited to those enumerated below;
however, they shall be reviewed and approved by the planning commission to
determine compliance with the approved site master plan. Any amendments
occurring thereafter to an approved master plan shall be reviewed by the
planning commission and approved by the city council. (Ord. 1988-13, 9-21-1988)
11-25-020: PERMITTED USES:
Land and structures in this zone may be used in the manner in which privately
owned commercial amusement parks, recreational grounds or resorts and
fairgrounds, open to the public and operated for a profit, are operated in
general, specifically including, but not limited to:
Animals, animal pens display and exhibition areas.
Athletic games or devices.
Athletic or tennis club.
Boating and other athletic or amusement devices in or about water.
Display areas and exhibition buildings.
Electrical power generation facilities.
Enclosed shooting galleries.
Grandstand (including arena, track and field areas for sporting events,
nonmechanized racing).
Greenhouses.
Mechanical amusements.
Miniature golf.
Open air stages.
Outdoor recreation, including such things as family reunion center picnic
grounds and picnic terraces.
Personal services.
Public exhibitions and events.
Reception center and dance hall facilities.
Restaurants (traditional sit down and fast food).
Rides and games of all types.
Rodeo facilities.
Single-family dwelling.
Storage, warehouse, maintenance and construction facilities.
Swimming facilities.
Theaters.
Two-family dwelling.
Waterslides. (Ord. 1988-12, 9-7-1988)
11-25-030: CONDITIONAL USES:
Uses enumerated hereunder are conditional uses. The location of these uses
shall be subject to review and approval by the planning commission as provided
in
chapter 8 of this title, and the requirements of this chapter:
   Convenience store (including grocery, drugs and gasoline service) solely for
use in connection with the operation of the amusement park and/or related
facilities.
   Four-family dwellings.
   Hotel or motel.
   Planned dwelling group.
   Three-family dwellings.
Any other use determined to be similar to the uses listed in section
11-25-020 of this chapter and deemed necessary for or incidental to the
operation of such amusement park or fairground, and structures for temporary
use may be permitted as a conditional use. (Ord. 1988-12, 9-7-1988)
11-25-040: SINGLE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
All single-family and two-family dwellings shall follow the minimum lot
standards as set forth in section
11-13-040 of this title. (Ord. 1988-12, 9-7-1988)
11-25-050: DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Building Setback: Ten feet (10') shall be provided from the property
line of all abutting zones, except the C-H zone; and for structures exceeding
thirty feet (30') in height, twenty five feet (25') shall be provided from the
property line of all abutting zones, except the C-H zone.
   B.   Building Height: No building or structure shall exceed eighty five feet
(85') in height and no ride or device, or attraction, shall exceed one hundred
fifty feet (150') in height without written permission granted from the
planning commission.
   C.   Location Of Accessory Structures: No animal shelter, hay barn, silo,
equipment shed, storage building and similar accessory buildings to the
agricultural use of land may be located closer than ten feet (10') to any
abutting zone, except the C-H zone.
   D.   Amusement Ride Setback: All amusement rides and amusement devices
installed after the effective date hereof, except as shall be given specific
approval by the planning commission, shall be set back one hundred feet (100')
from any abutting zone, except the C-H zone. (Ord. 1988-12, 9-7-1988)
11-25-060: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Adequate off street parking, loading and access shall be provided to facilitate
anticipated patrons and employees, but not less than one parking space shall be
provided for every ten (10) anticipated daily patrons. A minimum of one
handicapped parking space for every two hundred (200) parking spaces will be
provided. (Ord. 1988-12, 9-7-1988)
11-25-070: SIGNS:
All signs within twenty five feet (25') of the property perimeter or that are
intended to be viewed by the general public from outside the property line will
be governed by title 15 of this code. (Ord. 1988-12, 9-7-1988)
11-25-080: OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent Of Site Plan Review: The purpose and intent of the
site plan review is to determine compliance with this chapter and to assure
that the general appearance, interrelationships and functioning of buildings,
structures and the improvements upon the land shall be compatible and
contribute to: the stability of land values, the encouragement and protection
of investments, the enhancement of the urban environment and streetscape, and
preservation and promotion of the city's unique characteristics and values, and
the welfare of the community, while mitigating negative impacts upon adjacent
neighborhoods. It is not the purpose of this chapter that design should be so
rigidly controlled so as to stifle creativity or individual expression, or that
substantial additional investment should be unnecessarily incurred in the
development of a site; rather it is the intent of this chapter that any
controls exercised be those reasonably necessary to achieve the objectives as
stated above, while keeping in mind the history, character and existing uses
within a particular neighborhood.
   B.   Approval Required: Site plan review shall be required for all new
developments, changes to the site of a significant nature, major additions to
existing structures, or any development which may significantly and adversely
affect the health, safety and welfare of city residents.
   C.   Waiver: The planning commission may waive the requirements of this
section upon finding that a proposed building, structure or other development
will not significantly and adversely affect the character and quality of the
neighborhood and the health, safety and welfare of the public. To be valid,
such a waiver must be in writing, signed and dated by the planning commission
chairperson, and must manifest an intent to waive the requirements of this
section or chapter with regard to a specified use, development or building.
   D.   Application: Application for the site plan review shall be made by the
property owner or an authorized agent certified in writing by the property
owner, by submitting to the city planner five (5) copies of the site plan
showing size of area to be developed, dimensions and north arrow drawn to a
standard scale and including any or all of the applicable specifications
outlined below. The city planner shall review the site plan to verify that the
minimum requirements are satisfied:
      1.   A title block showing the name, address and phone number of the
applicant and the designer, the name (if applicable) of the proposed project,
and the date of preparation.
      2.   The location and width of existing and proposed abutting streets,
property and lot lines, easements and holding strips.
      3.   The location of existing and all proposed structures on the property
or adjacent to the property to be developed and their distance from existing
structures or the property perimeter.
      4.   The location of existing fencing and significant existing vegetation
and their distance from existing structures or the property perimeter.
      5.   The location of off street parking, driveways, loading facilities
and paved areas.
      6.   The location of existing and proposed curb, gutter, sidewalks, curb
cuts and outdoor lighting. If property abuts a state highway, approval of the
Utah state department of transportation right of way engineer must be obtained
for location of curb, gutter, sidewalk and number of curb entrances.
      7.   The existing and proposed grades in contour intervals of two feet
(2') or less.
      8.   The location and design of the surface and stormwater drainage
system, including on site detention.
      9.   The location and size of existing or all proposed utilities that
will provide service to the project (including the location of the nearest fire
hydrant).
      10.   The location of refuse container(s).
      11.   Architectural drawings, sketches or perspectives of exterior
elevations, structures, signs and an indication of the materials and colors to
be used. Include height of structures and indicate screening of roof based
mechanical equipment, parking dumpsters, etc.
      12.   A landscape planting plan, including the percent of site to be
landscaped, typical plant legend, plant material location, location and type of
proposed ornamental landscaping elements, and description and location of
appropriate irrigation system.
   E.   Off Site Improvements And Public Streets: The developer of a site
requiring site plan approval shall provide high back curb, gutter and sidewalk
along the entire property line which abuts any public street. These off site
improvements shall comply with the minimum improvement requirements of the
subdivision standards for Farmington City Corporation. Where the improvement
requirements would cause unnecessary hardship if strictly adhered to, or where
because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site, a departure
may be made without destroying the intent of such requirements, the planning
commission may authorize an adjustment.
   F.   Site Plan Review Fee: The application for site plan review shall be
accompanied by the appropriate fee, as specified from time to time by the city
council by resolution. The application shall be placed on the planning
commission agenda following the receipt of the fee.
   G.   Engineering Review: The stormwater drainage, street design and utility
features or plans of the site plan shall be reviewed and approved by the city
engineer prior to review by the planning commission.
   H.   Review Procedure: Review procedures shall follow the standards as set
forth in section
11-7-070 of this title.
   I.   Appeal: Decisions of the planning commission may be appealed by any
person to the land use appeal authority by filing an appeal in accordance with
chapter 3-7 of this code. The city manager may exercise the right of appeal on
behalf of the city, and shall ensure a copy of the appeal is provided to the
applicant. Appeals shall be conducted in accordance with
chapter 3-7 of this code.
   J.   [Reserved]:
   K.   Amendment Or Modifications: Modifications to an approved site plan
approval or master plan may be granted when it can be determined that such
changes or modifications are necessary or desirable to accommodate special
circumstances related to the location, siting or implementation of the approved
development. The request for amendment shall be made in writing and documented
on the site plan or master plan of the development. Where, after favorable
review by the city engineer, building inspector and planning staff, the staff
finds such modifications are so insignificant and minor as not to measurably
change the approved site plan approval or the intent of conditions that may
have been imposed, the city planner shall review and approve the modifications.
Modifications so approved by the city planner shall be reported at the next
planning commission meeting. Amendments to requests denied by the city planner
as having significant changes or where there is not unanimous staff approval,
may be heard before the planning commission. A revised site plan approval shall
be filed by the city planner and replace the previously approved permit.
   L.   Building Permit: A building permit shall not be issued for any
structure or development requiring site plan review until the planning
commission has issued a site plan approval and the property owner has entered
into an acceptable, written development agreement with the city agreeing to
construct and install all improvements of every nature relating to the site in
accordance with the approved site plan and any conditions pertaining thereto.
   M.   Compliance With Site Plan: The building inspector and city planner
shall ensure that development is undertaken and completed in compliance with
the approved site plan and any conditions pertaining thereto. Any off site or
other public improvements shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements as set forth in section
11-7-020 of this title. (Ord. 1988-12, 9-7-1988; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-25-090: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Fire, Hazardous Materials And Explosives: Activities involving use and
the storage of flammable, hazardous and explosive materials shall have
reasonable safety devices to protect against the hazard of fire or explosion.
Burning of waste in open fires is prohibited at any point on the property
without special permission obtained from local and state fire marshals.
   B.   Landscaping: All open areas in the zone which may be observed from
outside the property perimeter, except driveways, parking areas, walkways and
storage areas shall be reasonably maintained with suitable landscaping of
plants, shrubs, trees, grasses and similar landscape materials as well as
ground cover such as mulch or rock.
   C.   Storage Of Garbage: No garbage or other refuse which may be observed
from outside the property perimeter shall be stored in an open area. All such
materials shall be screened from public view by landscaping or opaque fencing
or wall; or may be stored completely within an enclosed building.
   D.   Gasoline Pump Islands: Gasoline pump islands, where permitted, shall be
set back twelve feet (12') from any abutting properties.
   E.   Animals: The keeping of animals in this zone shall be pursuant to
chapter 29 of this title.
   F.   Outdoor Storage: Outside storage which is prominently visible from
outside the perimeter shall be completely screened by landscaping or opaque
fencing from view from any public street or abutting properties. (Ord. 1988-12,
9-7-1988; amd. Ord. 2022-14, 2-1-2022)
CHAPTER 26
LIGHT MANUFACTURING AND BUSINESS (LM&B)
SECTION:
11-26-010: Description
11-26-020: Purpose
11-26-030: Permitted Uses
11-26-040: Conditional Uses
11-26-050: Prohibited Uses
11-26-060: Accessory Uses
11-26-070: Yard And Lot Regulations
11-26-080: Other Regulations
11-26-010: DESCRIPTION:
The LM&B zone is established to provide for the siting of light industrial,
light manufacturing, fabricating, commercial, business park, professional
offices, research and development businesses, and related uses within
Farmington City. The regulations contained herein are intended to encourage a
productive operating environment for light industry, manufacturing and business
parks, to protect such businesses and development within the zone from the
adverse effects of incompatible uses, to reduce the impact of light industries,
manufacturing and business parks on surrounding nonindustrial, manufacturing
and business land uses, to lessen traffic congestion, and to protect the health
and safety of the residents and workers in the area and within the city in
general. (Ord. 2002-15, 2-6-2002)
11-26-020: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the standards and requirements of this chapter are to control
light industrial, manufacturing and business park uses and development in
Farmington City so as to:
   A.   Encourage and provide an environment and location for light industrial,
manufacturing and business park uses and development consistent with city goals
and standards for attractive, well planned development;
   B.   Discourage uses from locating within the zone that will tend to impede
the use of the land for light industrial, manufacturing and business park
purposes; and
   C.   To ensure that all light industrial, manufacturing and business park
uses and development within the city will provide methods to protect the
community from hazards and nuisances. (Ord. 2002-15, 2-6-2002)
11-26-030: PERMITTED USES:
The following are permitted uses in the LM&B zone. No other permitted uses are
allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050 F of this title:
   Business and professional offices.
   Indoor self-storage facilities
   Indoor sports facilities, including golf, soccer, trampoline, volleyball and
similar recreation facilities.
   Light manufacturing, compounding and processing, assembling or packaging,
except as otherwise specifically provided in Section
11-26-040  (Conditional Uses) or Section
11-26-050  (Prohibited Uses).
   Printing and publishing.
   Research and development activities.
   Retail sales and service, including restaurants and food trucks.
   Veterinary clinic or animal hospital.
   Warehousing. (Ord. 2002-15, 2-6-2002; amd. Ord. 2024-27, 6-4-2024)
11-26-040: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following are conditional uses in the LM&B zone. No other conditional uses
are allowed, except as provided by subsection
11-4-050 F of this title:
   Accessory living quarters.
   Automotive and vehicle sales.
   Automotive equipment and accessories sales.
   Automotive service and maintenance centers.
   Contractor yards.
   Dry cleaning and laundry facilities.
   Golf courses and/or related recreation uses.
   Light manufacturing, compounding and processing, assembling or packaging of
the following products:
      Automotive parts and accessories.
      Beverages.
      Electric appliances and electronic instruments.
      Food, except yeast, vinegar or rendering of fat.
      Lumber and wood products.
      Pharmaceutical or biological products.
      Roof tile products.
      Rubber and plastic products.
      Scientific instruments.
      Signs, including electric and open.
   Wearing apparel.
   Lumber and building material, sales.
   Outcall services as defined and conducted in accordance with the city
business regulations and zoning ordinances regarding sexually oriented
businesses are permitted in this zone.
   Public utilities.
   August 2024
   Sexually oriented businesses as defined and conducted in accordance with the
city business regulations and zoning ordinances regarding sexually oriented
businesses.
   Temporary uses. (Ord. 2016-23, 2-16-2016; amd. Ord. 2024-27, 6-4-2024)
11-26-050: PROHIBITED USES:
Uses expressly prohibited in the LM&B zone include, but shall not be limited
to: auto wrecking, salvage, junkyards, redi-mix asphalt and concrete plants,
dwellings (single-family or multiple-family), refineries, large or regional
warehouse and distribution only facilities, refuse transfer station, and other
heavy industrial or heavy manufacturing uses. (Ord. 2002-15, 2-6-2002)
11-26-060: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a conditional uses
provided herein may be permitted within the LM&B zone as a conditional use.
(Ord. 2002-15, 2-6-2002; amd. Ord. 2024-27, 6-4-2024)
11-26-070: YARD AND LOT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Lot Size: No minimum.
   B.   Lot Width: No minimum, except each lot shall have a minimum frontage of
thirty five feet (35') on a public street.
   C.   Front Yard: Ten feet (10').
   D.   Side Yards: No minimum, except that thirty feet (30') shall be provided
where the lot line is coterminus with any residential zone boundary.
   E.   Side Yard Corner: Minimum side yard on corner lot shall be ten feet
(10') on the side adjacent to the street.
   F.   Rear Yard: No minimum, except that thirty feet (30') shall be provided
where the lot line is coterminus with any residential zone boundary.
   G.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall be subject to the yard
requirements cited above. Accessory buildings shall not be located in front of
the main building.
   H.   Building Height: Maximum building height shall be forty feet (40')
(except for towers, chimneys and other structures with no human habitation).
   I.   Lot Coverage: Maximum lot coverage for all buildings is seventy percent
(70%). The requirements for landscaping, off street parking and yard setbacks
may result in less than a seventy percent (70%) lot coverage. (Ord. 2002-15, 2-
6-2002)
11-26-080: OTHER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Site Plan Review: Site plan review shall be required for all buildings
and uses in the LM&B zone in accordance with the provisions of chapter 7 of
this title.
   B.   Landscaping: Landscaping shall be required for all buildings, uses and
development within the LM&B zone in accordance with the landscaping
requirements set forth in chapter 7 of this title. All open areas in the
required yards, except driveways, parking areas, walkways and storage areas,
shall be maintained with suitable landscaping of plants, shrubs, trees, grasses
and similar landscape materials as well as ground cover such as mulch or rock.
A minimum ten foot (10') landscaped area shall be provided along the front
property line of all lots and development within the LM&B zone.
   C.   Outside Storage: Outside storage shall be completely screened, by
landscaping or opaque fencing, from view from any public street or abutting
properties.
   D.   Adjacent Residential Zone: A decorative wall or opaque fence or hedge
at least six feet (6') in height shall be erected along all property lines
which are adjacent to a residential zone.
   E.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking shall comply with the provisions
of chapter 32 of this title.
   F.   Signs: Signs shall comply with the provisions of title 15 of this code.
The placement and design of signs shall be compatible with the development
project and with the surrounding area. Signs shall be compatible with the style
and architectural characteristics of the buildings in terms of location, scale,
color, materials and lettering and consistent with the goals and policies
outlined in the general plan.
   G.   Architectural Compatibility: Buildings within a development shall
incorporate predominant architectural features, materials and colors to create
a theme or characteristic of the development.
   H.   Noxious Conditions: No land or building in the LM&B zone shall be used,
constructed or operated so as to create any noxious, offensive, objectionable,
dangerous or other undesirable effect on persons or property outside the lot
line by virtue of emission of smoke, particulate matter, noise, fumes, odor,
vibrations, glare, liquid and solid waste, heat, explosive materials or similar
effects.
   I.   Vibration: No vibration (other than from transportation facilities or
temporary construction work) shall be permitted which is discernible without
instruments at the property line.
   J.   Glare: No direct or reflected glare, whether from floodlights or from
high temperature processes, such as combustion or welding or otherwise, shall
be permitted to be visible at the property line. This restriction shall not
apply to signs or lighting of buildings or grounds for security purposes as
otherwise permitted by this title.
   K.   Liquid And Solid Waste: No material or wastes shall be stored on any
property in the LM&B zone in such manner that they may be transferred off the
property by natural causes or so that they attract insects or rodents.
   L.   Fire And Explosive Hazards: All activities involving, and the storage
of, flammable and explosive materials shall have adequate safety devices
against the hazard of fire and explosion. Such industrial uses shall also have
adequate firefighting and fire suppression equipment and devices which are
standard in the industry. Burning of waste in open fires is prohibited at any
point on the property.
   M.   Radioactivity Or Electric Disturbances: No activities shall be
permitted which emit dangerous radioactivity at any point, or electrical
disturbance adversely affecting the operation of any equipment other than that
of the creator of such disturbance.
   N.   Animals: The keeping of animals in the LM&B zone shall be permitted in
accordance with and pursuant to the provisions of chapter 29 of this title.
   O.   Compliance: All buildings, uses, development and activities conducted
within the LM&B zone shall be constructed, maintained, pursued and/or conducted
in accordance with all applicable state, federal and local statutes and
regulations, including health, safety and environmental. (Ord. 2002-15, 2-6-
2002; amd. Ord. 2022-14, 2-1-2022)
CHAPTER 27
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
SECTION:
11-27-010: Purpose
11-27-020: Definition
11-27-030: Combination With Residential Zones
11-27-040: Designation On The Official Map
11-27-050: Preapplication Conference
11-27-060: Preliminary PUD Master Plan
11-27-070: Preliminary PUD Master Plan Review By Planning Commission
11-27-080: City Council Action On Preliminary PUD Master Plan
11-27-090: Final PUD Master Plan
11-27-100: Final PUD Master Plan Review By Planning Commission
11-27-110: Final PUD Master Plan Review By The City Council (Rep. by Ord. 2020-
04, 2-18-2020)
11-27-120: Standards And Requirements
11-27-130: Permanent Protection Of Planned Unit Development Open Space
11-27-140: Performance Bond And Guarantee Of Improvements
11-27-150: Covenants And Restrictions
11-27-155: Waiver
11-27-160: Time Limit
11-27-010: PURPOSE:
The intent of this chapter is to promote flexibility in site design, to
achieve, for example, the clustering of buildings, the mixture of housing
types, and the combining of housing with supplementary uses such as commercial
centers, business parks or other multiple use centers, etc. This chapter is
also intended to promote better design of residential developments through the
use of design professionals. It is further intended that a planned unit
development will provide for more open space, more public amenities, and the
preservation of natural features such as floodplains and steep slopes that
would not be possible under traditional development techniques. This chapter,
however, will not allow flexibility in the design and construction of streets.
All streets in planned unit developments whether private or dedicated public
streets shall conform to the minimum improvement requirements of the
subdivision standards, except for parking areas in apartment complexes. (Ord.
2018-05, 1-18-2018)
11-27-020: DEFINITION:
A planned unit development is a large scale, predominantly residential
development in which the regulations (except street construction standards) of
the underlying zone are waived to allow flexibility and innovation in site and
building design in accordance with a PUD Master Plan approved by the Planning
Commission and City Council. Accessory nonresidential uses may be included in
the development, as determined by the Planning Commission, to provide a
necessary service to the residents of the development. (Ord. 2018-05, 1-18-
2018)
11-27-030: COMBINATION WITH RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
A planned unit development shall be considered only in the AA, A, AE, LS, S,
LR, R, R-2, R-4, R-8, BP, BR, C, OTR (single-family residential only), NMU, CMU
and B (single-family residential only) Zones. The provisions of this chapter
shall prevail in cases of conflict between this chapter and other chapters (the
provisions of the foothill ordinance shall be more restrictive than this
chapter). (Ord. 2018-05, 1-18-2018)
11-27-040: DESIGNATION ON THE OFFICIAL MAP:
A planned unit development designation shall be used in combination with
existing zones as designated above and not applied to a land area
independently. The planned unit development designation (PUD) shall become a
suffix to the zone with which it is combined; for example, R-8 (PUD). Approval
of the planned unit development shall be accomplished in the same manner as
other amendments to the official zoning map in compliance with chapter 6 of
this title. (Ord. 2018-05, 1-18-2018)
11-27-050: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
To obtain information and an interpretation of this chapter and other provision
in this title that pertain to planned unit developments, each applicant shall
confer with the City Planner and other Farmington City staff members as
appropriate in a PUD concept plan preapplication conference before a
preliminary PUD Master Plan is submitted. The submission of general outlines of
the proposal, sketch plans and other conceptual documents are appropriate at
this time. The City Planner shall furnish the applicant with written comments
regarding the conference, including appropriate recommendations to assist the
applicant in the preparation of a preliminary PUD Master Plan. These comments
and recommendations must be considered as guidance and as assistance to the
applicant pending official action by Farmington City on the submitted
preliminary PUD Master Plan. (Ord. 2018-05, 1-18-2018)
11-27-060: PRELIMINARY PUD MASTER PLAN:
All applications for approval by Farmington City of a preliminary PUD Master
Plan, shall include seven (7) copies, and one electronic copy, of the proposed
preliminary PUD Master Plan.
   A.   Applications for preliminary PUD Master Plan shall contain the
following written documents:
      1.   Legal Description: A legal description of the total site proposed
for development, including a statement of present and proposed ownership.
      2.   Development Schedule: A development schedule indicating the
approximate date when construction of the planned unit development or stages of
the planned unit development can be expected to begin and be completed.
      3.   Site Plan, Maps: Site plan and supporting maps:
         a.   Topographic maps of the site, including contour intervals of no
greater than two feet (2'). This map should include existing conditions such as
a drainage channel, floodplain, other unique natural features and natural
vegetation coverage.
         b.   General location of all dwellings in the planned unit
development.
         c.   Proposed circulation system.
         d.   An existing and proposed utility system plan, including sanitary
sewers, culinary water, stormwater and easements for electricity, natural gas
and telephone, etc. This plan should also indicate from which point the
utilities will be extended.
         e.   The proposed treatment of the perimeter of the planned unit
development, including materials and techniques used such as berms, planting
screens, fences and walls unless otherwise approved by the City as part of the
Preliminary PUD Master Plan.
      4.   Elevations: Preliminary elevations, including building heights and
appropriate perspectives of all building types proposed within the planned unit
development, to clearly show the nature, building materials, design and layout
of the development site.
      5.   Control Of Property Evidenced: Evidence that the applicant has
sufficient control over the subject property to effectuate the proposed plan.
      6.   Additional Information: Other materials data and studies as may be
required by either the City Planner or the Planning Commission. The applicant
may ask for a preliminary Planning Commission review as an agenda item to
assist in establishing the type, need and extent for specific materials, data
or studies. These may include, but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   An economic feasibility study or market analysis showing the need
or basis for the planned unit development.
         b.   Seismic, special topographic and soils studies.
         c.   Other studies identified as being necessary because of the
uniqueness of the proposed planned unit development site or its general
surroundings.
   B.   Applications for preliminary PUD Master Plan which include multi-
family, commercial, other non-residential uses, and single-family developments
which provide open space, shall contain the following additional written
documents:
      1.   Tabulations: A tabulation of the following: total number, by type,
of dwelling units; total acreage of the site and the percentages thereof to be
designated for various uses, i.e., parking, open space, streets, commercial,
residential, etc.; gross and net dwelling unit densities and an estimate of the
project population; anticipated number of employees, proposed lot coverage
ratio of buildings and structures.
      2.   Site Plan, Maps: Site plan and supporting maps:
         a.   Proposed and parking areas, including streets, pedestrian
pathways, ingress and egress and recreational vehicle storage areas and
proposed outdoor lighting.
         b.   Parks, common open spaces, semiprivate open spaces, playgrounds,
school sites and other public and private recreational facilities and
improvements proposed for the planned unit development.
         c.   A landscaping plan indicating the general type, location and
treatment of trees, shrubs, ground covers and plan materials used for private
and common open spaces and a preliminary layout of the sprinkling system. The
retention of healthy existing trees and other vegetation is strongly
encouraged.
      3.   Location of any proposed signs. (Ord. 2018-05, 1-18-2018; amd. Ord.
2021-01, 1-19-2021; Ord. 2024-21, 4-9-2024)
11-27-070: PRELIMINARY PUD MASTER PLAN REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION:
The Planning Commission shall review the application for approval of a planned
unit development designation and the preliminary PUD Master Plan at a public
hearing. The Planning Commission shall either recommend the City Council
approve the application and plan as presented, recommend the City Council
approve it subject to certain conditions, table the application pending receipt
of required materials, data, studies and information, or recommend the City
Council disapprove it. Any recommendation for approval of the preliminary PUD
Master Plan shall be made only after the Planning Commission makes the
following findings:
   A.   Layout: The proposed layout will provide a more pleasant and attractive
living environment than a conventional development established under the strict
applications of the provisions of the underlying zones. The Planning Commission
shall consider the architectural design of the buildings and their relationship
on the site and their relationship to development beyond the boundaries of the
proposed planned unit development. The Planning Commission shall consider the
landscaping and screening as related to the several uses within the proposed
planned unit development and as a means of its integration into its
surroundings.
   B.   Consideration Of Adjacent Property: The proposed planned unit
development will create no detriment to property adjacent to the planned unit
development and to this end the Planning Commission may require that the uses
of least intensity or greatest compatibility be arranged around the boundaries
of the project. The Planning Commission may require that yard and height
requirements for the adjacent zone apply on the periphery of the planned unit
development.
   C.   Efficient Use Of Land: The proposed planned unit development will
provide more efficient use of the land and more usable open space than a
conventional development permitted in the underlying zone. The Planning
Commission shall consider the residential density of the proposed development
and its distribution.
   D.   Compensation For Increased Density: The increased density allowed
within the planned unit development will be compensated by better site design
and by the provision of increased amenities, common open space and recreational
facilities. To ensure this requirement is achieved, site plans and other plans
should be prepared by design professionals.
   E.   Hazards Not Increased; Recommendations: Any variation allowed from the
development standards of the underlying zone will not increase hazards to the
health, safety or general welfare of the residents of the proposed planned unit
development. Based on its action on the preliminary PUD Master Plan, the
Planning Commission shall make recommendations to the City Council. A
recommendation for approval of the preliminary PUD Master Plan shall also
include a list of recommendations for deviation from the requirements of the
underlying zone requirements.
   F.   The Planning Commission, at its sole discretion, may delegate future
review and consideration of the Final PUD Master Plan to the Planning
Department. (Ord. 2018-05, 1-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2024-21, 4-9-2024)
11-27-080: CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON PRELIMINARY PUD MASTER PLAN:
The City Council shall review and take action on the application for a planned
unit development designation to be added as a suffix to an underlying zone in
accordance with chapter 6 of this title. (Ord. 2018-05, 1-18-2018; amd. Ord.
2025-14, 3-18-2025)
11-27-090: FINAL PUD MASTER PLAN:
   A.   Submittal: Following the public hearing on a preliminary PUD Master
Plan and prior to designation of a planned unit development, in combination
with an underlying zone, the final PUD Master Plan shall be submitted to the
City Planner. Any failure to submit a final PUD Master Plan on the proposed
planned unit development or any portion thereof within one year of the approval
of the planned unit development designation and the preliminary PUD Master Plan
shall terminate all proceedings and render the proposed planned unit
development null and void.
   B.   City Planner Review: The City Planner shall review the final PUD Master
Plan to assure that it is in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
The Planning Commission shall not place any final PUD Master Plan on the
Planning Commission agenda until all items required have been submitted or are
omitted for good cause. The final PUD Master Plan will allow the Planning
Commission to review all the information required for the preliminary PUD
Master Plan in its finalized, detailed form. The final plan shall not vary
substantially from the previously approved preliminary PUD Master Plan. The
final PUD Master Plan shall be deemed in substantial compliance with the
preliminary PUD Master Plan; provided, that:
      1.   The lot areas do not vary by more than ten percent (10%);
      2.   A reduction of the area designated for common open space is no more
than five percent (5%);
      3.   An increase in the floor area proposed for nonresidential uses is no
more than five percent (5%);
      4.   An increase in the ground coverage ratio by all buildings is no more
than five percent (5%).
   C.   Variation From Preliminary Plan: If it is determined that the final PUD
Master Plan does vary substantially from the preliminary PUD Master Plan, the
applicant must repeat the procedure outlined in sections
11-27-060 and
11-27-080 of this chapter before further action shall be taken on the final PUD
Master Plan. The applicant may be required to pay additional fees, as
determined by the City Manager, for the repeated procedures required.
   D.   Required Information: The final PUD Master Plan shall contain all of
the site plans and maps required for the preliminary PUD Master Plan in a
finalized format. Specifically it shall contain the following:
      1.   Tabulations of all dwelling units to be constructed by types and
number of bedrooms per unit (if multi-family);
      2.   Detailed site plan with complete dimensions showing precise
locations of all buildings and structures, lot or parcel sizes and locations,
designations of common spaces and special use areas, detailed circulation
pattern;
      3.   Dimensioned parking layout and traffic circulation pattern,
including streets, location of individual parking stalls and all areas of
ingress and egress and outdoor lighting;
      4.   Final exterior design for all building types, presented as exterior
perspectives or exterior elevations;
      5.   Detailed engineering plans or final subdivision plat showing site
grading, street improvements, drainage and public utility location;
      6.   Detailed landscaping plans with a legend showing the types and sizes
of all planting materials and their locations, decorative materials, recreation
equipment, sprinkler or irrigation systems and any recreation related outdoor
lighting;
      7.   The fully executed declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions, together with open space easements and other bonds, guarantees or
agreements as required by this chapter or as deemed necessary by the Planning
Commission and/or the City Attorney. (Ord. 2018-05, 1-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2025-
14, 3-18-2025)
11-27-100: FINAL PUD MASTER PLAN REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION:
The Planning Commission shall review the submitted final PUD Master Plan and
may approve or disapprove it. The Planning Commission may approve the Final PUD
Master Plan if they find that the proposed planned unit development meets all
of the requirements of this chapter, that it is in substantial compliance with
the approved Preliminary PUD Master Plan and that it meets the objectives and
purposes of this chapter. The Planning Commission may apply conditions with the
approval of the final PUD Master Plan that will ensure that the proposed PUD
meets with the objectives of this chapter, subject to, but not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Building Permit: No building permit for any portion of the proposed
planned unit development shall be issued until the final PUD Master Plan has
been approved and all necessary subdivision ordinance requirements have been
met. Building permits may be issued in accordance with the approved Final PUD
Master Plan even though the yard requirements, building heights, minimum lot
sizes, etc., differ from the requirements of the underlying zone in which the
development is proposed.
   B.   Permanent Protection: Permanent protection of planned unit development
open space, performance bonds, guarantee of improvements, covenants and
restrictions. All provisions pertaining to the requirements cited in this
chapter shall be met as required in the approved conditions of the planned unit
development prior to Planning Commission final approval in which the
development is proposed.
   C.   Phased Development: Development plans for an approved preliminary PUD
Master Plan may be submitted in phases provided each phase can exist as a
separate unit capable of independently meeting all the requirements and
objectives of this chapter. If the planned unit development is developed in
phases, the required open space and approved recreational facilities shall be
developed in proportion to the number of dwelling units intended to be
developed during any given development phase, unless it is determined that a
greater amount of open space and recreation facilities must be provided in
order to assure that these spaces and facilities can function properly.
   D.   Fees: All final plans shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee, as
specified from time to time by the City Council. (Ord. 2020-04, 2-18-2020)
11-27-110: FINAL PUD MASTER PLAN REVIEW BY THE CITY COUNCIL:
(Rep. by Ord. 2020-04, 2-18-2020)
11-27-120: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Area: The minimum area for a planned unit development shall be
five (5) acres in AA, A, AE, LS and S Zones, two and one-half (21/2) acres in
LR, R and R-2 Zones, and one and one- half (11/2) acres in R-4 and R-8 Zones.
Any proposal for a planned unit development in areas smaller than those cited
above, may be approved based upon the specific conditions related to the site
upon which the development is proposed. Smaller planned unit developments are
encouraged in the older historical parts of the City in order to use lot
interiors where unique conditions may exist.
   B.   Base Density: The base density of the planned unit development shall be
determined by the development of a yield plan, as defined in section
11-2-020 of this title, applying subdivision yield plan dimension standards set
forth in chapter 12 of this title and related requirements of the underlying
zone.
   C.   Lot Area, Width, Yard, Height, Coverage: Lot area, width, yard, height
and coverage regulations shall be determined by approval of the preliminary PUD
Master Plan.
   D.   Number Of Dwelling Units: The number of dwelling units in each building
shall not exceed the number permitted in the zone when the underlying zone is
R-4 or R-8. When the underlying zone is R-8, the maximum dwelling units in each
building may be increased to twelve (12) units; provided, that the maximum
allowable density of the R-8 Zone is not exceeded.
   E.   Adjacent Yard, Height Requirements May Apply: The Planning Commission
may require that yard and height requirements of adjacent zones be applied to
the periphery of the planned unit development.
   F.   Low Intensity: To assure that adjacent properties will not be adversely
affected, the Planning Commission may require, where feasible, buildings and
uses of lowest intensity be situated on the periphery of the planned unit
development.
   G.   Open Space:
      1.   Requirements: Every planned unit development shall provide usable
common open space, accessible to all lots or units, of not less than ten
percent (10%) of the net area (gross area less constrained or sensitive lands),
in single-family planned unit developments (see chart below) and thirty percent
(30%) in multi- family planned unit developments. (Open space requirements in a
mixed single-family, multi-family planned unit development shall be computed as
a weighted average.) No streets, driveways, parking areas, yard areas typically
used for individual structures or areas with slopes greater than thirty percent
(30%), wetlands or other constrained lands may be included in the computation
of the required open space unless the City determines that certain constrained,
i.e., rock outcroppings, etc., qualify as unimproved open space in order to
enhance the character and function of open space with the development.
Playgrounds, parks, swimming pools and related amenities, tennis courts and
similar bona fide recreation buildings and facilities and trailway system land
may be considered part of the usable common open space.
SINGLE FAMILY - ALL ZONES
Open Space And Character Incentive Multiplier
 
                 Open Space               Open Space Design/    Total Incentive
Required Open    Increase (Net Total      Incentive  Character  Multiplier
Space (Net Area) Area)         Open Space Multiplier Incentive  Allowed
                                                     Multiplier
If improved
10 %             0 - 10 %      20 %       0 - 20 %   0 - 5 %    20 %
If unimproved
10 %             0 - 5 %       15 %       0 - 10 %   0 - 5 %    15 %
 
      2.   Alternatives To Open Space: The City, as a legislative action
concurrent with the consideration of a PUD and at its sole discretion, may
enact one or all of the following alternatives in lieu of the required open
space set forth herein:
         a.   Historic Preservation: The City, at its sole discretion, may
consider preservation of an on site building or structure eligible, or that may
be eligible, for the National Register of Historic Places in lieu of the ten
percent (10%) open space.
         b.   Transfer Of Development Right (TDR): A TDR lot may replace all or
a portion of the ten percent (10%) open space requirement consistent with the
standards contained elsewhere in this title.
         c.   Waiver: The City may waive all or a portion of the ten percent
(10%) open space requirement consistent with the standards set forth in this
chapter. Any development receiving a waiver shall not qualify for a density
bonus.
         d.   Moderate Income Housing: Developers may provide or set aside
dwelling units equal in number to at least ten percent (10%) of the total
number of dwelling units approved for the development for moderate income
housing subject to entering into an agreement with the City; unless, at the
sole discretion of, and by agreement with the City, the developer provides:
            (1)   A fee in lieu thereof determined in consideration of factors
set forth in Section 11-28-270 of this Title; or
            (2)   Some other public benefit; or
            (3)   A combination of 1 and 2 above.
   H.   Increase In Residential Density: Residential density may be increased
up to a maximum of twenty percent (20%) above that allowed in the underlying
single-family zone, at the discretion of the City. The density will be
determined during the preliminary PUD Master Plan review stage.
      1.   Common Open Space Increase: An increase of usable common open space
in addition to the open space requirements cited in subsection G of this
section, may allow the following density increases:
         a.   Improved: Improved open space is usable common open space that is
highly accessible to all residents of the planned unit development; that is
devoted to planting, patios, walkway, and recreational areas; that provides
recreational facilities such as swimming pool, tennis court, clubhouse,
playground, etc.; that is of such dimension to be functionally usable (on any
section of improved open space shall not be less than 6,000 square feet nor
less than 30 feet in its smallest dimension); and that is of a finished grade
of twelve percent (12%) or less.
         b.   Unimproved: Unimproved open space is common open space that
generally allows for the preservation of the planned unit development's natural
amenities such as rock outcrops, trees, ravines, ponds, drainage channels, etc.
All or part of unimproved open space is generally left in a natural state and
its use is restricted to more passive recreation, such as hiking trails or
creation of access to scenic vistas and natural sites.
      2.   Multi-Family Planned Unit Developments: A density bonus is not
allowed in multi-family planned unit developments by increasing open space.
Economies in construction and an increase in open space may be achieved by
increasing the number of units per structure as provided in subsection D of
this section.
      3.   Siting Variation: Character, identity and architectural and siting
variation incorporated in a single-family planned unit development shall be
considered cause for density increases not to exceed five percent (5%). When
combined with open space density bonuses, the total density increase shall not
exceed twenty five percent (25%). The degree of distinctiveness and the
desirable variation achieved shall govern the amount of density increase the
Planning Commission and City Council approve. Such variations may include, but
are not limited to, the following:
         a.   Landscaping: Landscaping; streetscape; open spaces and plazas,
use of existing landscaping and natural features; pedestrianway treatments;
treatment of recreational areas and provision of various recreation apparatus
(a maximum increase of 2 percent).
         b.   Siting: Siting; visual focal points; use of existing physical
features such as topography; view; sun orientation; circulation patterns;
physical environment; variation in building setbacks; and clustering of
building groups (a maximum increase of 1 percent).
         c.   Design Features: Design features; street sections; architectural
styles; harmonious use of materials; parking areas broken by landscape
features; and varied use of house types (a maximum increase of 2 percent).
   I.   Utilities: All dwelling units shall be served by public sewer and
public water. All utilities within the planned unit development shall be placed
underground.
   J.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking spaces shall be provided as
required in
chapter 32 of this title.
   K.   Dedicated Streets: All streets in a planned unit development shall be a
dedicated public street built to Farmington City standards unless otherwise
approved by the City Council. (Ord. 2018-05, 1-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-20, 8-3-
2021)
11-27-130: PERMANENT PROTECTION OF PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Methods: The Farmington City Council, upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission, shall require the preservation, maintenance and ownership
of open space utilizing, at the City's option, one of the following methods:
      1.   Dedication of the land as a public park or parkway system;
      2.   Granting to Farmington City a permanent open space easement on and
over the said private open spaces to guarantee that the open space remain
perpetually in recreational use, with ownership and maintenance being the
responsibility of a homeowners' association established with articles and
bylaws which are satisfactory to Farmington City; or
      3.   Complying with the provision of the Utah Condominium Ownership Act
of 1963, Utah Code Annotated title 57, chapter 8, as amended, which provides
for the payment of common expenses for the upkeep of common areas and
facilities. Recreation uses and facilities may be developed within the common
open space areas in compliance with a recreation and landscaping plan approved
as part of the approved final development plan of the planned unit development.
   B.   Failure To Maintain: If the second or third methods, as set forth
above, are utilized to maintain the open spaces, but the organization
established fails to maintain the open space in reasonable order and condition,
the City may, at its option, do or contract to have done the required
maintenance and shall assess ratably the open spaces and individually owned
properties with the planned unit development. Such assessment shall be a lien
against property and shall be filed with the Davis County Recorder, or the City
may bring suit to collect the maintenance fees, together with reasonable
attorney fees and costs. (Ord. 2018-05, 1-18-2018)
11-27-140: PERFORMANCE BOND AND GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
In order to ensure that the planned unit development will be constructed to
completion in an acceptable manner, the developer shall guarantee the
improvements. The performance bond or guarantee agreement shall be prepared by
the City Attorney, and signed by the developer of the planned unit development.
The developer shall deposit in escrow with a bank or lending institution, a sum
of money equal to one hundred twenty percent (120%) of cost of improvements as
estimated by the City Engineer. (The City Engineer may obtain estimates from
licensed professionals for improvements that the City Engineer is not qualified
to value, e.g., landscaping in the improved common area.) The estimated costs
shall cover the construction and installation of all required landscaping,
parking and street improvements, including paving, curbs, gutter, sidewalks,
water and sewer lines, parks, playgrounds, recreation facilities and other
amenities shown on the final PUD Master Plan approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 2018-05, 1-18-2018)
11-27-150: COVENANTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
The applicant for any planned unit development which is being developed as a
condominium project under the provisions of the Condominium Ownership Act of
Utah, or subsequent amendments thereto, shall, prior to the conveyance of any
unit, submit to the City Planner a declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions relating to the project, which shall be recorded to run with the
land. Said covenants, conditions and restrictions shall include management
policies which shall set forth the quality of maintenance that will be
performed and who is to be responsible for said maintenance within said
condominium development. Said document shall, as a minimum, contain the
following:
   A.   Association, Corporation: The establishment of a private association or
corporation responsible for all maintenance, which shall levy the cost thereof
as an assessment to each unit owner within the condominium development. (Ord.
2018-05, 1-18-2018; amd. Ord. 2025-14, 3-18-2025)
11-27-155: WAIVER:
Subject to the provisions set forth herein, for single-family residential PUDs,
or boundary adjustments related to a single- family detached residential PUD
equal to or less than one acre in size, any provision of this chapter may be
waived by the City upon a vote of not less than four (4) members of the City
Council. Such waiver(s) shall be granted by ordinance and only in limited
circumstances as deemed appropriate and necessary by the City Council. No
waiver shall be granted absent a finding of good cause based upon specific
special circumstances attached to the property. No waiver should be granted
that would be contrary to the public interest or contrary to the underlying
intent of this chapter. Any waiver of the required minimum conservation land
dedication shall require comparable compensation, off site improvements,
amenities or other consideration of comparable size, quality and/or value.
(Ord. 2018-05, 1-18-2018)
11-27-160: TIME LIMIT:
Unless there is substantial action leading toward completion of a planned unit
development or an approved phase thereof within a period of twelve (12) months
from the date of approval, as determined by the City Council, such approval
shall expire, unless, after reconsideration of the progress of the project, an
extension is approved. (Ord. 2018-05, 1-18-2018)
CHAPTER 27A
RESERVED
[Chapter reserved by Ord. 2023-13.]
CHAPTER 27B
AGRICULTURE PLANNED DISTRICT (AP)
SECTION:
11-27B-010: Purposes
11-27B-020: Standards and Requirements
11-27B-030: Step 1: General Development Plan, Development Agreement And AP-
District Application
11-27B-040: Step 2: Final Site Plan And/Or Subdivision Approval
11-27B-050: General Development Plan And Development Agreement To Constitute AP
District Requirements
11-27B-060: Time Limit
11-27B-010: PURPOSES:
The purposes of the AP District are:
   A.   To provide, where deemed appropriate by the City Council, non-
residential and non-agriculture development compatible with and which enhances
the purposes of the AA, A, and AE zones.
   B.   To allow sustainable and economically viable development which will
enhance the community as a whole as well as immediately surrounding
neighborhoods and existing property uses.
   C.   To protect environmentally sensitive areas, including, but not limited
to: wetlands, open space, and areas in close proximity to the stream channels,
ponds, and the marsh lands of the Great Salt Lake.
   D.   To ensure for orderly preplanning and long-term development of
properties; and the creation of a cohesive development plan that will be
viable, sustainable, and implements the goals and objectives of the Farmington
City General Plan and other plans as adopted.
   E.   To give the property owner reasonable assurance that development plans
prepared in accordance with an approved general development plan will be
acceptable to the City.
   F.   To enable the adoption of measures providing for development harmonious
with surrounding areas. (Ord. 2023-13, 3-14-2023)
11-27B-020: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The following provisions shall apply in an AP District, which district shall
also be subject to other provisions of this title, except that where conflict
in regulations occurs, the regulations specified in this chapter, or on a
general development plan approved pursuant to this chapter, shall apply:
   A.   AP Districts may be established on parcels of land which are suitable
for, and of sufficient size, to be planned and developed in a manner consistent
with the purposes and objectives of this chapter, the Farmington City General
Plan and/or other area plans as adopted.
   B.   Before detailed studies of any AP District development plans shall be
undertaken by the Planning Staff or the Planning Commission, there shall be a
complete development application on file with the City.
   C.   Applicable zoning regulations shall apply except as otherwise set forth
in an AP District shall be as established by the General Development Plan and
Development Agreement and may include:
      1.   Permitted or conditional permitted land uses, including accessory
uses;
      2.   Minimum development area or lot size, which may not be less than
allowed in the underlying zone;
      3.   Maximum building height;
      4.   Landscaping;
      5.   Fencing;
      6.   Signage;
      7.   Parking;
      8.   Required amenities, private or public;
      9.   Circulation: pedestrian and vehicular;
      10.   Building design standards;
      11.   Other site-specific regulations as deemed appropriate.
   D.   AP District regulations that are inconsistent with zoning regulations
in this Title shall have precedence and shall supersede such zoning regulations
with the exception of subdivision processes, standards for public improvements,
and Building Codes, including but not limited to plumbing, mechanical, and
electrical regulations. For those regulations not specifically addressed in the
Development Agreement, previously adopted ordinances and regulations shall
apply. All such exceptions shall be specified in the DA showing all such
deviations from existing regulations and the existing regulation from which the
deviation occurs.
   E.   The applicant has an affirmative duty to demonstrate that the overall
development and any deviations from the underlying zone or other applicable
ordinances enhances the purposes of the underlying zone. (Ord. 2023-13, 3-14-
2023)
11-27B-030: STEP 1 - GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN, DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AND AP-
DISTRICT APPLICATION:
   A.   A General Development Plan (GDP) and Development Agreement (DA) must
accompany an application for an AP-District rezone request and shall be
submitted by the property owner or an authorized representative.
      1.   All GDPs shall be prepared by a licensed/certified professional,
such as an architect, landscape architect, planner, engineer, surveyor, etc.
The requirements for a complete site plan review application are:
         a.   Conceptual Site Plan, including a current survey and legal
description, vehicular and pedestrian circulation, proposed building placement
(if any), setbacks, streetscape, parking, fire protection, sensitive and/or
agriculture lands, fencing, and signage locations, plus any other information
required for conceptual site plan review;
         b.   Conceptual Landscape Plan, including open space; and
         c.   Conceptual Building Plan(s), if any, including elevations,
height, materials, and proposed colors.
      2.   The DA shall include and memorialize any alternative development
standard and/or use not set forth in the underlying zone or shown on the GDP.
The GDP must be an exhibit to the DA.
   B.   Upon receipt of a complete application to the Community Development
Department, the application shall be reviewed by the Development Review
Committee (DRC). The DRC shall provide written comments to the applicant
regarding the proposed General Development Plan within fourteen (14) business
days of receipt. The applicant may request a meeting with the DRC and/or City
Staff to discuss the comments. Upon receipt of a written response to the
comments and any revised submittal, the DRC shall review the resubmittal and
make a recommendation on the application to the Planning Commission. Once a
recommendation has been made by the DRC, the Community Development Department
shall schedule a public hearing before the Planning Commission and provide
written notice to property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the
boundary of the proposed project, in accordance with Utah State Code 10-9a-502.
   C.   The Community Development Department shall provide to the Planning
Commission copies of all pertinent documents, plans, and maps related to the
project, including the GDP and DA.
   D.   After conclusion of the public hearing the Planning Commission may
recommend to the City Council approval or denial of the rezone request, GDP,
and DA. In considering whether to approve the Application, the Planning
Commission may, among other things, take into consideration some or all of the
criteria set forth below in subsection E. 1-6.
   E.   Upon receipt of the application, the City Council may accept, deny, or
modify the rezone request and proposed GDP and DA. If approved, the City
Council shall add the area encompassed by the GDP and establish an AP District
as a suffix to an underlying zone by ordinance, provided that it finds that the
facts submitted with the application(s) and presented at the public meetings
establish that:
      1.   The development is compatible with and will enhance the community as
a whole as well as the immediately surrounding neighborhoods and existing
property uses. To the extent that there is a commercial component, the
applicant adequately demonstrates sustainable financial viability and provides
adequate assurance of sustainability.
      2.   That the uses proposed will not be detrimental to present and
anticipated surrounding uses as determined by the City.
      3.   The streets proposed are suitable and adequate to carry anticipated
traffic, and increased densities will not generate traffic in such amounts as
to overload, compromise the safety of, or diminish the existing residential or
other nature of the street network outside the AP District in a detrimental or
adverse way.
      4.   Any exception from standard ordinance requirements is documented as
required herein, warranted by the design and amenities incorporated into the
final plan and enhances the purposes of the underlying zone and community as a
whole.
      5.   The AP District is in conformance with the City General Land Use
plan.
      6.   Existing or proposed utility services are adequate for the uses
proposed.
   F.   Phased development plans shall include Schematic Subdivision plans, if
applicable, which shall be shown as part of the GDP.
   G.   Unless there is substantial action leading toward Step 2 of an AP
District within a period of six (6) months from the date of approval, as
determined by the City Council, such approval shall expire, unless, after
reconsideration of the progress of the project, an extension is approved. (Ord.
2023-13, 3-14-2023)
11-27B-040: STEP 2 - FINAL SITE PLAN AND/OR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL:
   A.   Upon approval of the GDP and DA by the City Council, the applicant
shall submit application for review of a Final Site Plan, and/or concurrent
review of an application for subdivision review as applicable. Applications
shall address any issues or concerns raised as part of the consideration of the
GDP along with any conditions of said approval.
   B.   Upon receipt of a complete Site Plan Application, and Subdivision
Application as applicable, the application(s) shall be reviewed by the
Development Review Committee (DRC). The DRC shall provide written comments to
the applicant within fourteen (14) business days of receipt. The applicant may
request a meeting with the DRC or staff to discuss the comments. Upon receipt
of a written response to the comments and any revised submittal(s), the DRC
shall review the resubmittal and make a recommendation on the application(s) to
the Planning Commission.
   C.   Once comments have been finalized by the DRC, the Community Development
Department shall schedule a public meeting before the Planning Commission for
review of the application(s) and consideration of the Final Site Plan, and
Subdivision plans as applicable.
   D.   If the GDP requires a subdivision of the property, the Planning
Commission may consider a Preliminary Plat, prior to its review of the Final
Site Plan, and may consider a Final Plat concurrent with or after Final Site
Plan approval.
   E.   The Community Development Department shall provide to the Planning
Commission copies of all pertinent documents, plans, and maps related to the
project, including the approved GDP and DA.
   F.   At the public meeting(s) the Planning Commission may approve or deny
the Final Site Plan, and subdivision plans as applicable. (Ord. 2023-13, 3-14-
2023)
11-27B-050: GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT TO CONSTITUTE AP
DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   At the time of adoption of any ordinance establishing an AP District,
the City and the applicant and/or property owner shall enter into a Development
Agreement with the developer to define the development, its uses, street
pattern, public and private improvements, open spaces, public dedications and
grants of easements, and any other specifics about the project deemed necessary
for the overall project. The Development Agreement shall include a list of
building standards if different than the underlying zone, to include setbacks,
building height, lot coverage, and other regulations related to the siting of
buildings.
   B.   The Development Agreement shall include the General Development Plan
which shall guide all development within the specific project being approved.
The General Development Plan shall consist of a site plan and landscape plan
containing the following: survey and legal description, vehicular and
pedestrian circulation, proposed building placement, setbacks, streetscape,
parking, fire protection, fencing, signage locations, open space/parks,
streetscape and building setback diagrams, along with conceptual building
elevations and design schemes, plus any other information required for
conceptual site plan approval. If, in the course of developing the project,
changes are to be made to the General Development Plan which are substantially
different from the General Development Plan, a new General Development Plan
shall be considered at a new public hearing, for recommendation by the Planning
Commission and adopted by the City Council. "Substantially different" means any
increase or decrease in gross use greater than ten percent (10%) of the total
project area, or a twenty percent (20%) or greater change of a specific use.
Realignment of streets or utility improvements when no change in overall use
occurs shall not be considered "substantially different". In the event a
change, or changes, occur to an approved General Development Plan which City
Staff determines are not "substantially different", the City Planner shall
review and approve the modifications. Modifications so approved by the City
Planner shall be reported at the next Planning Commission meeting.
   C.   Upon approval of the Development Agreement, which shall include the
General Development Plan, and the Zoning Map Amendment, all approved uses shall
be processed based on the standards approved in the Development Agreement.
(Ord. 2023-13, 3-14-2023)
11-27B-060: TIME LIMIT:
Unless there is substantial action leading toward completion of an AP District
or an approved phase thereof within a period of twelve (12) months from the
date of approval, as determined by the City Council, such approval shall
expire, unless, after reconsideration of the progress of the project, an
extension is approved. (Ord. 2023-13, 3-14-2023)
CHAPTER 28
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-28-010: Effect Of Chapter
11-28-020: Building Lot Required
11-28-030: Minimum Lot Areas To Be Preserved
11-28-040: Open Sky
11-28-050: Supplementary Yard Regulations
11-28-060: Location Of Recreational Pools And Tennis Courts
11-28-070: Maximum Coverage Area Of Accessory Buildings
11-28-080: Location Of Architectural And Integral Parts
11-28-090: Maximum Height Limitations Exceptions
11-28-100: Minimum Height Of Dwellings
11-28-110: Reserved
11-28-120: Temporary Use Of Land And Structures
11-28-130: Native Material Removal
11-28-140: Fences
11-28-150: Clear Vision
11-28-160: Open Storage In Residential Areas
11-28-170: Public Improvements Required
11-28-180: Additional Requirements For Dwellings
11-28-190: Wireless Telecommunications Facilities
11-28-200: Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs)
11-28-210: Small Auto Dealership
11-28-220: Class A Self-Storage
11-28-230: Demolitions
11-28-240: Transfer Of Development Rights/Lots (TDR)
11-28-250: Class A Auto Sales
11-28-260: Moderate Income Housing Fee In Lieu Analysis
11-28-010: EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
The regulations set forth in this chapter shall qualify or supplement the zone
regulations elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997)
11-28-020: BUILDING LOT REQUIRED:
Every dwelling unit shall be located and maintained on a separate building lot
having no less than the minimum area, width, setback, yard and frontage
requirements for a dwelling in the zone in which the lot is located; except for
planned dwelling groups, planned unit developments, and as otherwise provided
for in this title. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997)
11-28-030: MINIMUM LOT AREAS TO BE PRESERVED:
   A.   Size: No lot or parcel of land shall be reduced in size by conveyance
or otherwise so that the area is less than the prescribed minimum.
   B.   Area, Dimension: No lot or parcel of land shall be divided or reduced
in area or dimension so as to cause any required yard or open space to be
reduced below that required by this title. No required yard or open space
provided around any building for the purpose of complying with provisions of
this title shall be used or considered as a yard or open space for any other
building. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997)
11-28-040: OPEN SKY:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed, except as
provided below:
   A.   Ornamental Features: Belt courses, sills and lintels or other
ornamental features may project not more than eighteen inches (18") into front,
rear and side yard spaces.
   B.   Cornices, Eaves, Gutters: Cornices, eaves and gutters may project into
front, side or rear yard space not more than one- third (1/3) of the width of
the minimum required side yard for the lot on which the building will be
erected.
   C.   Chimneys, Porches, Etc.: Chimney breasts, unwalled and unroofed
porches, terraces, balconies and steps, not over ten feet (10') long, may
extend into any side yard, provided a setback of eight feet (8') between the
side lot line and such appurtenances shall be maintained on one side and not
less than six feet (6') on the other for inside lots and not less than six feet
(6') from the side lot line on corner lots.
   D.   Fences: Fences, as provided in section
11-28-140 of this chapter, and signs, as provided in the city sign ordinance,
may be erected in the required yard.
   E.   Building Accessories: Building accessories designed and intended to
control light entering a building and being either a permanent or temporary
part of such building may project five feet (5') into any front or rear yard
space and three feet (3') into any side yard space; provided, that they are
attached only to the wall of the main building. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997)
11-28-050: SUPPLEMENTARY YARD REGULATIONS:
   A.   Main Building To Face Front: Regardless of the shape of any building
lot, the full face of a building and the full width of required side yards
shall be fully exposed to the street.
   B.   Reduction Of Front Yard: Where the ground elevation at a point fifty
feet (50') from the front lot line and midway between the side lot lines differ
by ten feet (10') or more from the curb level, the front yard setback need not
exceed sixty seven percent (67%) of that required in the zone, but not less
than twenty feet (20').
   C.   Double Frontage Lot: A double frontage or through lot shall have a
front yard as required by the respective zone on each street on which it abuts.
   D.   Rear Yard Averaging In Residential: The zoning administrator may
approve a variation in the required rear yard on a residential lotas follows:
The average distance between the main structure and rear property line
(measured from the rear corners of the main structure) shall be equal to the
required rear yard (setback) in the zone in which the main structure is
located, except that the distance measured at either corner shall not be less
than twenty feet (20').
   E.   Rear Yard Reduction For Comer Lot: On comer lots where a garage
containing not less than the required minimum number of usable off street
parking spaces is attached to or constructed as an architectural and integral
part of a dwelling, the rear yard of the lot may be reduced to not less than
fifteen feet (15').
   F.   Setback Requirement For Institutional Uses: For any building that is an
institutional use, including quasi-public and public uses, the setbacks shall
be as follows: front setbacks shall be at least fifteen feet (15'); rear
setbacks shall be at least ten feet (10'); and the side setbacks shall be the
same as the underlying zone in which the building is located. (Ord. 2016-07, 2-
16-2016; amd. Ord. 2021-12, 5- 4-2021; Ord. 2024-54, 10-15-2024)
11-28-060: LOCATION OF RECREATIONAL POOLS AND TENNIS COURTS:
   A.   Private Recreational Pool:
      1.   Location: Any private recreational pool not completely enclosed
within a building having solid walls shall be set back at least five feet (5')
from the rear and side property lines and at least thirty feet (30') from the
front property line, and at least twenty feet (20') from the side corner
property line. The private recreational pool shall be not less than twenty feet
(20') from any neighbor's dwelling. Any detached accessory buildings related to
an unenclosed pool shall meet setback requirements and standards for such
buildings, except the side corner setback may be reduced to fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Access: Any recreational pool shall be completely surround by a
fence, wall, or other substantial barrier having a height of least four feet
(4'). A substantial barrier shall be mean any permanent barrier that would not
allow passage by any person, except for gates. Gates shall be equipped with
self-closing and self-latching devices. Fences walls, or applicable substantial
barriers (as determined by the City Planner), that are not solid shall have
intermediate rails or an ornamental pattern such that a sphere four inches (4")
in diameter cannot pass through. In lieu of fencing on hot tubs, spas or
Jacuzzis, security covers may be used.
      3.   Other: No loudspeaker device which can be heard beyond the property
lines of the premises on which any recreational pool has been installed may be
operated in connection with such pool, nor may any lighting be installed in
connection with such pool which shall throw any direct rays beyond such
property lines.
   B.   Semiprivate Recreational Pool: The planning commission may permit the
use of land in any district for semiprivate pools; providing, that the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The pool shall be owned and maintained by the members of a swimming
club; and a minimum of seventy five percent (75%) of the membership must be
residents of the neighborhood in which the facility is to be located.
      2.   The lot to be used for the pool must be of sufficient size to meet
the setback requirements of a private pool. The planning commission may require
off street parking, where appropriate. The required front, side and rear yards
must be landscaped and maintained.
      3.   A solid wall or substantial fence of at least six feet (6') in
height shall be required around the entire pool.
      4.   Under no condition can any charge be made for the use of the pool.
      5.   Under no condition may any type of retail or business facilities,
including vending machines, be permitted.
      6.   Before authorization of the semiprivate pool facility, a detailed
site plan of the area must be submitted to the planning commission, along with
proof of notification of all property owners within a radius of three hundred
feet (300') of said proposed pool.
      7.   The planning commission may require a bond by the owners to
guarantee performance of these regulations and any conditions placed upon the
development by the planning commission deemed necessary to protect the
character of the district.
   C.   Private Multipurpose Sports Courts: Private multipurpose sports courts,
tennis courts or other similar playing surfaces, shall be set back at least
five feet (5') from the rear and side property lines, fifteen feet (15') from
the side corner property line, at least thirty feet (30') from the front
property line, and shall be at least twenty feet (20') from any neighboring
dwelling. Any deviation from the above setbacks or fence standards contained in
this title shall require a special exception (no fee shall be assessed for such
application). No lighting may be installed in connection with the multipurpose
sports court, tennis court or other similar playing surface which shall throw
any direct rays beyond the property lines on which it is constructed. (Ord.
1997-26, 6-4-1997; amd. Ord. 2011-10, 5-17-2011; Ord. 2015-25, 8-4-2015; Ord.
2021-01, 1-19-2021; Ord. 2024-39, 7-2-2024)
11-28-070: MAXIMUM COVERAGE AREA OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No accessory building or group of such buildings and no parking space in any
residential zone shall cover more than twenty five percent (25%) of the rear
yard space. (Ord. 2014-07, 3-4-2014)
11-28-080: LOCATION OF ARCHITECTURAL AND INTEGRAL PARTS:
Any portion of a main building or appendage thereof, or any such building
constructed as an architectural and integral part thereof, which is designed,
constructed or used for accessory use purposes shall be located as required for
any other part of the main building. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997)
11-28-090: MAXIMUM HEIGHT LIMITATIONS EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Scope: No maximum height regulation as stated in this title, except for
stated exceptions, shall apply to prevent the construction of penthouse or roof
structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans, or
similar equipment required to operate and maintain the building, and fire or
parapet walls, skylight, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks,
water tanks, wireless or televisions masts, except as specified in section
11-28-190 of this chapter, theater lofts, silos or similar structures above the
stated height limits; provided, that no space above the height limit shall be
allowed for the purpose of providing additional floor space, nor shall it
provide for human occupancy.
   B.   Utility Buildings: Public and quasi-public utility buildings authorized
in a zone may be erected to a height not exceeding sixty feet (60') if the
building is set back from each otherwise established setback line at least one
foot (1') for each additional foot of building height above the normal height
limit required for the zone in which the building is erected. These standards
may be reviewed and approved by the planning commission in conjunction with a
conditional use application and may be adjusted either up or down. (Ord. 2015-
15, 5-5-2015)
11-28-100: MINIMUM HEIGHT OF DWELLINGS:
No dwelling shall be erected where more than ten percent (10%) of its main
floor area is, or will be, below the finished surface grade. No basement houses
shall be permitted. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997)
11-28-110: RESERVED:
11-28-120: TEMPORARY USE OF LAND AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Purpose: This section is intended to provide guidelines for the
approval of uses which are truly temporary in nature, will not adversely impact
the surrounding area and land uses, and which can be terminated and removed
immediately. Temporary uses have no inherent rights within the zone in which
they locate. Temporary uses are characterized by their short term or seasonal
nature and by the fact that they do not involve the erection of any substantial
structures or require any other permanent commitment of the land.
   B.   Application And Fee:
      1.   Submittal: Application for temporary use approval shall be made to
the city planner, on forms to be provided by the city, at least thirty (30)
calendar days prior to the proposed event. The application for a temporary use
permit shall be made by the owner of the affected property or the owner's duly
authorized agent.
      2.   Fee: The application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee as
established in the consolidated fee schedule.
      3.   Business License: After approval of a temporary use permit, the
applicant shall also obtain a business license for the proposed use.
      4.   Validity Of Approval: An approved temporary use permit shall be
effective on the date of its approval. A temporary use permit shall lapse if
not used within the dates approved and may be revoked by the city planner
effective immediately upon verbal or written notice for violation of the
permit. Verbal notice shall be confirmed by written notice mailed within a
reasonable time to the permit holder.
   C.   Required Information And Plans: The application shall be accompanied by
the following information and plans:
      1.   Statement Of Event: A concise statement describing the proposed
event, including the purpose, type of merchandise involved, dates and times of
operation, number of employees involved, provisions for on site security,
provisions for on site parking, and other pertinent information necessary to
adequately evaluate the application; and
      2.   Site Plan: A copy of a site plan drawn to a standard scale which is
no greater than one inch equals twenty feet (1" = 20'), for the property which
accurately represents existing conditions on the site, including entrances,
exits, parking areas, driveways and existing structures, and which accurately
shows the location of any proposed temporary structures such as tents, stands
or signs.
   D.   Administrative Review Process:
      1.   Uses: The following uses may be reviewed and approved by the city
planner:
         a.   Christmas tree lots;
         b.   Construction trailers;
         c.   Fireworks stands;
         d.   Model home shows;
         e.   Temporary offices;
         f.   Uses related to natural disasters;
         g.   Warehouse sales. (Ord. 2015-16, 5-26-2015)
      2.   City Planner Review: The city planner shall review the application
and related materials and shall determine whether or not the proposal is in
compliance with the general plan and all applicable codes, ordinances and
specific standards for temporary uses as set forth herein. The city planner may
request that the police chief and fire chief review and comment on applications
where traffic control may be a significant issue. The city planner may also
evaluate the application according to the process and standards contained in
chapter 7 of this title, and request review and comments from the county board
of health and/or other health related agencies.
      3.   Permit Issuance: A written permit shall be issued to the applicant
after a determination of compliance has been made. Specific conditions to
assure compliance may be attached to the permit.
      4.   Denial: An application may be denied if the city planner determines
that the proposal does not comply with the standards established herein and
that the public health, safety or welfare may be impaired by issuance of a
permit. Denial of the application shall be communicated to the applicant in
writing and shall state the reasons for denial.
      5.   Appeal: An appeal of any determination of the city planner may be
made to the land use appeal authority in accordance with chapter
3-7 of this code.
   E.   Planning Commission Review: The following temporary uses require
submittal of a conditional use application, which will be evaluated by the
planning commission according to the process and standards contained in chapter
8 of this title:
      1.   Fairs, carnivals, rodeos, live entertainment, etc.;
      2.   Parking lot sales;
      3.   Promotional events;
      4.   Swap meets;
      5.   Temporary concrete and asphalt batch plants;
      6.   Other uses not specifically listed herein. (Ord. 2015-16, 5-26-2015)
   F.   Definitions:
   ARTS AND CRAFTS SHOWS: The display and sale of painting, sculpture, hand
crafts and similar objects.
   CONSTRUCTION TRAILER: A trailer or other temporary structure, excluding
sales and marketing uses located on the site of a construction project which is
used as a contractor's temporary office or for storage of construction
equipment during the actual time that construction is underway.
   GARAGE OR YARD SALE: An occasional sale conducted by a property owner at
his/her place of residence which offers obsolete personal possessions for sale,
but does not include items brought to the site for sale.
   PARKING LOT SALE: The sale of products outside, and removed from, a building
which may be conducted by a permanent occupant of the site or by a transient
merchant.
   PROMOTIONAL EVENTS: Means and includes carnivals, craft shows, mechanical
and animal rides, or the display and/or sale of merchandise or products that
are not typically sold or serviced on the site.
   RETAIL WAREHOUSE SALE: The sale of products or merchandise to the general
public by a business established on a site in a manufacturing zone which does
not operate a retail outlet as a normal element of its business operation.
   SWAP MEET: The retail sale or exchange of new, handcrafted or secondhand
items conducted by a sponsor for not more than forty eight (48) hours and
includes flea markets.
   TEMPORARY CARNIVALS AND FAIRS: The provision of games, eating and drinking
facilities, live entertainment, animal exhibitions or similar activities
outdoors, or in a tent or other temporary structure.
   TEMPORARY OFFICE: A model home within a development which serves as an
office for the sale or lease of property in the development, or a temporary
structure located on the site of a development project which serves as a
temporary business office while a permanent office is under construction on the
site.
   TEMPORARY SALES ACTIVITIES: The sale of products outside of, but in close
proximity to, a building by a permanent occupant of a site and includes
sidewalk sales, inventory reduction or liquidation sales, distressed
merchandise sales, and similar sales.
   G.   General Standards: All temporary activities are subject to the
following minimum standards:
      1.   Compatibility: The nature and intensity of the proposed use and the
size and location of any temporary structures shall be planned so as to be
compatible with existing development and uses in the area.
      2.   Changes To Site: Permanent changes to the site are prohibited. When
the temporary use ends, the applicant shall restore the site to its original
condition, including such clean up, washing and replacement of facilities as
may be necessary, or, if applicable, shall complete site improvements according
to the approved site development plan.
      3.   Structures: Tents, stands, trailers, mobile equipment and other
similar temporary structures may be utilized, provided they are clearly
identified on the submitted plan and it is determined by the city planner that
they will not impair the parking capacity, emergency access, or safe and
efficient movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic on or off the site.
      4.   Setbacks: Temporary buildings or structures shall conform to all
area and setback requirements established for permanent buildings or structures
for the zoning district in which the use is proposed. Temporary buildings or
structures shall not be located in landscaped areas and shall be located to
minimize adverse impacts of increased traffic on surrounding properties.
      5.   Conduct Within Required Yard: Temporary uses which do not include
buildings or structures may be conducted within a required yard, provided the
area is paved and the activity does not interfere with parking, traffic
circulation or emergency vehicle access.
      6.   Parking Standards:
         a.   Temporary Areas: Temporary parking areas are allowed only during
construction on a site. They must be removed, and the land restored to its
original condition, prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the
construction.
         b.   Adequate Parking Required: Adequate off street parking for the
proposed event shall be provided for the duration of the event. Determination
of compliance with this requirement shall be made by the city planner, who
shall consider the nature of the event and the applicable parking standards of
this title. Consideration shall be given to the parking needs and requirements
of permanent occupants of the site.
         c.   Reduction To Permanent Uses Prohibited: Temporary uses shall not
reduce required parking spaces below the minimum required for permanent uses on
the site.
         d.   Surface: Parking areas for the proposed use shall be surfaced
with asphalt, concrete, gravel or other surface acceptable to the city planner.
      7.   Signs: Permanent signs are prohibited. The size and location of
signs shall be in compliance with applicable provisions of the sign ordinance
for the zone in which the use will be conducted. All signs shall be removed
when the activity ends.
      8.   Sound Devices: No loudspeakers or other amplifying sound devices
shall be used in conjunction with a temporary use unless specifically approved
by the city planner.
      9.   Lighting: Outdoor lighting, if used, shall be subdued. All lighting
shall be designed, located and directed so as to eliminate glare and minimize
reflection of light into neighboring properties. Searchlights shall not be
permitted.
      10.   Violation Of Approval: Temporary uses on sites where the primary
use is a conditional use shall not violate the conditions of approval for the
primary use.
      11.   Accessory To Approved Use; Merchandise: The event or sale shall be
clearly accessory to or promotive of the permitted or conditional use(s)
approved for the site. Only merchandise which is normally sold or stocked by
the occupant(s) of the site shall be sold and/or promoted.
      12.   Insurance: The applicant shall provide to the city planner proof of
liability insurance for the requested use, if necessary. This proof shall be
submitted with the application.
      13.   Code Compliance: These provisions shall not be construed to exempt
the operator from complying with applicable building codes, health codes or
permit requirements established by other regulatory agencies or departments.
   H.   Uses, Specific Standards And Time Limits:
      1.   Residential Zones: Temporary uses in single-family and multiple-
family residential zones shall comply with the standards, and are limited to
the uses, specified below:
         a.   Hours Of Operation: The conduct of temporary uses in residential
zones shall be limited to the hours between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M.
         b.   Temporary Office In A Trailer: A temporary office in a trailer or
other portable structure for the sale or lease of property in a subdivision or
planned unit development (PUD) is prohibited.
         c.   Temporary Office In A Model Home: A temporary office for the sale
or lease of property in a major subdivision or planned unit development (PUD)
may be used until the last lot or unit in the development is sold. If the
office is located in the area of the home intended for a garage, any
alterations made to accommodate the office shall be removed, and the space
shall be converted to function as a garage upon termination of the temporary
office.
         d.   Construction Trailers: A construction trailer incidental to a
specific construction project may be located on the site of such project. The
trailer may remain for the duration of the project and shall be removed within
thirty (30) days after substantial completion of the project. Storage of
construction and related material and debris shall not be permitted in the
public right of way. Temporary offices housed within construction trailers
wherein a business or service for others are transacted are prohibited.
Examples of such uses are accountant, architect, insurance sales, medical and
dental, real estate sales, etc.
         e.   Public Gatherings: Fairs, carnivals, rodeos, live entertainment
and other major public gatherings. Fairs, carnivals, rodeos, live entertainment
and other similar major fundraising events or promotional events may be
permitted for up to three (3) consecutive days at a site with an existing
public or quasi-public use. Two (2) such events may be permitted per calendar
year.
         f.   Model Home Shows: The viewing of model homes within a subdivision
for a fee may be permitted for a period not to exceed two (2) weeks per
calendar year.
         g.   Natural Disasters And Emergencies: Temporary activities and
structures needed as the result of a natural disaster or other health and
safety emergency are allowed for the duration of the emergency.
      2.   Commercial And Industrial Zones: Temporary uses in commercial and
industrial zones shall comply with standards, and are limited to the uses,
specified below:
         a.   Hours Of Operation: The hours of operation for temporary uses in
commercial and industrial zones shall be established at the time the use is
approved.
         b.   Christmas Tree Sales Lots: A temporary use permit and business
license shall be obtained for the display and open lot sale of Christmas trees,
except where such display and sale occurs within a permanent outdoor sales area
which is incidental and accessory to an approved conditional or permitted use.
Christmas tree sales may occur only between Thanksgiving and December 25. All
unsold trees shall be removed from the property, and the property returned to
its original condition, by December 31 of each calendar year. A cash bond may
be required to ensure performance of this requirement.
         c.   Construction Trailers: A construction trailer incidental to a
specific construction project may be located on the site of such project. The
trailer may remain for the duration of the project and shall be removed within
thirty (30) days after substantial completion of the project.
         d.   Fairs, Carnivals And Other Major Public Gatherings: Fairs,
carnivals and other similar major fundraising or promotional events may be
permitted up to five (5) consecutive days on a site in a commercial or
industrial zone. Two (2) such events may be permitted per calendar year.
         e.   Fireworks Stands: Retail sale of fireworks is permitted subject
to provisions of the Farmington City business regulations. Duration of
fireworks stands shall be specified and approved by the city planner.
         f.   Natural Disasters And Emergencies: Temporary activities and
structures needed as the result of a natural disaster or other health and
safety emergency are allowed for the duration of the emergency.
         g.   Parking Lot Sales: Parking lot sales in zones where outdoor
display is not otherwise allowed may be permitted for up to five (5)
consecutive days at any one time.
         h.   Promotional Events: Promotional events shall not exceed five (5)
consecutive days per event, two (2) of which shall be a Saturday and Sunday.
There shall be no more than two (2) promotional events per calendar year per
property.
         i.   Seasonal Produce Stands Offering Produce And Plants Not Grown On
The Premises: Stands selling produce and plants which are not grown on the
premises may be permitted for up to five (5) consecutive months each year. This
category includes "farmers' markets".
         j.   Swap Meets: Swap meets may be permitted for not more than three
(3) consecutive days not more than four (4) times per year. If an applicant
proposes such events more frequently, the swap meet shall be considered a
permanent use which shall require conditional use approval prior to issuance of
a business license.
         k.   Temporary Concrete And Asphalt Batch Plants: Temporary concrete
and asphalt batch plants may be allowed only as a conditional use requiring
review and approval by the Planning Commission. Duration of such uses shall be
approved by the Planning Commission.
         l.   Temporary Office: A temporary office for a business for which a
permanent building is being constructed on a site may be approved and occupied
until an occupancy permit is issued for the permanent building or for six (6)
months, whichever comes first. The temporary office shall be located on the
same site as the future permanent building but shall not be moved onto the site
until a building permit is issued for the permanent building.
         m.   Warehouse Sales: In industrial zones, retail warehouse sales are
allowed for up to five (5) days at any one time.
      3.   Time Between Activities: Except for construction trailers and
temporary offices, the time between temporary activities shall be a minimum of
five (5) times as long as the duration of the last event. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-
1997)
   I.   Exempt Uses: The following temporary uses are exempt from the
provisions of this section:
      1.   Nonprofit Fundraising: Fundraising events of nonprofit organizations
which last not more than three (3) consecutive days, including such things as
bake sales or car washes, but not including larger events such as outdoor
carnivals, swap meets, or arts and crafts sales;
      2.   Temporary Sales Activities: Temporary sales activities involving the
display of new retail products on the site of the business which sells such
products, provided the display area is within ten feet (10') of the main
building, does not exceed thirty (30) square feet and six feet (6') in height,
and does not extend into a public right-of-way or occupy required parking
spaces or landscaped areas;
      3.   Garage, Yard Sales: Garage sales, yard sales or boutiques that occur
not more than four (4) times a year, with each event lasting not more than
seventy two (72) hours;
      4.   Seasonal Fruit, Vegetable Stands: Seasonal fruit and vegetable
stands selling produce grown on the premises are permitted subject to
compliance with other applicable provisions of this title and the sign
ordinance;
      5.   Community Events: Community events which are sponsored and/or
approved by the City;
      6.   Other Approved Exemptions: Other exemptions as specifically approved
in writing by the City Manager. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997; amd. Ord. 2015-16, 5-
26-2015; Ord. 2018-18, 5-15-2018; Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-28-130: NATIVE MATERIAL REMOVAL:
The removal of native materials from any property in any zone may be permitted
as a temporary use; provided, that the primary purpose of such removal is to
improve the land, that an excavation permit shall be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator after paying a fee, and that the following conditions be met. The
provisions of this section do not refer to sand and gravel excavation
operations. For sand and gravel excavations, see chapter 33 of this title.
   A.   Erosion Control Measures: Erosion control measures shall be taken on
the site to minimize the increased solids loading in runoff from such areas.
All erosion control measures shall be constructed as part of the first site
improvements.
   B.   Revegetation: As all or portions of the operation are completed the
site shall be revegetated with plant materials appropriate to maintaining soils
stability and the visual quality of the area.
   C.   Nuisances Eliminated: The operation shall be conducted in such a way as
to eliminate any nuisance (including noise, dust, hours of operation, etc.) to
the residents of the area. (Ord. 2009-49, 10-6-2009)
   D.   Grades: The grades of slopes left by the operations shall not exceed
the normally accepted angle of repose.
   E.   Material Processing: There shall be no processing of materials on site.
   F.   Length Of Operation: A maximum length of operation may be imposed by
the zoning administrator should it be deemed necessary.
   G.   Bond: The operation shall be required to post a bond to assure
rehabilitation of the site. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997)
11-28-140: FENCES:
   A.   Side, Rear Yards: No fence, wall, hedge or similar device shall be
constructed or placed in any required side or rear yard in a residential area
in excess of eight feet (8') in height. Where a retaining wall is reasonable
and necessary and is located on a property line separating two (2) lots, such
retaining wall may be topped by a fence, wall or hedge of the same height that
would otherwise be permitted at the location if no retaining wall existed.
   B.   Front Yard: No fence, wall, hedge or similar opaque device or open,
mesh type fences (e.g., chain link fences) shall be constructed in a required
front yard of a residential area in excess of four feet (4').
   C.   Side Corner Yard:
      1.   Maximum: The maximum height of a fence, wall, hedge or similar
device constructed in the side corner yard of a corner lot in a residential
area shall be six feet (6') and shall not be constructed closer than eight feet
(8') to the property line at the street frontage.
      2.   Modification: The zoning administrator may modify the requirement of
the eight foot (8') setback or the four foot (4') front yard height limit where
it can be demonstrated that the construction of a fence, wall, hedge or similar
device closer to the property line at the street frontage, will not adversely
affect the safety of pedestrians nor obstruct the view of or impact the safety
of vehicular traffic or adversely affect adjacent properties. The zoning
administrator, in his evaluation of the impact of the proposed fence, wall,
hedge or similar device, shall consider location of driveways, adjacent
sidewalks, street widths and rights of way, circulation visibility and overall
streetscape aesthetics. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997; amd. Ord. 2006-28, 4-19-2006;
Ord. 2023-56, 9-19-2023)
11-28-150: CLEAR VISION:
In all zones with a required front yard, no material obstruction to view
between a height of two feet (2') and ten feet (10') above the level of the
curb shall be permitted on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by
the street property lines and a line connecting them between points thirty feet
(30') from the intersection of the two (2) street property lines. (Ord. 1997-
26, 6-4-1997)
11-28-160: OPEN STORAGE IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
No yard in a residential area shall be used for the storage of junk, building
materials, debris, obsolete or abandoned vehicles, or equipment. All such
materials shall be stored completely within an enclosed building. (Ord. 1997-
26, 6-4-1997; amd. Ord. 2021-01, 1-19-2021; Ord. 2023-56, 9-19-2023)
11-28-170: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
No building, electrical or plumbing permit shall be issued for any building or
structure, and no conditional use permit or site plan approval shall be given,
if the property in question abuts a public street, unless one of the following
three (3) alternative requirements is satisfied with respect to the property in
question. Which of the alternatives is selected for specific property shall be
decided by the city administration, after the owner or developer of the
property in question has received an opportunity to express their preference.
For purposes of this section, the “property in question” includes all real
property adjacent to the site to be developed, which is owned by the same
person, or by a corporation or other entity in which that person has an
interest, or by a relative, partner, agent or trustee of that person. The
alternative requirements are as follows:
   A.   Alternative A: The property in question has curb, gutter and sidewalk
along the full length of the side abutting the public street.
   B.   Alternative B: The property owner in question agrees in writing to
provide curb, gutter and sidewalk along the full length of the side abutting
the public street, and that agreement is secured by a deposit in a Utah bank,
which deposit the city may withdraw in the event of a default by the owner or
developer. The amount of the deposit shall equal the city engineer's estimate
of the cost of installing curb, gutter and sidewalk as required, together with
an additional ten percent (10%) of that amount to cover contingencies. The
agreement and deposit shall be substantially similar to the agreements and
deposits used by the city for subdivision improvements.
   C.   Alternative C: The owner of the property in question enters into a
satisfactory written agreement that runs with the land that grants a temporary
extension of time for which to complete the required improvements, conditioned
upon and subject to the promised future performance by the owner. If the owner
fails to make said requirements, at no cost to the city, within ninety (90)
days after having been requested in writing by the city to do so, the city may
construct and install the required improvements and charge the cost thereof to
the owner. Any such charge shall constitute a lien on the property. (Ord. 1997-
26, 6-4-1997)
11-28-180: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR DWELLINGS:
   A.   Dwellings: In addition to the requirements set forth in this title, all
dwellings within Farmington City shall comply with the following:
      1.   Federal Standards: The dwelling must be constructed in accordance
with the building codes, as adopted and amended by the city, or be certified
under the federal manufactured housing construction and safety standards act
(HUD code) and approved and issued an insignia by the U.S. department of
housing and urban development. If the dwelling is certified by the department
of housing and urban development, the dwelling or additional structures may not
be modified in violation of the HUD code or the building codes, as adopted and
amended by the city, whichever is applicable to the modification. (Ord. 1997-
26, 6-4-1997)
      2.   Real Property: The real property and the home thereon must be held
in common ownership and taxed as real property with an affidavit filed with the
state tax commission in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 70D-2-401,
as amended. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
      3.   Permanent Foundation: The dwelling must be adequately installed and
secured to a permanent concrete foundation in accordance with the building
codes, as adopted and amended by the city, or the installation standards as
defined in title 10, chapter 2 of this code, whichever is applicable. If the
dwelling is installed in accordance with the installation standards, the
dwelling may not sit more than twelve inches (12") above grade.
      4.   Utilities: The dwelling must be permanently connected to and
approved for all required utilities.
      5.   Enclosure: Any space beneath the structure must be enclosed at and
secured to the perimeter of the dwelling and constructed of materials that are
weather resistant and aesthetically consistent with concrete or masonry
foundation materials.
      6.   Removal Of Equipment: All running gears, tongues, axles and wheels
must be removed from the dwelling at the time of installation. Each exit door
of the dwelling must contain a landing that is a minimum of thirty six inches
by thirty six inches (36" x 36"), constructed in accordance with the building
codes, as adopted and amended by the city.
      7.   Exterior Siding: Exterior siding and trim materials shall consist of
durable, weather resilient materials approved for dwelling construction in the
building codes, such as masonry, stucco, wood, vinyl and steel or aluminum
residential siding. In no case may corrugated metal or plastic type covering be
used on a dwelling. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997)
      8.   Garages: All dwelling units shall be provided with a garage or
carport having a minimum interior width of twelve feet (12'), constructed
concurrently with the dwelling and in accordance with the building codes, as
adopted and amended by the city. (Ord. 2006-28, 4-19-2006)
      9.   Roof: The roof overhang must be at least twelve inches (12")
measured from the vertical side of the dwelling.
   B.   Alterations: The city zoning administrator may, in his or her sole
discretion, approve deviations from one or more of the development or
architectural standards set forth in subsections A5 through A9 of this section,
upon sufficient showing and finding that the proposed alteration is compatible
and harmonious with existing or proposed structures in the area and meets or
exceeds the building codes, as adopted and amended by the city or the HUD code,
whichever is applicable. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997; amd. Ord. 2021-01, 1-19-2021)
11-28-190: WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to address planning issues
brought on by the rapid growth in demand for low power radio services. This
section distinguishes low radio from other broadcasting type telecommunication
technologies and establishes provisions that deal with issues of demand, visual
mitigation, noise, engineering, residential impacts, health, safety and
facility siting.
   B.   Definitions: The following definitions are specific to this chapter:
   ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT: Any equipment serving or being used in conjunction with
a facility or support structure. This equipment includes, but is not limited
to, utility or transmission equipment, power supplies, generators, batteries,
cables, equipment buildings, cabinets and storage sheds, shelters or other
structures.
   ANTENNA: Any equipment or device used to receive or transmit electromagnetic
waves for the provision of personal wireless services, including, but not
limited to, cellular, paging, personal communications services (PCS) and
microwave communications. Such structures and devices include, but are not
limited to, directional antennas, remote radio heads, small cell antennas,
antennas for distributed antenna systems, panels, microwave and satellite
dishes and omnidirectional antennas, such as whips. This definition does not
apply to broadcast antennas, antennas designed for amateur radio use, or
satellite dishes designed for residential or household purposes.
   DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEM (DAS): A distributed antenna system network
consisting of one or more nodes connected by a fiber system to a carrier’s base
transceiver station or other location commonly referred to in the
communications industry as an “eNodeB” or “NodeB” or similar designation.
   EXISTING STRUCTURE: Previously erected support structure or any other
structure, including, but not limited to, base stations, buildings, water
tanks, transmission towers, poles, signs or similar structures to which
facilities can be attached.
   FACILITY: Any unmanned facility established for the purpose of providing
wireless transmission of voice, data, images or other information, including,
but not limited to, personal wireless services, cellular telephone service,
personal communications service (PCS) and paging service. A facility can
consist of one or more antennas and accessory equipment or one base station, a
small cell network or distributed antenna system, or any node, attachment or
facility and associated equipment.
   LATTICE TOWER: A self-supporting multiple sides, open steel frame structure
used to support telecommunications equipment.
   LOW POWER RADIO SERVICES FACILITY: An unmanned structure which consists of
equipment used primarily for the transmission, reception or transfer of voice
or data through radio wave or wireless transmissions. Such sites typically
require the construction of transmission support structures to which antenna
equipment is attached.
   MONOPOLE: A single cylindrical steel or wooden pole that acts as the support
structure for antennas.
   MONOPOLE WITH ANTENNAS AND ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE GREATER THAN TWO FEET
IN WIDTH: A self-supporting monopole tower on which antennas or an antenna
structure exceeding two feet (2') in width are placed. The antennas and antenna
support structures may not exceed thirteen feet (13') in width or eight feet
(8') in height.
   MONOPOLE WITH ANTENNAS AND ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE LESS THAN TWO FEET IN
WIDTH: A monopole with antennas and antenna support structure not exceeding two
feet (2') in width. Antennas and antenna support structures may not exceed ten
feet (10') in height.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICES: Commercial wireless services, unlicensed
wireless services and common carrier wireless exchange access services.
   ROOF MOUNTED ANTENNA: A roof mounted antenna is an antenna or series of
individual antennas mounted on a flat roof, mechanical room or penthouse of a
building.
   SMALL CELL NETWORK: Shall mean, but is not limited to, any radio access node
(RAN) consisting of equipment which may include, but is not limited to,
distributed antenna system (DAS), picocells, remote radio heads (RRH),
distributed radio access nodes (DRAN) and other similar technologies as may
exist now and into the future. A small cell “node” is an equipment enclosure
containing active radio components, concealment/”stealthing” (but excluding any
associated electric meters, grounding equipment, power supply, power transfer
switch and cutoff switch), radio transceiver and such other facilities and
associated electronics as meet generally accepted industry standards or federal
communications commission (FCC) rules, regulations and/or guidelines for small
cell facilities.
   STEALTH FACILITY: Any facility that is integrated as an architectural
feature of an existing structure or changes a support structure design so that
the purpose of the facility or support structure for providing wireless
services is not readily apparent.
   SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A structure designed to support facilities, including,
but not limited to, monopoles, vertical facilities, utility poles and other
freestanding self-supporting structures.
   WALL MOUNTED ANTENNA: An antenna or series of individual antennas mounted
against the vertical wall of a building.
   WHIP ANTENNA: An antenna that is cylindrical in shape. Whip antennas can be
directional or omnidirectional and vary in size depending upon the frequency
and gain for which they are designed. (Ord. 2016-07, 2-16-2016)
   C.   Low Power Radio Services Facility: The requirements of this section
apply to both commercial and private low power radio services such as
“cellular” or “PCS” (personal communications system) communications and paging
systems. All facilities shall comply with the following regulations and all
other ordinances of the city and any pertinent regulations of the federal
communications commission and the federal aviation administration.
   D.   Coverage Plan Required: A coverage plan site specific to the
application shall be submitted by each company desiring placement of wireless
telecommunications facilities. The coverage plan shall be submitted and
accepted by the planning commission prior to the processing of any permits for
permitted or conditional use locations. The coverage plan shall show
approximate future locations that may be needed within a twenty four (24) month
period from the date of approval by the planning commission of facilities in
adjoining areas and/or communities, and provide specific locations when
possible, but are not required to detail the specific type (i.e., pole, roof,
wall mount) of facility. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997)
   E.   Permitted And Conditional Uses: The uses specified in table 1 of this
section are allowed; provided, that they comply with all requirements of this
section marked wireless telecommunications facilities. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-1997;
amd. 2016 Code)
      1.   Previously Approved Site: Antennas to be located on any previously
approved communication site, as allowed herein, may be allowed as a permitted
use.
      2.   Residentially Zoned Areas: All types of wireless telecommunications
facilities are prohibited in residentially zoned areas, except as may be
permitted with a conditional use permit upon or within any institutional use,
regardless of the zoning designation. These institutional uses include, but are
not limited to, churches, well sites, water tanks, city parks, city buildings
(fire, police, city hall), public schools, quasi-public schools and similar and
compatible uses.
   F.   Facility Types: Low power radio service facilities are characterized by
the type or location of the antenna structure. There are the following general
types of such antenna structures: wall mounted antennas; roof mounted antennas;
monopoles with antennas and antenna support structure less than two feet (2')
in width; monopoles with antennas and antenna support structure greater than
two feet (2') in width; and lattice towers. Standards for the installation of
each type of antenna are as follows:
      1.   Wall Mounted Antenna: The following provisions apply to wall mounted
antennas:
         a.   Wall mounted antennas shall not extend above the wall line of the
building or extend more than four feet (4') horizontally from that face of the
building.
         b.   Antennas, equipment and the supporting structure shall be painted
to match the color of the building or structure or the background against which
they are most commonly seen. Antennas and the supporting structure on buildings
should be architecturally compatible with the building. Whip antennas are not
allowed on a wall mounted antenna structure.
         c.   Antennas mounted directly on existing parapet walls, penthouses
or mechanical equipment rooms, with no portion of the antenna extending above
the roofline of such structures, shall be considered a wall mounted antenna.
      2.   Roof Mounted Antenna: The following provisions apply to roof mounted
antennas:
         a.   Roof mounted antennas shall be allowed on top of existing
penthouses or mechanical equipment rooms, provided the antennas and antenna
support structures are enclosed by a structure that creates a visual screen.
The screening structure, antennas and antenna mounting structures shall not
extend more than eight feet (8') above the existing roofline of the penthouse
or mechanical equipment room.
         b.   For antennas not mounted on a penthouse or mechanical equipment
room, the antennas shall be mounted at least five feet (5') from the exterior
wall of a building. For antennas mounted between five (5) and ten feet (10')
from the exterior wall, the maximum height of a roof mounted antenna is
directly proportional to the distance the antenna is set back from the exterior
wall up to a maximum height of ten feet (10') above the roofline of the
building to which the antenna is attached.
Antennas shall be mounted at least five (5) and ten feet (10') behind a parapet
wall. For antennas mounted between five (5) and ten feet (10') behind a parapet
wall, the maximum height of the antenna is directly proportional to the
distance the antenna is set back from the wall up to a maximum of ten feet
(10') as measured from the top of the parapet wall. The antennas shall not
exceed more than fifteen feet (15') above the roofline of the building itself
unless approved as a conditional use.
         c.   Roof mounted antennas are permitted only on a roof and shall be
screened, constructed and/or colored to match the structure to which they are
attached.
      3.   Monopole With Antennas And Antenna Support Structures Less Than Two
Feet In Width: The total antenna structure mounted on a monopole shall not
exceed two feet (2') in width. The maximum height of such antenna shall not
exceed ten feet (10') in height. No such antenna shall be located within two
hundred feet (200') of a residential zone.
      4.   Monopole With Antennas And Antenna Support Structure Greater Than
Two Feet In Width: The maximum visible width of antennas and antenna mounting
structures shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height or thirteen feet (13') in
width as viewed looking directly at the monopole at the same elevation as the
antennas and antenna mounting structure. No such monopole shall be located
within two hundred feet (200') of a residential zone.
      5.   Lattice Tower: Lattice towers are not permitted.
   G.   Height Limit: The height limit is up to one hundred feet (100') or up
to one hundred twenty feet (120') if approved as a collocation. Each pole
location requires a separate conditional use permit.
   H.   Collocation: For those service providers who desire to collocate upon
an existing pole, they may do so as a permitted use; provided, that the initial
installation received a conditional use permit. The new facility shall comply
with all other provisions relating to site development, landscaping, security,
etc., as provided herein.
   I.   Location And Minimum Setbacks: Monopoles with antennas and antenna
support structure less than two feet (2') in width and monopoles with antennas
and antenna support structure greater than two feet (2') in width, shall be
allowed only in the rear yard area of any commercial or industrial lot. These
structures shall not be located in a required landscaped area, buffer area or
required parking area.
   J.   Area Limitations For Wall And Roof Mounted Antennas: A combination of
both roof and wall mounted antennas are allowed on a building. The total area
for all wall and roof mounted antennas and supporting structures combined shall
not exceed forty (40) square feet for each exterior wall of the building or a
total of one hundred sixty (160) square feet per building per carrier. A
maximum of four (4) walls shall be occupied by cellular antennas. The total
area is the sum of the area of each individual antenna face the visible portion
of the support structure as viewed when looking directly at the face of the
building. The total area for a roof mounted antenna shall apply to the closest
exterior wall. Up to three (3) carriers may utilize each building side for a
maximum of four (4) sides. Each carrier must obtain a separate conditional use
permit.
   K.   Additional Conditional Use Requirements: In addition to conditional use
standards outlined in conditional uses, the following shall be considered by
the planning commission:
      1.   Compatibility: Compatibility of the proposed structure with the
height and mass of existing buildings and utility structures.
      2.   Collocation: Whether collocation of the antenna on other existing
structures in the same vicinity such as other towers, buildings, water towers,
utility poles, athletic field lights, parking lot lights, etc., is possible
without significantly impacting antenna transmission or reception.
      3.   Best Visual Screening: The location of the antenna in relation to
existing vegetation, topography and buildings to obtain the best visual
screening.
      4.   Spacing: Whether the spacing between monopoles creates quantifiable
detrimental impacts to adjoining properties.
      5.   Setbacks: The planning commission may reduce the required setback
from a residential zone if practical difficulties are demonstrated by the
applicant (i.e., city park location, public buildings, etc.), or upon detailed
demonstration by the application that the proposed facility can be effectively
screened from the view of nearby sensitive land uses.
   L.   Accessory Buildings To Antenna Structures: Accessory buildings to
antenna structures must comply with the required setback, height and
landscaping requirements of the zoning district in which they are located.
Monopoles shall be fenced with a six foot (6') vinyl coated chainlink fence or
other fencing as approved or required by the planning commission. There shall
be no climbing pegs located on the lower twenty feet (20') of the monopole. All
power lines on the lot leading to the accessory building(s) and antenna
structure shall be underground.
   M.   Historic Districts: Any antenna proposed for a location within a
historic district or on a landmark site is subject to approval through the
historic preservation commission and planning commission.
   N.   Antennas And Mounting Structures On Or Over A Public Right Of Way:
Antennas and mounting structures encroaching on or over the public sidewalk or
on or over a public right of way shall be subject to obtaining permission from
the city pursuant to the city’s rights of way encroachment policy.
   O.   Nonmaintained Or Abandoned Facilities: The zoning administrator may
require each nonmaintained or abandoned low power radio services antenna to be
removed from the building or premises when such an antenna has not been
repaired or put into use by the owner, person having control or person
receiving benefit of such structure within thirty (30) calendar days after
notice of nonmaintenance or abandonment is given to the owner, person having
control or person receiving the benefit of such structure. (Ord. 1997-26, 6-4-
1997)
   P.   Small Cell Networks, DAS And Similar Networks: Small cell networks, DAS
and similar networks may exceed the maximum building height limitations within
a zoning district, provided they do not constitute a substantial change. These
types of facilities shall not exceed fifty feet (50') in height unless such
height increase is approved by the planning commission as part of a conditional
use application.
      1.   Site Plan Requirements: Site plans shall detail proposed
improvements which comply with Farmington City’s existing site plan
requirements. Drawings must depict improvements related to the requirements
listed in this section, including property boundaries, setbacks, topography,
elevation sketch, and dimensions of improvements.
      2.   Lighting: Facilities or support structures shall not be lighted or
marked unless required by the federal communications commission (FCC), the
federal aviation administration (FAA) or other applicable governmental
authority.
      3.   Signage: Signs located at the facility shall be limited to ownership
and contact information, FCC antenna registration number (if required) and any
other information as required by the applicable governmental authority.
Commercial advertising is strictly prohibited.
      4.   Landscaping: In all zoning districts where these facilities are
allowed, the Planning Commission shall have the authority to impose reasonable
landscaping requirements surrounding the accessory equipment. Required
landscaping shall be consistent with surrounding vegetation and shall be
maintained by the facility owner. The Planning Commission may elect to waive
landscaping requirements for sites that are not visible from the public right-
of-way or adjacent property, or in instances where, in the judgment of the
Planning Commission, landscaping is not appropriate or necessary. (Ord. 2016-
07, 2-16-2016)
   TABLE 1
   SUMMARY OF PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES
Key:
N = Not permitted
P = Permitted
C = Conditional use
! = Allowed only on nonresidential structures
# = Allowed only on school, church, or other institutional uses, if disguised
                         Monopoles  Monopoles  Monopoles  Monopoles
                         <2 Ft.     <2 Ft.     >2 Ft.     >2 Ft.
                         Structure  Structure  Structure  Structure  Small Cell
Zone     Wall    Roof    <60 Ft.    >60 Ft.    <60 Ft.    >60 Ft.    Network,
District Mounted Mounted Tall Or    Tall Or    Tall Or    Tall Or    DAS And
         Antenna Antenna Maximum    Exceeding  Maximum    Exceeding  Similar
                         Height For Maximum    Height For Maximum    Networks
                         District,  Height For District,  Height For
                         If Less    District   If Less    District
                         Monopoles  Monopoles  Monopoles  Monopoles
                         <2 Ft.     <2 Ft.     >2 Ft.     >2 Ft.
                         Structure  Structure  Structure  Structure  Small Cell
Zone     Wall    Roof    <60 Ft.    >60 Ft.    <60 Ft.    >60 Ft.    Network,
District Mounted Mounted Tall Or    Tall Or    Tall Or    Tall Or    DAS And
         Antenna Antenna Maximum    Exceeding  Maximum    Exceeding  Similar
                         Height For Maximum    Height For Maximum    Networks
                         District,  Height For District,  Height For
                         If Less    District   If Less    District
A        C!      C!      C          C          C          C          C#
AE/AA    C!      N       C#         N          N          N          C#
R        C!      N       C#         N          N          N          C#
LR       C!      N       C#         N          N          N          C#
S        C!      N       C#         N          N          N          C#
LS       C!      N       C#         N          N          N          C#
R-2      C!      N       C#         N          N          N          C#
R-4      C!      N       C#         N          N          N          C#
R-8      C!      N       C#         N          N          N          C#
BP       P       P       P          C          C          C          P
BR       C!      C!      C#         C          N          N          C#
C        P       P       P          C          C          C          P
MU1      P       P       C          N          C          N          P
B        C!      N       C#         N          N          N          C#
C-H      C!      P!      P          C          C          C          P
C-R      P       P       P          C          C          C          P
LM&B     P       P       P          C          C          C          P
 
Note:
   1.    The permitted and conditional uses described in this table for the MU
(mixed use) zone district includes the following zones: CMU, NMU, RMU, GMU,
TMU, and OMU.
(Ord. 2017-13, 5-16-2017)
11-28-200: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (ADUs):
   A.   Purpose: The purposes of this section and any rules, regulations,
standards and specifications adopted pursuant hereto are:
      1.   Minimal Impacts: To accommodate such housing in residential
neighborhoods with minimal impacts on the neighborhood in terms of traffic,
noise, parking, congestion, proximity to neighboring dwelling units, and
compatible scale and appearance of residential buildings.
      2.   Decline In Quality: To prevent the proliferation of rental
dwellings, absentee ownership, Building Code violations and associated decline
in quality of residential neighborhoods.
      3.   Terms And Conditions: To set forth standardized terms and conditions
for ADUs and procedures for review and approval of the same.
   B.   Applications. Applications for an IADU shall be submitted and reviewed
by the Planning Department.
   C.   Allowed Use: ADUs may be an allowed use as designated by the underlying
zone(s) found in this title.
   D.   Standards: The following standards and conditions shall apply to all
ADUs, and Detached Accessory Dwelling Units (DADUs) or Internal Accessory
Dwelling Units (IADUs) as specified, in addition to any terms and conditions of
approval as imposed by the Planning Department or the Planning Commission
during the permitted use, conditional use permit, or subdivision process:
      1.   Location, Height, and Footprint: An ADU shall only be allowed as
part of, or in conjunction with, a single-family dwelling, and DADUs shall meet
the height and building footprint area standards of the underlying zone for
accessory buildings.
      2.   Number: A maximum of one ADU shall be allowed per single-family
dwelling except as provided for in subparagraph F below. An ADU shall contain
no more than one dwelling unit.
      3.   Parking: At least one off-street parking stall shall be provided for
the ADU. Such parking stall must be in addition to all off street parking
requirements for the primary single-family dwelling on the lot and shall
conform with the City parking standards specified in this title.
      4.   Size: DADU shall be equal to or subordinate to the footprint of the
original Single-family dwelling. An IADU shall be equal to or subordinate to
the floor area of the original single-family dwelling.
      5.   Lot Size:
         a.   The creation of an IADU is prohibited if the lot size\containing
the primary dwelling is less than six thousand (6,000) square feet in size.
         b.   The creation of a DADU is prohibited if the lot containing the
primary dwelling is less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in size.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4605.png]
   *SF = Single-Family Dwelling
      6.   Construction Codes: The ADU shall comply with all Construction,
Housing and Building Codes in effect at the time the ADU is constructed and
shall comply with all procedures and requirements of the City building
regulations.
      7.   Foundation: The ADU must be adequately installed and secured to a
permanent concrete foundation in accordance with the building codes, as adopted
and amended by the city.
      8.   Occupants: The ADU shall be occupied exclusively by one family.
      9.   Occupancy: Either the single-family dwelling or the ADU shall be
owner occupied.
      10.   Temporary Absentee Ownership:
         a.   Temporary absentee property ownership may be allowed due to
circumstances, such as military assignments, employment commitments, family
obligations and quasi-public service.
         b.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the maximum time period allowed
for temporary absentee property ownership shall not exceed twelve (12) months.
In the event such temporary absentee property ownership occurs, the property
owner may rent both the ADU and the primary dwelling to unrelated third parties
as defined herein.
         c.   The zoning administrator may extend the twelve (12) month
temporary absentee owner period when the property owner can provide sufficient
evidence that the circumstances justifying the exception will last longer than
one year. The zoning administrator may not authorize a temporary absentee
ownership unless the application includes a definite termination date of the
temporary absence.
         d.   An unrelated third party is any person who is not related to the
primary owner of a dwelling within 3 degrees of consanguinity.
         e.   This subsection does not prohibit the occupation of a primary
dwelling or ADU by a related party, or a domestic partner of the property
owner, during a period of the property owner’s absence.
      11.   Notice Of ADU: Farmington City may record a notice in the office of
the Davis County Recorder on the lot in which the ADU is located. The notice
shall include:
         a.   A statement that the lot contains an ADU; and
   
      b.   A statement that the ADU may only be used in accordance with the
City’s regulations.
   The City shall, upon recording the notice deliver a copy of the notice to
the owner of the ADU.
   E.   Site Development: Upon consideration of approval of a permitted use, or
a conditional use permit, for an ADU, an application for site development shall
be submitted in accordance with the provisions of chapter 7 of this title.
   F.   DADU Ownership: The DADU owner may be different or the same as the
owner of the single-family dwelling, including but not limited to a lot split.
The DADU owner may own or acquire an interest in the DADU where such interest
is memorialized in a writing, that it is a legally enforceable and binding
instrument fully describing the legal obligations between the owner of the
single-family dwelling and the owner/proposed owner or interest holder as well
as their respective successors in interest in the DADU in such a form and
manner as will run with the land. Such instrument shall be in recordable form
and shall be recorded with the office of the county recorder as a condition of
issuance of any building permit or certificate of occupancy by the city.
Ownership may include transfers to successors in interest to the original owner
where the original owner retains ultimate control of the DADU such as to a
wholly owned corporation or living trust where the owner is both grantor and
trustee and the like. All such instruments must be approved by the city
attorney as to form and content prior to recordation. Standards for any such
DADU created under this Section are as follows:
      1.   SSF: A Subordinate Single-Family dwelling (SSF) is a DADU held in
separate ownership from owner of the single-family dwelling, which ownership
includes land separate from the single-family dwelling.
      2.   DADU Parcel: A defined area of ground which contains only two lots,
each with a dwelling, and which, if combined together as one lot, including the
structures thereon, meets the building lot, building placement, building
height, parking standards, and other requirements of the underlying zone.
      3.   DADU Parcel Compliance: An SSF and a single-family dwelling shall
comply with the definition of a DADU parcel.
      4.   Land Use Approvals/Permits: Any subdivision and building permit
necessary to enable an SSF must follow the building code, the city's
subdivision process, and other rules and regulations of the Farmington City
Code.
      5.   Separate Utilities Required: As part of the subdivision and building
permit process, the owner of a DADU shall provide separate culinary water and
sewer laterals, and other utilities (and if necessary a separate connection for
secondary water), as well as customary metering, prior to occupancy of the SSF,
and shall provide easements acceptable to the City for the same prior to or
concurrent with the recordation of the subdivision. In the event separate
utilities for the DADU are not installed, or approved by any or all respective
service providers, the owner of the single-family dwelling shall not offer the
DADU for sale as an SSF and the city shall not approve the subdivision of the
property.
      6.   Parking and Access Easements: If an SSF lot frontage on public or
private right-of-way is not wide enough to accommodate parking or pedestrian
access, or if an SSF lot has no frontage, the owner of the single-family
dwelling lot shall provide parking and pedestrian access easements, acceptable
to the city, to the owner of the SSF prior to or concurrent with the
recordation of the subdivision.
      7.   Certificate of Occupancy: A property owner, or the City, shall not
record a subdivision to enable an SSF until the City has issued a certificate
of occupancy for the SSF, unless a deed restriction, acceptable to the City, is
recorded concurrent with the newly created vacant lot which states:
         a.   The owner may establish a DADU thereon so long as both lots are
held under one ownership, meet DADU Parcel requirements, and the owner must
live on-site in either the DADU or the single-family dwelling; and
         b.   Any future SSF on the lot must meet all related requirements,
included but not limited to SSF Occupancy standards.
      8.   SSF Occupancy: An SSF must be owner occupied for two (2) years upon
initial separation of ownership from the single-family dwelling regardless if
such two (2) years is interrupted by an allowed temporary absentee ownership
time period set forth herein, and all instruments recorded against the property
to implement the separation shall require the same standard. Initial separation
shall mean for purposes of this part the date upon which the initial owner of
the single-family dwelling divests or sells a fee simple interest in the DADU
creating the SSF.
      9.   Number of Permissible Dwelling Units:
         a.   An SSF shall contain no more than one dwelling unit, and shall
not have a DADU or an IADU.
         b.   A Single-Family Dwelling which is essential to the creation of an
SSF shall not have an DADU, but may have an IADU. In the event this occurs, the
lot size for the SSF must be greater than or equal to two thousand five hundred
square feet (2,500 sq. ft.) in area, the lot size for the Single-family
dwelling must be greater than or equal to six thousand square feet (6,000 sq.
ft.) in area, and the size for the DADU parcel must be greater than or equal to
Twelve thousand square feet (12,000 sq. ft.) in area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4607.png]
   *SF = Single-Family Dwelling
(Ord. 2018-18, 5-15-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-07, 5-5-2020; Ord. 2021-25, 9-21-2021;
Ord. 2023-40, 6-20-2023; Ord. 2024-41, 7-16-2024; Ord. 2024-62, 12-17-2024)
11-28-210: SMALL AUTO DEALERSHIP:
Small auto dealerships may be allowed as a conditional use in business/
commercial zones as designated by this title.
   A.   Purpose: The purposes of this section and any rules, regulations,
standards and specifications adopted pursuant hereto are:
      1.   Minimal Impacts: To accommodate such dealerships in commercial areas
with minimal impacts on the area in terms of compatible scale and appearance.
      2.   Incompatibility: To prevent the proliferation of incompatible auto
dealerships.
      3.   Terms And Conditions: To set forth standardized terms and conditions
for small auto dealerships and procedures for review and approval of same.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit: Small auto dealerships may be permitted as a
conditional use in the BR Zone. Applications for small auto dealerships shall
be submitted and reviewed as a conditional use permit in accordance with
chapter 8 of this title.
   C.   Standards: The following standards and conditions shall apply to all
small auto dealerships, in addition to any terms and conditions of approval as
imposed by the Planning Commission during the conditional use permit process.
      1.   Location: A small auto dealership may only be allowed as part of a
compatible existing business not exclusively car sales and shall be subordinate
to such business.
      2.   Size: Small auto dealerships shall have no more than three (3) cars
displayed for sale at any one time.
      3.   Buildings: No exterior architectural or structural modifications
shall be made to any building to accommodate small auto dealerships.
      4.   Business Sign: One sign advertising the business may be permitted,
but shall not be greater than the square foot minimum area required by state
law and shall otherwise be compliant with Farmington City sign ordinances.
      5.   Traffic: The auto dealership shall not generate substantially
greater vehicle traffic than commonly associated with other activities in the
area.
      6.   Accessory Use: The use may only be permitted as an accessory use to
an established business and shall never be the primary use. In other words, the
small auto dealership sales shall be clearly incidental, compatible,
customarily appropriate and subordinate to the main use of the property.
      7.   Appearance: Small auto dealership sales should be conducted in such
a way that passersby would not, under normal circumstances, be aware of its
existence.
      8.   Signs: Any sign, except for the one approved sign for the business,
including any advertising message, announcement, declaration, demonstration,
illustration, insignia, surface or space erected or maintained in view of the
public street for identification, advertisement or promotion of the interests
of any person, entity, event, product or service shall be expressly prohibited.
This definition shall also include sign structures, supports, lighting systems
and any attachments, ornaments or other features designed to attract the
attention of observers.
      9.   Property Size: Small auto dealerships may only be permitted on
property one-half (1/2) acre or greater in size.
      10.   Limited Display: The car dealership shall be limited to displaying
cars used by or in connection with the business.
   D.   Site Development: Upon approval of a conditional use permit for a small
auto dealership, an application for site development shall be submitted in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 7 of this title. (Ord. 2003-31, 8-6-
2003)
11-28-220: CLASS A SELF-STORAGE:
Class A self-storage is a type of self-storage that requires maximum design
standards. Class A self-storage may only be allowed as a conditional use in
various zones as designated in this title. Applications for class A self-
storage shall be submitted and reviewed as a conditional use permit in
accordance with chapter 8 of this title.
   A.   Purpose: The purposes of this section and any rules, regulations,
standards and specifications adopted pursuant hereto are:
      1.   Minimal Impact: To accommodate such self-storage with minimal impact
in commercial and mixed use areas in terms of compatible infill, scale, design
and appearance of buildings.
      2.   Terms And Conditions: To set forth standardized terms and conditions
for class A self-storage and procedures for review and approval of the same.
(Ord. 2006-57, 8-15-2006)
   B.   Standards: The following standards and conditions shall apply to all
class A self-storage developments, in addition to any terms and conditions of
approval as imposed by the planning commission during the conditional use
permit process:
      1.   Location: Class A self-storage is an ancillary commercial use and
shall be located on secondary commercial sites or small pockets of land that
are not quality commercial or residential sites. Class A self-storage shall not
prevent the development of, or displace, higher, better and more intense
commercial uses typically found on primary sites adjacent to high traffic major
streets on visible and accessible building lots. Nevertheless, they should be
located near high traffic areas close to residences and businesses and/or on
sites which may be visible but not accessible.
      2.   Architectural: Projects must have distinguished architectural
features, including commercial building rooflines, building and color
variation. Exteriors walls should be concrete masonry, brick or architectural
steel paneling, as approved by the planning commission, and any view of roll up
doors should be kept to a minimum. (Ord. 2016-13, 5-17-2016)
      3.   Fencing: All fencing must be decorative. It can be stamped masonry,
wrought iron or a mixture of both.
      4.   Outside Storage: No outside storage, including, but not limited to,
RVs or vehicles shall be allowed.
      5.   Landscaping: A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the gross area of
the site shall be landscaped. The twenty percent (20%) landscaping requirement
should blend well with the fencing and solid masonry walls that may surround
the project. Special attention should be given to landscaping in the high
traffic and visible areas of the project as well as covering large and long
exterior masonry walls.
      6.   Management Office: Class A self-storage shall include a
professionally designed office for on site management purposes. The office
should include ADA accessible restrooms and may have a retail sales area. It
should blend in with the design of the project and neighboring business.
      7.   Operations: All business operations should be conducted using
approved commercial property management standards. Security features should
include digital video, electronic gate access and individual door alarms.
      8.   Other: Facilities should include climate control units, and offer
multiple services to its tenants. Limited access hours shall be required to
reduce late night noise.
   C.   Site Development: Upon approval of a conditional use permit for a
secondary dwelling, an application for site development shall be submitted in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 7 of this title. (Ord. 2006-57, 8-15-
2006)
11-28-230: DEMOLITIONS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   The purpose of this section is to promote the public welfare by
maintaining the integrity and continuity of the urban fabric and economic
vitality; establish standards and an orderly and predictable process for the
demolition of buildings and structures in Farmington City; ensure that
demolitions occur safely; protect utilities and other infrastructure from
damage during demolition; provide for enforcement of timely completion of
demolition and for improvement of property following demolition to ensure the
site is not detrimental to the use and enjoyment of surrounding property;
provide for enforcement and maintenance of property to avoid purposeful
demolition by neglect; and encourage preservation of the city's housing stock.
      2.   A primary intent of Farmington City with respect to this section is
to avoid demolition, or partial demolition, of buildings in a manner that
disrupts the character and development pattern of established neighborhood and
business areas. Accordingly, the city finds that it is in the public interest
to require existing buildings to be maintained in a habitable condition until
replaced by new construction, except as otherwise permitted by this code; avoid
demolition of existing structures until a complete building permit application
is submitted for new construction, except as otherwise provided in this
section; and avoid creation of vacant demolition sites with minimal or no
landscaping or other improvements.
      3.   To help achieve this purpose and intent, any demolition permit
application for a demolition, or a partial demolition, shall conform to
standards for building permit applications contained in this code; and
provisions of the international building code related to demolitions,
including, but not limited to, the international residential code. After all
the information required by this section is received by the city, the community
development department may consider an application for demolition or partial
demolition.
   B.   Permit Required: It is unlawful to demolish, or partially demolish, any
building or structure in the city, or cause the same to be demolished, without
first obtaining a permit for demolition or partial demolition of each such
building or structure from the city building official as provided in this
section.
   C.   Application For Permit: To obtain a permit for demolition, or partial
demolition, an applicant shall pay all applicable fees and submit an
application in writing on a form furnished by the building official for that
purpose. Each application shall:
      1.   Identify and describe the type of work to be performed under the
permit;
      2.   State the address of the structure or building to be demolished;
      3.   Describe the building or structure to be demolished;
      4.   Identify the approximate date of commencement and completion of
demolition;
      5.   Indicate if fences, barricades, scaffolds or other protections are
required by any city code for the demolition and, if so, their proposed
location and compliance;
      6.   State whether fill material will be required to restore the site to
level grade after demolition and, if required, the approximate amount of fill
material;
      7.   If the building or structure to be demolished contains any dwelling
units;
      8.   State the proposed use of the premises following demolition. If new
construction is proposed following demolition, state the anticipated start date
and whether any development applications have been submitted to and/or approved
by the City;
      9.   The permit shall be signed by the party or the party's authorized
agent requesting the permit. A signature on the permit application constitutes
a certification by the signee that the information contained in the application
is true and correct;
      10.   The fee for a demolition permit application shall be as shown on
the Farmington City consolidated fee schedule;
      11.   An excavation permit must be obtained, if applicable, prior to
issuance of a demolition permit. (Ord. 2013-08, 4-16-2013)
   D.   Issuance Of Demolition Permit For A Main Building:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection D4 of this section, a
demolition permit shall be issued only upon compliance with subsections D2 and
D3 of this section, if applicable, and if:
         a.   A complete building permit application to replace the building or
structure proposed for demolition has been submitted to the Community
Development Department; and in the case of a replacement building for a
dwelling, the building permit must be issued and the City must receive a cash,
letter of credit, escrow, or property performance bond in a form acceptable to
the City equal in amount to the valuation, as determined by the building
official, of the replacement building, except for property bonds which must be
at least equal in value to the subject property including any existing on-site
accessory buildings (but need not exceed the value of the new building); or
         b.   The building official or Fire Marshal orders immediate demolition
due to an emergency as provided in Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings; or because the premises have been damaged beyond repair because of a
natural disaster, fire, or other similar event; or
         c.   The building official or Fire Marshal authorizes immediate
demolition because clearing of land is necessary to remove a nuisance as
defined in Utah Code Annotated section 76-10-801 et seq., or its successor.
(Ord. 2017-26, 10-3-2017)
      2.   Unless a building permit has been issued for one or more new
buildings or structures located on the same site as the demolished building or
structure, within thirty (30) days after demolition is completed, landscaping
shall be installed on the property according to the standards set forth in
chapter 7 of this title.
         a.   Timely and proper installation and maintenance of landscaping
shall be assured by a bond filed with the City.
         b.   Required landscaping shall remain in place and shall be
maintained until new construction is commenced on the subject property and may
be removed to facilitate such construction. Thereafter, replacement landscaping
shall be installed as may be required by this Code.
         c.   Notwithstanding the thirty (30) day requirement in this
subsection D2, installation of landscaping may be delayed due to weather
conditions so long as landscaping is completed within six (6) months after
demolition and the property owner escrows funds sufficient to assure
installation of landscaping as determined by the Community Development
Department.
      3.   If the proposed demolition of the main building involves the
demolition or partial demolition of any historic resource, contributing
structure or a structure located in a historic district or on the Farmington
City Landmarks Register, as provided in
chapter 39, "Historic Buildings And Sites", of this title, or its successor,
subsection E of this section shall apply.
      4.   Notwithstanding contrary provisions of this section, a demolition
permit for a building or structure may be issued if the Community Development
Director certifies that the land on which the building or structure is located:
         a.   (1) Is subject to a Master Plan that envisions redevelopment of
the land unless removal of the building or structure is inconsistent with the
Master Plan;
            (2)   Is being assembled for redevelopment purposes; and
            (3)   Is part of a larger area being joined to create one or more
larger parcels of developable land in order to implement the Master Plan; or
         b.   If the demolition permit is for a dwelling that is not a
multiple-family dwelling which:
            (1)   Is a nonconforming use as provided by relevant provisions of
this title; or
            (2)   Is located on property for which an applicable Master Plan or
the current zoning envisions exclusive nonresidential use; and
         c.   If a building permit for new construction is not issued within
eighteen (18) months after demolition occurs pursuant to subsection G of this
section, landscaping shall be installed as provided in subsection D2 of this
section.
   E.   Historic Resources: If the proposed demolition involves the demolition
or partial demolition of any historic resource, contributing structure, or a
structure located in a district or on the Farmington City landmarks register,
as provided in
chapter 39, "Historic Buildings And Sites", of this title, or its successor, a
demolition permit shall be issued only upon compliance with applicable
provisions of that chapter or its successor.
   F.   Demolition By Neglect: A property owner shall not neglect a building or
structure to the point that the building or structure fails to substantially
conform to applicable standards of the State Construction Code and section
11-39-070 of this title.
   G.   Expiration: Unless there is substantial action under a demolition
permit within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of Zoning
Administrator and/or building official approval, the permit shall expire.
Substantial action shall be demonstrated by obtaining a demolition permit and
demolishing the structure.
   H.   Revocations: Any violation of a demolition permit, any conditions
thereof, or any requirement of this title, shall be grounds for the review and
possible revocation of a demolition permit by the Zoning Administrator and/or
building official.
   I.   Appeal:
      1.   An appeal of an action or decision of the Zoning Administrator made
in the administration of this section shall be made to the land use appeal
authority in accordance with chapter
3-7 of this code.
      2.   Any appeal of an action or decision of the building official made in
administration of this section shall be appealed as set forth in title 10,
chapter 8 of this Code, and as set forth in the International Building Code,
including, but not limited to, the International Residential Code. (Ord. 2013-
08, 4-16-2013; amd. Ord. 2017-26, 10-3-2017; Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-28-240: TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS/LOTS (TDR):
   A.   Transfer Lots: Property proposed for conservation land and constrained
and sensitive land, common area, or subdivisions using an alternative lot size,
or as special exception because of blight, if located in a designated receiving
zone, may be replaced by one, or more than one, "transfer lot". A transfer lot
is a lot that could have been developed elsewhere in the City, but instead is
platted in the place of proposed conservation land, common area, or
subdivisions using an alternative lot size, or as a special exception because
of blight, and where money paid to the owner of property located in a
designated sending zone by a developer to transfer the lot, and increase the
overall residential density of his project. Such lots shall be known and
referred to as "transfer lots" and must be approved by the City in conjunction
with subdivision or site plan approval. A transfer lot is not the result of a
waiver set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Sole Discretion: The City has the sole authority to designate sending
and receiving zones where such transfer lots are used and may do so by
resolution.
   C.   Loss Of Associated Density Right: Any sending zone parcel, once a
transfer lot density right is taken off the sending zone parcel, loses the
associated density right unless a future City Council decision approves an up
zoning to the sending zone parcel.
   D.   Minimum Transfer Lot Size And Dimensional Standards: The minimum
acreage required for any transfer lot replacing conservation land, common area,
or subdivisions using an alternative lot size, or as a special exception
because of blight, shall be determined in accordance with the applicable and
respective chapter and section set forth in this title, including, but not
limited to, the development chart and dimensional standards provided in section
11-12-090 of this title, PUD standards in
chapter 27 of this title, special exceptions standards in section
11-3-045 of this title, and/or lot and setback standards in sections
11-10-040 and
11-11-050 of this title.
   E.   Use Of Payments: Any cash payment which results from an agreement
regarding a transfer lot or dwelling unit shall be set aside for the
acquisition or improvement of open space and/or park land only, and not for any
other use.
   F.   Proximity: The open space acquired involving a transfer lot shall be in
proximity to the receiving area for said lot based on the service area or
nature of the open space acquired. The service area, whether it is related to a
regional facility, community parks, a neighborhood park, etc., shall be
determined as set forth in the General Plan.
   G.   Move To Another Location: If open space realized in whole or in part by
a transfer lot is moved to another location, transfer lot density rights must
be recalculated based upon the characteristics of the new sending zone parcel
and in consideration on what has already been transferred to the previous
location.
   H.   Larger Subdivisions: For larger conservation subdivisions or PUDs
greater than twenty (20) acres in size, ten percent (10%) of the land must
remain as open space and cannot be used by transfer lots.
   I.   Blight: Transfer lots considered as a special exception may only occur
because of blight, and the applicant must complete a blight study, as defined
and consistent with State Code, and the City must establish a finding of blight
for the receiving area in order to approve such transfer.
   J.   Agreement: A transfer lot must be approved by development agreement
between the City and the respective owners, acceptable to and at the sole
discretion of the City. The development agreement shall be recorded prior to or
contemporaneous with the recording of the final plat which contains the
transfer lot, and the agreement may include, but not be limited to, the
following:
      1.   Anticipated value of the transfer lot to be paid from the receiving
lot owner to the sending lot owner;
      2.   Method of payment for the transfer lot(s) value and when the payment
is to be made;
      3.   Cost of improvements, including design costs, and the timing of
construction;
      4.   Other costs, such as City fees and finance costs, and the timing of
the paying thereof;
      5.   Land cost total to be paid to the owner and when this payment to the
owner will be made; and
      6.   Developer profit percentage. (Ord. 2018-11, 3-6-2018)
11-28-250: CLASS A AUTO SALES:
Class A auto sales is a type of auto dealership that requires maximum design
standards. Class A auto sales may only be allowed as a conditional use in
various zones as designated in this title. Applications for Class A auto sales
shall be submitted and reviewed as a conditional use permit in accordance with
chapter 8 of this title.
   A.   Purposes: The purposes of this section and any rules, regulations,
standards and specifications adopted pursuant hereto are to:
      1.   Minimal Impact: Accommodate such auto sales with minimal impact in
commercial and mixed use areas in terms of compatible infill, scale, design and
appearance of buildings.
      2.   Terms And Conditions: Set forth standardized terms and conditions
for Class A auto sales and procedures for review and approval of the same.
   B.   Standards: The following standards and conditions shall apply to Class
A auto sales developments, in addition to any terms and conditions of approval
as imposed by the Planning Commission during the conditional use permit
process:
      1.   Architectural Detail:
         a.   Create buildings that provide human scale and interest through
use of varied forms, materials, details and colors;
         b.   Provide architecturally finished and detailed elevations for all
exposures of the building;
         c.   Primary street facing walls of buildings may not have sections of
blank walls that contain no openings in lengths that exceed twenty feet (20')
in length;
         d.   Rooflines may be flat or pitched. Roofing shall not be of vivid
primary colors (i.e., red, blue or yellow). Rooftop equipment shall be screened
by roof components, parapets, cornices or other architectural features.
Galvanized hoods and vents shall be painted to match the roof color.
      2.   Fencing: All fencing must be decorative. It can be stamped masonry,
wrought iron or a mixture of both. Vinyl and chainlink fencing is expressly
prohibited.
      3.   Landscaping: A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the gross area of
the site shall be landscaped. The twenty percent (20%) landscaping requirement
should blend well with the fencing and solid masonry walls that may surround
the project. Special attention should be given to landscaping in the high
traffic and visible areas of the project, as well as covering large and long
exterior masonry walls.
      4.   Lighting: For developments for which outdoor lighting is proposed,
lighting plans shall be required which illustrate the type and location of
lighting proposed for structures, walkways and parking lots. Lighting shall be
designed, located and directed so as to eliminate glare and minimize reflection
of light into neighboring properties. With the exception of security lights,
lighting for the sales lot shall not occur past ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
      5.   Signage: Title 15, "Sign Regulations", of this Code shall be
expressly followed.
      6.   Noise: Amplified speakers and noise shall be kept at a minimum so as
not to disturb adjacent properties. In the event that amplified speakers are
used, they must comply with the Farmington City noise ordinance as set forth in
title 7, chapter 10 of this Code.
      7.   Maintenance: The property must be maintained and kept clean. This
includes sweeping and maintaining the asphalt, keeping free of debris, trash
and weeds, etc. (Ord. 2015-17, 5-26-2015)
11-28-260: MODERATE INCOME HOUSING FEE IN LIEU ANALYSIS:
   A.   Analysis Input Factors: Respective zone district standards in this
Title, which require a minimum moderate-income housing set aside, also may
allow a fee in lieu thereof at the sole discretion of the City. In determining
a fee in lieu amount, the City may use the following information:
      1.   Average last twelve (12)-month home sales price in Farmington City
of homes constructed within the previous three (3) years;
      2.   Average rent of new condos/apartments to include, among other
things, studio and one (1) to four (4)-bedroom dwelling units;
      3.   HOA/Property Management Fees as part of the rent expense in an
apartment analysis;
      4.   Current prevailing thirty (30)-year fixed home loan/mortgage
interest rate;
      5.   Utility allowance/expenses; and
      6.   Eighty percent (80%) and sixty percent (60%) AMI (Average Median
Income) for Davis County.
   B.   Analysis Resources: Data necessary to prepare the fee in lieu analysis
may come from, but not be limited to, the following sources: real estate
professionals, such as brokers and appraisers; MLS (Multiple Listing Service);
mortgage loan brokers; Davis Housing Authority; on-line tenant rent income
housing calculators; etc.
   C.   Analysis: The City may determine the fee in lieu amount for single-
family, two-family (same as multiple-family), and multiple-family dwellings as
set forth in the table below:
Affordable Housing Fee in Lieu Calculations-Sample Table Only
Single-Family Calculation
80% AMI Davis      30% of the 80% Income for                 
County             Davis County
$   74,640.00 I $ 22,392.00                               
5 person HH
                                                             
A Average Home Price in Farmington (for homes sold since    $   802,397.00
  March of 2020 and built in 2018 or later)                  
  80% AMI Affordable Home Price
  Annual Housinq Costs
  Mortqaqe Amount     100%       $   390,000.00
  Interest Rate    3%           4.0%
B Annual P&I                    $   (15,000.01 )        $   390,000.00
  PMI                 0.75%      $   (2,925,00)           
  Utility Allowance   4 bedrooms $   (1,980.00)
  Insurance           0.15%      $   (585.00)
  Taxes               0.50%      $   (1,950)
  Total                          $   (22,440.01 )
Affordable Housing Fee in Lieu Amount (A less B)            $ 412,397.00
Multi-Family Calculation
Three Bedroom
60% AMI Affordable Rent                                     $   1,347.00
                                                             
Utility Allowance                                           $   100.00
                                                             
HOA Fees                                                    $   80.00
                                                             
Total                                                       $   1,167.00
                                                             
A Market Rent (Monthly)                                     $ 1,800.00
B 60% AMI Affordable Rent                                   $ 1,167.00
Difference (A less B)                                       $ 633.00
Annual Difference                                           $ 7,596.00
Affordable Housing Fee in Lieu Amount: NPV (30 Year at      $ 153,351.50
above interest rate (3%))
 
   D.   Analysis Update: The City may annually update its affordable housing
factors and tables.
   E.   Use Of Fees In Lieu: All fees in lieu received by the City shall only
be used for moderate income housing purposes. (Ord. 2021-20, 8-3-2021)
CHAPTER 29
ANIMALS AND FOWL
SECTION:
11-29-010: Purpose
11-29-020: Effect Of Chapter
11-29-030: General Provisions
11-29-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations for the keeping of
animals in all areas of the city. (Ord. 2010-21, 5-18-2010)
11-29-020: EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
The regulations as contained in this chapter shall apply and govern in all
zones. (Ord. 2010-21, 5-18-2010)
11-29-030: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The keeping of animals within Farmington City shall be permitted or prohibited
as follows:
   A.   Classification: All animals shall be classified in one of the following
categories (animals include all living creatures, fowl, reptiles, fish, etc.):
      1.   Class A (small animals): Animals kept as pets or for family food
production or recreational purposes, such as dogs, cats, rabbits, fowl, etc.
      2.   Class B (large animals): Animals kept as pets or for family food
production or recreational purposes, such as horses, cows, goats, sheep, etc.
      3.   Class C (commercial farming): Any and all animals of every size,
type or kind kept or maintained for commercial purposes.
      4.   Class D (dangerous animals): Animals that are inherently or
potentially dangerous may be kept or maintained only by conditional use permit.
   B.   Maintenance: All animals must be kept and maintained in such a manner
so as not to degrade (below a reasonable standard) the health, safety, noise,
odor or sanitation environment of persons dwelling on neighboring lots.
   C.   Permitted, Prohibited: The animals permitted in any zone are limited in
numbers so as to comply with the conditions mandated in subsection B of this
section and to prevent a significant degradation in appearance of the premises
on which they are kept in comparison with neighboring premises:
      1.   Class A animals may be kept in all zones.
      2.   Class B animals are permitted only in zones AA, A, AE, R-2, B, R,
LR, S, LS, R-4, R-8, and OTR.
      3.   Class C animals are prohibited from all zones, except zones C, A, AA
and C-R.
      4.   Class D animals are prohibited from all zones, except by conditional
use permit.
   D.   Number Permitted; Area, Zone Requirements: The following numbers and
kinds of animals in the size areas described are presumed to meet the standards
set forth in subsections B and C of this section. Boarding kennels are
permitted only where expressly listed as an allowed use within a zoning
district. This presumption is rebuttable by the keeper proving that greater
numbers of animals are being kept and meeting these standards, or by the city
proving that equal or lesser number of animals are being kept in a manner not
meeting these standards:
      1.   Any size lot: Two (2) dogs or four (4) cats or four (4) ducks or
four (4) turkeys or four (4) geese or eight (8) chickens or eight (8) rabbits
or eight (8) pigeons, or any equivalent combination.
      2.   One-half (1/2) acre: Two (2) dogs or two (2) sheep or two (2) goats
or four (4) cats or eight (8) ducks or eight (8) turkeys or eight (8) geese or
twelve (12) chickens or twelve (12) rabbits or twelve (12) pigeons, or any
equivalent combination.
      3.   Class B large animals:
         a.   Zones R, LR, S, LS, R-2, R-4, R-8, OTR or B: On lots of twenty
thousand (20,000) square feet or more: One horse or cow or two (2) sheep or
goats per twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
      b.   Zones AA, A, and AE: Not more than two (2) horses or cows or four
(4) sheep, goats, pigs, or similar size animals shall be kept on lots of one-
half (1/2) acre. For lots larger than one-half (1/2) acre, one additional horse
or cow or two (2) additional sheep, goats, pigs, or similar size animals may be
kept for each five thousand (5,000) square feet over one-half (1/2) acre.
Animals younger than six (6) months in age shall not be counted in determining
the total number of animals on the lots.
   E.   Location Of Accessory Structures: No animal shelter, hay barn, silo,
equipment shed, storage building and similar accessory buildings to the
agricultural use of land may be located closer than ten feet (10') to any side
or rear boundary line. (Ord. 2010-21, 5-18-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-26, 5-17-2022)
CHAPTER 30
FOOTHILL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-30-010: Purpose
11-30-020: Definitions
11-30-030: Scope And Application
11-30-040: Density, Lot Size, Set Back, And Characteristics
11-30-050: Review And Approval Procedures, And Required Reports And Plans
11-30-060: Development Standards
11-30-070: Architectural Design
11-30-080: Bonding Requirements
11-30-010: PURPOSE:
   A.   The city council of Farmington City, Utah, deems that in order to
preserve the peace, health, safety and welfare, and promote the best interest
of the inhabitants of Farmington City, that this chapter be enacted to provide
standards, guidelines and criteria for minimizing flooding, erosion and other
environmental hazards in designated foothill areas of the city. In addition,
these standards are intended to protect the natural scenic character of the
foothills, and those areas of the foothills which are not suitable for
development, while ensuring the efficient expenditure of public funds.
   B.   The standards, guidelines and criteria established by this chapter are
further intended to:
      1.   Minimize grading and earthwork and ensure grading which will
eliminate sharp angles at the top and at the toe of cut and fill slopes, both
with respect to building sites and to road cross-sections.
      2.   Protect the public from natural hazards of stormwater runoff and
erosion.
      3.   Minimize the threat and consequential damage of fire in foothill
areas.
      4.   Preserve natural features, wildlife habitat and open space.
      5.   Retain trees and other native vegetation (except in those cases
where a high fire hazard results) which stabilizes steep hillsides, retains
moisture, prevents erosion and enhances the beauty of the natural landscape.
      6.   Implement early temporary or permanent planting of vegetation, or
both, wherever appropriate to maintain necessary cut and fill slopes,
stabilizing them by plant roots and concealing the raw soil from view.
      7.   Preserve public access to mountain areas and natural drainage
channels.
      8.   Retain natural features, such as drainage channels, streams,
ridgelines, rock outcroppings and vegetation.
      9.   Preserve and enhance visual and environmental quality; place greater
regard for the view of the foothills as well as the view from the foothills.
      10.   Ensure an adequate transportation system for the total foothill
area in compliance with the approved street plans of the city. Street design
should, insofar as possible, be compatible with existing topography by
minimizing cuts, fills or other visible scars.
      11.   Encourage a variety of development, designs and concepts compatible
with the natural terrain of the foothill areas which will preserve open space
and the natural landscape.
      12.   Enable lot layouts and structure designs which will aid the
objective of reducing excavation and natural topographic disturbance.
      13.   Establish land use management criteria that will encourage
protection of natural elements while allowing a harmonious and satisfying
residential environment.
   C.   To achieve the intent of this chapter, it is recommended that
professionals, qualified in each of the disciplines addressed herein, be
utilized to stimulate creative and appropriate designs in the foothill area.
(Ord. 1993-17, 4-21-1993; amd. Ord. 2023-68, 11-14-2023)
11-30-020: DEFINITIONS:
Terms used in this chapter are defined as set forth below and are in addition
to those defined in chapter 2 of this title. Unless a contrary intention
clearly appears, words used in the present tense include the future, the
singular includes the plural, the term "shall" is mandatory and the term "may"
is permissive.
ALL WEATHER SURFACE: A concrete or asphalt surface.
AVERAGE SLOPE: Means and is determined by the use of the following formula:
 
S = .00229 (I) (L)
  A
 
   S = Average slope of the site before development or construction.
   .00229 = The conversion factor of square feet to acres.
   I = Contour interval in feet of the topographic mapping.
   L = Summation of the length of all contour lines in feet.
   A = Total number of acres in the slope district.
   A.   The average slope may be calculated by other means which are acceptable
to the city engineer and planning commission.
   B.   In the determination of the average slope of a slope district, the area
(A) in the formula above shall not include the area of lands having a greater
slope than thirty percent (30%).
DEVELOPMENT ACRES, GROSS: The entire total area of the development, to include
all transportation land or other nonresidential uses.
DEVELOPMENT ACRES, NET: The gross acreage less transportation land and open
space.
DEVELOPMENT SITE: The total perimeters of:
   A.   A subdivision, as defined in the Farmington City subdivision ordinance.
   B.   A planned unit development, as defined in this title.
   C.   A tract, lot, or parcel of land intended to be used as a residential,
commercial, public, quasi-public, utility or other building site.
IMPERVIOUS MATERIALS: Matter which is impenetrable by moisture.
INSTITUTIONAL BUILDINGS: Means and shall include churches, schools, hospitals,
public and quasi-public buildings.
OFF SITE: Any area or improvement within public rights of way or outside the
boundaries of the development.
ON SITE: Any area or improvement on private property.
OPEN SPACE: That space designated as undevelopable or as common open space
areas used for visual relief or recreational purposes.
SLOPE DISTRICT: An area of at least three (3) acres where the area that is the
development site is ten (10) acres or more and a minimum of one acre if the
development site is less than ten (10) acres. The term "slope district"
describes areas within a development site (or the entire development site if it
qualifies under the definition) which are distinguishable as areas of
consistent topography. Slope districts are classified by the following
breakdown:
   0 - 12.0 percent
   12.1 - 20.0 percent
   20.1 - 30.0 percent
   Over 30 percent
TRANSPORTATION LAND: Land used for automobile, bicycle or pedestrian
circulation.
UNDERLYING ZONE: The zone in which the parcel lies on the Farmington City
zoning map.
USABLE LAND: Land included within a lot, no part of which has a slope exceeding
thirty percent (30%). This space may be no less than fifty feet (50') in width
at any given point. This usable area must be undisturbed or virgin slope.
Certain limited foothill areas may be considered man-made "anomalies" such as
gravel pit operations, fire break roads, secondary water pipelines, culinary
water facilities, public service provider improvements and related roads, or
other artificial disturbances based upon size, location, and history of slope
having previously been permitted by the federal government, the State, Davis
County, Farmington City, or other public entity, and may be included within the
usable area as may be determined by the City. All main buildings, and accessory
buildings and structures (including retaining walls, fences and walls), shall
be built on useable land only.
VEGETATION: Orchards, trees, shrubs, lawn, grass and perennial growth, and
those plants native to the site. (Ord. 1993-17, 4-21-1993; amd. Ord. 2023-68,
11-14-2023)
11-30-030: SCOPE AND APPLICATION:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands in Farmington
City that lie within the area designated with zones having a suffix "F" on the
official zoning map of Farmington City.
   B.   This chapter makes additional provisions to those set forth in the
subdivision ordinance and other chapters of this title (the zoning ordinance).
In the event of conflict, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
   C.   Detailed reports and plans are required in the following sections of
this chapter which must be approved by the city before any construction,
excavation, and grading will be permitted in foothill zones.
   D.   Development of individual un-platted lots and parcels, or platted lots
and parcels located in an approved subdivision, shall comply with conditions,
standards and requirements established through the site plan and/or subdivision
approval process. (Ord. 1993-17, 4-21-1993; amd. Ord. 2023-68, 11-14-2023)
11-30-040: DENSITY, LOT SIZE, SET BACK, AND CHARACTERISTICS:
   A.   Scope: The City shall approve the overall density of any development
site based on the subdivision plans and/or site plans as provided for in this
chapter.
   B.   Residential Density: The maximum density for each gross development
acre in residential subdivisions or planned unit developments shall be
determined by reference to the following table and the underlying zone:
 
Slope District Average Slope (%) Maximum Density Dwelling Units/Gross Acre
0 - 12.0                         4.0
12.1 - 20.0                      2.8
20.1 - 30.0                      1.6
More than 30.0                   No development allowed.
 
   C.   Planned Unit Developments: The maximum density with respect to dwelling
units per gross acre shall be the same in a PUD as in any other single-family
subdivision. However, at the discretion of the city, density bonuses may still
be approved as outlined in the PUD chapter of this title.
   D.   Lot Size Conditions: When lot lines cross slope district boundaries,
the lot size will be determined by the average slope of the usable land within
the building lot. The City may require larger lots than the minimum depending
upon the natural conditions (slope, vegetation, soils, etc.) of the site to
assure each lot contains a suitable building site.
   E.   Front Yard Setback: The minimum front yard setback in the Foothill
Overlay Zone may be reduced by the Zoning Administrator during the site plan
review process to not less than twenty feet (20'), provided the average slope
of the lot exceeds twenty percent (20%) and as recommended by the City
Engineer.
   F.   Maximum Impervious Material Coverage: The maximum impervious material
coverage that shall be allowable on residential lots shall be thirty five
percent (35%) of the total lot area or five thousand (5,000) square feet,
whichever is smaller, including the main building, accessory buildings, patios
and driveways.
   G.   Maximum Impervious Material Exception: The maximum allowable impervious
material coverage of a lot may be allowed to exceed five thousand (5,000)
square feet as a special exception subject to the process set forth in Chapter
3 of this Title and upon a recommendation of the City Engineer and the approval
of the applicable land use authority for the subject application (i.e.
subdivision, site plan, or building permit).
Any applicant seeking a special exception to exceed 5,000 square feet of
impervious material coverage per lot shall be required to provide on-site
detention/retention as required by local or state statutes and appropriately
sized outflow orifice plates for the additional impervious area (over five
thousand (5,000) square feet) in accordance with City Engineer recommended
detention/retention volume calculations for a 100-year storm event. The
applicant shall be required to provide engineered drawings and specifications
for the proposed detention/retention and drainage to qualify for the exception.
Upon acceptance and approval of the engineering documents, the applicant shall
enter into a maintenance agreement, as deemed acceptable by the City. Such
maintenance agreement shall be recorded against the subject property as a
condition of granting an increase impervious material allowance. For purposes
of calculating the permissible lot coverage percentage, lot areas that exceed
thirty percent (30%) slope shall be excluded and shall not be used in
calculating the allowable impervious coverage area.
   H.   Usable Land:
      1.   Dwellings, other buildings and structures, including retaining
walls, fences, and walls, shall be located only upon areas constituting usable
land, which area shall be fully contiguous and shall be at least five thousand
(5,000) square feet in size. The City may require usable areas larger than five
thousand (5,000) square feet to ensure that dwellings, other buildings and
structures, including retaining walls, fences, and walls, can be located
acceptable distances from geological hazards.
      2.   All accessory buildings, structures, and uses, including retaining
walls, shall be located upon usable land.
      3.   All fences and walls shall be located on useable land and in areas
less than twenty percent (20%) slope before and after grading and excavation
(note: grading and excavation is not allowed in areas with slopes over thirty
percent (30%)). Fences may be approved in areas with slopes between twenty and
thirty percent (20% to 30%) if approved as a special exception.
      4.   As defined above, the slope of usable land shall be thirty percent
(30%) or less. Areas with slopes over thirty percent (30%) shall be:
         a.   Placed in permanent open space, maintained by a responsible legal
entity, such as a homeowners' association; or
         b.   Platted with adjacent approved building lots with an open space
easement, or platted into building lots with an open space easement, each of
which contains adequate usable land.
         c.   Subject to such other proposals that may be prepared by the
developer and approved by the City.
      5.   Grading, land disturbance and/or excavation of an area with slopes
less than thirty percent (30%) is allowed, but only upon, or after, the
issuance of a building permit by the City for a main building. Grading, land
disturbance and/or excavation of areas with slopes thirty percent (30%) or
greater is prohibited unless it is for streets and ways provided herein, and in
the case of private driveways may only be allowed upon the issuance of a
building permit by the City for a main building. (Ord. 1993-17, 4-21-1993; amd.
Ord. 2023-68, 11-14-2023)
11-30-050: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES, AND REQUIRED REPORTS AND PLANS:
   A.   Subdivisions, Planned Unit Developments (PUD's), building permits, and
site plan proposals for subdivision, PUDs, or site plan development within the
Foothill Overlay Zone shall comply with all provisions regarding the same as
set forth in the Subdivision Ordinance and the Zoning Ordinance.
   B.   Schematic Approval: In addition to the requirements set forth in the
Subdivision Ordinance and the Zoning Ordinance, proposals for schematic
approval of a subdivision, PUD, or Site Plan within the Foothill Overlay Zone
shall include the following:
      1.   Location of the proposed Planned Unit Development, Subdivision, or
Site Plan, with identification of abutting streets.
      2.   A slope district map reflecting existing slope conditions prior to
development at a scale of 1" = 100' and an estimate of the average slope of the
proposed development.
      3.   A topographic contour map, tied to a land base survey, delineating
areas within the development site with slopes of less than ten percent (10%),
areas between ten percent (10%) and twenty percent (20%), areas between twenty
one percent (21%) and thirty percent (30%), and areas greater than thirty
percent (30%), shall be designated topographic contours at two-foot (2')
intervals for slopes up to twenty percent (20%) and five foot (5') intervals
for slopes greater than twenty percent (20%).
      4.   The total acreage of the site, number of lots and proposed total
density and slope district density for residential developments.
      5.   The location and approximate size of the proposed lots and/or site.
      6.   A general street location, width, and grade of all proposed streets
and radius of any cul-de-sac.
      7.   Location of known hazards (i.e., faults, drainage, rock fall,
landslide, slump, etc.).
      8.   Soil type and general description of soil types to a depth of five
feet (5').
      9.   Existing vegetation-type map.
   C.   Preliminary Approval: In addition to the information as required for
preliminary plat approval under the Subdivision Ordinance, proposals for
preliminary approval of a subdivision, Planned Unit Development, or site plan
in the Foothill Overlay Zone shall be required to include the reports and plans
as set forth in the sub-paragraphs of this section. All reports and plans
submitted herein, shall be prepared by persons or firms either licensed to
practice their specialty or expertise in the State of Utah, if such license for
practice is required, or by one having demonstrable expertise in such field of
practice if such license is not required.
In addition to meeting the standards set forth in this chapter, the Subdivision
Ordinance, and Zoning Ordinance, and the reports and plans below, proposals for
preliminary approval shall be consistent with remaining development standards
in this Chapter. Notwithstanding the results of preliminary consideration,
final approval may result in less lots, a revised street configuration,
modified usable areas, etc. In the event this occurs, the results of final
approval shall prevail over preliminary approval.
      1.   Soil Characteristics Report: The soil report shall be prepared by a
civil engineer specializing in soil mechanics and licensed by the state of Utah
and shall be based upon adequate test borings and excavations. This report
shall contain data regarding the nature, distribution and strength of soils
within the project area to a depth of ten feet (10'). The soil report shall
include, but not limited to:
         a.   Unified classification of all soils encountered on the site with
an estimate of their susceptibility to erosion, liquid limit, shrink-swell
potential and general suitability for development.
         b.   A statement as to whether or not groundwater was encountered in
any of the test borings and at what elevation it was encountered and an
estimate of the normal highest elevation of the season high groundwater table.
         c.   Flood history and potential.
         d.   Proximity to known floodplains and drainage channels.
         e.   The soil investigation shall recommend corrective actions
intended to prevent damage to proposed structures and/or public improvements.
         f.   Topographic contours.
         g.   Soil reports must be current unless approved otherwise by the
City Engineer.
      2.   Vegetation And Revegetation Plan: This plan shall include a slope
stabilization and revegetation report which shall include, but not be limited
to:
         a.   Location and identification of existing vegetation;
         b.   The vegetation to be removed and the method of disposal.
         c.   The vegetation to be planted.
         d.   Maintenance and irrigation plan consistent with landscape plan
standards set forth in Chapter 7 of this Title.
         e.   Slope stabilization measures to be installed while new vegetation
is being established, including, among other things, erosion control blankets;
         f.   Analysis of the environmental effects of such operations
including effects on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality, fish and
wildlife, and fire hazard.
         g.   Topsoil stockpile areas will be designated.
      3.   Geology Report: A geology report shall be prepared by a geotechnical
engineer licensed by the state of Utah. A geologic map shall accompany the
report. Mapping shall reflect careful attention to the rock composition,
structural elements and surface and subsurface distribution of the earth
materials exposed or inferred within both bedrock and surficial deposits. A
clear distinction shall be made between observed and inferred features and/or
relationships. The geology report shall include the following information,
including but not limited to:
         a.   Habitable structures may not be built within a minimum of fifty
feet (50') of a center line of a zone of deformation with respect to known
active faults. The City may reduce the required setback provided herein from
faults that are determined to be secondary, or a lesser significant classified
deformation area, upon receiving recommendation from the City Engineer and
based upon a geotechnical/geologic report submitted by the applicant. In no
event shall the fault line setback be reduced to less than thirty feet (30')
from the center line of the fault or zone of deformation. If reduction is
approved, a plat note and delineation of the fault line and deformation area
shall be provided on the subdivision plat. The City may also require a notice
of geologic hazard and/or a waiver of liability agreement to be provided by the
applicant in a form acceptable to the City. The zone of deformation is defined
as area of variable width adjacent to a fault where it is determined that
ground rupture is likely to occur. A greater setback may be required by the
City where deemed necessary to protect public health and safety. Off-site
improvement design will be reviewed and approved or denied by the City
Engineer.
         b.   Definition of any zones of deformation with respect to active
faults and other mass movements of soil and rock.
         c.   Identification of natural and manmade anomalies of the terrain or
characteristics of the geological materials which would have any potential
impact upon the use of the site.
         d.   Location of the depth to bedrock and geological evaluation if
bedrock is within ten feet (10') of the surface.
         e.   Written recommendations for construction of proposed structures
or public improvements to minimize or avoid impacts of potential geologic
hazards.
         f.   Flood erosion potential and/or deposition soil material if
floodways exist on the property.
         g.   Determination of ground water characteristics.
      4.   Grading, Drainage, And Erosion Control Plan: The area of the
watershed shall be used to determine the amount of storm water runoff generated
before and after construction. A drainage and erosion control plan shall be
prepared by a professional engineer licensed by the state of Utah. The plan
shall be sufficient to determine the erosion control measures necessary to
prevent soil loss during construction and after project completion. The plan
shall include a stormwater management, erosion control and grading details
describing the methods by which surface water, natural drainages, flooding,
erosion and sedimentation loss will be controlled during and after
construction. In addition, developments in which the total area is over one
acre shall submit a plan for erosion and sediment control which is consistent
with current federal NPDES regulations. In a phased development, the area of
all phases shall be used to compute the total area and the NPDES plan shall be
prepared and submitted with the first phase of development. The plan shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
         a.   The "rational method", or other stormwater computation method as
approved by the city engineer, shall be used in computing runoff. The basic
formula for the "rational method" is:
            Q = CIA in which:
            Q = Runoff in cubic feet per second (cfs)
            C = Coefficient of runoff or the portion of stormwater that runs
off a given area. The following are typical examples of land use ranges for C
value. The actual C value used shall be approved by the city engineer:
               Industrial and commercial .80 - .90
               Residential .30 - .40
               Parks .15 - .25
               Agricultural .10 - .20
            I = Average rainfall intensity, based on Davis County data for the
Farmington City area, during time of concentration for 100-year return period
in inches per hour. The time of concentration shall be defined as the time
required for water to flow from the highest to the lowest points of the
drainage basin under consideration.
            A = Drainage area in acres.
         b.   Maps of the development site shall be provided by the developer
to the City Engineer defining the boundaries of any 100-year flood plain and
the limits of the watershed.
         c.   The grading plan shall show present topography to include
elevations, lines and grades including the location and depth of all proposed
fills and cuts of the finished earth surfaces using a contour interval of five
feet (5') or less. Access or haul road location, treatment and maintenance
requirements shall be included. All cuts and fills shall be designed and
constructed in such a way that they produce the minimum disturbance to the
natural grade and character of the foothill area.
         d.   An appropriate scale shall be used which most clearly presents
the proposed action.
         e.   The proposed area to be graded shall be clearly delineated on the
plan and the area amount stated in square feet.
         f.   All calculations and proposed details used for design and
construction of debris basins, impoundments, diversions, dikes, waterways,
drains, culverts and any other water management or soil erosion control
measures shall be shown. Calculations shall employ predictions of soil loss
sheet erosion using the Universal Soil Loss Equation or appropriate equivalent.
Equations should include factors of:
            (1)   Rainfall intensity and energy;
            (2)   Soil erodibility;
            (3)   Land slope and length of slope or topography;
            (4)   Condition of the soil surface and land management practices
in use;
            (5)   Surface cover; grass, woodland, crops, pavements, etc.;
            (6)   Methods intended to be employed to control increased erosion
during construction phase.
         g.   The plan shall show existing details and contours at two foot
(2') contour intervals where terrain will not be modified and proposed details
and contours at two foot (2') intervals where terrain modifications are
proposed.
         h.   The proposed area to be graded shall be clearly delineated on the
plan and the area amount stated in square feet.
         i.   Grading plans shall include slope district maps for the
development site. Two (2) maps shall be prepared. The first shall represent the
predevelopment slope districts and the second shall represent post development
slope districts.
         j.   Analysis of the environmental effects of such operations,
including effects on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality, fish and
wildlife, and fire hazard.
   D.   Final Approval: To ensure proper development of subdivisions, PUD's
site plans within the Foothill Overlay Zone and compliance with foothill
standards, final approval shall be required by the City. Final approval shall
include the information required in the Subdivision Ordinance, Zoning
Ordinance, and any other requirements imposed by the City as required to meet
applicable provisions of this Chapter. Final approval shall include, along with
improvement drawings, spot elevations on all site and/or lot corners or contour
grading plans of all lot frontages. The City may require the staking of lots,
or a site, to ensure compliance with development standards.
   E.   Building Permits: Proposals for approval of main buildings, accessory
buildings and structures, including retaining walls, fences, and walls, upon a
lot or parcel within the Foothill Overlay Zone shall be required to file a site
plan drawn to a scale of at least one inch to ten feet (1" to 10') which site
plan shall meet the standards of the Zoning Ordinance and show lot lines,
existing and proposed contours at two-foot (2') intervals, location of proposed
main building, accessory buildings and structures, including retaining walls,
etc., walks, driveways, patio areas, and vegetative, drainage, and erosion
controls. Site plans shall be reviewed and approved by the Zoning Administrator
and City Engineer, and/or their designees. Additional reports as set forth
herein may be required by the Zoning Administrator and reviewed by the City for
approval when deemed appropriate by the Zoning Administrator.
   F.   Approval Condition: No grading, construction, or development shall be
conducted within the Foothill Overlay Zone and no building permit shall be
issued until final plat approval has been granted by the City Council for
subdivision or PUD development and/or until final site plan approval has been
granted by the City for a main building on a parcel and/or lot within the
Foothill Overlay Zone. The approved site plan for a main building on a parcel
and/or lot shall be attached to the building permit for the same. (Ord. 2023-
68, 11-14-2023)
11-30-060: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The development standards and provisions set forth in this Section shall be
required in connection with all building and construction in the Foothill
Overlay Zone, and schematic, preliminary, and final approval where applicable,
and shall be met by persons or firms licensed or certified to practice their
specialty in the state of Utah, if the required expertise is in their field of
practice:
   A.   Drainage And Erosion Control:
      1.   Lots shall be arranged so as to ensure adequate setbacks from
drainage channels. The flow from a 100-year storm shall be the basis for
calculating setbacks. No dwelling shall be allowed within the 100-year
floodplain. All structures shall comply with Chapter 31 Flood Damage
Prevention.
      2.   Erosion control measures on the development site shall be required
to minimize the increased solids loading in runoff from such areas during and
after construction. All erosion prevention devices, detention ponds and
stormwater facilities shall be constructed according to the following
standards:
         a.   Such facilities shall be designed so as to detain safely and
adequately the maximum expected stormwater runoff for a 100-year storm for a
sufficient length of time so as to prevent flooding and erosion during
stormwater runoff flow periods.
         b.   The existing natural drainage system shall be utilized to the
extent possible in its natural state.
         c.   Where drainage channels are required, wide shallow swales lined
with appropriate vegetation shall be used instead of cutting narrow, deep
drainage ditches.
         d.   Flow retarding devices, such as detention ponds, shall be used
where practical to minimize increases in runoff volume and peak flow rate due
to development.
      3.   Water from natural drainage channels shall be allowed to continue
through the development site.
   B.   Grading, Cuts, And Fills:
      1.   The developer is responsible for interim stabilization of all
disturbed areas during the period of construction to prevent off site erosion
effects, and for final stabilization once construction is completed. Lot owners
or homeowners' associations are responsible for stabilization of building sites
and lots upon taking possession of such.
      2.   All fills slopes shall be constructed to prevent settlement, sliding
or erosion damage to streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks or buildings.
      3.   All cuts and fills and degrees of compaction shall comply with
standards of the international building code and all applicable Construction
Codes.
      4.   The top and bottom edges of slopes caused by an excavation or fill
up to ten (10) vertical feet shall be at least three (3) horizontal feet from
property lines or public right of way lines.
      5.   All structures except retaining walls or soil stabilization
improvements shall have a setback from the crest of the fill or base of the cut
of a minimum distance equal to the depth of the fill or the height of the cut,
unless a structurally sound retaining wall is built for the cut or fill slope.
Retaining walls may be a part of the dwelling unit.
      6.   Retaining walls shall be used to retain existing slope or graded
slope as may be approved by the City Engineer. The height of necessary and
approved retaining walls shall be a maximum of eight feet (8'). Extensive "rear
yard" retaining walls built for the purpose of leveling a yard by backfilling,
are expressly prohibited. The maximum vertical height of all cuts or fills
shall be ten feet (10'). Fills for slumps or other natural depressions may
exceed ten feet (10') with City approval. A series of wall retaining the same
hillside within thirty (30) horizontal feet of each other shall be considered
one (1) wall.
      7.   Excess cut material resulting from road construction or utility
installation shall be removed from the site. Access or haul road location,
treatment and maintenance requirements shall be designated on the grading plan.
Where permanent roads or roadbeds are to be used during construction and
stormwater inlets have already been installed, they shall be protected to
prevent sediment from entering the stormwater system. If temporary haul roads
are proposed, the plan shall include a description of the method for
controlling erosion and dust during the period of the road's operation and
restoration of the area once hauling is completed.
      8.   All repair measures for disturbed areas shall be made not later than
thirty (30) days after the disturbance is made, except revegetation which shall
take place at the earliest planting season thereafter.
   C.   Vegetation And Revegetation:
      1.   Vegetation shall be removed only when absolutely necessary (e.g.,
for the construction of buildings, roads and filled areas), as approved by the
City Engineer.
      2.   All areas of the development site cleared of natural vegetation in
the course of construction shall be replanted with vegetation possessing
erosion control characteristics at least equal to the natural vegetation which
was removed;
      3.   The vegetation to be planted, or new plantings, shall be protected
with mulch material and fertilized in conjunction with a planting and watering
schedule.
      4.   Persons or firms having expertise in the practice of revegetation
(i.e., licensed landscape architects or nurserymen) shall supervise the
planning and installation of revegetation cover for the total development site;
and
      5.   All revegetation of disturbed areas shall be made not later than
thirty (30) days after the disturbance is made or at the earliest planting
season thereafter.
   D.   Geology:
      1.   No habitable structures or off-site improvements shall be built on
any identified major or minor secondary faults.
      2.   No structures or off-site improvements shall be allowed on any area
known to be an active landslide area, verified by the City Engineer or State
Geologist.
      3.   Problems associated with development on or near perched groundwater
and shallow groundwater must be mitigated.
      4.   No structures shall be allowed in any rockfall zone. Off site
improvements may be allowed through special exception by the planning
commission, if the danger is mitigated.
   F.   Fire Protection:
      1.   All developed areas, including individual lots and parcels, shall
have an approved water supply which meets minimum firefighting requirements.
      2.   All water, sewer and utilities must be installed in accordance with
the Subdivision Ordinance.
      3.   Each development site proposal and building permit for private lots,
flag lots, and where the front setback is greater than fifty feet (50'), shall
be reviewed by the Farmington City fire department to determine whether it
complies with the international fire code and applicable Construction codes,
but not limited to, provisions regarding Access Roadways for Fire Apparatus in
reference to, among other things, required vertical driveway clearance.
Developments which do not, will be disapproved.
   G.   Streets And Ways:
      1.   The street standards and specifications of Farmington City shall
apply to all developments, except where conditions related to proper
development of foothill areas necessitate altering these standards as described
below and elsewhere in this chapter.
      2.   Streets, roadways and private accessways shall follow as nearly as
possible the natural terrain. Roads and other vehicular routes shall not cross
property having a slope greater than thirty percent (30%) unless, after review
by the City, it is determined that:
         a.   Appropriate engineering measures, consistent with the purpose of
this chapter, can be taken to minimize the impact of cuts and fills; and
         b.   The environment and aesthetics of the area will not be
significantly affected.
      3.   The following table lists standard improvements with established
standards. The exceptions listed may be specifically approved by the city only
after careful review of each individual application:
 
Improvement             Established Standard        Maximum Exception
Collector road width    66 foot right of way        50 foot right of way
Cul-de-sac right of way 50 foot radius              46 foot radius
                        250 foot minimum radius for 125 foot minimum radius for
Horizontal curve        30 miles per hour design    25 miles per hour design
                        speed                       speed
Local road width        56 foot right of way        42 foot right of way
                                                    12% on collector streets
                                                    14% on local streets
                        10% on collector streets    (maximum length of street
Road grade              12% on local streets        segments at increased
                                                    grades shall be
                                                    specifically approved by
                                                    the city council)
 
      4.   The developer shall dedicate to the city a slope easement for any
cut or fill slope created by construction of a street in the foothill overlay
zone which is not contained within the public right of way.
      5.   Points of access shall be provided to all developed and nondeveloped
areas for emergency firefighting equipment. Driveways shall not exceed a slope
of fourteen percent (14%) and shall have direct access to a public street,
unless such direct access (not the slope) is approved otherwise as set forth in
Chapter 32 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      6.   Development sites which are located near canyon trails will provide
reasonable access to those trails. Parking areas may be required by the City at
trailheads.
      7.   The impervious surface for streets and ways within the gross
development site shall not exceed twenty percent (20%).
      8.   Variations of the street design standards developed to solve special
foothill visual and functional problems may be presented to the City for
consideration. Examples of such variations may be the use of split roadways or
one-way streets for short sections in steeply sloped areas without
intersections to avoid deep cuts, also, modifications of surface drainage for
curb, gutter and sidewalk design and other innovative designs may be considered
in foothill developments.
   H.   On Site Development: The developer, or in the case of single-family and
two-family dwellings, the owner, shall be fully responsible for making all
improvements in accordance with the approved plans. The property owner shall be
responsible for maintaining all improvements made in accordance with the site
development approval. (Ord. 1993-17, 4-21-1993; amd. Ord. 2005-11, 4-6-2005;
2016 Code; Ord. 2022-8, 1-18-2022; Ord. 2023-68, 11-14-2023)
11-30-070: ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN:
For non-conventional subdivisions, the City may require the following:
   A.   The design of buildings proposed for construction in the Foothill
Overlay Zone is encouraged to be visually compatible with the natural beauty of
the foothills and canyon areas. The use of building materials in colors that
will blend harmoniously with the natural settings is suggested.
   B.   The City may review the design and comment on the specified exterior
materials and colors for all structures other than single-family dwellings.
Prohibition of cedar shake roofing materials, the installation of chimney
screens and sprinkling systems, as well as other fire protection measures may
be required by the City as may be recommended by the Farmington City Fire
Department. (Ord. 2023-68, 11-14-2023)
11-30-080: BONDING REQUIREMENTS:
The developer or lot owner may be required to guarantee the completion of
revegetation projects, the stabilization of grading sites, construction of
stormwater runoff facilities, and other requirements of this section by
submitting to the city a bond in a form acceptable to the city attorney. If
such bond is required, it shall be calculated and administered as set forth in
section
12-6-160 of this code. (Ord. 1993-17, 4-21-1993; amd. Ord. 2023-68, 11-14-2023)
CHAPTER 31
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
11-31-010: Statement Of Purpose Generally
11-31-020: Definitions
11-31-030: General Provisions
11-31-040: Designation Of The Floodplain Administrator
11-31-050: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Administrator
11-31-060: Permit Procedures
11-31-070: Appeal Procedure
11-31-080: Variance Procedure
11-31-090: General Standards
11-31-100: Specific Standards
11-31-110: Floodways
11-31-120: Penalty
11-31-010: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE GENERALLY:
   A.   Findings Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of Farmington City are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   B.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
      1.   To protect human life and health;
      2.   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   To minimize damage to the public facilities and utilities, such as
water and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges
located in special flood hazard areas;
      6.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the second use
and development of special flood hazard areas so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      7.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
      8.   To ensure that those who occupy a special flood hazard area assume
responsibility for their actions.
   C.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter includes methods and provisions for:
      1.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      2.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
      4.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development, which
may increase flood damage; and
      5.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas. (Ord. 2007-34, 7-17-2007; amd. Ord. 2022-48, 9-6-2022)
11-31-020: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application. Any discrepancies that may
arise between these definitions and other definitions contained in this title
shall be resolved in favor of these definitions in interpreting and
administering the provisions of this chapter:
               Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar landform which
ALLUVIAL FAN   originates at the apex and is characterized by high velocity flows; active
FLOODING:      processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition; and unpredictable flow
               paths.
ALTERATION OF  Any work within a stream such as bridges, culverts, etc., or change in the flow
WATER COURSE:  path or carrying capacity of a stream.
               A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of the
APEX:          major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding
               can occur.
               A structure which is located on the same parcel of property as the principal
               structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
APPURTENANT    structure. Appurtenant structures should constitute a minimal investment, may not
STRUCTURE:     be used for human habitation, and be designed to have minimal flood damage
               potential. Examples of appurtenant structures are detached garages, carports,
               storage sheds, pole barns and hay sheds.
               A designated AH, AO or VO zone with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of
AREA OF        flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (1' - 3') where a clearly
SHALLOW        defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
FLOODING:      where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
               sheet flow.
BASE FLOOD:    The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
               given year.
BASE FLOOD     The computed elevation to which floodwater is anticipated to rise during the base
ELEVATION:     flood. Base flood elevations (BFEs) are shown on flood insurance rate maps FIRMs
               and on the flood profiles.
BASEMENT:      Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all
               sides.
               A wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is intended
BREAKAWAY      through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading
WALL:          forces without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or the
               supporting foundation system.
CRITICAL       An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood protection system, without
FEATURE:       which the flood protection provided by the entire system would be compromised.
               Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not
DEVELOPMENT:   limited to, flood control structures, buildings or other structures, mining,
               dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage
               of equipment or materials located within the special flood hazard area.
               A.   A nonbasement building which is:
                  1.   Built, in the case of a building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C,
               X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a building in
               zones V1-30, VE or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member
               of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns
               (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of the water; and
                  2.   Adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the
ELEVATED       building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood.
BUILDING:      B.   In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, "elevated
               building" also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation
               perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement of
               floodwaters.
               C.   In the case of zones V1-30, VE or V, "elevated building" also includes a
               building otherwise meeting the definition of "elevated building", even though the
               lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls meet the
               standards of section 60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program
               regulations.
               For the purposes of determining rates, structures for which the start of
EXISTING       construction" commenced before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1,
CONSTRUCTION:  1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing construction" may also be
               referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING       A manufactured home park for which the construction of facilities for servicing
MANUFACTURED   the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
HOME PARK OR   minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
SUBDIVISION:   final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) are completed before the
               effective date hereof.
EXPANSION TO   The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for
EXISTING       servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including
MANUFACTURED   the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
HOME PARK OR   grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
SUBDIVISION:
               A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally
               dry land areas from:
               A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters;
FLOOD OR       B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
FLOODING:      source; or
               C.   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by flooding as
               defined in subsection B of this definition and are akin to a river of liquid and
               flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried
               by a current of water and deposited along the path of the current.
FLOOD          An examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate,
ELEVATION      corresponding water surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation and
STUDY:         determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood related erosion hazards.
FLOOD          The official map on which the federal emergency management agency has delineated
INSURANCE RATE both special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the city.
MAP (FIRM):
FLOOD          The official report provided by the federal emergency management agency that
INSURANCE      includes flood profiles, the flood boundary floodway map, and the water surface
STUDY:         elevation of the base flood.
               Those physical structural works for which funds have been authorized, appropriated
               and expended, and which have been constructed specifically to modify flooding in
FLOOD          order to reduce the extent of the area within a community subject to a "special
PROTECTION     flood hazard" and the extent of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system
SYSTEM:        typically includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes.
               These specialized flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with
               sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN OR  Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source (see
FLOOD PRONE    definition of FLOOD OR FLOODING).
AREA:
FLOODPLAIN     The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures for
MANAGEMENT:    reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness
               plans, flood control works and floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN     Any state law or city ordinance, including Farmington City zoning ordinances,
MANAGEMENT     subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
REGULATIONS:   ordinances, such as this floodplain ordinance, etc., which provide standards for
               the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
               Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes or adjustments
FLOODPROOFING: to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved
               real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
               The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
FLOODWAY:      be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
               the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
               A use which cannot perform its intended purpose unless it is located or carried
FUNCTIONALLY   out in close proximity to water. The term includes only docking facilities, port
DEPENDENT USE: facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
               passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair facilities, but does not include long
               term storage or related manufacturing facilities.
HIGHEST        The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to construction next to
ADJACENT       the proposed walls of a structure.
GRADE:
               Any structure that is:
               A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a listing
               maintained by the department of the interior) or preliminarily determined by the
HISTORIC       secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on
STRUCTURE:     the national register;
               B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as
               contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic district or a
               district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as a registered
               historic district.
HYDRODYNAMIC   Forces imposed on structures by floodwaters due to the impact of moving water on
LOADS:         the upstream side of the structure, drag along its sides, and eddies or negative
               pressures on its downstream side.
HYDROSTATIC    Loads or pressures resulting from the static mass of water at any point of
LOADS:         floodwater contact with a structure. They are equal in all directions and always
               act perpendicular to the surface on which they are applied.
               A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in
LEVEE:         accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control or divert the flow
               of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
               A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees, and associated
LEVEE SYSTEM:  structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and
               operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST
ADJACENT       The lowest point of the ground level immediately next to a building.
GRADE:
               The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished
               or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
LOWEST FLOOR:  access or storage, in an area other than a basement or crawl space area, is not
               considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is not built
               so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation design
               requirements of this chapter.
               A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a permanent
MANUFACTURED   chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when
HOME:          attached to the required utilities. The term "manufactured home" does not include
               a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED   A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more manufactured
HOME PARK OR   home lots for rent or sale.
SUBDIVISION:
MEAN SEA       For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the North American vertical
LEVEL:         datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base flood elevations shown on a
               community' s flood insurance rate map are referenced.
               For purposes of determining insurance rates, structures for which the "start of
               construction" commenced on or after the effective date of the city's initial FIRM,
NEW            and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain
CONSTRUCTION:  management purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
               construction" commenced on or after the effective date hereof, and includes any
               subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW            A manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
MANUFACTURED   for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
HOME PARK OR   (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
SUBDIVISION:   streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
               completed on or after the effective date hereof.
               A vehicle which is: a) built on a single chassis; b) four hundred (400) square
RECREATIONAL   feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections; c) designed to
VEHICLE:       be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and d) designed
               primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for
               recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REGULATORY     The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must
FLOODWAY:      be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing
               the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
SPECIAL FLOOD  The land in the floodplain subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of
HAZARD AREA:   flooding in any given year.
               Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was
               issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
               placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
               permit date. The actual start means the first placement of permanent construction
               of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
               installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage
               of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
START OF       construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading or
CONSTRUCTION:  filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does
               it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations, or the
               erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property
               of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
               not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of
               construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
               structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
               dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE:     A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL    Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of restoring the
DAMAGE:        structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty percent
               (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
               Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure,
               the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
               structure before the "start of construction" of the improvement. This term
               includes structures which have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the
SUBSTANTIAL    actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
IMPROVEMENT:   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of
               State or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications which have been
               identified by the local Code enforcement official and which are the minimum
               necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
               B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure"; provided, that the alteration will
               not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic structure".
VARIANCE:      A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits construction
               in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
VIOLATION:     Failure to comply with any of the terms and conditions of this chapter.
               The height, in relation to the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or
WATER SURFACE  other datum, where specified), of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in
ELEVATION:     the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas. (Ord. 2007-34, 7-17-2007; amd. Ord.
               2019-29, 9-17-2019; Ord. 2022-48, 9-6-2022)
 
11-31-030: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of Farmington City.
   B.   Basis For Establishing Special Flood Hazard Areas: The special flood
hazard areas identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood Insurance Study for the
City of Farmington, Utah, Davis County", dated September 15, 2022, with
accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs), and any revision thereto
resulting from independent site specific engineering analysis or, after
resolution of any postrevision protest, from revisions generated by FEMA, is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
flood insurance study is on file at the Farmington City offices located at 160
South Main Street in Farmington City, Utah.
   C.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, converted or altered unless the modification fully complies
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   D.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   E.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the City; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
State statutes.
   F.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood
hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of
Farmington City or any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency
Management Agency for any flood damages that result in reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 2007-34, 7-17-
2007; amd. Ord. 2022-48, 9-6-2022)
11-31-040: DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The City Engineer, or his or her designee (hereafter Administrator), is hereby
appointed to administer and implement this chapter by granting or denying
development permit applications in accordance with its provisions and
performing all other duties as provided herein. (Ord. 2017-13, 5-16-2017; amd.
Ord. 2022-48, 9-6-2022)
11-31-050: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties of the Administrator shall include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Permit Review:
      1.   Review and approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by the adoption of this chapter.
      2.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      3.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
      4.   Review all development permits to determine whether proposed
building sites, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      5.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located in the floodway. Except as provided in section
11-31-110 of this chapter, no development shall be permitted within a floodway.
   B.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with subsection
11-31-090D5 of this chapter, the Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data available from a Federal,
State or other source as criteria for requiring that new construction,
substantial improvements or other development in Zone A are administered in
accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
      1.   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor including basement and crawl space) and lowest
adjacent grade of all new or substantially improved structures, and whether or
not the structure contains a basement; provided, that in any V1-30, VE and V
zones, the actual elevation to be obtained and recorded is that of the bottom
of the lowest structural member of the floor (excluding piling and columns) of
all new or substantially improved structures, and whether or not the structure
contains a basement.
      2.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
         a.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure has been floodproofed.
         b.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in section
11-31-060 of this chapter.
      3.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities, the Utah State Division of Water
Rights, and the Utah State Division of Water Resources prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit copies of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      2.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   E.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations where needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the special flood hazard areas
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of the
boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation
as provided in section
11-31-070 of this chapter.
   F.   Construction When No Regulatory Floodway Has Been Designated: When a
regulatory floodway has not been designated, the administrator must require
that no new construction, substantial improvements, or other development
(including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and AE on the
community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the community.
   G.   Application For Conditional FIRM Revision: The administrator shall
review applications for conditional FIRM revisions in accordance with section
11-31-110, " Floodways", of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-34, 7-17-2007; amd. Ord.
2019-29, 9-17-2019; Ord. 2022-48, 9-6-2022)
11-31-060: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard established in subsection
11-31-030B of this chapter. Application for a development permit shall be made
on forms furnished by the city and may include, but not be limited to, plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
Review of the development permit may be combined with, and become a part of,
the normal review and processing of conditional use, site development and/or
subdivision applications, if applicable. The administrator may require
certification of any of these requirements by a professional engineer, surveyor
or architect, as he or she deems necessary. The City may issue an annual permit
to Davis County for routine maintenance and cleaning required for flood
control.
   A.   Specific Requirements: The applicant must provide the following
information:
      1.   The elevation in relation to the mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including the basement) and adjacent grade of all new and substantially
improved structures;
      2.   The elevation in relation to the mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure has been floodproofed;
      3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or surveyor that
the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria of this chapter; and
      4.   A description of the extent to which any watercourses will be
altered or relocated as a result of the proposed development. The City may
require a Conditional Letter of Map Revision be approved by FEMA prior to
approving a Final Plat and a Letter of Map Revision be approved by FEMA prior
to issuing building permits to lots that are in the SFA.
      5.   A no-rise certification for any development for which fill is
brought into the SFHA.
   B.   Approval Or Denial: Approval or denial of a development permit by the
administrator shall be based on the provisions and intent of this chapter and
the following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program of that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
      11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems.
(Ord. 2007-34, 7-17-2007; amd. Ord. 2019-29, 9-17-2019; Ord. 2022-48, 9-6-2022)
11-31-070: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Filing Appeal: Any person adversely affected by a final decision of the
zoning administrator made in the administration or interpretation of this
chapter may, within the time provided herein, appeal that decision to the city
council by alleging that there is error in any such final order requirement,
decision or determination made by the zoning administrator in the
administration or interpretation of this chapter. Appeals filed hereunder shall
be in writing and shall be filed with the city recorder within thirty (30) days
of the decision which is appealed. The appeal shall include any required city
appeal forms and shall set forth, at a minimum: the name, address and telephone
number of the appellant; the decision being appealed; the grounds for appeal;
and a description of the alleged error in the decision or determination of the
zoning administrator. Only decisions of the zoning administrator applying this
chapter may be appealed to the city council as provided herein. Appeals may not
be used to waive or modify the terms or requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Hearing: After the appeal application is deemed complete, the city
recorder shall schedule the matter to be heard by the city council. Prior to
the appeal hearing, the city recorder shall transmit all papers constituting
the record of the decision or action being appealed to the city council and the
appellant. The city council shall review the record of the decision or action
of the zoning administrator and provide the appellant an opportunity to be
heard regarding the appeal. In reviewing the appeal, the city council shall
consider and review all relevant technical evaluations and the specific factors
set forth in subsection
11-31-060B of this chapter. The city council shall decide the matter in
accordance with the standard of review set forth in subsection C of this
section.
   C.   Decision: The city council may affirm or reverse the decision of the
zoning administrator, in whole or in part, or may remand the administrative
decision to the zoning administrator. The city council is also authorized to
impose additional conditions as part of its determination of the appeal as
necessary to conform with the purposes and intent of this chapter. The city
council shall review the administrative decision of the zoning administrator
for correctness in determining whether there is substantial evidence in the
record to support the order, decision or determination. The appellant shall
have the burden of proving that an error has been made. The city council shall
issue a written decision.
   D.   Record: A record of all appeals shall be maintained by the city in
accordance with the Utah Government Records Access and Management Act, as
amended. (Ord. 2007-34, 7-17-2007; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 2022-48, 9-6-2022)
11-31-080: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Board Of Adjustment: The Farmington City Board of Adjustment is hereby
designated to hear and decide whether to grant a variance upon request by an
applicant.
   B.   Hearing; Decision: The applicant shall have the right to a hearing
before the Board of Adjustment on the question of whether or not the request
for the variance fulfills the variance requirements of this chapter. Within
thirty (30) days following conclusion of said hearing, the board of adjustment
shall render a decision denying the variance, granting the variance, or
granting the variance with conditions.
   C.   Further Appeal: Those aggrieved by the decision of the Board of
Adjustment may appeal such decision to the second district court, Davis County,
Utah, as provided by law.
   D.   Record: The city shall maintain a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance. The zoning administrator shall
report any variances to the federal emergency management agency upon request.
   E.   Considerations: In reviewing applications for a variance, the Board of
Adjustment shall consider all technical evaluations, those specific factors
established in subsection
11-31-060B of this chapter, the intent and purpose of this chapter, and the
following conditions:
      1.   Due to the dangers caused by flooding to human life and property and
the costs and hardship caused thereby, only under limited circumstances may
variances be granted in Farmington City. Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to human life and public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      2.   In limited instances, variances may be issued for new construction
and substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (½) acre or
less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
constructed below the base flood elevation, providing the factors of subsection
11-31-060B of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size
increases beyond the one-half (½) acre, the technical justification required
for issuing the variance increases.
      3.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure. Variances may be issued for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the national register of
historic places, without regard to the procedures set forth in the remainder of
this chapter.
      4.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued when a determination has been made
that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to
afford relief.
      6.   Variances issued for new construction and substantial improvements
and for other development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent
use may only be granted provided the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damage during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety.
      7.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased risk to life and property and an increase
in premium rates for flood insurance, which may be substantial and will be
commensurate with the risk of construction below the base flood level.
Insurance rates may amount up to as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for
one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage. This notice shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions as required in subsection D of
this section.
      8.   All variances shall include a condition that the applicant sign an
assumption of risk and waiver of liability agreement, in a form acceptable to
the city, absolving Farmington City of any and all liability in the event flood
damage occurs to that portion of a structure for which the variance is granted.
This agreement shall be recorded in the office of the Davis County recorder,
shall run with the land, and shall be binding upon all future owners thereof.
      9.   The board of adjustment may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances as it deems necessary and which fulfill the criteria of the
variance provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-34, 7-17-2007; amd. Ord. 2019-
29, 9-17-2019; Ord. 2022-48, 9-6-2022)
11-31-090: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all special flood hazard areas, the following standards are required:
   A.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   B.   Anchoring: All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse
or lateral movement of the structure and capable of resisting the hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   C.   Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters.
      3.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   D.   Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals (including proposals for manufactured home
parks and subdivisions) shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage in accordance with the purposes and intent of this chapter.
      2.   All subdivision proposals (including proposals for manufactured home
parks and subdivisions) shall meet the permit requirements of section
11-31-060 of this chapter and all applicable provisions of this section and
section
11-31-100 of this chapter.
      3.   All subdivision proposals (including proposals for manufactured home
parks and subdivisions) shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
      4.   All subdivision proposals (including proposals for manufactured home
parks and subdivisions) shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
      5.   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) which contain at least five (5) lots or two (2)
acres (whichever is less), if not otherwise provided by subsection
11-31-030B, " Basis For Establishing Special Flood Hazard Areas", or
11-31-050B, "Use Of Other Base Flood Data", of this chapter.
      6.   Any developer, government agency, or other entity which develops or
makes modifications in the Special Flood Hazard Area shall submit and receive
approval for a letter of map change from FEMA to remove buildable areas from
the SFHA and to reflect the effects of the development prior to approval of
their final plat and at their own expense. (Ord. 2007-34, 7-17-2007; amd. Ord.
2019-29, 9-17-2019; Ord. 2022-48, 9-6-2022)
11-31-100: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in this chapter, the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement and crawl space)
elevated to at least one foot (1') above the base flood elevation, with
certification provided to the zoning administrator by a registered professional
engineer, architect or land surveyor.
      2.   Require within any AO zone on the city' s FIRM that all new
construction and substantial improvements of residential structures have the
lowest floor (including basement and crawlspace) elevated above the highest
adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the
city's FIRM (at least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified).
      3.   Require adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes, to
guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures within zones AH and
AO.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor
(including basement and crawl space) elevated to at least one foot (1') above
the level of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, shall:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood elevation the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or land
surveyor that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice for meeting the provisions of this subsection.
Such certifications shall be provided to the administrator and include the
specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed.
      2.   Within any AO zone on the city' s FIRM, all new construction and
substantial improvements of nonresidential structures must: a) have the lowest
floor (including basement and crawlspace) elevated above the highest adjacent
grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet on the city' s
FIRM (at least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified); or b) together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be completely floodproofed to
that level to meet the floodproofing standard specified in subsections B1a and
B1b of this section.
      3.   Within any AH and AO zones, there must be adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   C.   Openings In Enclosures Below The Lowest Floor: For all new construction
and substantial improvements, fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that
are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an
area other than a basement or crawl space, and which are subject to flooding,
shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
      2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade; and
      3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
   D.   Manufactured Homes:
      1.   All manufactured homes to be placed within zone A must be elevated
and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement and capable of
resisting the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground
anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces. Specific requirements may be:
         a.   Over the top ties be provided at each of the four (4) corners of
the manufactured home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate
locations, with manufactured homes less than fifty feet ( 50') long requiring
one additional tie per side;
         b.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five (5)
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes less
than fifty feet (50') long requiring four (4) additional ties per side;
         c.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds; and
         d.   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
      2.   All manufactured homes or those to be substantially improved which
are proposed to be located on sites: a) outside of a manufactured home park or
subdivision; b) in a new manufactured home park or subdivision; c) in an
expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision; or d) in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has
incurred " substantial damage" as the result of a flood, shall meet the
following requirements:
         a.   Within zones A1-30, AH and AE, such manufactured homes must be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to at least one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
         b.   Within zones A1-30, AH and AE, such manufactured homes to be
placed or substantially improved on sites in existing manufactured home parks
or subdivisions that are not subject to the provisions in subsection D2a of
this section, must be elevated so that either:
            (1)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to at
least one foot (1') above the base flood elevation; or
            (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced
piers or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no
less than thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and is securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement.
         c.   Within zones V1-30, VE and V, such manufactured homes must meet
the requirements of subsection D2b of this section, and must meet the standards
of subsection E of this section.
   E.   Regulations For V1-30, VE And V Zones:
      1.   Landward Location: All new construction within zones V1- 30, VE, and
V must be located landward of the reach of mean high tide.
      2.   Elevation:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements in zones V1-30,
VE, and also zone V, if base flood elevation data is available, must be
elevated on pilings and columns so that:
            (1)   The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the
lowest floor (excluding the pilings or columns) is elevated to or above the
base flood level; and
            (2)   The pile or column foundation and structure attached thereto
is anchored to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement due to the
effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building
components. Water loading values used shall be those associated with the base
flood. Wind loading values used shall be those required by applicable state or
local building standards.
         b.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop or
review the structural design, specifications and plans for the construction
requirements of subsection E2a of this section, and shall certify that the
design and methods of construction to be used are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting the provisions of subsection E2a of this
section.
      3.   Space Below The Lowest Floor:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements within zones
V1-30, VE and V must have the space below the lowest floor either free of
obstruction or constructed with nonsupporting breakaway walls, open wood
latticework or insect screening intended to collapse under wind and water loads
without causing collapse, displacement or other structural damage to the
elevated portion of the building or supporting foundation system.
         b.   For the purposes of this section, a breakaway wall shall have a
design safe loading resistance of not less than ten (10) and no more than
twenty (20) pounds per square foot. Use of breakaway walls which exceed a
design safe loading resistance of twenty (20) pounds per square foot (either by
design or when so required by local or state codes) may be permitted only if a
registered professional engineer or architect certifies that the designs
proposed meet the following conditions:
            (1)   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from a water load less
than that which would occur during the base flood; and
            (2)   The elevated portion of the building and supporting
foundation system shall not be subject to collapse, displacement or other
structural damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting
simultaneously on all building components (structural and nonstructural). Water
loading values used shall be those associated with the base flood. Wind loading
values used shall be those required by applicable state or local building
standards.
         c.   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for parking vehicles,
building access or storage.
      4.   Fill And Manmade Alterations Prohibited: The use of fill is
prohibited for structural support of buildings within zones V1-30, VE and V.
Manmade alteration of sand dunes and mangrove stands within zones V1-30, VE and
V, which would increase potential flood damage, is prohibited.
   F.   Recreational Vehicles:
      1.   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within zones A1-30, AH and AE
must either: a) be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days; b) be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or c) meet
the permit requirements of section
11-31-060 of this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
resisting wind forces of subsection D2a of this section.
      2.   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within zones V1- 30, V and VE,
must either: a) be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days; b) be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or c) meet
the permit requirements of section
11-31-060 of this chapter, and the requirements of subsection E of this
section.
      3.   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 2007-34, 7-17-2007; amd. Ord. 2019-29, 9-17-2019; Ord. 2022-48, 9-6-2022)
11-31-110: FLOODWAYS:
Located within special flood hazard areas established in subsection
11-31-030B of this chapter are areas designated as floodways. All stream
channels identified on the Davis County Flood Control Map are designated as
floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion
potential, encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, flood control structures and other development, are prohibited
unless the following requirements are met:
   A.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or land surveyor is
provided demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, performed in
accordance with standard engineering practice, that encroachments shall not
result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge.
   B.   All fill, new construction, flood control structures and substantial
improvements, or other development, shall comply with all applicable flood
hazard reduction provisions of sections
11-31-090 and
11-31-100 of this chapter.
   C.   The administrator may permit encroachments within the adopted
regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevations,
provided the Developer has applied for and been granted a conditional FIRM and
floodway revision through FEMA, under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1,
section 65.12 of the national flood insurance regulations. (Ord. 2007-34, 7-17-
2007; amd. Ord. 2019-29, 9-17-2019; Ord. 2022-48, 9-6-2022)
11-31-120: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee or
otherwise, violating or causing or permitting the violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of the penalty provisions set forth
in chapter 11-38 of this title. (Ord. 2007-34, 7-17-2007; amd. 2016 Code; Ord.
2022-48, 9-6-2022)
CHAPTER 32
OFF STREET PARKING, LOADING AND ACCESS
SECTION:
11-32-010: Purpose
11-32-020: Effect Of Chapter
11-32-030: General Provisions
11-32-040: Minimum Parking Spaces Required
11-32-050: Off Street Loading
11-32-060: Access To Off Street Parking And Loading Spaces
11-32-070: Parking Development, Standards And Maintenance
11-32-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide regulations for off street parking
and loading, and access to such facilities, sufficient for each type of land
use so as to reduce street congestion and traffic hazards and the need to park
on public streets. (Ord. 1994-26, 6-15-1994)
11-32-020: EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
The regulations as contained in this chapter shall apply and govern in all
zones. (Ord. 1994-26, 6-15-1994)
11-32-030: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Off Street Parking Space Required: The minimum off street parking
spaces as outlined in this chapter, along with adequate provisions for ingress
and egress by standard size automobiles and adequate loading facilities, shall
be provided for any use of land or main building or structure in the City.
These facilities shall be provided at the time the use is established or the
building erected; or at the time the building or structure is enlarged,
altered, converted or changed in use, or moved. If more than one (1) use is
located on a site, the number of off street parking and loading spaces provided
shall be equal to the sum of the requirements for each use.
   B.   Location Of Off Street Parking: Parking areas as required by this
chapter shall be located on the same lot as the main building or structure.
However, in cases other than a dwelling where, due to size or location, the
required parking cannot be provided on site, it may be located on other
property not more than three hundred feet (300') from the nearest point of the
main parcel. If off site parking is proposed to meet the minimum requirements
of this chapter, a document shall be submitted by the applicant verifying that
permission has been granted by the owner of the property on which the parking
will be located to use such property.
   C.   Required Parking To Be Preserved: Space for off street parking required
in connection with an existing building shall not be reduced in the number or
size of parking spaces, nor shall it be utilized for any other purpose than off
street parking, but shall be preserved in perpetuity as long as the requirement
for said off street parking is needed.
   D.   Tandem Parking: Tandem parking shall not be allowed, except for single-
family and two-family dwellings.
   E.   Parking In Front Yard or Side Corner Yard: No portion of a front yard
or side corner yard shall be used for parking, except for the paved or gravel
driveway area. No portion of a front yard or side corner yard, other than
driveways leading to a garage or properly designated parking space, shall be
paved or graveled to encourage or make possible the parking of vehicles
thereon.
   F.   Traffic Study: For developments where the impacts of additional traffic
on abutting streets or impacts associated with interior circulation may be
critical, a traffic impact study may be required by the City. This study shall
be prepared by an engineer specializing in traffic analysis. At the discretion
of the City, the traffic study may include, among other things, an analysis of
on site circulation, capacities of existing streets, number of additional trips
which will be generated, origin/destination studies, peak traffic volumes and
movements, the effect of driveways on traffic flow on adjacent streets, and the
effect on functional characteristics of intersections due to proximity of
driveways.
   G.   Joint Use Parking Areas: When two (2) dissimilar uses are located
adjacent to each other and the demand for parking in conjunction with those
uses would not conflict, the Planning Commission may authorize the use of such
combined facilities requiring the maximum number of parking spaces for the
larger use. Joint use of parking areas for similar adjacent uses may be
provided as long as the total off street parking spaces is equal to the minimum
requirement for each individual use. If the common facilities are located on
more than one (1) lot, a covenant for the preservation of the parking
facilities must be filed with the City.
   H.   Parking Standards For Historic Structures: As part of a site
development application, the Planning Commission may consider and approve a
reduction or modification of the standards contained herein for uses proposed
in historic structures, providing it can be demonstrated that the standards for
such use exceed that which is necessary in the specific case, that congestion
on adjacent streets will not be significantly increased, and that by granting
such a reduction, the safety and general welfare of the public will not be
compromised. For the purpose of this chapter, “historic structure” is defined
as a nonresidential building which is over fifty (50) years old and/or which is
listed on the National Register of Historic Properties.
   I.   AP Districts: Off street parking, loading, and access standards for
Agriculture Planned Districts shall be determined as part of the General
Development Plan and agreement process set forth in Chapter 27B of this title.
   J.   Variances: The Planning Commission may authorize, as part of the
standard review of a site plan and/or conditional use permit application, a
reduction in the required parking and loading spaces as described in this
chapter upon a finding that in a specific case, the nature of the use or
premises, would mitigate the need for the full parking requirement specified in
this chapter. Availability of street parking would not be justification for
reducing the requirement. (Ord. 2017-13, 5-16-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-01, 1-19-
2021; Ord. 2023-13, 3-14-2023; Ord. 2024-03, 1-2-2024; Ord. 2024-41, 7-16-2024)
11-32-040: MINIMUM PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:
Required off street parking shall be provided for each land use as listed
below. For any use not listed, the requirements for the most nearly similar use
which is listed shall apply. The Planning Commission shall determine which
listed use is most nearly similar. In special cases where it is determined that
there is not a similar use, the Planning Commission, in consultation with the
developer, shall establish the minimum parking space requirement:
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                    Parking Spaces Required
                                       1 parking space for every 4 seats. Where
Auditoriums, assembly halls, theaters, there are no fixed seats, 1 space shall
churches, funeral homes                be provided for every 50 square feet of
                                       gross floor area.
                                       3 spaces for each service bay (service
                                       bay itself shall not be counted as a
Auto repair/body shop                  parking space) plus 1 space for each
                                       vehicle customarily used in operation of
                                       the business.
Commercial recreation, such as golf    Determined by the Planning Commission.
course, bowling alley, etc.
Dental and medical clinics             3 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                       of floor area.
                                       There shall be sufficient distance in
                                       advance of a service window to store 4
                                       cars, not including the vehicle at the
                                       window. In the case of a fast food
                                       restaurant, the distance between a menu
                                       board and the pick up window shall be
                                       sufficient to store 4 cars, not
Drive-in facilities, required stacking including the vehicles at the pick up
space                                  window and menu board, and storage for
                                       at least 4 vehicles shall also be
                                       provided in advance of the menu board. A
                                       minimum of 20 feet per vehicle shall be
                                       provided. Such spaces shall be designed
                                       so as not to impede pedestrian or
                                       vehicular circulation on the site or on
                                       abutting streets.
Dwelling, multi-family (5+ units/      1.6 parking spaces per unit, plus 0.25
building)                              space per unit for visitors.
Dwelling, single-family to four-family 2 parking spaces per dwelling unit.
Elementary and junior high school      2 parking spaces per classroom.
                                       20 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
Fast food or drive-in restaurant       of sales and eating area plus a minimum
                                       of 4 employee parking spaces.
Hospitals                              1 parking space per each bed.
                                       1 parking space per unit, plus specified
Hotel and motel                        requirements for restaurants,
                                       auditoriums, meeting rooms and other
                                       related facilities.
Intensive commercial business, retail  4 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
stores and shops                       of floor area.
Less intensive commercial businesses,  1.5 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
including auto, lumber, appliance      of indoor and outdoor sales and display
sales, etc.                            area.
                                       2 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                       of gross floor area, plus 1 space for
Manufacturing uses, research and       each company vehicle operating from the
testing, wholesale                     premises. 1 parking space per 1,000
                                       square feet of gross floor area shall be
                                       provided for warehousing and/or space
                                       used exclusively for storage.
Nursing home                           1 parking space per each bed.
Offices and personal services          3 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                       of floor area.
Senior high schools                    7 parking spaces per classroom.
Sit down restaurants and bars          12 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                       of floor area.
 
(Ord. 1994-26, 6-15-1994; amd. Ord. 2025-15, 4-15-2025)
11-32-050: OFF STREET LOADING:
   A.   Off Street Loading Required: For every building with a floor area over
ten thousand (10,000) square feet which contains a commercial or industrial
use, to or from which deliveries are regularly made by motor vehicle, at least
one off street loading space shall be provided and maintained on the same lot
with the building. For buildings larger than ten thousand (10,000) square feet,
an additional loading space shall be provided for the next thirty thousand
(30,000) square feet, or portion thereof. One additional loading space shall be
provided for each increment of forty thousand (40,000) square feet thereafter.
   B.   Size Of Loading Space: Each loading space shall be not less than
fourteen feet (14') wide and twenty five feet (25') long with a vertical
clearance of fourteen feet (14').
   C.   Location Of Loading Space: Required loading spaces may occupy any
required yard, except the front yard. The loading space shall be designed and
arranged so that no vehicle may be parked or stored or requires maneuvering
room within a public street. No loading space shall be located closer than
fifty feet (50') to a residential boundary, except when it is screened by a six
foot (6') wall or solid fence. (Ord. 1994-26, 6-15-1994)
11-32-060: ACCESS TO OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
   A.   Ingress And Egress: Adequate ingress and egress to all uses shall be
provided as follows:
      1.   Residential driveways shall be not more than twenty feet (20') in
width when serving as access to two (2) properly designated spaces, or thirty
feet (30') in width when serving as access to three (3) properly designated
parking spaces as measured at the front or side corner property line. "Properly
designated parking spaces" shall include spaces in a garage, carport or on a
parking pad located to the side of a dwelling and not located within the front
yard or required side corner yard. Tandem parking on a residential driveway
leading to a properly designated parking space contributes to the number of
parking spaces required for a single- or two-family dwelling. Additional
driveway width for access to a rear yard, for more than three (3) properly
designated parking spaces, or for multiple-family residential developments, or
for a different location of a properly designated parking space than set forth
herein, may be reviewed by the planning commission as a special exception.
Residential driveways shall be designed at a width which is the minimum
necessary to provide adequate access to designated parking spaces.
      2.   Not more than one driveway for each separate street frontage shall
be permitted on lots occupied by a one-family or two-family dwelling, except
under the following circumstances:
         a.   On lots with at least the minimum width required in the zone, one
additional driveway may be permitted providing that the sum of the width of
both driveways does not exceed the maximum widths specified in subsection A1 of
this section;
         b.   For lots having at least fifty feet (50') of width in excess of
the minimum required width, one additional driveway, not exceeding sixteen feet
(16') in width, may be permitted.
      3.   A maximum of one driveway for each one hundred feet (100') of public
street frontage shall be allowed for commercial and industrial uses. Said
driveways shall be not more than thirty six feet (36') in width. Minimum widths
of driveways shall be not less than sixteen feet (16') for one-way traffic or
twenty four feet (24') for two-way traffic. Planter strips designed to separate
one-way entering and exiting traffic, which are not less than four feet (4') or
more than twelve feet (12') in width, shall not be included in computing the
total width of driveways and do not constitute a separation of driveways as
regulated by subsection B of this section.
      4.   Driveways shall not exceed a slope of fourteen percent (14%).
      5.   Driveways shall have direct access to a public street for a building
lot. Subject to satisfaction of the provisions of section
11-3-045 of this title and the grant of a special exception, direct access for
a building lot may include access over one adjacent building lot, provided both
building lots have full frontage on a public street, an access easement has
been recorded acceptable to the city, and the full face of any dwelling unit
located on both building lots fronts or is fully exposed to the public street.
   B.   Driveway Spacing:
      1.   Individual driveways or circular driveways on residential lots shall
be spaced not less than forty feet (40') apart on the same lot and shall be not
less than six feet (6') from side property lines unless otherwise approved by
the zoning administrator.
      2.   Individual driveways on commercial or industrial developments shall
be spaced not less than forty feet (40') apart on the same lot and shall be not
less than fifteen feet (15') from side property lines except under the
following circumstances:
         a.   A common driveway serves adjacent land uses;
         b.   Driveways cannot meet separation standards due to narrow lot
frontage;
         c.   Driveways cannot meet separation standards due to location of
existing driveways on adjacent lots; or
         d.   A professional traffic engineer, after preparing a traffic study,
recommends that driveways be located closer to interior lot lines in order to
maintain a safe distance from street intersections.
   C.   Distance From Intersections: No residential driveway shall be located
closer than thirty feet (30') to the intersection of two (2) streets. This
measurement shall be made from the intersection of the right of way lines of
such streets. For commercial uses, industrial uses and apartments with
seventeen (17) or more parking spaces, the driveway shall be no closer than
forty feet (40') to the intersection of two (2) streets. (Ord. 1994-26, 6-15-
1994; amd. Ord. 2005-11, 4-6-2005; Ord. 2005-51, 10-19-2005; Ord. 2011-10, 5-
17-2011; Ord. 2014-07, 3-4-2014; Ord. 2020-24, 10-6-2020; Ord. 2024-03, 1-2-
2024; Ord. 2024-41, 7-16-2024)
11-32-070: PARKING DEVELOPMENT, STANDARDS AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Location: Sites shall be designed to transition easily from surface to
structured parking to accommodate future infill development.
   B.   Size: Each off street parking space shall be not less than nine feet by
eighteen feet (9' x 18') except as otherwise provided.
   C.   Accessible Parking: All public parking areas shall provide spaces
complying with standards for quantity and design established in the federal
Americans with disabilities act.
   D.   Surfacing: All public parking areas, private residential parking areas
for five (5) or more vehicles, and private industrial parking areas with three
(3) or more parking spaces (including driveways and loading spaces) shall be
paved with asphalt or concrete, shall have appropriate bumper guards so that
cars do not project across sidewalks or property lines, and shall be marked so
as to provide the orderly arrangement and movement of vehicles.
   E.   Grading: All parking areas shall be graded for proper drainage as
approved by the city engineer. (Ord. 1994-26, 6-15-1994)
   F.   Curb And Gutter: All parking areas as described in subsection C of this
section shall be finished around the perimeter with concrete curb and gutter.
(Ord. 2006-28, 4-19-2006)
   G.   No Backing Onto Public Streets: All parking areas described in
subsection C of this section shall be designed so that vehicles would not be
required to back out into a public street.
   H.   Screening And Landscaping: All public and private parking areas, except
single-family and two-family dwellings, shall be effectively screened by solid
fencing or landscaping. The screening and landscaping plan shall be approved by
the planning commission in a site plan review.
   I.   Lighting: Lighting used to illuminate any off street parking area shall
be designed to direct light away from adjoining property in residential
districts.
   J.   Design Of Parking Area: Dimensions of all parking lots shall be in
compliance with the minimum standards illustrated by the following table and
diagram:
MINIMUM DIMENSIONS IN PARKING LOT DESIGN
 
           W           C           D           A           B
            Stall Width Curb Length Stall Depth Aisle Width Bay Width
90° parking9 feet      9 feet      18 feet     24 feet     60 feet
60° parking9 feet      10.4 feet   16 feet     23 feet     55 feet
45° parking9 feet      12.7 feet   13 feet     22 feet     48 feet
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/96e91c02a8c440fc456d18aa8c1720c0a3b5ef00/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4664.png]
   K.   Parking Structure Design Standards:
      1.   Required Structure Parking:
         a.   Office and retail uses with more than two hundred fifty (250)
proposed parking stalls which are over parked at a rate of one and a half (1 ½)
times or greater than the number of required stalls (not calculating for
potential reductions) shall utilize structured or underground parking for a
minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the proposed parking to prevent excessive
areas of surface parking.
      2.   Location of structured Parking: Structured parking shall be located
such that they are screened or have minimal visibility from streets other than
freeways.
      3.   Parking Structure Design:
         a.   Parking structures shall be designed with similar components and
materials as the principal onsite building. Exterior materials shall consist of
concrete, masonry, rock, glass, or other materials approved by the planning
commissions.
         b.   It is highly encouraged to utilize horizontal beam construction
that avoids placing support columns or walls adjacent to parking stalls and
aisles.
         c.   Parking Stall Size Reductions:
            (1)   Low Parking Turnover Uses: Uses with a low turnover parking
rate including office, residential, schools, and other uses as approved by the
planning commission. These uses may be allowed to have as many as ten percent
(10%) of the required stalls provided with reduced parking stall dimensions as
defined in this section. Parking stall dimensions may be reduced to eight and a
half (8 ½) feet in width and in case a stall has two (2) feet of overhang
space, a stall may be reduced to sixteen (16) feet in length. Stalls adjacent
to a support column or wall shall be a minimum of eleven (11) feet in width.
            (2)   High Parking Turnover Uses: Uses with a high turnover parking
rate including retail, restaurants, movie theaters, and medical and dental
offices. These uses shall maintain standard dimensions of nine (9) feet by
eighteen (18) feet unless otherwise approved by the city engineer.
         d.   In cases where a site is sloped, parking structures shall take
advantage of the topography by retaining the slope with the structure. Where
possible the structure shall not be visible from the public street.
         e.   Exterior facades of a parking structure shall provide a variation
of materials, wall projections, or change in architecture every one hundred
(100) feet.
         f.   Parking structures shall be designed to allow natural light and
public visibility to improve safety.
         g.   Parking structure stairways shall be covered. It is encouraged to
enclose the stairway with architectural elements that relate to the principal
building.
         h.   Screening:
            (1)   Transformers, ventilation shafts, elevator equipment, and
other equipment shall be screened from public view by landscaping, screen
walls, or other features incorporated into the design of the structure.
         i.   Landscaping:
            (1)   Parking structures shall be landscaped around the base with
trees and shrubs. Landscaping shall be provided either on the top level of the
structure with the use of planter beds or potted plants, or with the use of
green walls or trellised plants. (Ord. 1994-26, 6-15-1994; amd. Ord. 2025-5, 1-
7-2025)
CHAPTER 33
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
11-33-010: Purpose
11-33-020: Zoning Administrator To Enforce
11-33-030: Powers And Duties Of Zoning Administrator
11-33-040: Permit Required
11-33-050: Penalties
11-33-060: Definition Of Excavation
11-33-070: General And Yard Requirements
11-33-080: Operational Requirements
11-33-090: Rehabilitation Requirements
11-33-100: Exceptions
11-33-110: Application To Existing Operations
11-33-010: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose and object of this chapter to establish reasonable and
uniform limitations, safeguards and controls on excavation within the
incorporated areas of Farmington City, and to ensure that excavation operations
shall be rehabilitated to a condition of practical usefulness and reasonable
physical attractiveness. These provisions are deemed necessary in the public
interest to effect practices which will provide protection of the tax base
(provide for the economic use of the vital materials necessary for our economy
and give due consideration to the present and future use of land) in the
interest of promoting the public health, safety and general welfare. (Ord.
1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-33-020: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR TO ENFORCE:
The zoning administrator appointed by Farmington City council is hereby
designated and authorized as the officer charged with the enforcement of this
chapter. He may delegate this authority in specific instances at his discretion
to any authorized employee in his department. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-33-030: POWERS AND DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to inspect or cause to be
inspected at regular intervals, as often as necessary, all excavations. Where
it is determined by the zoning administrator that excavation is proceeding not
in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, he shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter, and in performance of this duty may enter actions
in the courts, where necessary, and his failure to do so shall not legalize any
violations of such provisions. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-33-040: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No "excavation", as defined in this chapter, shall be commenced or proceeded
with except after the issuance of a written permit for the same by the zoning
administrator. No permit shall be issued unless it bears thereon the approval
of the zoning administrator. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-33-050: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of
the penalty provisions set forth in chapter 38 of this title. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-
14-1986; amd. 2016 Code)
11-33-060: DEFINITION OF EXCAVATION:
For the purpose of this chapter, "excavation" shall mean the removal of clay,
soil, granite, flagstone, slate, shale, limestone, sandstone, sand and gravel
and minerals from the earth by excavating, stripping, leveling or any other
process, together with all other types of mining operations where material is
removed from the earth. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
removal of sod or topsoil, providing the operation be not closer than ten feet
(10') to any property line or to a depth in excess of eighteen inches (18") or
so to adversely affect the drainage of the area; and to provide further, this
chapter shall not apply to ditching and land leveling for agricultural
purposes. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-33-070: GENERAL AND YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Distance Requirements: No accessory access road, parking area or office
building shall be permitted closer than two hundred feet (200') on any occupied
residential building or within fifty feet (50') of a public highway right of
way. No part of any excavating operation, or crushing, screening, washing,
mixing or other type of processing operation shall be permitted closer than
fifty feet (50') to a public highway right of way or one thousand feet (1,000')
to any occupied residential or commercial building. The Farmington City council
may reduce this requirement to not less than five hundred feet (500') provided
each party having interest in any occupied residential or commercial building
so affected shall sign a waiver in favor of the applicant as being unopposed to
the location of such use.
   B.   Reduction: Relating to existing operations, the Farmington City
council, consistent with the intent of these regulations, and where the
character of terrain, of ownership of land, or surrounding development, or
where other special conditions would justify such modifications, may permit a
reduction in the required yard as stipulated above so as not to impose
unreasonable requirements, however, in no case shall the required distance for
any excavation or accessory structure be less than fifty feet (50') from a
residential occupancy. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-33-080: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
All excavation operations conducted or carried on are subject to the following
limitations, restrictions and controls:
   A.   Dust, Noise, Vibration, Smoke, Light And Odor: All equipment and
machinery used on the site of an excavation operation shall be constructed,
maintained and operated in such a manner as to reduce dust, smoke, noise,
vibration, welding lights and odor to a minimum as determined by the zoning
administrator. Access and haulage roads on the site shall be maintained in a
dust free condition by surfacing or other treatment.
   B.   Fencing And Barriers: Fencing or other suitable barriers shall be
created and maintained on the excavation site or on portions of the site where
such fencing is practicable and necessary because of dangerous conditions
created by the excavation.
   C.   Related Manufacturing Operations: The manufacturing or the production
of ready mixed concrete, the production of asphalt mixes and any similar
production or manufacturing processes which might be related to the excavation
operation shall be permitted except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   D.   Washing: The washing of sand and gravel shall be done so as to prevent
the discharge of wastewater directly into adjacent natural watercourses or onto
any public or private roads or any private property without the consent of the
owner.
   E.   Hours Of Operations: Operations shall not begin before six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. and shall not continue after six o'clock (6:00) P.M., and no operation
shall take place on Sunday or legal holidays. During periods of unusual
emergency, time and hours of operation may be altered by the zoning
administrator.
   F.   Excavation And Backfilling:
      1.   Where backfilling is required, the excavation shall be graded or
backfilled with nonnoxious, nonflammable, noncombustible solids. The materials
used or the method of fill shall not be such as to create a health hazard nor
which would be objectional because of odor or unsightliness.
      2.   The graded or backfilled area shall not collect and permit stagnant
water to remain thereon.
      3.   The peaks and depressions of the excavation area shall be reduced to
a surface which will result in level or gently sloping topography in
substantial conformity to the land area immediately surrounding and which will
minimize erosion due to rainfall.
      4.   In any rehabilitation procedure which takes place in sand and gravel
pits or on other sites where the materials are loose or of friable nature, no
slope shall be left which is steeper than a ratio of two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1). In no case shall any slope exceed the normal angle of repose of
the material involved.
   G.   Time Limitation: Within one year after the cessation of the operation,
all temporary structures (except fences), equipment, rock piles, rubble heaps
and other debris shall be removed or backfilled into the excavation so as to
leave the premises in a neat and orderly condition.
   H.   Drainage: The finished slopes shall be graded to direct the drainage
water to acceptable drainage channels, or into drainage system to be provided
by the contractor and approved by the city engineer.
   I.   Road Restoration: All haulage roads used to move material to and from
the excavation site through Farmington City shall be restored to an equal or
better condition as soon as possible after completion of the haulage contract,
however, all road restoration work must be completed within ninety (90) days.
(Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-33-090: REHABILITATION REQUIREMENTS:
In order to ensure that the area of excavation operation and the haulage roads
shall be rehabilitated, the owner or operator shall, prior to the commencement
of excavation, submit to the city planner a plan of such rehabilitation in the
form of the following:
   A.   Description Of Operation; Water Requirement: A description of all
phases of the contemplated operation and the specific mention of type of
machinery and equipment which will be or might be necessary to carry on the
operation. Where the operation is to include the washing of sand and gravel,
the estimated daily quantity of water required, its source and disposition
shall be made a part of this description.
   B.   Legal Description: A legal description of the proposed site with map
showing its location with indications of private access roads, existing or
proposed, and of public highways adjacent to the site which will be affected by
the operation.
   C.   Topographic Map: A topographic map of the area at a minimum contour
interval of five feet (5') extending beyond a site to the nearest public street
or highway or to a minimum distance of three hundred feet (300') on all sides.
   D.   Rehabilitation Plan: A physical rehabilitation plan showing the
proposed contours after rehabilitation and other special features of
rehabilitation and the method by which such rehabilitation is to be
accomplished. The rehabilitation plan will include, but not be limited to:
      1.   A drainage plan showing main drainage channels and flow pattern to
handle the maximum rainfall of the previous ten (10) years;
      2.   A definition of roads to be used for haulage and a description of
the condition to which those roads will be restored after completion of the
haulage contract;
      3.   The type of cover to be planted as part of the restoration project;
      4.   The method of stabilizing soft slopes to prevent erosion until the
covering plants are established;
      5.   The plan for supplying water to the covering plants to ensure
germination and early growth.
   E.   Bond: A bond shall be provided equal to the estimated cost of
rehabilitation as defined in this section. This estimate will be made by the
city engineer. This bond shall be written by a licensed surety company in the
state of Utah, or a bank cashier's check will be made payable to Farmington
City Corporation. In the event of applicant failure to fulfill the agreement,
such bond or bonds, check or checks, shall be subject to forfeiture as follows:
      1.   In the event of failure, applicant shall be given ten (10) days'
notice of forfeiture hearing.
      2.   In the event applicant at such hearing is not able to show cause why
the forfeiture should not occur, the bonding company or principal shall pay
Farmington City Corporation the amount of the bond, or the check shall be
forfeited or in either event such lesser amount as necessary to complete said
rehabilitation.
   F.   Start Of Rehabilitation: Rehabilitation shall proceed as soon as
practicable after termination of the excavation operation. In all cases,
rehabilitation must start within six (6) months and be completed within two (2)
years after cessation of operations. However, the owner or operator may, at his
option, submit a plan for progressive rehabilitation as the excavation
operation is carried on. The required bond in such case may cover progressive
stages of the rehabilitation for periods of not less than two (2) years.
   G.   Plan Modification: At any stage during the rehabilitation, the plan may
be modified by submission and approval of any amended rehabilitation plan as
required in the original application.
   H.   Report; Recommendation; Decision: The rehabilitation plan and all data
and information pertaining thereto shall be referred to the planning commission
by the city planner within fifteen (15) days after receipt thereof for report
and recommendation. The planning commission will have thirty (30) days in which
to respond. If approved, the planning commission shall express its written
approval with whatever conditions are attached, by returning one copy of the
rehabilitation plan signed by the planning commission chairperson to be
delivered to the owner or operator. If the plan is disapproved, the planning
commission shall indicate its disapproval in writing and reasons therefor by a
similarly signed copy. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-33-100: EXCEPTIONS:
In cases where unusual topographical or other exceptional conditions exist,
variations and exceptions from this chapter may be made by the Farmington City
council. Prior to final decision on any variation or exception, the question
shall first be referred to the planning commission for its recommendations or
suggestions. But the final decision will be made by the Farmington City
council. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-33-110: APPLICATION TO EXISTING OPERATIONS:
Within ninety (90) days after adoption of the ordinance codified herein,
existing operations shall comply with the provisions set forth in sections
11-33-070 and
11-33-080 of this chapter, and within one year after adoption of the ordinance
codified herein, existing operations shall comply with the provisions set forth
in section
11-33-090 of this chapter. However, in no case shall requirements be imposed
which are economically or engineeringly unreasonable in respect to conditions
resulting from operations prior to enactment of the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
CHAPTER 34
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
11-34-010: Purpose
11-34-020: Location Of Businesses Restrictions
11-34-030: Effect On Nonconforming Businesses
11-34-040: Signs
11-34-050: Definitions
11-34-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose and objective of this chapter is to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of sexually oriented
businesses or their location in areas deleterious to the city, regulate the
signage of such businesses, control the adverse affects of such signage, and
prevent inappropriate exposure of such businesses to the community. This
chapter is to be construed as a regulation of time, place and manner of the
operation of these businesses, consistent with the United States and Utah
constitutions. (Ord. 2006-41, 6-20-2006)
11-34-020: LOCATION OF BUSINESSES RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Outcall Services: Outcall services shall only be allowed in areas zoned
light manufacturing and business (LM&B).
   B.   Sexually Oriented Businesses: Sexually oriented businesses, except
outcall services, shall only be allowed as a conditional use in areas zoned
light manufacturing and business (LM&B), subject to the following additional
restrictions:
      1.   No sexually oriented business shall be located:
         a.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any school, public park,
library or religious institution;
         b.   Within one hundred feet (100') of any residential use located
within the LM&B zone, or within four hundred feet (400') of any residential use
outside the LM&B zone or residential zoning boundary; or
         c.   Within four hundred feet (400') of any other sexually oriented
business, except outcall services.
   C.   Structure, Use Measurements: Distance requirements between structures
and uses specified in this section shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures or zoning districts, from the property
boundaries of the school, public park, religious or cultural activity,
residential use, or other sexually oriented business, or from the right of way
line of a gateway to the structure of the sexually oriented business.
   D.   Zoning District Measurements: Distance requirements from zoning
districts for this section shall be measured in a straight line, without regard
to intervening structures or zoning districts, from the closest zoning boundary
of a residential or agricultural district to the sexually oriented business
structure. (Ord. 2006-41, 6-20-2006)
11-34-030: EFFECT ON NONCONFORMING BUSINESSES:
All existing legal, nonconforming sexually oriented businesses, as of the
effective date hereof, or any amendment hereto, shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter within nine (9) months from the date the ordinance
codified herein is enacted. (Ord. 2006-41, 6-20-2006)
11-34-040: SIGNS:
Notwithstanding anything contrary to the Farmington City sign regulations or
other applicable city ordinances, the more restrictive requirements for signs
shall prevail. Signs for sexually oriented businesses shall be limited as
follows:
   A.   Number: No more than one exterior sign shall be allowed.
   B.   Size: No sign shall be allowed to exceed eighteen (18) square feet.
   C.   Animation: No animation shall be permitted on or around any sign or on
the exterior walls or roof of such premises.
   D.   Descriptive Art: No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity
related to or inferring the nature of the business shall be allowed on any
sign. Said signs shall contain alphanumeric copy only.
   E.   Permitted Signs: Only flat wall signs and/or awning signs shall be
permitted.
   F.   Painted Wall Prohibited: Painted wall advertising shall not be allowed.
   G.   Temporary Devices Prohibited: Other than the signs specifically allowed
by this chapter, the sexually oriented business shall not attach, construct or
allow to be attached or constructed any temporary sign, banner, light or other
device designed to draw attention to the business location. (Ord. 2006-41, 6-
20-2006)
11-34-050: DEFINITIONS:
Terms involving sexually oriented businesses which are not defined in this
title shall have the meanings set forth in title 6, chapter 6 of this code
regarding sexually oriented businesses. (Ord. 2006-41, 6-20-2006)
CHAPTER 35
HOME OCCUPATION
SECTION:
11-35-010: Purpose
11-35-020: License Required
11-35-030: Conditions
11-35-040: Conditional Uses
11-35-045: Preschool, Daycare, Class Instruction
11-35-050: Exemptions
11-35-060: Revocation
11-35-070: Appeal
11-35-010: PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish guidelines, conditions
and requirements for limited nonagricultural business activities in residential
and agricultural zones. For the purpose of this chapter, "home occupation" is
defined as an occupation or profession in which the associated activity or use
is clearly incidental and secondary to the residential use of a dwelling unit,
there is no alteration to the exterior of the dwelling unit to accommodate the
occupation or profession, and such occupation or profession does not adversely
affect the residential character of the surrounding neighborhood. A home
occupation should be conducted in such a way that neighbors or passersby would
not, under normal circumstances, be aware of its existence.
   B.   It is recognized that home occupations may be desirable to reduce
"start up" costs for small businesses and to provide gainful employment within
the community. However, if a home occupation grows to the point, or is
conducted in such a manner, that the conditions of this chapter are not met,
the home occupation shall cease and any continuing business shall be moved to
an appropriate location in a commercial zone. (Ord. 1993-44, 12-8-1993)
11-35-020: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to engage in a home
occupation in any agricultural or residential zone without first obtaining a
home occupation business license to do so from the City Recorder. The procedure
to be followed and applicable fees for a home occupation business license are
set forth in the business licensing regulations, title 6 of this Code.
   B.   Businesses that do not have combined offsite impacts of the home based
business and the primary residential use that exceed the impact of the
residential use alone shall pay a licensing fee to cover the cost of issuing
the license, as set forth in the City's consolidated fee schedule. (Ord. 2017-
27, 10-3-2017)
11-35-030: CONDITIONS:
Each home occupation shall comply with all of the following conditions:
   A.   Residency: A home occupation must be owned and managed and all business
conducted by a bona fide resident of the parcel where the license is sought. A
home occupation may not be operated on a property other than the owner's
residence.
   B.   Employees: Only family members related by blood, marriage or adoption
who are bona fide residents of the dwelling unit shall be employed on said
premises, except that one additional person may be employed at any one time as
a secretary, computer operator, apprentice or helper where there are no more
than five (5) family members actively engaged in the home occupation.
   C.   Exterior Modifications: No exterior architectural or structural
modifications shall be made to any dwelling unit to accommodate a commercial
use in the dwelling.
   D.   Interference With Electrical Or Mechanical Equipment: Electrical or
mechanical equipment which creates visible or audible interference in radio or
television receivers, or causes fluctuations in line voltage outside the
dwelling units, or uses which create noise, smell, sound, light or vibration
not normally associated with residential use, shall be prohibited.
   E.   Display Of Products: There shall be no display or sale of goods, wares
or merchandise upon said premises other than those produced upon the premises.
Where the home occupation involves the sale of products, such products shall
generally be delivered directly to the customer.
   F.   Advertising Sign: One sign advertising the business may be permitted,
but shall be limited to one square foot in area and shall be attached to the
front face of the building or may be displayed in a window.
   G.   Vehicular Traffic: The home occupation shall not generate substantially
greater vehicular traffic than commonly associated with residential activities
in the neighborhood in which it is located.
   H.   Hazardous Conditions: The home occupation shall not create a hazard by
using flammable materials, explosives or other dangerous or hazardous
materials, or by keeping, raising or storing animals which are capable of
inflicting harm or discomfort or endangering the health and safety of any
person.
   I.   Demand For Services: The home occupation shall not create a demand for
Municipal services or community facilities in excess of those usually and
customarily provided for residential uses.
   J.   Area Usage: Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the floor area
of a dwelling may be devoted to a home occupation and/or storage of materials,
equipment or stock in trade associated with the occupation, except as provided
in section
11-35-040 of this chapter.
   K.   Conduct Within Dwelling: The home occupation shall be conducted
entirely within the dwelling and shall be clearly incidental, secondary and
compatible to the residential use of the dwelling. The home occupation shall
not occupy or use any accessory building, yard space or activity outside the
main building, or an attached garage to the extent that vehicle parking is
displaced, unless approved by the Planning Commission as provided in section
11-35-040 of this chapter.
   L.   Foster Home, Daycare, Preschool: A foster home, child daycare center or
preschool shall not have more than sixteen (16) children at one time subject to
section
11-35-045 of this chapter.
   M.   Teachers: Music, dancing teachers or tutors shall be limited to not
more than sixteen (16) pupils at one time subject to section
11-35-050 of this chapter.
   N.   Vehicle Size; Parking: The size of vehicles used in conjunction with a
home occupation shall not exceed one ton rated capacity. Off street parking, in
compliance with the provisions of this title, shall be provided for all
business and private vehicles associated with a residential property.
   O.   Code Conformance: There shall be complete conformity with all City and
State codes, including business license regulations. Depending on the type of
business, periodic inspections may be made as required by these codes or as
deemed necessary or desirable by the City.
   P.   Prohibited Uses: The following uses, among others, shall not be allowed
as home occupations:
      1.   Barbershops and beauty salons, except for a barber or beautician who
has no assistants;
      2.   Kennels or animal hospitals;
      3.   Commercial stables;
      4.   Restaurants;
      5.   Repair shops or service establishments, except for the repair of
electrical appliances, typewriters, televisions, cameras or other similar small
items. (Ord. 2012-19, 6-5-2012; amd. Ord. 2016-23, 2-16-2016; Ord. 2024-10, 2-
20-2024)
11-35-040: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Permitted Conditional Uses: The following home occupations may be
allowed only upon approval of a conditional use application by the Planning
Commission and issuance of a conditional use permit:
      1.   Uses where the applicant proposes to use more than twenty five
percent (25%) of the dwelling in connection with the business.
      2.   Any use where outside storage, use of an accessory building or
exclusive use of an attached garage is anticipated or requested in conjunction
with the home occupation.
   B.   Review Standards: In evaluating a home occupation conditional use, the
Planning Commission shall apply the review standards contained in chapter 8 of
this title and, if applicable, site development standards contained in chapter
7 of this title. (Ord. 2010-21, 5-18-2010; amd. Ord. 2024-10, 2-20-2024)
11-35-045: PRESCHOOL, DAYCARE, CLASS INSTRUCTION:
   A.   Building Code Compliance: Uses in which over eight (8) but not more
than sixteen (16) individuals (including any natural, adopted or foster members
of the operator's household) are cared for or receive instruction in the home
at any one time. Such uses may include dance instruction, aerobics classes,
music lessons, preschools, child daycare, crafts classes and other similar
uses. For all such uses, the Farmington City building official and Fire Marshal
shall inspect the facilities to ensure compliance with the requirements of the
International Building Code.
   B.   Compliance With The State: Preschool and child daycare uses shall
submit documentation within thirty (30) days of approval that all Utah State
Department of Social Services requirements have been met. The entire yard, or
minimum outside area required by the State Social Services, shall be fenced.
   C.   Traffic Management:
      1.   For a home occupation which may hold more than one class or session
during the course of a single day, sessions shall be timed so that the
conclusion of one and the start of the next have at least fifteen (15) minutes
between them to reduce the potential of drop off and pickup traffic being
present at the same time.
      2.   The applicant for a home occupation qualifying as a preschool,
daycare or one which offers class instruction must provide to Farmington City a
plan demonstrating their plan to manage traffic impacts on the neighborhood.
This plan will indicate when pickup and drop-off will occur, where parking will
be encouraged, and should be shared with clients and be monitored by the owner
of the home occupation. (Ord. 2024-10, 2-20-2024)
11-35-050: EXEMPTIONS:
The following uses are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Sale of goods or services by residents age eighteen (18) or under;
   B.   Temporary home occupations, such as garage sales, yard sales, or craft
boutiques that occur not more than four (4) times a year with each event
lasting not more than seventy two (72) hours;
   C.   Promotional meetings for the purpose of taking orders for merchandise,
by invitation only, which occur not more than once each month;
   D.   Community/neighborhood fundraisers which are sponsored and/or approved
by the City;
   E.   Other exemptions as specifically approved in writing by the City
Council. (Ord. 2017-27, 10-3-2017)
11-35-060: REVOCATION:
Violation of, or failure to comply with, the requirements of this chapter may
result in revocation of the home occupation business license by the body which
originally approved the home occupation. Any activity presenting an immediate
threat to the health, safety and welfare of the neighboring residents may be
ordered terminated immediately by the Mayor under the powers given him to act
in an emergency. (Ord. 1993-44, 12-8-1993; amd. Ord. 2024-46, 9-3-2024)
11-35-070: APPEAL:
Any person or entity denied a home occupation business license shall have the
right to appeal such denial to the land use appeal authority if a written
request for an appeal is made to the City within ten (10) calendar days of the
denial, in accordance with chapter
3-7 of this code. (Ord. 1993-44, 12-8-1993; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
CHAPTER 36
TRAILER AND CAMPGROUND AREAS
SECTION:
11-36-010: Effect Of Chapter
11-36-020: Definitions
11-36-030: Permits
11-36-040: Licenses
11-36-050: Inspection Of Travel Trailer Parking Areas
11-36-060: Notices, Hearing And Orders
11-36-070: Adoption Of Regulations By The Health Authority
11-36-080: Environmental, Open Space And Access Requirements
11-36-090: Water Supply
11-36-100: Sewage Disposal
11-36-110: Electrical Distribution System
11-36-120: Service Buildings And Other Service Facilities
11-36-130: Refuse Handling
11-36-140: Insect And Rodent Control
11-36-150: Fuel Supply And Storage
11-36-160: Fire Protection
11-36-170: Miscellaneous Requirements
11-36-180: Penalties
11-36-190: Conflict Of Ordinances; Effect Of Partial Invalidity
11-36-010: EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
This chapter is maintained in recognition of the existence of an area presently
committed to this type of development. It is the intent of the city that this
type of development be limited to the area currently zoned C-H. (Ord. 1986-07,
5-14-1986)
11-36-020: DEFINITIONS:
DEPENDENT TRAILER: A trailer which is dependent upon a service building for
toilet and lavatory facilities.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The legally designated health authority or the authorized
representative of Farmington City.
LICENSE: A written license issued by Farmington City allowing a person to
operate and maintain a travel trailer and campground parking area under the
provisions of this chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
PERMIT: A written permit issued by Farmington City permitting the construction,
alteration and extension of a travel trailer and campground area under the
provision of this chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, partnership, public or private association
or corporation.
SANITARY STATION: A facility used for removing and disposing of wastes from
trailer holding tanks.
SELF-CONTAINED TRAILER: A trailer which can operate independent of connections
to sewer, water and electric systems. It contains a water flushed toilet,
lavatory, shower and kitchen sink, all of which are connected to water storage
and sewage holding tanks located within the trailer.
SERVICE BUILDING: A structure housing toilet, lavatory and other such
facilities as may be required by this chapter.
SERVICE SINK: A slop sink with a flushing rim for the disposal of liquid wastes
from trailers.
SEWER CONNECTION: The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the drain outlet of the trailer to the inlet of the
corresponding sewer riser pipe of the sewerage system serving the travel
trailer and campground parking area.
SEWER RISER PIPE: That portion of the sewer lateral which extends vertically to
the ground elevation and terminates at each trailer space.
TRAILER: Any of the following:
   Camping Trailer: A canvas, folding structure, mounted on wheels and designed
for travel, recreation and vacation use.
   Motor Home: A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel, recreation
and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle.
   Pickup Coach: A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for use
as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
   Travel Trailer: A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed
to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses,
permanently identified as a travel trailer by the manufacturer of the trailer
and, when factory equipped for the road, it shall have a body width not
exceeding eight feet (8'), and a body length not exceeding thirty two feet
(32').
TRAILER SPACE: A parcel of land in a travel trailer parking area for the
placement of a single trailer and the exclusive use of its occupants.
TRAILER STAND: Part of an individual trailer space which has been reserved for
the placement of a single trailer and its accessory structures.
TRAVEL TRAILER PARKING AREA: A parcel of land in which two (2) or more spaces
are occupied or intended for occupancy by trailers for transient dwelling
purposes.
WATER CONNECTION: The connection consisting of all pipes, fittings and
appurtenances from the water riser pipe to the water inlet pipe of the
distribution system within the trailer.
WATER RISER PIPE: That portion of the water supply system serving the travel
trailer parking area which extends vertically to the ground elevation and
terminates at a designated point at each trailer space.
WATERING STATION: A facility for supplying water storage tanks of trailers with
potable water. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-36-030: PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
alter or extend any travel trailer or campground parking area within the limits
of Farmington City unless he holds a valid permit issued by Farmington City in
the name of such person for the specific construction, alteration or extension
proposed.
   B.   Application: All applications for permits shall be made to the
Farmington City planning commission and shall contain the following:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Interest of the applicant in the travel trailer parking area;
      3.   Location and legal description of the travel trailer parking area;
      4.   Complete engineering plans and specifications of the parking area
showing the area and dimensions of the tract of land; the number, location and
size of all trailer spaces; the location and width of roadways and walkways;
the location of service buildings, sanitary stations and any other proposed
structures; the location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes; plans and
specifications of the water supply and refuse and sewage disposal facilities;
plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be constructed
within the travel trailer parking area; and the location and details of
lighting and electrical systems.
   C.   Fees: All applications shall be accompanied by the deposit of a fee of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) or one dollar ($1.00) per proposed space,
whichever is greater.
   D.   Planning Commission Review: When, upon review of the application, the
Farmington City planning commission is satisfied that the proposed plan meets
the requirements of this chapter and regulations issued hereunder, a permit
shall be issued.
   E.   Appeal: Any person whose application for a permit under this chapter
has been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before
the Farmington City council under the procedure provided by section
11-36-060 of this chapter. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-36-040: LICENSES:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any
travel trailer parking area within the limits of Farmington City, Utah, unless
he holds a valid license issued annually by Farmington City in the name of such
a person for the specific travel trailer parking area. All applications for
licenses shall be reviewed by the health authority who shall approve a license
upon compliance by the applicant with provisions of this chapter and
regulations issued hereunder and of other applicable legal requirements.
   B.   Notice Of Sale Required: Every person holding a license shall give
notice in writing to the Farmington City council within twenty four (24) hours
after having sold, transferred, given away or otherwise disposed of interest in
or control of any travel trailer parking area. Such notice shall include the
name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership or control of such
travel trailer parking area. Upon application in writing for transfer of the
license and deposit of a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00), the license shall be
transferred if the parking area is in compliance with all applicable provisions
of this chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
   C.   Application: Application for original licenses shall be in writing,
signed by the applicant, accompanied by an affidavit of the applicant as to the
truth of the application and by the deposit of a fee of twenty dollars
($20.00), plus one dollar ($1.00) for each trailer parking space, and shall
contain: the name and address of the applicant; the location and legal
description of the travel trailer parking area; and a site plan of the travel
trailer parking area showing all trailer spaces, structures, roads, walkways,
sanitary stations and other service facilities.
   D.   Renewals: Applications for renewals of licenses shall be made in
writing by the holders of the licenses, shall be accompanied by the deposit of
a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00), plus one dollar ($1.00) for each trailer
parking space, and shall contain any change in the information submitted since
the original license was issued or the latest renewal granted.
   E.   Appeal: Any person whose application for a license under this chapter
has been denied may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before
the Farmington City council under the procedure provided by section
11-36-060 of this chapter.
   F.   Violation Of This Chapter: Whenever, upon inspection of any travel
trailer parking area, the health authority finds that conditions or practices
exist which are in violation of any provision of this chapter or regulations
issued hereunder, the health authority shall give notice in writing to the
person to whom the license was issued that unless such conditions or practices
are corrected within a reasonable period of time specified in the notice by the
health authority, the license will be suspended. At the end of such period, the
health authority shall reinspect such travel trailer parking area and, if such
conditions or practices have not been corrected, he shall suspend the license
and give notice in writing of such suspension to the person to whom the license
is issued. Upon receipt of notice of suspension, such person shall cease
operation of such travel trailer parking area, except as provided in section
11-36-050 of this chapter.
   G.   Suspension, Revocation: Any person whose license has been suspended, or
who has received notice from the health authority that his license will be
suspended unless certain conditions or practices at the travel trailer parking
area are corrected, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter
before the health authority, under the procedure provided by section
11-36-060 of this chapter; provided, that when no petition for such hearing
shall have been filed within ten (10) days following the day on which notice of
suspension was served, such license shall be deemed to have been automatically
revoked at the expiration of such ten (10) day period. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-
1986)
11-36-050: INSPECTION OF TRAVEL TRAILER PARKING AREAS:
   A.   Authority: The health authority is hereby authorized and directed to
make such inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance
with this chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
   B.   Power To Enter: The health authority shall have the power to enter at
reasonable time upon any private or public property for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
   C.   Register Inspection: The health authority shall have the power to
inspect the register containing a record of all travel trailers and occupants
using the travel trailer parking area.
   D.   Access Required: It shall be the duty of the owners or occupants of
travel trailer parking areas, and trailer contained therein, or of the person
in charge thereof, to give the health authority free access to such premises at
reasonable times for the purpose of inspection.
   E.   Occupants To Grant Access: It shall be the duty of every occupant of a
travel trailer parking area to give the owner thereof or his agent or employees
access to any part of such travel trailer parking area or its premises at
reasonable times for the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are
necessary to effect compliance with this chapter and regulations issued
hereunder, or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-36-060: NOTICES, HEARING AND ORDERS:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the health authority determines that
there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any
provision of this chapter, or regulations issued hereunder, the health
authority shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person to whom the
permit or license was issued, as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
      1.   Be in writing;
      2.   Include a statement of the reasons for its issues;
      3.   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires;
      4.   Be served upon the owner or his agent as the case may require;
provided, that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been properly
served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by registered
mail to his last known address, or when he has been served with such notice by
any other method authorized or required by the laws of this state;
      5.   Contain an outline of remedial action, which, if taken, will effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and regulations issued
hereunder.
   B.   Appeal: Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in
connection with the enforcement of any provision of this chapter, or regulation
issued hereunder, may appeal that notice in accordance with chapter
3-7 of this code. Upon failure to comply with any order sustaining or modifying
a notice, the permit or license of the travel trailer parking area affected by
the order shall be revoked.
   C.   Emergency Action: Whenever the health authority finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health, the health
authority may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence
of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as the health
authority deems necessary to meet the emergency, including the suspension of
the permit or license. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter,
such order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such an order is
directed shall comply therewith immediately, but upon filing an appeal shall be
afforded a hearing as soon as possible. The provision of this section shall be
applicable to such hearing and the order issued thereafter. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-
14-1986; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
11-36-070: ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY THE HEALTH AUTHORITY:
The health authority is hereby authorized to make, and, after public hearing,
to adopt such written regulations as may be necessary for the proper
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. Such regulations shall have the
same force and effect as the provisions of this chapter, and the penalty for
violation of the provisions thereof shall be the same as the penalty for
violation of the provisions of this chapter, as hereinafter provided. (Ord.
1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-36-080: ENVIRONMENTAL, OPEN SPACE AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirements: Condition of soil, groundwater level, drainage
and topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health or safety
of the occupants. The site shall not be exposed to objectionable smoke, noise,
odors or other adverse influences, and no portion subject to unpredictable and/
or sudden flooding, subsidence or erosion shall be used for any purpose which
would expose persons or property to hazards.
   B.   Soil And Ground Cover Requirements: Exposed ground surfaces in all
parts of every parking area shall be paved, or covered with stone screenings,
or other solid material, or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable
of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust. Shade trees
shall also be required.
   C.   Required Separation Between Trailers: Trailers shall be separated from
each other and from other structures by at least ten feet (10'). Any accessory
structure, such as attached awnings, carports or individual storage facilities
shall, for purposes of this separation requirement, be considered to be part of
the trailer.
   D.   Density Requirement: The density shall not exceed twenty five (25)
trailer spaces per acre of gross site area, except that the health authority
may, under special circumstances, permit a higher density provided all other
environmental, open space and access requirements of this chapter and
regulations issued hereunder are adhered to. Any person desiring a higher
density shall make application for such exemption to the health authority,
specifying the reasons therefor. If a higher density is permitted, the health
authority shall issue a special license specifying the location of the parking
area, the expiration date of the license, and the conditions of issuance.
   E.   Required Recreation Area: In all travel trailer parking areas there
shall be at least one recreation area which shall be easily accessible from all
trailer spaces. The size of such recreation area shall be not less than eight
percent (8%) of the gross site area or two thousand five hundred (2,500) square
feet, whichever is greater.
   F.   Required Setbacks From Public Streets: All trailers shall be located at
least twenty five feet (25') from any parking area boundary line abutting upon
a public street or highway.
   G.   Park Street System:
      1.   General Requirements: All parking areas shall be provided with safe
and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads to each
trailer space. Alignment and gradient shall be properly adapted to topography.
Surfacing and maintenance shall provide a smooth, hard and dense surface which
shall be well drained.
      2.   Access: Access to travel trailer parking areas shall be designed to
minimize congestion and hazards at their entrance or exit and allow free
movement of traffic on adjacent streets. All traffic into or out of the parking
areas shall be through such entrances and exits.
      3.   Internal Streets: Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic and in any case shall meet the following
requirements:
         a.   One-way, no parking, eleven feet (11') (acceptable only if less
than 500 feet total length and serving less than 25 trailer spaces);
         b.   One-way, parking on one side only, or two-way, no parking,
eighteen feet (18') (acceptable only if serving less than 50 trailer spaces);
         c.   Two-way, no parking, twenty four feet (24');
         d.   Two-way, parking on one side only, twenty seven feet (27');
         e.   Two-way, parking on both sides, thirty four feet (34').
      4.   Off Street Parking And Maneuvering Space: Each travel trailer
parking area shall provide sufficient parking and maneuvering space so that the
parking, loading or maneuvering of trailers incidental to parking shall not
necessitate the use of any public street, sidewalk or right of way or any
private grounds not part of the travel trailer parking area. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-
14-1986)
11-36-090: WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   General Requirements: An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply
of water shall be provided in each travel trailer parking area. Connection
shall be made to the Farmington City culinary water system and its supply used
exclusively. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
   B.   Water Distribution System: The water supply system of the travel
trailer parking area shall be connected by pipes to all buildings and other
facilities requiring water. All water piping, fixtures and other equipment
shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with state and local
regulations and requirements and shall be of a type and in locations approved
by Farmington City. The water piping system shall not be connected with
nonpotable or questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the
hazards of backflow or back siphonage. The system shall be so designed and
maintained as to provide a pressure of not less than thirty (30) pounds per
square inch, under normal operating conditions, at service buildings and other
locations requiring potable water supply. All water system installations shall
be in conformance to the Farmington City public improvements standards set
forth in title 12, chapter 8 of this code. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986; amd. 2016
Code)
   C.   Watering Stations: Each travel trailer parking area shall be provided
with one or more easily accessible water supply outlets for filling trailer
water storage tanks. Such water supply outlets shall consist of at least a
water hydrant and the necessary appurtenances and shall be protected against
the hazards of backflow and back siphonage.
   D.   Individual Water Connections: If facilities for individual water
service connections are provided, the following requirements shall apply:
      1.   Riser pipes provided for individual water service connections shall
be so located and constructed that they will not be damaged by the parking of
travel trailers.
      2.   Water riser pipes shall extend at least four inches (4") above
ground elevation. The pipe size shall be three-fourths inch (3/4").
      3.   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service
lines, valves and riser pipes.
      4.   Underground stop and waste valves shall not be installed on any
water service.
      5.   Valves shall be provided near the outlet of each water service
connection. They shall be turned off and the outlets capped or plugged when not
in use. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-36-100: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   General Requirements: The sewerage system shall be connected to the
facilities of the Central Davis sewer improvement district. It shall be in
conformance to the Farmington City public improvements standards set forth in
title 12, chapter 8 of this code. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986; amd. 2016 Code)
   B.   Sanitary Stations:
      1.   A sanitary station shall be provided consisting of at least: a
trapped four inch (4") sewer riser pipe, connected to the travel trailer
parking area sewerage system, surrounded at the inlet end by a concrete apron
sloped to the drain, and provided with a suitable hinged cover; and a water
outlet, with the necessary appurtenances, connected to the parking area water
supply system to permit periodic wash down of the immediate adjacent areas.
      2.   Each travel trailer parking area shall be provided with a sanitary
station in the ratio of one for every one hundred twenty five (125) trailer
spaces, or fractional part thereof.
      3.   Sanitary stations shall be screened from other activities by visual
barriers such as fences, walls or natural growth and shall be separated from
any trailer space by a distance of at least fifty feet (50').
   C.   Individual Sewer Connections: If facilities for individual sewer
connections are provided, the following requirements shall apply:
      1.   The sewer riser pipe shall have at least a four inch (4") diameter,
shall be trapped below the ground surface and shall be so located on the
trailer space that the sewer connection to the trailer drain outlet will
approximate a vertical position.
      2.   The "sewer connection" (as defined herein) shall have a nominal
inside diameter of at least three inches (3"), and the slope of any portion
thereof shall be at least one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot. The sewer connection
shall consist of one pipeline only without any branch fittings. All joints
shall be watertight.
      3.   All materials used for sewer connections shall be corrosive
resistant, nonabsorbent and durable. The inner surface shall be smooth.
      4.   Provisions shall be made for plugging the sewer riser pipe when a
trailer does not occupy the space. Surface drainage shall be diverted away from
the riser.
   D.   Sink Wastes: No liquid wastes from sinks shall be discharged onto or
allowed to accumulate on the ground surface. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-36-110: ELECTRICAL DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM:
   A.   General Requirements: If an electrical wiring system is provided, it
shall consist of approved fixtures, equipment and appurtenances, which shall be
installed and maintained in accordance with applicable codes and regulations
governing such systems.
   B.   Power Distribution Lines: Main power lines shall be all underground.
All direct burial conductors or cables shall be buried at least eighteen inches
(18") below the ground surface and shall be insulated and specially approved
for the purpose. Such conductors shall be located not less than one foot (1')
radial distance from water, sewer, gas or communication lines.
   C.   Individual Electrical Connections:
      1.   If individual trailer spaces are connected to the electrical wiring
system, an approved type of disconnecting device and overcurrent protective
equipment shall be provided. The service per outlet shall be one hundred twenty
(120) volts AC, fifteen (15) amperes and/or thirty (30) amperes.
      2.   Outlet receptacles at individual trailer spaces shall be located not
more than twenty five feet (25') from the overcurrent protective devices in the
trailer and a 3-wire grounding type shall be used. Receptacles shall be of
weatherproof construction and configurations shall be in accordance with
American standard outlet receptacle C-73.1.
      3.   The trailer shall be connected to the outlet receptacle by an
approved type of flexible cable with connectors and a male attachment plug.
   D.   Required Grounding: All exposed noncurrent carrying metal parts of
trailers and all other equipment shall be grounded by means of a grounding
conductor run with branch circuit conductors or other method of approved
grounded metallic wiring. The neutral conductor shall not be used as an
equipment ground for trailers or other equipment. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-36-120: SERVICE BUILDINGS AND OTHER SERVICE FACILITIES:
   A.   General: The requirements of this section shall apply to service
buildings, recreation buildings and other service facilities such as:
      1.   Management offices and storage area;
      2.   Sanitary facilities;
      3.   Laundry facilities;
      4.   Indoor recreation areas;
      5.   Commercial uses supply essential goods or services for the exclusive
use of trailer occupants.
   B.   Service Building: A central service building containing the necessary
toilet and other plumbing fixtures specified shall be provided in travel
trailer parking areas which provide parking spaces for dependent trailers.
Service buildings shall be conveniently located within a radius of
approximately three hundred feet (300') to the spaces to be served.
Number Of Spaces1 Toilets   Urinals Lavatories Showers   Other Fixtures2
                  Men Women         Men Women  Men Women
Number Of Spaces1 Toilets   Urinals Lavatories Showers   Other Fixtures2
                  Men Women         Men Women  Men Women
1 - 15            1   1     1       1   1      1   1
16 - 30           1   2     1       2   2      1   1
31 - 45           2   2     1       3   3      1   1     1 service sink with a
46 - 60           2   3     2       3   3      2   2     flushing   rim3
61 - 80           3   4     2       4   4      2   2
81 - 100          3   4     2       4   4      3   3
 
Notes:
      1.    Parking spaces for dependent trailers.
      2.    Additional fixtures including laundry trays, clothes washing
machines (1 for every 30 sites) and an icemaking machine may be provided.
      3.    A service sink with a flushing rim shall be provided for disposal
of liquid wastes unless a sanitary station is conveniently accessible for this
purpose.
   C.   More Than One Hundred Spaces: For parking areas having more than one
hundred (100) travel trailer spaces, there shall be provided one additional
toilet and lavatory for each sex per each additional thirty (30) travel trailer
spaces, one additional shower for each sex per each additional forty (40)
travel trailer spaces, and one additional men's urinal per each additional one
hundred (100) travel trailer spaces.
   D.   Use By Self-Contained Trailers: Where a travel trailer parking area is
designed for an exclusively limited to use by self- contained trailers, only
the following minimum emergency sanitary facilities shall be required: For each
one hundred (100) trailer spaces or fractional part thereof, there shall be one
flush toilet and one lavatory for each sex.
   E.   Resort: When a travel trailer parking area requiring a service building
is operated in connection with a resort or other business establishment, the
number of sanitary facilities for such business establishment shall be in
excess of those required by the schedule for trailer spaces and shall be based
on the total number of persons using such facilities.
   F.   Temporary Facilities: Any person desiring to furnish temporary
facilities for accommodating a travel trailer rally, or other group of trailers
assembled for the purpose of traveling together, shall make application for
such activity to Farmington City. The requirements for a service building and
other sanitary and physical facilities may be waived on the determination that
public health will not be endangered; but the location of the site, the
facilities which are provided, and the method of conducting such rally shall be
acceptable to Farmington City before a special license shall be issued
specifying the location of the site, the period of operation not exceed ten
(10) days, and conditions of issuance.
   G.   Structural Requirements For Buildings: All portions of the structure
shall be properly protected from damage by ordinary use and by decay,
corrosion, termites and other destructive elements. Exterior portions shall be
of such materials and be so constructed and protected as to prevent entrance or
penetration of moisture and weather.
   H.   Sanitary, Laundry Facility Rooms: All rooms containing sanitary or
laundry facilities shall:
      1.   Have sound resistant walls extending to the ceiling between male and
female sanitary facilities. Walls and partitions around showers, bathtubs,
lavatories and other plumbing fixtures shall be constructed of dense,
nonabsorbent, waterproof material or covered with moisture resistant material.
      2.   Have at least one window or skylight facing directly to the
outdoors. The minimum aggregate gross area of windows for each required room
shall be not less than ten percent (10%) of the floor area served by them.
      3.   Have at least one window which can be easily opened or a mechanical
device which will adequately ventilate the room.
      4.   Toilets shall be located in separate compartments equipped with
self-closing doors. The shower stalls shall be of the individual type. The
rooms shall be screened to prevent direct view of the interior when the
exterior doors are open.
      5.   Illumination levels shall be maintained as follows:
         a.   General seeing tasks: Five (5) foot-candles;
         b.   Laundry room work area: Forty (40) foot-candles;
         c.   Toilet room, in front of mirrors: Forty (40) foot-candles.
      6.   Hot and cold water shall be furnished to every lavatory, sink,
bathtub, shower and laundry fixture, and cold water shall be furnished to every
water closet and urinal.
   I.   Barbecue Pits, Fireplaces, Stoves And Incinerators: Cooking shelters,
barbecue pits, fireplaces, wood burning stoves and incinerators shall be so
located, constructed, maintained and used as to minimize fire hazard and smoke
nuisance both on the property on which used and on neighboring property. No
open fire shall be permitted except in facilities provided. No open fire shall
be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no material burned which emits
dense smoke or objectionable odors. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-36-130: REFUSE HANDLING:
   A.   Maintenance Required: The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in
the travel trailer parking area shall be so conducted as to create no health
hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding areas, accident or fire hazards or
air pollution.
   B.   Storage; Containers: All refuse shall be stored in flytight,
watertight, rodentproof containers, which shall be located not more than one
hundred fifty feet (150') from any trailer space. Containers shall be provided
in sufficient number and capacity to properly store all refuse.
   C.   Collection Stands: Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all
refuse containers. Such container stands shall be so designed as to prevent
containers from being tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration
and facilitate cleaning around them.
   D.   Collection: All refuse containing garbage shall be collected at least
twice weekly. Where suitable collection service is not available from municipal
or private agencies, the owner or operator of the travel trailer parking area
shall provide this service. All refuse shall be collected and transported in
covered vehicles or covered containers.
   E.   Disposal By Owner: Where municipal or private disposal service is not
available, the owner or operator of the travel trailer parking area shall
dispose of the refuse by incineration or transportation to a disposal site
approved by the health authority.
   F.   Construction Of Incinerators: Refuse incinerators shall be constructed
in accordance with engineering plans and specifications which shall be reviewed
and approved by the Utah state or other authority having jurisdiction.
   G.   Operation Of Incinerators: Incinerators shall be operated only when
attended by some person specifically authorized by the owner or operator of the
travel trailer parking area. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-36-140: INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL:
   A.   Maintenance Required: Grounds, buildings and structures shall be
maintained free of insect and rodent harborage and infestation. Extermination
methods and other measures to control insects and rodents shall conform with
the requirements of the health authority.
   B.   Parking Areas: Parking areas shall be maintained free of accumulations
of debris which may provide rodent harborage or breeding places for flies,
mosquitoes and other pests.
   C.   Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent
rodent harborage; lumber, pipe and other building material shall be stored at
least one foot (1') above the ground.
   D.   Exterior Openings: Where the potential for insect and rodent
infestation exists, all exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be
appropriately screened with wire mesh or other suitable materials.
   E.   Brush, Weeds, Grass: The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be
controlled to prevent harborage of ticks, chiggers and other noxious insects.
Parking areas shall be so maintained as to prevent the growth of ragweed,
poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac and other noxious weeds considered
detrimental to health. Open areas shall be maintained free of heavy undergrowth
of any description. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-36-150: FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE:
   A.   Liquified Petroleum Gas: Liquified petroleum gas containers installed
on a trailer space shall be securely but not permanently fastened to prevent
accidental overturning. Such containers shall not be less than twelve (12) nor
more than sixty (60) U.S. gallons' gross capacity. No liquified petroleum gas
vessel shall be stored or located inside or beneath any storage cabinet,
carport, trailer or any other structure, unless such installations are approved
by the health authority.
   B.   Fuel Oil Storage: All fuel oil storage tanks or cylinders shall be
securely fastened in place and shall not be located inside or beneath any
trailer or less than five feet (5') from any trailer exit. Storage tanks
located in areas subject to traffic shall be protected against physical damage.
(Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-36-160: FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   Authority: The travel trailer parking area shall be subject to the
rules and regulations of the Farmington City fire prevention authority.
   B.   Maintenance: Travel trailer parking areas shall be kept free of litter,
rubbish and other flammable materials.
   C.   Fire Extinguishers: Portable fire extinguishers of a type approved by
the fire prevention authority shall be kept in service buildings and at all
locations designated by such fire prevention authority, and shall be maintained
in good operating condition.
   D.   Permitted Fires: Fires shall be made only in stoves, incinerators and
other equipment intended for such purposes.
   E.   Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be placed at intervals of five hundred
feet (500'). (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
11-36-170: MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Supervision: The person to whom a license is issued shall at all times
operate the travel trailer parking area in compliance with this chapter and
shall provide adequate supervision to maintain the travel trailer parking area,
its facilities and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times.
   B.   Rental Terms: Trailer spaces shall be rented by the day or weekly only,
and the occupant of a trailer space shall remain in the same travel trailer
parking for not more than thirty (30) days. A permit must be requested from the
Farmington City council for a longer stay.
   C.   Registration Of Occupants: Every owner or operator of a travel trailer
parking shall maintain a register containing a record of all trailers and
occupants. Such register shall be available to any authorized person inspecting
the travel trailer parking area and shall be preserved for the period required
by the health authority. Such register shall contain: the names and permanent
addresses of all trailer occupants, the make, model and license number of the
trailer and tow vehicle, and the dates of arrival and departure of a trailer or
its occupants.
   D.   Report Communicable Diseases: Every owner, operator, attendant or other
person operating a travel trailer parking area shall notify the local health
authority immediately of any suspected communicable or contagious disease
within the travel trailer parking area. In the case of disease diagnosed by a
physician as quarantinable, the departure of a trailer or its occupants or the
removal therefrom of clothing or other articles which have been exposed to
infection without approval of the health authority is prohibited.
   E.   Restriction Of Animals And Pets: No owner or person in charge of a dog,
cat or other pet animal shall permit it to run at large or to commit any
nuisance within the limits of any travel trailer parking area. (Ord. 1986-07,
5-14-1986)
11-36-180: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of chapter 38 of this title. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986; amd.
2016 Code)
11-36-190: CONFLICT OF ORDINANCES; EFFECT OF PARTIAL INVALIDITY:
   A.   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or this code existing on the
effective date hereof, the provision which, in the judgment of the health
authority, establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of
the health and safety of the people shall prevail. In any case where a
provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with a provision of any
other ordinance or this code existing on the effective date hereof, which
establishes a lower standard for the promotion and protection of the health and
safety of the people, the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to
prevail, and such other ordinances or codes are hereby declared to be repealed
to the extent that they may be found in conflict with this chapter.
   B.   If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this chapter should be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such
decision shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter which shall
remain in full force and effect; and to this end the provisions of this chapter
are hereby declared to be severable. (Ord. 1986-07, 5-14-1986)
CHAPTER 37
NONCONFORMITY 1
(RESERVED)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 5 of this title.
CHAPTER 38
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
11-38-010: Enforcement
11-38-020: Abatement
11-38-030: Penalty Provisions
11-38-010: ENFORCEMENT:
All department officials and public employees of Farmington City vested with
the duty or authority to issue permits shall conform to the provisions of this
title and shall issue no permit, certificate or license for uses, buildings or
purposes in conflict with the provisions of this title, and any such permit,
certificate or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this title,
intentionally or otherwise, shall be null and void. It shall be the duty of the
zoning administrator, the building official and the police chief of Farmington
City or their designees to enforce the provisions of this title pertaining to
the erection, construction, reconstruction, moving, conversion, alteration or
addition to any building or structure and the use of any land, building or
premises. (Ord. 2003-52, 11-5-2003)
11-38-020: ABATEMENT:
Any building or structure set up, erected, constructed or altered, enlarged,
converted, moved or maintained in violation of the provisions of this title,
and any use of land, building or premises in violation of this title, shall be,
and the same hereby is declared to be, unlawful and a public nuisance. In
addition to any other remedy provided by the Farmington City ordinances or
otherwise available at law or in equity, the city may abate the nuisance
pursuant to the provisions and procedures set forth in title 7, chapter 2 of
this code. (Ord. 1990-29, 8-15-1990)
11-38-030: PENALTY PROVISIONS:
Any person, firm or corporation, association, partnership or governmental
instrumentality, whether as principal, agent, employee or otherwise, violating
or causing the violation of any of the provisions of this title, or failing or
refusing to do some act required under this title, shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-803. (Ord. 1990-
29, 8-15-1990; amd. 2016 Code)
CHAPTER 39
HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES
SECTION:
11-39-010: Purpose
11-39-020: Definitions
11-39-030: Historic Preservation Commission
11-39-040: Farmington City Historic Sites List
11-39-050: Farmington City Historic Landmarks Register
11-39-060: Standards For Rehabilitation
11-39-070: Deterioration By Neglect
11-39-080: Practical Difficulty
11-39-090: Appeals
11-39-010: PURPOSE:
Farmington City (the "city") recognizes that the historical heritage of the
community is among its most valued and important assets. It is the intent of
the city to identify, preserve, protect and enhance historic buildings, sites,
monuments, streetscapes and landmarks within the city deemed architecturally or
historically significant. By protecting such historically significant sites and
structures, they will be preserved for the use, observation, education,
pleasure and general welfare of the present and future residents of the city.
(Ord. 2013-08, 4-16-2013)
11-39-020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms and words and their
derivations shall have the meaning as given herein. Words not included herein
or in the building code shall be given their usual meaning as found in the
English dictionary, unless the context of the words clearly indicates a
different meaning:
CERTIFICATE OF HISTORIC APPROPRIATENESS: A document evidencing approval by the
historic preservation commission of an application to make a material change in
the appearance of a designated historic resource.
EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES: The architectural style, general design and
general arrangement of the exterior of a building, structure or object,
including, but not limited to, the kind of texture of the building material and
the type and style of windows, doors, signs and other appurtenant architectural
fixtures, details or elements relative to the foregoing.
EXTERIOR ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES: All those aspects of the landscape or the
development of a site which affect the historic character of the property.
HISTORIC RESOURCE: Any building, structure, object, site or district listed on
the city's historic sites list or the historic landmarks register.
IMPORTANT: Marked by or indicative of significant worth or consequence.
MAJOR ALTERATION: A change or alteration to a building or historic resource
that would destroy the historic integrity, including, but not limited to,
changes in pitch of the main roof, enlargement or enclosure of windows on the
principal facades, addition of upper stories or the removal of original upper
stories, covering exterior walls (except adobe) with nonhistoric materials,
moving the historic resource from its original location to one that is
dissimilar to the original, or additions which significantly detract from or
obscure the original form and appearance of the historic resource when viewed
from a public right of way.
MATERIAL CHANGE IN APPEARANCE: A change to a building or historic resource that
would affect the exterior architectural or environmental features of a historic
resource, such as:
   A.   Reconstruction or alteration of the size, shape or facade of a historic
resource, including relocation of any doors or windows or removal or alteration
of any architectural features, details or elements;
   B.   Demolition or relocation of a historic resource;
   C.   Commencement of excavation for construction purposes; or
   D.   The erection, alteration, restoration or removal of any building or
historic resource, including walls, fences, steps and pavements or other
appurtenant features except exterior paint alterations.
POSITIONING: The placement of a historical resource on a property or its
placement relative to other structures and/or landmarks in the general
vicinity.
RECONNAISSANCE LEVEL SURVEY: A visual evaluation of a large portion of
properties in a community for the purpose of providing a "first cut" of
buildings that may, based on their age and integrity, be eligible for listing
in the national register of historic places. The evaluation rating of potential
sites and historic resources shall be given one of the following ratings:
   A - Eligible/Significant: Built within the historic period and retains
integrity; excellent example of a style or type; unaltered or only minor
alterations or additions; individually eligible for national register of
historic places under criterion C; also, buildings of known historical
significance.
   B - Eligible: Built within the historic period and retains integrity; good
example of a style or type, but not as well preserved or well executed as A
buildings; more substantial alterations or additions than A buildings, though
overall integrity is retained; eligible for national register of historic
places as part of a potential historic district or primarily for historical,
rather than architectural, reasons.
   C - Ineligible: Built during the historic period but has undergone major
alterations or additions; no longer retains integrity.
   D - Out Of Period: Constructed outside the historic period.
SCALE: The distinctive relative size, extent or degree of a historic resource.
SIGNIFICANT: Having or likely to have influence and effect. (Ord. 2013-08, 4-
16-2013)
11-39-030: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
The historic preservation commission, created pursuant to section
3-3-040 of this code, as amended, shall provide advisory assistance to the city
regarding the implementation of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-08,
4-16-2013)
11-39-040: FARMINGTON CITY HISTORIC SITES LIST:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created a Farmington City historic sites list
(the "list"), which shall serve as a means of providing recognition to and
encouraging the preservation of historic resources in the city. The list shall
be prepared and maintained by the historic preservation commission and filed
with the city recorder's office.
   B.   Contents: The list shall describe each historic resource, the date or
approximate date of its construction, the date during which its historic
significance was established, the reason for including it on the list, and the
name and address of the current owner as shown on the records of the Davis
County recorder.
   C.   Criteria: The historic preservation commission may designate any
building, structure, object, site or district to the list as a historic
resource in accordance with the procedures set forth herein if it is determined
by the historic preservation commission that the historic resource meets all of
the following criteria:
      1.   It is located within the official boundaries of the city; and
      2.   It is at least fifty (50) years old; and
      3.   There are no major alterations or additions that have obscured or
destroyed the significant historic features.
   D.   Designation Procedures: The historic preservation commission is charged
with designating properties to and maintaining the list. The list shall
reference any research related to the historic resource and a copy of the list
shall be kept in the historic preservation commission's historic sites files.
The historic sites files shall be open to the public in accordance with the
Farmington City government records access and management ordinance. This list
shall be reviewed and historic resources shall be added or deleted as
appropriate on, at minimum, a yearly basis by the historic preservation
commission. The list should include all historic resources located within the
city that meet the minimum requirements set forth below:
      1.   Rate an A or B on a professional reconnaissance level survey;
      2.   Are deemed A or B by the historic preservation commission (for
properties outside of a surveyed area);
      3.   Any historic resource that does not meet the A or B criteria
established by the national register of historic places, but is of exceptional
importance to Farmington City's history; or
      4.   Any historic resource that has undergone major alterations or has
been destroyed. Markers may be placed on these sites with city council
approval.
   E.   Results Of Designation:
      1.   Certificate: The owner of an officially designated historic resource
may obtain a historic site certificate from the historic preservation
commission. The certificate shall contain the historic name of the property,
the date of designation, and signatures of the mayor and the historic
preservation commission chairperson.
      2.   Demolition Or Partial Demolition: Applications for a demolition of a
historic resource on the list shall be subject to the standards and process set
forth in section
11-28-230 of this title.
      3.   Major Alterations, Demolitions Or Partial Demolitions: If a historic
resource is to be demolished, partially demolished or undergo major
alterations, efforts shall be made by the historic preservation commission to
document its physical appearance before that action takes place.
         a.   The city shall delay issuing a demolition permit or building
permit for a maximum of ten (10) calendar days and shall notify a member of the
historic preservation commission, who will take responsibility for the
documentation.
         b.   Documentation shall include, at a minimum, exterior photographs
of all elevations of the historic resource. When possible, both exterior and
interior measurements of the building will be made in order to provide an
accurate floor plan drawing of the building.
         c.   A building permit or demolition permit shall be issued after a
period of ten (10) calendar days from the initial date of permit application
whether or not the historic preservation commission has documented the
building. The permit may be issued earlier if the historic preservation
commission has completed its documentation before the ten (10) day deadline.
         d.   Documentation shall be kept in the historic preservation
commission's historic sites files, which shall be open to the public in
accordance with the Farmington City government records access and management
ordinance.
   F.   Removal Of Properties: If, after review and consideration by the
historic preservation commission, it is determined that a historic resource no
longer meets the criteria for listing, the historic preservation commission may
remove the historic resource from the list. (Ord. 2013-08, 4-16-2013)
11-39-050: FARMINGTON CITY HISTORIC LANDMARKS REGISTER:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created a Farmington City historic landmarks
register (the "register"), which shall provide further recognition of
significant historic resources; provide protection for historic resources as
set forth in this chapter; and may qualify owners of historic resources to
special assistance from the city as may be determined by the city council in
its sole discretion. The register shall be prepared and maintained by the
historic preservation commission in accordance with the provisions set forth in
this chapter. A notice of listing shall be filed for each property listed on
the register with the city and recorded in the office of the Davis County
recorder.
   B.   Contents: The register shall describe each historic resource, the date
or approximate date of its construction, the date during which its historic
significance was established, the qualifications for including it on the
register, and the name and address of the current owner of the property as
shown on the records of the Davis County recorder.
   C.   Criteria: Any building, structure, object or district may be designated
to the register in accordance with the procedures set forth herein if it meets
all the criteria set forth below:
      1.   It is located within the corporate boundaries of Farmington City.
      2.   It is currently listed in the national register of historic places
(the "national register"), or it has been officially determined eligible for
listing in the national register under the criteria of 36 CFR 60.4, as amended.
      3.   Historic resources shall also meet at least two (2) of the following
criteria:
         a.   It is an easily identifiable visual feature of its neighborhood
or the city because of its positioning, location, age, scale or style, and it
contributes to the distinctive quality or identity of its area in such a way
that its absence would negatively affect the area's sense of place;
         b.   It figures importantly into Farmington City's founding or
development through its uses, especially public uses;
         c.   It is associated with persons significant in the founding or
development of Farmington City, especially the earliest settler families (1847
- 1900);
         d.   It is associated with events that have made a significant
contribution to the founding or development of Farmington City;
         e.   It illustrates an important architectural form, style or building
technique, especially as an example of "local vernacular" (e.g., single- and
two-story rock/adobe homes; simple brick Victorians) or as a singular example
of form, style or technique within the city;
         f.   It has been used as a wayfinding landmark for at least fifty (50)
years; or
         g.   It has yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important
in prehistory or history (e.g., archaeological sites).
      4.   If a historic resource does not meet at least two (2) of the
criteria of subsection C3 of this section, but is of exceptional importance to
Farmington City's history and the owner of the property wishes to have it
designated as a historic resource on the register, the historic preservation
commission may review the request and, if deemed suitably significant, may
recommend to the city council that the historic resource be added to the
register.
   D.   Notification: The owner of the historic resource shall be notified in
writing either by certified mail or hand delivery of proposed action to
designate the historic resource to the register and shall be invited to attend
the historic preservation commission meeting in which the designation will be
discussed.
   E.   Designation:
      1.   Official designation proceedings shall begin with submittal of a
written request for designation by either the property owner or a member of the
historic preservation commission. The request shall identify the property by
its address and historic name, give the date the property was listed in the
national register or officially determined eligible, and include a statement
summarizing the property's significance to the city. This official request may
be preceded by informal contacts with the property owner by historic
preservation commission members, private citizens, local officials or others
regarding designation of the property.
      2.   Upon written request for designation, the historic preservation
commission chairperson shall arrange for the designation to be considered at
the next historic preservation commission meeting, which shall be held at a
time not to exceed thirty (30) days from the date the designation request was
received.
      3.   A decision by the historic preservation commission shall be based on
whether the property meets the criteria for designating properties to the
register as set forth in subsection C of this section. The historic
preservation commission shall forward its recommendation in writing to the city
council within fourteen (14) days of the decision.
      4.   The city council may, by adoption of an appropriate ordinance,
designate a historic resource to the register. The owner of the historic
resource shall be notified at least three (3) days prior to the city council
meeting at which the ordinance will be considered and shall be allowed to
address the council with regard to the designation. Following designation, a
notice of such shall be mailed to the owners of record together with a copy of
this chapter.
      5.   A historic resource which, in the opinion of the historic
preservation commission, no longer meets the criteria for eligibility may be
removed from the register after review and recommendation by the historic
preservation commission and the adoption of an appropriate ordinance by the
city council.
      6.   Upon official adoption of a designating or removal ordinance, the
historic preservation commission shall record the ordinance with both the city
recorder's office and the county recorder's office to indicate such designation
or removal on the official records thereof.
   F.   Result Of Designation:
      1.   An owner of a historic resource listed on the register may seek
assistance from the historic preservation commission in applying for grants or
tax credits for rehabilitating the owner's properties.
      2.   Except as set forth in sub-paragraph 4 below, proposed repairs,
alterations, additions, relocation or demolitions to historic resources listed
on the register requiring a building permit are subject to review by the
historic preservation commission and shall receive a "certificate of historic
appropriateness" prior to issuance of a building permit. The purpose of this
review is to ensure the preservation of historic resources to the greatest
extent reasonably possible.
         a.   The community development director, at the option of the property
owner, may appoint an historic preservation architect or a reconnaissance level
survey professional to consider applications for certificates of
appropriateness related to repairs, alterations, or additions. Once appointed,
the architect or professional shall have all the powers and duties of the
historic preservation commission, but limited solely to the consideration and
issuance of a certificate of historic appropriateness. The historic
preservation commission shall retain authority related to relocation or
demolition of an historic resource.
         b.   Any application for a building permit pertaining to a historic
resource designated on the register shall be forwarded by the zoning
administrator to the historic preservation commission for its determination
prior to the issuance of the requested permit.
         c.   At its next scheduled meeting, the historic preservation
commission shall review the application and proposed work for compliance using
the United States secretary of the interior's standards for rehabilitation (the
"standards") as set forth in section
11-39-060  of this chapter.
         d.   The historic preservation commission's determination shall be
forwarded within three (3) days to the zoning administrator for review. If the
historic preservation commission denies or requires significant revisions to a
permit application, the determination shall indicate of the specific
"standards" on which the decision of the historic preservation commission is
based and, where appropriate, shall provide a brief explanation setting forth
the reasons for the determination. Copies of the determination shall be
forwarded by the zoning administrator to the property owner.
         e.   The zoning administrator shall, upon receipt of the historic
preservation commission's determination, process the permit as set forth in
this section. Projects which, as determined by the historic preservation
commission, are consistent with the standards shall be issued a certificate of
historical appropriateness which authorizes the building permit to be issued
upon compliance with all other applicable requirements of this title or any
other applicable ordinance.
         f.   An applicant whose submittal does not comply with the standards
may, for a period of sixty (60) days, meet with the historic preservation
commission, together with the zoning administrator, to explore means for proper
repair, alteration or addition to the historical resource which are consistent
with the standards, which may include the following:
            (1)   Feasibility of modifications to the plans;
            (2)   Feasibility of alternative uses of the historic resource;
            (3)   Feasibility of acquiring easements and/or variances;
            (4)   Feasibility of acquiring financial or other forms of
assistance from preservations organizations.
         g.   If no approval is granted within the initial sixty (60) days, the
historic preservation commission may grant an extension of an additional sixty
(60) days. If no approval is granted at the conclusion of one hundred twenty
(120) days, the certificate of historic appropriateness shall be denied if the
standards for rehabilitation cannot be met and the requested building permit
shall not be issued by the zoning administrator.
         h.   A decision by the historic preservation commission approving or
denying a certificate of historic appropriateness for the relocation of a
historic resource shall be guided by the following criteria:
            (1)   How the historic character and aesthetic interest of the
historic resource contributes to its present setting;
            (2)   Whether there are definite plans for the area to be vacated
and what the effect of those plans on the character of the surrounding area
will be;
            (3)   Whether the historic resource can be relocated without
significant damage to its physical integrity; and
            (4)   Whether the proposed relocation area is compatible with the
historical and architectural character of the historic resource.
         i.   A decision by the historic preservation commission approving or
denying a certificate of historic appropriateness for the demolition of a
historic resource listed on the register shall be guided by the following
criteria:
            (1)   The historic, scenic or architectural significance of the
historic resource;
            (2)   The importance of the resource to the character of the
neighborhood or city;
            (3)   The difficulty or the impossibility of reproducing the
historic resource because of its design, texture, material, detail or unique
location;
            (4)   Whether the historic resource is one of the last remaining
examples of its kind in the neighborhood or city;
            (5)   Whether there are definite plans for use of the property if
the proposed demolition is carried out, and what the effect of those plans on
the character of the surrounding area would be;
            (6)   Whether reasonable measures can be taken to save the historic
resource from deterioration or collapse; and
            (7)   Whether the historic resource is capable of being used to
earn a reasonable economic return on its value.
         j.   A certificate of historical appropriateness shall become void
unless construction authorized by a building permit is commenced within one
hundred eighty (180) days after issuance of the certificate.
      3.   The Zoning Administrator will encourage owners seeking approval for
proposed repairs, alterations, or additions for an historic resource on the
historic landmark register to consult with an historic preservation architect,
a reconnaissance level survey professional, tax consultant, or others, about
the feasibility and benefits of meeting the United States secretary of the
interior's standards for rehabilitation as set forth in section
11-39-060  of this chapter.
      4.   Ordinary maintenance and repair of any exterior architectural or
environmental feature in or on a historic resource as determined by the Zoning
Administrator to correct deterioration, decay, or to sustain the existing form,
and that does not involve a material change in design, material or outer
appearance thereof, does not require a certificate of historic appropriateness.
   G.   Enforcement: Failure to follow the procedure for acquiring a
certificate of historical appropriateness may result in the zoning
administrator issuing a stop work order while a review is conducted. The review
will determine if revocation of a conditional use permit granted for a use
associated with the historic resource revocation of building permits and/or
other penalty fines are necessary as per chapter 38, "Enforcement And
Penalties", of this title.
      1.   Failure to follow the procedure set forth in this chapter for
acquiring a certificate of historic appropriateness may result in removal of
the historic resource from the register and the national register, thus
rendering the property ineligible for federal, state, and city tax credits,
grant and loan programs.
      2.   In addition, if the historic resource has received land use
entitlements as a result of its placement on the register, the city may
consider the revocation of such entitlements and/or the acceleration of any
debt issued by the city as part of a program of historic preservation/
rehabilitation consistent with applicable law. (Ord. 2013-08, 4-16-2013; amd.
Ord. 2023-61, 10-17-2023; Ord. 2024-31, 6-4-2024)
11-39-060: STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION:
The following "standards for rehabilitation" shall be used when determining the
historic appropriateness of any application pertaining to a historic resource:
   A.   A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a new
use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the
building and its site and environment.
   B.   The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved.
The removal of historic materials or alterations of features and spaces that
characterize a property shall be avoided.
   C.   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development,
such as adding conjectural features or architectural elements from other
buildings, shall not be undertaken.
   D.   Most properties change over time; those changes that have acquired
historical significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.
   E.   Distinctive features, finishes and construction techniques or examples
of craftsmanship that characterize a historic property shall be preserved.
   F.   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced.
Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive
feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color, texture and
other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing
features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical or pictorial evidence.
   G.   Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause
damage to historic materials shall not be used. The surface cleaning of
structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means
possible.
   H.   Significant archaeological resources affected by a project shall be
protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures shall be undertaken.
   I.   New additions, exterior alterations or related new construction shall
not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new work
shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the massing,
size, scale and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the
property and its environment.
   J.   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
(Ord. 2013-08, 4-16-2013)
11-39-070: DETERIORATION BY NEGLECT:
An owner of a historic resource listed on the list or the register shall not
allow any building to deteriorate by failing to provide ordinary maintenance or
repair. The historic preservation commission shall be charged with the
following responsibilities regarding deterioration by neglect:
   A.   Monitoring Of Conditions: The historic preservation commission shall
monitor the condition of historic resources to determine if any historic
resource is being allowed to deteriorate by neglect. Conditions such as broken
windows, doors and exterior openings which allow the elements to enter or
otherwise become an attractive nuisance, or the deterioration of a historic
resource’s structural system, shall constitute failure to provide ordinary
maintenance or repair.
   B.   Failure To Maintain: In the event the historic preservation commission
determines there is a failure to provide ordinary maintenance or repair, the
historic preservation commission shall notify the owner of the historic
resource and set forth the steps which need to be taken to remedy the
situation. The owner of the historic resource shall have thirty (30) days to
make necessary repairs.
   C.   Penalty: In the event that the condition is not remedied in thirty (30)
days, the historic preservation commission may recommend to the city council
that penalty fines be imposed as provided in Title 1 “General Provisions”, of
the City Code of Farmington City. (Ord. 2013-08, 4-16-2013; amd. Ord. 2025-12,
2-18-2025)
11-39-080: PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY:
   A.   Modifications Permitted: When, by reason of unusual circumstance, the
strict application of any provision of subsections 11-39-040D and 11-39-050E of
this chapter would result in the exceptional practical difficulty or undue
economic hardship upon any owner of a historic resource, the city council, with
recommendation from the historic preservation commission, shall have the power
to modify strict provisions, so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship;
provided such modifications or interpretations shall remain in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of said provisions, so that the architectural or
historical integrity, or character of the historic resource, shall be conserved
and substantial justice done. In granting modifications, the city council, with
or without recommendation from the historical preservation commission, may
impose such reasonable and additional stipulations and conditions as will, in
its judgment, best fulfill the purpose of this chapter. Undue hardship shall
not include a situation of the person's own making.
      1.   Definition And Determination Of Economic Hardship: The determination
of economic hardship shall require the applicant to provide evidence sufficient
to demonstrate that the application of the standards and regulations of this
section deprives the applicant of all reasonable economic use or return on the
subject property.
      2.   Standards For Determination Of Economic Hardship: Farmington City
may, at its sole discretion, solicit expert testimony and/or require that the
applicant make submission concerning any or all of the information set forth
below before it makes a determination. Such material may include, but is not
limited to:
         a.   The applicant's knowledge of the designation and the applicant's
knowledge or the condition of the property at time of purchase and the
applicant's plan for the property at time of purchase.
         b.   The current level of economic return on the property as
considered in relation to the amount paid for the property; the annual gross
and net income, if any, for the property; remaining balance on any financing
secured by the property and annual debt service, if any; real estate taxes;
appraisals (no older than 6 months); fair market value; form of ownership; and
federal and state income taxes related to the property.
         c.   The marketability of the property for sale or lease. This
determination can include testimony and relevant documents regarding: any real
estate broker or firm engaged to sell or lease the property; reasonableness of
the price or rent sought by the applicant; and any advertisements placed for
the sale or rent of the property.
         d.   The infeasibility of a use or alternative uses that can earn a
reasonable economic return in the case of income producing properties for the
property as considered in relation to the following:
            (1)   A report from a licensed engineer or architect with
experience in rehabilitation as to the structural soundness of any structures
on the property and their suitability for rehabilitation.
            (2)   Estimate of the cost of the proposed construction,
alteration, demolition or removal, and an estimate of any additional cost that
would be incurred to comply with the decision of the historic landmark
commission concerning the appropriateness of proposed alterations.
            (3)   Estimated market value of the property in the current
condition after completion of the demolition and proposed new construction; and
after renovation of the existing property for continued use.
            (4)   The testimony of an architect, developer, real estate
consultant, appraiser or other professional experienced in rehabilitation as to
the economic feasibility of rehabilitation or reuse of the existing structure
on the property.
         e.   Economic incentives and/or funding available to the applicant
through federal, state, city or private programs.
         f.   Description of past and current use.
         g.   An itemized report that identifies what is deficient if the
building does not meet city building code, and information as to the cause of
the building's current condition.
         h.   Consideration of conditional use options, variances or financial
incentives to alleviate hardship.
         i.   The city and the applicant may submit additional evidence
relevant to the issue and determination of economic hardship for review and
consideration.
   B.   Request For Review: A person who alleges that action by the historic
preservation commission or the city will result in an unconstitutional taking
of property may request a review thereof as provided in this code. (Ord. 2013-
08, 4-16-2013)
11-39-090: APPEALS:
   A.   From Zoning Administrator: Any person adversely affected by any final
decision of the zoning administrator in the administration of this chapter may
appeal such decision to the land use appeal authority in accordance with
chapter
3-7 of this code.
   B.   From Historic Preservation Commission: Any person adversely affected by
any final decision of the historic preservation commission in the
administration of this chapter may appeal such decision to the city council in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      1.   Appeals shall be taken within ten (10) business days of a written
decision by filing a written notice with the city recorder, specifying the
grounds for appeal. Only grounds specified in the appeal shall be considered by
the council.
      2.   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the historic preservation commission certifies to the city
council that, by reason of fact stated in the certificate, a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such cases, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by restraining order which may be granted by the
appropriate appeal body or by the district court on application and notice and
on due cause shown.
      3.   The city council shall consider the appeal during a public meeting.
Notice of the public meeting shall be given to the person appealing the
decision at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the meeting. The city council
may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and
may make such determination as ought to be made and to that end shall have all
powers of the historic preservation commission. A concurring vote of a simple
majority of the total membership of the council shall be necessary to act on
the appeal.
   C.   From City Council: Any person adversely affected by any final decision
of the city council designating a historic resource to the register, or
regarding an appeal from a decision of the historic preservation commission in
the administration of this chapter, may have and maintain a plenary action for
relief therefrom in a court of competent jurisdiction; provided a petition for
such relief is presented to the court within thirty (30) calendar days after
the rendering of such decision. (Ord. 2013-08, 4-16-2013; amd. Ord. 2023-65,
11-14-2023)
CHAPTER 40
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
SECTION:
11-40-010: Purpose
11-40-020: Definitions
11-40-030: Establishment Of Drinking Water Source Protection Zones
11-40-040: Permitted Uses
11-40-050: Prohibited Uses
11-40-060: Administration
11-40-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the provision of a safe and sanitary
drinking water supply for Farmington City by the establishment of drinking
water source protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all public water
supplies within the boundaries of Farmington City. (Ord. 2003-53, 11-5-2003)
11-40-020: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
DESIGN STANDARD: A control that is implemented by a potential contamination
source to prevent discharges to the groundwater. Spill protection would be an
example of a design standard.
LAND MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES: Zoning and nonzoning controls which include, but
are not limited to, the following: zoning and subdivision ordinances, site plan
reviews, design and operating standards, development rights, public education
programs, groundwater monitoring, household hazardous waste collection
programs, water conservation programs, memoranda of understanding, written
contracts and agreements, and so forth.
POLLUTION SOURCE: Point source discharges of contaminants to groundwater or
potential discharges of the liquid forms of "extremely hazardous substances"
which are stored in containers in excess of "applicable threshold planning
quantities" as specified in SARA title III. Examples of possible pollution
sources include, but are not limited to, the following: storage facilities that
store the liquid forms of extremely hazardous substances, septic tanks,
drainfields, class V underground injection wells, landfills, open dumps,
landfilling of sludge and seepage, manure piles, salt piles, pit privies, and
animal feeding operations with more than ten (10) animal units. The following
clarify the definition of pollution sources:
   A.   "Animal feeding operation" means a lot or facility where the following
conditions are met: animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month
period, and crops, vegetation forage growth, or postharvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
Two (2) or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are considered
to be a single feeding operation if they adjoin each other, if they use a
common area, or if they use a common system for the disposal of wastes.
   B.   "Animal units" means a unit of measurement for any animal feeding
operation calculated by adding the following numbers: the number of slaughter
and feeder cattle multiplied by 1.0, plus the number of mature dairy cattle
multiplied by 1.4, plus the number of swine weighing over fifty five (55)
pounds multiplied by 0.4, plus the number of sheep multiplied by 0.1, plus the
number of horses multiplied by 2.0.
   C.   "Extremely hazardous substances" means those substances which are
identified in the section 302 (EHS) column of the "Title III List Of Lists -
Consolidated List Of Chemicals Subject To Reporting Under SARA Title III" (EPA
560/4-91-011).
POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE: Any facility or site which employs an activity
or procedure which may potentially contaminate groundwater. A pollution source
is also a potential contamination source.
REGULATORY AGENCY: Any governmental agency with jurisdiction over hazardous
waste, as defined herein.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
SEPTIC TANK/DRAINFIELD SYSTEMS: A system which is comprised of a septic tank
and a drainfield which accepts domestic wastewater from buildings of facilities
for subsurface treatment and disposal. By their design, septic tank/drainfield
system discharges cannot be controlled with design standards.
WELLHEAD: The upped terminal of a well including adapters, ports, seals, valves
and other attachments. (Ord. 2003-53, 11-5-2003)
11-40-030: ESTABLISHMENT OF DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION ZONES:
There are hereby established use districts to be known as zones one, two, three
and four of the drinking water source protection area, identified and described
as follows:
   A.   Zone one is the area within a one hundred foot (100') radius from the
wellhead or spring.
   B.   Zone two is the area within a two hundred fifty (250) day groundwater
time of travel to the wellhead or spring, the boundary of the aquifer which
supplies water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever
is closer.
   C.   Zone three is the area within a three (3) year groundwater time of
travel to the wellhead or spring, the boundary of the aquifer which supplies
water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is
closer.
   D.   Zone four is the area within a fifteen (15) year groundwater time of
travel to the wellhead or spring, the boundary of the aquifer which supplies
water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is
closer. (Ord. 2003-53, 11-5-2003)
11-40-040: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be allowed with the groundwater protection zones:
   A.   All zones:
      1.   Uses established before the effective date hereof and used
continuously and in the same manner thereafter, which uses may continue,
provided such use is not judged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be a
nuisance under the provisions of federal, state or local laws or regulations.
      2.   Use of single- or multiple-family residential dwellings, commercial
or institutional uses established on or after the effective date hereof
connected to a sanitary sewer system.
      3.   Uses incidental and accessory to the uses set forth in the two (2)
immediately preceding subsections.
   B.   Zone four:
      1.   The tilling of the soil and the raising of crops, provided
fertilizing and the use of pesticides is accomplished within federal, state and
local guidelines.
      2.   The pasturing of livestock, provided all forage is raised on the
pastured area.
      3.   Uses incidental and accessory to the uses set forth in the three (3)
immediately preceding subsections. (Ord. 2003-53, 11-5-2003)
11-40-050: PROHIBITED USES:
Except uses established before the effective date hereof and used continuously
and in the same manner thereafter, which uses may continue, on or after the
effective date hereof, the following uses or conditions shall be and hereby are
prohibited within groundwater protection zones, regardless of whether such uses
or conditions may otherwise be included as part of a use allowed under this
chapter:
   A.   Zones one and two:
      1.   Underground storage tanks.
      2.   Any "pollution source" as defined herein or in R-113 of the Utah
administrative code.
   B.   Zones one, two and three: Agriculture industries, including, but not
limited to, intensive feeding operations, such as feedlots, dairies, fur
breeding operations, poultry farms, etc.
   C.   All zones:
      1.   Surface use, storage or dumping of hazardous waste or material,
expressly including industrial or commercial uses of agricultural pesticides
(except when such pesticides are used in farming applications within strict
compliance of the manufacturer's recommendations of use).
      2.   Sanitary landfills.
      3.   Hazardous water or material disposal.
      4.   Septic tanks/drainfield systems. (Ord. 2003-53, 11-5-2003)
11-40-060: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The policies and procedures or administration of any source protection
zone established under this chapter, including, without limitations, those
applicable to nonconforming uses, exception, enforcement and penalties, shall
be the same as provided in this title, as the same is presently enacted or may
be amended from time to time.
   B.   Any and all uses of property must comply with the requirements of this
chapter. (Ord. 2003-53, 11-5-2003)
CHAPTER 41
SCENIC BYWAY OVERLAY
SECTION:
11-41-010: Purpose
11-41-020: Scope
11-41-030: Rules Of Interpretation
11-41-040: Development Project Evaluation
11-41-050: Development Design Pattern Book
11-41-060: Design Theme
11-41-070: Design Standards
11-41-080: Design Guidelines
11-41-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these design standards and regulations is to enhance the
economic viability and aesthetic value of the scenic byway (SBW) overlay zone
as an important icon area for the city and for the surrounding South Davis
communities. The SBW overlay zone is to function as an iconic place where the
urbanized environment begins to interface with the natural shoreland
environment that is located between Legacy Parkway and Great Salt Lake located
further west. (Ord. 2012-35, 12-4-2012)
11-41-020: SCOPE:
Any lot or parcel located within the SBW overlay zone, as shown on the official
zoning map, depicted within the Legacy Parkway scenic byways master plan
corridor map no. 2, or adjacent to and, if deemed applicable, is substantially
visible from view of Legacy Parkway, shall be subject to the standards and
regulations of this chapter. The SBW is in an overlay zone. Such standards and
regulations are intended to be in addition to the existing standards and
regulations of the underlying zone of the property and other applicable
regulations of this title.
   A.   Design Standards And Guidelines: This chapter establishes three (3)
kinds of design criteria: design theme, design standards and design guidelines.
      1.   "Design theme" establishes the expected shoreland motif or
contextual relationship of the built environment to the natural shoreland
environment through the use of principles. These principles are not
prioritized, but all are to be reinforced through the implementation of design
standards and guidelines that are to be applied in planning the site layout and
buildings of all developments in the SBW overlay zone.
      2.   "Design standards" are required in addition to other standards set
forth in this title and are indicated by the verb "shall". In the event of
conflict between the standards of this chapter and other applicable provisions
of this title, the interpretation and provisions of this chapter shall govern.
      3.   "Design guidelines" indicate additional actions that are to be taken
to enhance the development design and achieve greater compatibility of
development in the SBW overlay zone. Guidelines thus use the verb "should",
signifying that the guidelines are desirable objectives to be achieved but may
not be mandatory or possible for every given development situation. (Ord. 2012-
35, 12-4-2012)
11-41-030: RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   General: All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in
this chapter shall be liberally construed to accomplish the purposes of this
chapter.
   B.   Conjunctions: Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
      1.   "And" indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events shall apply.
      2.   "Or" indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply.
   C.   Mandatory And Discretionary Terms: The word "shall" is always
mandatory. The word "should" means the matter described ought to be
accomplished if reasonable and possible under the circumstances. The word "may"
is permissive.
   D.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common use and understanding of the language, but technical
words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning. (Ord. 2012-35, 12-4-2012)
11-41-040: DEVELOPMENT PROJECT EVALUATION:
   A.   Development Characteristics: Development within the SBW overlay zone
shall exhibit design components and characteristics, such as those set forth
below, which set the development apart from a standard subdivision and/or
traditional site plan approval accomplished under this title:
      1.   Human scaled building architecture;
      2.   Use of shoreland style landscaping;
      3.   Viewshed protection for the Legacy Parkway and the Legacy Preserve;
      4.   Appropriate use of open space and critical lands;
      5.   Use of public and private amenities.
   B.   Evaluation Criteria: Each development proposal for development within
the SBW overlay zone shall be evaluated based on its compatibility with:
      1.   The city's general plan and any other applicable master plan;
      2.   The purpose and development standards of the SBW overlay zone as set
forth in this chapter;
      3.   The purpose and design of the Legacy Parkway scenic master plan; and
      4.   Any other city approved study applicable to the subject property.
   C.   Burden Of Persuasion: An applicant shall have the burden of showing
that the proposed uses, project design and location of utilities and facilities
meet the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-35, 12-4-2012)
11-41-050: DEVELOPMENT DESIGN PATTERN BOOK:
   A.   Development Design Pattern Book Required: In addition to applicable
requirements of this title and other provisions of the zoning ordinance, all
applications for the development of property to the SBW overlay zone shall
include a development design pattern book.
   B.   Development Design Pattern Book Approval: The development design
pattern book shall be reviewed and approved by the city in conjunction with an
application for conceptual site plan and/or schematic subdivision application.
   C.   Development Design Pattern Book Submittal Requirements: The development
design pattern book shall provide and address the following:
      1.   Written descriptions and graphic illustrations explaining how the
development complements the physical form of the property and how the theme,
standards and guidelines found in this chapter are to be integrated into the
design of the development;
      2.   Written descriptions and graphic illustrations explaining the
proposed conceptual architectural design, building elevations and other such
related design schemes; and
      3.   Written descriptions and graphic illustrations that clearly describe
proposed open spaces, landscaping ideas, pedestrian pathways and related
entryway features and/or amenities.
   D.   Effect Of Development Plan Approvals: Upon acceptance of a conceptual
plan and the associated development design pattern book by the city, further
development applications, such as subdivision plat and site plan approval for
development within the SBW overlay zone, shall comply substantially with the
conceptual plan approval and the development design pattern book. (Ord. 2012-
35, 12-4-2012)
11-41-060: DESIGN THEME:
   A.   Principle 1; Topography And Landscape: The topography and landscape of
the scenic byway theme can be briefly described as:
      1.   Broad open spaces and skies with expansive vistas;
      2.   Slow undulating lines;
      3.   Sense of openness or breeziness;
      4.   Low, native, grassy meadow and upland vegetation;
      5.   Natural materials and textures.
   B.   Principle 2; Simplicity: The natural appearance of the scenic byway
theme can be described as:
      1.   Clean, simple lines;
      2.   Bold gestures that recall organic forms;
      3.   Limited color palette;
      4.   Low contrast;
      5.   Uncluttered;
      6.   Serene.
   C.   Principle 3; Natural Or Natural Appearing Materials: The natural or
natural appearing materials of the scenic byway theme are:
      1.   Stacked stone or cultured stacked stone;
      2.   Natural or stained wood, wood siding and cement fiberboard with
suitable textures and colors;
      3.   Decorative concrete or block, with suitable textures and colors;
      4.   Stucco accenting, with suitable textures and colors;
      5.   Colored concrete with suitable textures and colors, and crushed
gravel surfaces;
      6.   Subtle, nonreflective colors and stains.
   D.   Principle 4; Natural Vegetation: The natural vegetation and patterns of
the scenic byway theme are:
      1.   Informal placement of plantings;
      2.   A wide variety of species, mixed together, and no invasive
plantings;
      3.   Subtle flowers and colors;
      4.   Grassland or meadow appearance;
      5.   Multiple season interest;
      6.   Predominance of annual and perennial grasses;
      7.   Occasional shrubs and trees;
      8.   Drought tolerant and low resource consumption plantings.
   E.   Principle 5; Accents: The natural and manmade accents allowed in the
scenic byway theme are:
      1.   Use of landscape boulders;
      2.   Grassy swales and berms;
      3.   Open fencing styles;
      4.   Natural and soft surface trails;
      5.   Terraced walls with limited heights;
      6.   Natural appearing water features;
      7.   Shoreland style art and features.
   F.   Principle 6; Human Scaled: The built setting is to reflect the human
experience in the scenic byway environment through:
      1.   Structures proportioned to people instead of vehicles;
      2.   Comfortably scaled spaces;
      3.   Low profile forms hugging the horizon;
      4.   Pedestrian friendly amenities;
      5.   Interesting details and textures;
      6.   Slow paced, with places to pause;
      7.   Appealing to the senses. (Ord. 2012-35, 12-4-2012)
11-41-070: DESIGN STANDARDS:
The design standards set forth are intended to create a sense of place and a
common design theme within the commercial, industrial and institutional sites
located within the SBW overlay zone and are designed to create a transition
between the natural shoreland environment and the urbanized environment.
   A.   Architecture: Buildings and structures are to enhance the visual
environment of the SBW overlay zone by blending into the overall appearance of
the shoreland environment.
      1.   The architectural building design shall consider the visual
orientation to the Legacy Parkway, the local street accesses and pedestrian
pathways within the byway corridor, or, where deemed applicable, the Legacy
Preserve, to create an attractive appearance when viewed from these areas.
      2.   The apparent mass of buildings or structures shall be minimized
through articulation and use of materials. A variety of vertical and horizontal
planes, roof pitches, rooflines, windows, reveals and alcoves shall be used to
create facade variation, shadows, corners and architectural interest.
      3.   Where multiple story or multiple story appearing buildings are
constructed, the building design shall incorporate single story heights for
entryways, office space and other such usable spaces to create a tier effect to
the building. Areas of the building above the single story, or twenty feet
(20') if no multiple story is proposed, shall be set behind the single story
areas as viewed from the Legacy Parkway, the local street accesses and
pedestrian pathways within the byway corridor or, where deemed applicable, the
Legacy Preserve.
      4.   All buildings and structures shall appear to be proportional or in
scale with other buildings within the immediate vicinity, specifically with
regards to bulk, height and appearance.
      5.   When facades face the Legacy Parkway, a local street, or any
pedestrian pathway within the byway corridor or, where deemed applicable, the
Legacy Preserve, the architectural design shall incorporate windows, entryways,
canopies, pillars and other such features to accent the building or structure.
For multiple story or multiple story appearing buildings or structures,
additional elements such as windows, balconies, overhangs and canopies shall
also be incorporated in upper levels to frame and provide a human scale
appearance to such buildings.
      6.   Natural or natural appearing materials, such as stone, cultured
stone and wood, shall be the bold gestures used in the architectural design of
all buildings. Decorative concrete or block, tile, cement fiberboard and other
similar appearing materials shall be the other main materials used in the
building design. Substantial or prominent use of unnatural appearing materials,
such as metal, glass, vinyl and plastics is prohibited.
      7.   Colors and finishes shall complement the shoreland environment.
Stains, flat paints and matte finishes are required. Reflective or glossy or
shiny paints and finishes are prohibited.
   B.   Grading And Drainage: The relatively flat, slow draining, shoreland
environment of the area often produces wetland areas and presents a challenge
for proper drainage if the land is to be developed. Every effort is to be made
to work within the natural drainage patterns of the land and minimize grading
that would disrupt the natural system and appearance of the area.
      1.   Minimize the amount of grading of the land to avoid excess erosion,
visual scarring and other similar impacts.
         a.   Blend structures and exterior spaces into the natural contours of
the site.
         b.   Balance cut and fill on sites to the greatest degree possible.
         c.   Manmade contouring shall mimic natural contouring and shall not
begin or end with severe or abrupt edges.
      2.   Minimize the use and heights of retaining walls and, where utilized,
terrace and incorporate or blend them into the design of the building or
parking areas and return to the natural grades in the wetland and landscaping
areas.
      3.   Utilize natural drainageways and/or patterns. Direct stormwater and
other runoff into swales, retention areas and other systems to maximize
infiltrations and improve water quality before such water meets up with other
water resources.
      4.   Grading and drainage plans shall also implement erosion control
measures to ensure that construction activities do not compromise the overall
natural drainage patterns and system of the area.
   C.   Landscaping: Landscaping is to be used to enhance the SBW overlay zone
environment and soften the transitions between the built and natural areas.
      1.   At least twenty percent (20%) of all development sites within one
thousand feet (1,000') to the west of the Legacy Parkway right of way shall be
used for landscaping and open space areas. For areas farther west than one
thousand feet (1,000') from the Legacy Parkway right of way, at least ten
percent (10%) of all development sites shall be used for landscaping and open
space areas. At least fifty percent (50%) of the required landscaped/open space
area shall consist of native, informal or natural appearing plantings.
      2.   All impervious surface areas shall include landscaping. Dedicated
walkways, plazas and other pedestrian oriented hardscape areas may be included
as landscaping; provided, that they do not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the
required minimum landscaping requirement. As used herein, "hardscape" means
sidewalks, concrete or asphalt trails, plazas and other nonvegetative
construction located in areas designated as landscaping.
      3.   The landscaping plan of each site shall be unified both internally
and externally, and relate to the larger context of the surrounding community.
All landscape plans shall consider the context of the byway corridor
environment and its unique contribution to the character of the community.
      4.   The landscaping plan shall include a pedestrian circulation element
that shows interconnectivity with surrounding sidewalks, trails and access to
open space areas. Each development is to provide appropriate pedestrian
connections to usable open space and trail amenities to create various
connections to the Legacy Parkway trail system.
      5.   Developed area landscaping shall utilize a mixture of ornamental and
native or local climate plantings. Plantings shall include the predominate use
of ornamental grasses, shrubs and wildflowers that complement the byway
corridor environment, with no invasive plantings. Large areas of annuals and/or
bright colors shall be avoided.
      6.   Trees and evergreens shall be used sparingly to ensure that the
open, grassy character of the shoreland area is maintained. However, trees and
evergreens shall be used for areas needing shading, screening and privacy, such
as, but not limited to, outside storage, mechanical, utility and other similar
areas.
      7.   Natural areas shall primarily consist of or be enhanced with native
or local climate shrubs, perennials and ornamental grasses. Plants with
potential to become invasive weeds in natural areas shall be prohibited.
      8.   Nonlinear transition areas between the developed and natural areas
shall be created and intermingled with the various styles and plant species to
soften the appearance of any transition line. An appropriate barrier element,
such as a colored concrete mow strip, shall be used to prevent undesirable
encroachment or overgrowth to be intermingled between such natural and formal
plantings.
      9.   The landscape design shall be coordinated with the placement of
utility elements to mitigate their impact and reduce the potential for
conflicts. Proper landscape design shall be utilized to mitigate the visual
impact of all site utility elements, such as overhead power lines,
transformers, meter boxes, fire protection devices, etc.
      10.   Landscaped areas shall be prepared with soils and slopes suitable
with their natural surroundings to encourage healthy plant growth and proper
drainage. The landscape design plan shall address the measures to be taken to
properly care for and maintain the landscaping areas.
      11.   Water elements, walls, landscape boulders and other landscaping
features shall be used in a natural looking manner to complement the appearance
of the surrounding environment.
   D.   Off Street Parking: Parking is a necessity for the varied uses and
amenities in the SBW overlay zone, however, it is to be designed in such a
manner to enhance the visual appeal and experience of working, playing or
living in the shoreland environment.
      1.   Parking areas shall be segmented or spatially separated and may be
connected together by access lanes, green space, stream corridors or pedestrian
pathways. Large, single standing, or expansive parking or pavement areas, are
prohibited.
      2.   Parking areas should be buffered from adjacent residential property
and screened from streets so automobiles are not visible below the average
headlight height. Screening methods shall include undulating landscaped berms,
low walls and plantings.
      3.   Access drives, internal circulation drives, parking areas and
pedestrian walkways shall be designed to provide safety and convenience for
both motorists and pedestrians and to ensure access for the physically
disabled. Areas where pedestrian walkways cross driveways shall be constructed
of colored stamped and/or raised concrete, or of other material and design so
as to differentiate the area as a pedestrian/vehicle interface.
      4.   Parking areas shall incorporate use of colors and textures to define
landscaped islands, pedestrian pathways, loading/unloading areas, and other
such amenities to soften and improve the visual appeal of impervious surfaces.
      5.   Ornamental entryway plantings shall be placed on both sides of every
drive accessing a public street to create a unified byway corridor image. The
ornamental entryway for this area may consist of artistic sculptures,
landscaping and planting features, monument signs, or other elements designated
by the city.
      6.   Direct access to individual parking lots or pavement areas onto
major arterial accesses shall be minimized. Parking lot design and placement
shall consider future development on adjacent sites and the need for
interconnections when deemed appropriate.
      7.   Traffic circulation patterns should direct commercial, industrial
and institutional traffic onto arterial and collector streets and not local
residential streets. Multiple family residential traffic should be directed
onto collector or local streets.
      8.   Multiple use or sharing of parking and parking areas is encouraged;
provided, that any needed parking requirement modifications are approved, as
allowed by this title.
   E.   Fences And Walls: The use of fences and walls are to be minimized in
the SBW overlay zone.
      1.   Berms or landscape plantings shall be the primary means for
screening or for establishing needed spatial separation.
      2.   Where security and access controls are needed, an open style fence
or semiprivate designs shall be utilized. Under limited or intermittent
circumstances or as otherwise required in this title, a six foot (6') solid
fence or wall may be used for security or screening purposes.
      3.   Walls and fences, if constructed, shall use materials and styles to
complement the architectural style of the buildings or the byway corridor
environment. Retaining walls shall be minimal in height, or shall be terraced,
if used for significant retaining needs.
      4.   Open access to the pedestrian pathway or trail systems shall be
provided and shall not be impeded by the use of fencing or walls.
      5.   The use of sound walls is strictly prohibited and shall not be used
to separate byway corridor development from Legacy Parkway or the Legacy
Preserve.
   F.   Outdoor Lighting: The dark skies of the various areas of the SBW
overlay zone are an important part of the character and natural intrinsic
quality of the area. Lighting is to be minimized within the byway corridor area
and may transition up in intensity as one enters into the other areas of the
city.
      1.   Lighting shall generally be used only where it is needed for safety
and visibility. Lighting levels shall be scaled back to the minimal levels
needed to achieve its purpose. Excessive or over lighting is prohibited.
      2.   Fixtures or elements producing light shall select the correct bulb
type to achieve the lowest wattage necessary. Lighting elements shall be hidden
or utilize full cutoff shields to eliminate shining or reflecting up into the
night sky and to minimize glare and light trespass beyond area where lighting
is needed or onto adjacent properties.
      3.   Self-regulating on and off controls shall be used where lighting is
needed periodically, but not continuously and shall be set to their proper
operation times.
      4.   Uplighting shall be used sparingly for accenting architecture,
landscaping and signing. Where uplighting is used, a narrow angle focused
fixture with low wattage lamp shall be used.
      5.   Lighting shall be arranged or directed so as to reflect the light
away from adjacent properties and to prevent glare for street traffic. The
intensity of light at adjoining residential property shall not exceed 0.1 foot-
candle and/or adjacent to other zones shall not exceed 0.5 foot-candle.
      6.   A lighting plan shall be submitted for review and shall include:
         a.   The location and height of all light poles, which shall not
exceed twenty feet (20') in height unless the planning commission determines
that a use allowed in the underlying zone requires an increase in lighting
height; and
         b.   The predicted illumination levels based on maintained
illumination levels just prior to lamp replacement and luminary cleaning,
within, at, and beyond property lines.
      7.   Designers of lighting plans shall consider shadow effects of trees,
signs, buildings, screen walls or other fixed objects.
   G.   Signing: Signing is to enhance the scenic qualities of the byway
corridor environment and shall complement the signing style used for Legacy
Parkway.
      1.   Business signing shall be simple and scaled to allow for sufficient
identification of the operation or facility. The style, colors and materials
shall complement the architecture and design of buildings associated with the
sign.
      2.   Wall sign placement shall not extend above the wall on which it is
affixed and not exceed ten percent (10%) of area of the wall (including any
building face) on which it is located unless requirements for the underlying
zone are more restrictive in which case the sign shall comply with the
underlying zone.
      3.   Monument and/or low profile signs shall not exceed six feet (6') in
height.
      4.   Sign copy shall consist of individual lettering and logos. Sign copy
shall not animated. No aluminum box or cabinet signs shall be permitted unless
associated with a logo and may only be permitted for use as a wall sign in
conjunction with individual lettering.
      5.   Informational or business location markers may be allowed as part of
the public signing program for streets and highways. Such signs shall be
clustered together on a single sign element and shall conform to the design and
styles depicted in the Legacy Parkway scenic byway master plan (chapter 5-
parkway style, page 13).
      6.   The following signs and devices are prohibited within the SBW
overlay zone:
         a.   Animated, electronic message, roof, graffiti, billboards, off
premises and pole signs;
         b.   Spotlights, corporate or promotional flags, streamers, pennants,
banners and other decorative devices for commercial advertising purposes;
         c.   Balloons, including cold air, helium and other balloons.
      7.   Interpretive signs shall be designed to tell important stories or
messages related to the byway corridor experience. These signs shall utilize a
design and materials scheme that is consistent and compatible with the theme of
the SBW overlay district.
   H.   Scenic Byway Viewshed Corridor: To protect the viewshed of the scenic
byway corridor east of Legacy Parkway, the following signs and devices are
prohibited in the scenic byway viewshed corridor as delineated on the official
zoning map:
      1.   Animated, roof, graffiti, billboards, off premises and pole signs;
      2.   Spotlights, corporate or promotional flags, streamers, pennants,
banners and other decorative devices for commercial advertising purposes;
      3.   Balloons, including cold air, helium and other balloons.
   I.   Planning Commission Special Exception: The planning commission may
grant a special exception, as set forth in chapter 3 of this title, to any of
the design standards set forth in the SBW overlay zone if it can demonstrated
that the enforcement of the design standards would create a substantial
conflict with the requirements of the underlying zone or that an alternative
plan is more effective in meeting the intent of the design principles for the
SBW overlay zone. (Ord. 2012-35, 12-4-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-27, 6-4-2024)
11-41-080: DESIGN GUIDELINES:
   A.   Residential Development: Residential style and design should enhance
the SBW overlay zone by blending into the overall appearance of the byway
corridor environment and should be unique and different in its design and
layout as compared to standard elements and materials used in current home
construction schemes.
      1.   Residential developers are encouraged to establish subdivision
designs that include the design principles of the SBW overlay zone.
      2.   Residential developers creating subdivisions of five (5) or more
lots should develop design standards for the subdivision incorporating the
following elements from the SBW overlay zone design standards:
         a.   Subdivision layout and architectural designs that consider the
visual orientation to Legacy Parkway, the local street accesses, pedestrian
pathways and open spaces within the byway corridor to create an attractive
appearance when viewed from these areas.
         b.   A minimization of the apparent mass of residential buildings
through the use of a variety of vertical and horizontal planes, roof pitches,
rooflines, windows, reveals and alcoves.
         c.   When building facades face Legacy Parkway, a local street or any
pedestrian pathway within the byway corridor, the design should incorporate
porches, entryways, window boxes and other such features to accent the
building. Additional elements such as balconies and other such overhangs should
also be incorporated to encourage a human scale to the building and minimize
blank walls and facades.
         d.   Residential buildings are encouraged to have natural or natural
appearing materials and should minimize the use of unnatural appearing
materials such as metal, glass, vinyl and plastics.
         e.   Colors and finishes should complement the byway corridor
environment. Stains, flat paints and matte finishes should be incorporated,
while reflective or shiny paints and finishes shall be avoided.
         f.   Grading and drainage for the subdivision shall minimize the
amount of grading of the land to avoid excessive erosion, visual scarring and
other similar impacts and should utilize natural drainageways and/or patterns.
         g.   Drainage systems should direct stormwater and other runoff into
swales, retention areas and other systems to maximize infiltration and improve
water quality before such water is introduced into other water sources.
         h.   Landscaped and open space areas should be consolidated and
oriented toward Legacy Parkway and pedestrian pathways located within the byway
corridor.
         i.   Common landscaping and open space areas should incorporate a
mixture of ornamental and native grasses or local climate planting. Plantings
should include the predominant use of ornamental grasses, shrubs and
wildflowers that complement the byway corridor environment.
         j.   Trees and evergreens in common open space areas should be used
sparingly to promote the grassy character of the shoreland area. Trees may be
used in common open space for areas needing shading, screening and privacy.
         k.   Nonlinear transition areas between the manicured and natural
areas should be created to soften the appearance of any transition line. An
appropriate barrier element, such as a colored concrete mow strip, shall be
used to prevent undesirable encroachment or overgrowth to be intermingled
between the natural and manicured areas.
         l.   Fencing and walls should be used sparingly, especially in
landscape and open space areas, and should use materials and styles to
complement the architectural style of the buildings and the byway corridor
environment. White vinyl and other bright reflective fence and wall materials
should not be used in the SBW overlay zone.
   B.   Viewshed Protection: Buildings and similar structures should be
designed and placed where their visual impact is minimized to the greatest
extent possible, as viewed from the Legacy Parkway and other public spaces
within the byway corridor area.
      1.   Buildings should be set back a minimum of two hundred feet (200')
from the Legacy Parkway right of way or to the maximum extent possible if less
than two hundred feet (200') of space is available.
      2.   All main buildings and associated site landscaping and open space
areas within two hundred fifty feet (250') of Legacy Parkway should be visually
oriented toward the parkway.
      3.   View corridors should be created to allow visual connections
easterly toward the Wasatch Mountains and westerly toward the shorelands of the
Great Salt Lake. Buildings should not be massed in a manner that creates a
complete visual fortress, specifically as viewed from the Legacy Parkway or any
other major arterial road within the byway corridor area.
      4.   All service areas and back lot uses, such as loading docks,
dumpsters, storage areas, etc., should be located behind the main buildings or
properly screened or visually buffered from view from the Legacy Parkway, a
local street, or any pedestrian pathway within the byway corridor or, where
deemed applicable, the Legacy Preserve.
      5.   Where allowed by this title, areas for storage, equipment parking or
other such activities, should be screened and segmented into smaller spatial
areas and may be connected together by access lanes, green space and other
buildings.
   C.   Open Space And Critical Lands: Open spaces are to be provided to
protect and buffer critical natural areas and to enhance or create desirable
view corridors eastwardly toward the Wasatch Mountains and westerly toward the
Legacy Preserve and the shorelands of the Great Salt Lake.
      1.   Development proposals should identify critical lands, such as
wetland areas, stream corridors, canals and other such sensitive lands. The
design and development layout should protect and/or incorporate these features
as buffers, open spaces, trail and passive recreation amenities, drainage
corridors and transition areas.
      2.   Create or locate open space areas adjacent to or oriented toward the
Legacy Parkway, the Legacy Preserve or toward natural areas such as wetlands.
      3.   Incorporate open space areas into the development pattern that
creates visual and/or physical connections to the Legacy Parkway and the Legacy
Preserve.
      4.   Develop trailheads and trail connections as part of the open space
development pattern that provides access to the public trails systems in the
area.
      5.   Use critical land areas to manage drainage and stormwater retention
needs of development.
   D.   Public Right Of Way, Roadway And Parking Lot Surfacing Design: Properly
designed roadway and parking lot placement can create opportunities for
decentralizing stormwater management for the SBW overlay district and allow
effective infiltration water runoff in a more natural manner. Basic strategies
include low impact roadway layouts, narrower road surface widths, shared
accesses and driveways and open section roadways. Additionally, streetscape
elements are important contributors to creating a sense of place that can add
to the experience of working, living and playing within the byway corridor.
      1.   Roadways and parking lot areas should be placed to avoid crossing
slopes where significant cut and fill will be required. Roadways and parking
lots should run parallel to the natural contours of the site and perpendicular
to any significant slope areas. Design of the roadway network and parking lot
areas may involve some give and take in achieving layouts compatible with the
existing topography.
      2.   Shared driveway use should be incorporated into the site and
building layout, including consideration of development on adjacent sites.
Driveways should be limited to twenty five feet (25') (residential) and thirty
five feet (35') (commercial, industrial and institutional) in width. All
driveway surfaces should be sloped or crowned in a manner to evenly drain (not
erode) onto adjacent vegetative areas (not onto public streets) where the
runoff will infiltrate or travel via sheet flow.
      3.   The primary roadway and parking lot design style should be open
section or "country drainage" flanked by filter strips and swales instead of
curb and gutter. If curbs are deemed necessary to stabilize the roadway or lot
edges, the design should primarily consist of invisible curbs (same level as
the surface); other design strategies may include periodic curb cuts, or
perforated curbs.
      4.   Clear zone and shoulder grading should properly accommodate the use
of filter strips and swales to direct water onto adjacent vegetative areas (not
onto public streets) where the runoff will infiltrate or travel via sheet flow.
      5.   Public street design and development within the byway corridor
should reflect the proper design theme motif and be unified across the
corridor. The streetscape design should include the use of, but not limited to,
the following types of elements:
         a.   Interpretive signs and kiosks;
         b.   Street trees with decorative planting beds or decorative grating;
         c.   Decorative light fixtures and street signs;
         d.   Benches or places to rest;
         e.   Bike lanes and bike racks;
         f.   Decorative waste cans and drinking fountains;
         g.   Trailhead and spur connections to the area's trail systems. (Ord.
2012-35, 12-4-2012)
CHAPTER 42
URBAN FORESTRY
SECTION:
11-42-010: Purpose
11-42-020: Definitions
11-42-030: Applicability Provisions
11-42-040: Tree Preservation Regulations
11-42-050: Protection Of Trees
11-42-060: Tree Removal Regulations
11-42-070: Regulatory Standards
11-42-080: Maintenance
11-42-090: Guarantee Of Planted Trees
11-42-100: Administration
11-42-110: Enforcement
11-42-120: Severability
11-42-130: Penalty Provisions
11-42-140: Appeals
11-42-010: PURPOSE:
The city council of Farmington City, Utah, recognizes the importance of
livability, environmental values, health benefits, real estate values and
aesthetics of the urban forest to the quality of life in Farmington City, and
deems that in order to preserve the peace, health, safety and welfare, and
promote the best interest of the inhabitants of Farmington City, that this
chapter be enacted, which shall provide standards, guidelines and criteria for:
   A.   The planting, maintenance and removal of trees in the public streets,
parkways, trails, easements, parks, and other municipal owned property;
   B.   Review of proposals for the planting, maintenance and removal of trees
on public property;
   C.   The pruning and removal of trees on private property which endanger
public safety; and
   D.   Prescribing penalties for violations of its provisions. (Ord. 2009-50,
10-6-2009)
11-42-020: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE: The area represented by a concentric circle centering on
the tree's trunk with a radius equal in feet to one and one-half (11/2) times
the number of inches of the trunk diameter on and below ground level (CRZ=[
(1.5D)in]ft).
HAZARD TREE: A tree with structural defects likely to cause failure of all or
part of the tree, which could strike a target.
PARK STRIP: The area within the public right of way between the curb and
sidewalk, or between the curb or edge of asphalt and property line if there is
no sidewalk, or an area inside the private property line where an easement is
given to the city for the purpose of planting trees.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PRIVATE TREE: Any and all trees now or hereafter growing on private property
within Farmington City limits and which are not defined or designated in this
chapter as "public trees", as defined in this section.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: A portion of property reserved for public use and accepted
for such by Farmington City to provide circulation, access and/or travel to
abutting properties, including, but not limited to, streets, alleys, sidewalks,
sanitary or storm sewer, drainage, secondary water, railroad, provisions for
public utilities, and open public spaces.
PUBLIC TREES: All trees now or hereafter growing on any park strip, street
right of way, park, or any other public place owned and/or managed by
Farmington City.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any public, private or cooperatively owned line, facility or
system used for producing, transmitting or distributing communications, power,
electricity, light, heat, gas, oil products, water, waste or stormwater, which
directly or indirectly serves the public or any part thereof within the
corporate limits of Farmington City.
STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS: To the adopted methods and measures by which
Farmington City shall base its urban forestry program.
STREET: The entire width of every public way or right of way when any part
thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
TREE INVENTORY: A periodic inspection and identification procedure for public
trees that shall incorporate a database format.
TREE, LARGE: Those trees attaining a height of sixty feet (60') or more and an
average width of forty feet (40').
TREE LAWN: The part of a street or highway, not covered by sidewalk or other
paving, lying between the property line and that portion of the street or
highway used for vehicular traffic.
TREE, MEDIUM: Those trees attaining a height of forty (40) to sixty feet (60')
and an average width of thirty feet (30').
TREE, SMALL: Those trees attaining a height of twenty (20) to forty feet (40')
and an average width of twenty feet (20').
TREE TOPPING: The specific reduction in the overall size of a tree and/or the
severe cutting back of branches and limbs by internodal cuts to such a degree
so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
URBAN FORESTER: The official designated by Farmington City to administer and
enforce this chapter.
URBAN FORESTRY PROGRAM: A program implemented by Farmington City for the care
and maintenance of the urban forest resources located on city property which is
based upon the urban forestry standards and specifications. (Ord. 2009-50, 10-
6-2009)
11-42-030: APPLICABILITY PROVISIONS:
Street tree planting shall be required along all new local, collector and
arterial streets and private streets within commercial, industrial or
residential subdivisions. Other projects that are required to plant street
trees include a conversion or new established use, new construction,
reconstruction or structurally altered building by one or more additions which
the total increase in the floor area is ten percent (10%) or one thousand
(1,000) square feet, whichever is the least. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an
alternative street tree planting plan which varies from the standards contained
herein, may be presented to the city for review and approval. The subdivider/
developer or individual builder must install street trees according to a plan
approved as a part of preliminary plat approval. (Ord. 2009-50, 10-6-2009)
11-42-040: TREE PRESERVATION REGULATIONS:
Trees shall be required in the right of way fronting the lot, as required by
this chapter. Existing lots that do not meet this provision at the time of its
enactment must comply when a development action is proposed that is compatible
with the applicability provisions or when the city issues a building permit to
the owner for an exterior alteration, visible from the street, to the main
building on the lot, excluding permits for windows and roof materials. Lots
that meet the tree provisions, including existing grandfathered lots, must
continue to meet the tree code provisions. (Ord. 2009-50, 10-6-2009)
11-42-050: PROTECTION OF TREES:
   A.   Guard: Public trees near any excavation or construction project shall
be guarded with a substantial fence, frame or box not less than four feet (4')
high and eight feet (8') square, or within the critical root zone, whichever is
greater. All building material, dirt or other debris shall be kept outside the
barrier.
   B.   Excavation Permit: No person shall cut tree roots or excavate any
ditch, tunnel, trench or place any paving material within a radius of eight
feet (8') from any public tree without first obtaining an excavation permit
from the public works department. The urban forester shall review and approve
all such permits. Special exclusions may be granted to utility companies and
other governmental entities as required by law. Utility companies, governmental
entities and property owners must notify the city regarding excavation activity
which is unavoidable and/or done without a permit. In cases of life threatening
emergencies or utility emergencies, notification must be provided to the city
within five (5) days of such activity.
   C.   Impedance: No person shall deposit, place, store or maintain upon a
public place, any stone, brick, sand, concrete or other material which may
impede the free passage of water, air or fertilizer to the roots of any tree
growing thereon, except by written permit of the urban forester, or his or her
designee.
   D.   Abuse: Unless specifically authorized by the urban forester, or his or
her designee, no person or firm shall intentionally damage, cut, carve,
transplant or remove any public tree; attach any rope, wire, nails, advertising
posters or other contrivance to any tree; allow any gaseous liquid or solid
substance which is harmful to trees to come in contact with the tree; or set
fire or permit any fire to burn when such fire or the heat thereof will injure
any portion of any public tree. All such abuse or mutilation of public trees
shall be guilty of penalty provisions set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2009-50,
10-6-2009)
11-42-060: TREE REMOVAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required; Replacement Plan: No person or firm shall remove from
the park strip or otherwise disturb any public tree without first receiving a
permit from the city or urban forester. Prior to receiving a permit for the
removal of any public tree, an authorized replacement plan shall be submitted
at the time the permit is requested. Such replacement plan shall meet the
standards of size, species and placement as provided for in the permit. The
person or firm removing the tree shall bear the entire cost of removal and
replacement of all trees removed. The person or firm receiving the permit shall
abide by the urban forestry standards and specifications of practice adopted by
Farmington City.
   B.   Removal For Construction Purposes; Replacement: If it is necessary to
remove a tree from the park strip due to installation of a sidewalk, or the
paving or widening of the portion of a street or highway used for vehicular
traffic, such trees shall be replaced on a one for one basis, consistent with
the urban forestry standards and specifications adopted by the city, by the
person who removed, or caused the tree to be removed, as soon as possible
weather permitting. If conditions, excluding weather related conditions,
prevent replanting in a park strip, this requirement may be satisfied if an
equivalent number of trees are planted on adjoining property.
   C.   Unauthorized Tree Removal: Each unauthorized tree removed shall
constitute a distinct and separate offense and shall also be punishable by the
maximum fine allowed under law.
   D.   Hazardous Trees: The city urban forester, or his or her designee, shall
have the authority to cause the removal of a hazard tree when either pruning or
target removal are not adequate corrective actions. (Ord. 2009-50, 10-6-2009)
11-42-070: REGULATORY STANDARDS:
   A.   This chapter is accompanied by the Farmington City urban forestry
standards and specifications, which are proper and necessary to effectuate the
urban forestry program within the city. The standards and specifications
provide guidance along with this chapter for maintenance, planting, removal and
pruning of any public trees. All persons and firms shall abide by both this
chapter and the standards and specifications.
   B.   Farmington City shall maintain on its website a list of approved tree
species suitable to be planted within a park strip. After April 30, 2023 all
trees planted within park strips shall be selected from the approved species
list, or another species may be authorized in writing by the city forester if
they are suitable for planting along the street. Trees planted prior to April
30, 2023 need not be removed unless they constitute a nuisance. (Ord. 2009-50,
10-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-11, 2-21-2023)
11-42-080: MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Responsibility Of Property Owners: It shall be the duty of any person
or persons owning or occupying real property upon which private trees exist, to
prune such trees in a manner that they will not obstruct or shade streetlights,
obstruct the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, obstruct vision of traffic
signs, or obstruct view of any street or alley intersection. It shall also be
the property owner's responsibility to prune any trees on the public right of
way that is adjacent to the owner's property and that contain any of the above
mentioned obstructions. The minimum clearance of any overhanging branches shall
be eight feet (8') over sidewalks and thirteen feet (13') over all streets.
   B.   Tree Topping: It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to top or
severely prune any public tree without first receiving prior approval and/or a
permit from the urban forester. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be exempted from
this subsection at the determination of the urban forester or the shade tree
commission.
   C.   Notice To Prune: Should any person or persons owning real property
adjacent to any public right of way fail to prune trees as specified above, the
urban forester may order such person(s), after receipt of written notice, to
prune such trees. The order required herein shall be served by mailing a copy
of the order to the last known address of the property owner by certified mail.
   D.   Failure To Comply: When a person to whom an order is sent fails to
comply within the specified time, Farmington City may cause the trees to be
pruned and the exact cost thereof shall be assessed to the owner as provided by
law in the case of special assessments.
   E.   Responsibility Of Farmington City: Farmington City shall be responsible
for the pruning and maintenance of the street trees on Main Street from 100
South to 500 North, and on State Street from 300 East to 400 West, and on other
streets as set forth by resolution of the city.
   F.   Liability: Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to impose
any liability upon the city, its officers or employees, nor shall it relieve
the owner of any private property from the duty to keep any tree, shrub or
plant upon any public area on his property or under his control in such
condition as to prevent it from constituting a hazard or an impediment to
travel or vision upon any street, park, public open space, boulevard, alley or
public place within the city. (Ord. 2009-50, 10-6-2009)
11-42-090: GUARANTEE OF PLANTED TREES:
If any tree installed by Farmington City or any developers is dead, dying,
diseased or unhealthy, Farmington City and those developers shall be required
to guarantee the trees planted by them for one year. (Ord. 2009-50, 10-6-2009)
11-42-100: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Shade Tree Commission: The Farmington City planning commission shall be
known and designated as the shade tree commission. The duties of the commission
shall be as follows:
      1.   Tree Master Plan: To study, investigate, counsel, develop,
administer and/or update a "tree master plan" for the care, preservation,
pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of public trees. The tree
plan shall specify the species of tree to be planted on each of the streets or
other public sites of the city. From and after the adoption of the tree master
plan, or any amendment thereof, all planting shall conform thereto. A street
tree inventory should be included and updated along with the tree master plan.
A list of approved trees to be planted shall be maintained and included in the
standards and specifications.
      2.   Capital Projects: Establish policies for the review and approval of
capital projects where trees or other vegetation will be planted or removed on
city property.
      3.   Private Projects: Establish policies for the review and approval of
projects on private property where open space and/or landscaping is required as
a condition for the development, and establish policies for the enforcement of
approved plans.
      4.   Promoting Landscaping: Encourage installation and maintenance of
landscaping on private property by providing information on the value of
landscaping and on the proper planting and care of trees and other vegetation,
by conducting educational campaigns to inform residents of the requirements of
city ordinances relating to landscaping, and by promoting private involvement
in beautification projects.
      5.   Arbor Day: Promote appreciation of trees and the urban forest
through annual Arbor Day, the last Friday in April, observances and other
activities.
      6.   Project Identification: Identify landscaping projects that will
enhance the urban forest and incorporate these projects into the comprehensive
tree plan.
      7.   Historic Preservation: Establish policies and procedures to
identify, mark, publicize and preserve historic and notable trees on both
public and private property.
      8.   Landscape Budget: Establish an annual budget for the planting and
care of trees and other vegetation at an appropriate funding level.
      9.   Urban Forest Improvement: Encourage improvement and expansion of the
urban forest through planning and policy development.
      10.   Advocates For Urban Forest: In all instances, serve as an advocate
of the city's urban forest.
   B.   Urban Forester:
      1.   Created; Qualifications; Appointment: There is hereby created the
office of urban forester. The urban forester shall hold a college degree or its
equivalent in arboriculture, ornamental or landscape horticulture, urban
forestry, or other closely related field, and shall administer and enforce this
chapter. Related work experience of four (4) years may be substituted for the
appropriate amount of education. The urban forester shall be appointed by the
city manager, with the advice and consent of the city council and shade tree
commission. The urban forester may be assisted by other persons as authorized.
      2.   Duties Of The Urban Forester: The urban forester shall represent
Farmington City in carrying out and enforcing of the stated purposes of this
chapter and shall have the following responsibilities:
         a.   Supervision: Supervise the urban forestry program, and regulate
the planting, maintenance, removal, fertilization, pruning, and bracing of
public trees to ensure safety and/or preserve the aesthetics of streets and
public places.
         b.   Condition Of Permit: Affix reasonable conditions to the granting
of a permit in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
         c.   Permit Issuance: Issue permits as required herein, and inspect
all work done under a permit issued in accordance with the terms of this
chapter.
         d.   Tree Master Plan: Assist the shade tree commission, as necessary,
in the formulation of the tree master plan. The urban forester, with the
approval of the shade tree commission, shall have the authority to amend or add
to the tree master plan at any time that circumstances make it advisable. (Ord.
2009-50, 10-6-2009)
11-42-110: ENFORCEMENT:
No person shall hinder, prevent, delay or interfere with the execution or
enforcement of this chapter by the urban forester, or his or her designee. Said
official shall have full authority to inspect all locations where said chapter
apply, issue stop work orders and notices of noncompliance. However, nothing
contained herein shall be construed as an attempt to limit the pursuit of any
legal or equitable remedy in a court of competent jurisdiction for the
protection of property rights by the owner of any property within Farmington
City. (Ord. 2009-50, 10-6-2009)
11-42-120: SEVERABILITY:
Should any paragraph, sentence, subdivision, clause, phrase or section of this
chapter be adjudged or held to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, the
same shall not affect the validity of this chapter as a whole, or any part or
provision thereof, other than the part so declared to be invalid, illegal or
unconstitutional. (Ord. 2009-50, 10-6-2009)
11-42-130: PENALTY PROVISIONS:
Any person violating or causing the violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, or failing or refusing to do some act required under this chapter,
shall be subject to the penalty provisions of chapter 38 of this title. (Ord.
2009-50, 10-6-2009)
11-42-140: APPEALS:
   A.   Permitted; Procedure: Appeal may be made to the land use appeal
authority by the city or any person aggrieved by a final decision,
determination, or requirement of the urban forester made under the provisions
of this chapter in accordance with chapter
3-7 of this code. (Ord. 2009-50, 10-6-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-010: Short Title
12-1-020: Purpose
12-1-030: Interpretation
12-1-040: Definitions
12-1-050: Considerations
12-1-060: General Responsibilities
12-1-070: Appeals From Subdivision Improvement Plan Decisions
12-1-080: Judicial Review
12-1-010: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the FARMINGTON CITY SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE and may
be referenced as this title. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996)
12-1-020: PURPOSE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this title, and any rules, regulations and
specifications hereafter adopted, are to promote and protect the public health,
safety and general welfare through provisions designed to:
      1.   Provide for the harmonious and coordinated development of the city,
and to assure sites suitable for building purposes and human habitation.
      2.   Ensure adequate open space for traffic, recreation, light, and air.
      3.   Facilitate the conservation of, or production of, adequate
transportation, water, sanitation, drainage and energy resources.
      4.   Avoid scattered and premature subdivisions which would cause
insufficient public services and facilities, or necessitate an excessive
expenditure of public funds for the supply of such services and facilities.
      5.   Preserve outstanding natural, cultural or historic features.
   B.   Intent: This title is designed to inform the subdivider and public of
the requirements and conditions necessary to obtain approval of a subdivision.
To this end, all requirements, where possible, are expressly delineated in this
title or other applicable ordinances. However, since it is impossible to cover
every possibility, and there are some aspects which do not lend themselves to
being easily articulated, this title allows the city council to impose
reasonable conditions upon a subdivider proposing a non-conventional
subdivision in addition to those expressly required, so long as such conditions
do not conflict with any requirements set forth in this title or other
applicable ordinances. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-1-030: INTERPRETATION:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
considered as minimum requirements. Where the provisions of this title impose
greater restrictions than any statute, other regulation, ordinance or covenant,
the provisions of this title shall prevail. Where the provisions of any
statute, other regulation, ordinance or covenant impose greater restrictions
than the provisions of this title, the provision of such statute, other
regulation, ordinance or covenant shall prevail. The provisions of this title
are not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or any other private
agreement or restriction which is not inconsistent with these regulations.
(Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996)
12-1-040: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever any word or phrase used in this title is not defined herein, but is
defined in related sections of Utah Code Annotated or in the Farmington City
zoning ordinance, such definitions are incorporated herein and shall apply as
though set forth herein in full, unless the context clearly indicates a
contrary intention. Unless a contrary intention clearly appears, words used in
the present tense include the future, the singular includes the plural, the
term "shall" is mandatory and the term "may" is permissive. The following terms
as used in this title shall have the respective meanings hereinafter set forth:
AGRICULTURAL USE: Land used for the production of food through the tilling of
the soil, the raising of crops, breeding and raising of domestic animals and
fowl, except household pets, and not including any agricultural, industry or
business.
ALLEY: A public way which generally affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting properties and not intended for general traffic circulation.
APPLICANT: The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or such owner's duly
authorized agent.
BOND: An agreement to install improvements secured by cash, a letter of credit,
or escrow funds on deposit in a financial institution, or with the city, in an
amount corresponding to an engineering estimate and in a form satisfactory to
the city attorney.
CAPITAL PROJECT: An organized undertaking which provides, or is intended to
provide, the city with a capital asset. "Capital asset" is defined according to
generally accepted accounting principles.
CITY: Farmington City.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Farmington City.
CITY MANAGER: The city manager of Farmington City.
CONDOMINIUM: Property conforming to the definition set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 57-8-3, as amended. A condominium is also a "subdivision"
subject to these regulations.
CONSOLIDATED FEE SCHEDULE: The schedule of fees adopted periodically by
resolution of the city council setting forth the various fees charged by the
city.
CONVENTIONAL SUBDIVISION: Any exclusively residential subdivision of property
for single family, two-family, or townhome development which meets all
development standards adopted by ordinances and all minimum lot size and
frontage requirements identified by the applicable zoning district.
Subdivisions which include variation in lot sizes but which follow established
standards and do not increase density. Subdivisions which meet moderate income
housing requirements for additional lots by setting aside units for moderate
income housing via deed restriction also qualify as conventional subdivisions.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic.
DEDICATION OF LAND: Refers to land set aside by the subdivider to be used by
the public, such land being conveyed to the city or other governmental entity.
DEVELOPER: As the case may be, either: a) an applicant for subdivision
approval; b) an applicant for a building permit or another permit issued; or c)
the owner of any right, title or interest in real property for which
subdivision approval or site plan approval is sought.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling, designed for or occupied by one
family for living or sleeping purposes and having one, but not more than one,
kitchen or set of fixed cooking facilities, other than hot plates or other
portable cooling units or wet bars.
EASEMENT: A nonprofitable interest in property owned by another that entitles
its holder to specific use on, under or above said property.
FINAL PLAT: A map of a subdivision, required of all major subdivisions, which
is prepared for final approval and recordation, which has been accurately
surveyed, so that streets, alleys, blocks, lots and other divisions thereof can
be identified; such plat being in conformity with the ordinances of the city
and the municipal land use development and management act, set forth at Utah
Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as amended.
FLAG LOT: A lot that has been approved by the city with access provided to the
bulk of the lot by means of a narrow corridor.
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE: The Farmington City flood control and storm
drainage ordinance, as amended.
FLOOD, 100-YEAR: A flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
FLOOD, 10-YEAR: A flood having a ten percent (10%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
FLOODPLAIN, 100-YEAR: That area adjacent to a drainage channel which may be
inundated by a 100-year flood.
FREEWAY: A street with fully controlled access designed to link major
destination points. A freeway is designed for high speed traffic with a minimum
of four (4) travel lanes.
GENERAL PLAN: The document adopted by the city which sets forth general
guidelines for proposed future development of land within the city, as provided
in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as amended. "General plan"
includes what is also commonly referred to as a "master plan".
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by one building or
a group of buildings, together with such yards, open spaces and yard areas as
are required by this title and the Farmington City zoning ordinance, and having
frontage on a public street equal to fifty percent (50%) of the minimum
required frontage for the lot, except for flag lots.
LOT SPLIT: The division of a property which may be divided into no more than
two (2) legal size lots.
MAJOR STREET PLAN: The plan which defines the future alignments of streets and
their rights of way, including maps or reports or both, which has been approved
by the planning commission and city council. Also known as an "official map" as
referred to in the Utah municipal land use development act.
NATURAL DRAINAGE COURSE: Any natural watercourse which is open continuously for
flow of water in a definite direction or course.
NON-CONVENTIONAL SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision which is not a conventional
subdivision, including but not limited to one or more of the following
processes or considerations:
   A.   Planned Unit Development (PUD);
   B.   Conservation Subdivision:
   C.   Subdivisions which deviates from development standards for public
improvements;
   D.   Subdivisions seeking moderate income housing bonus density through
means other than setting aside units for moderate income housing via deed
restriction;
   E.   Subdivisions which includes commercial, industrial, or multifamily
development;
   F.   Any subdivision requiring a project master plan (PMP) or similar
approval memorialized by a development agreement.
OWNER: The owner in fee simple of real property as shown in the records of the
Davis County recorder's office and includes the plural as well as the singular,
and may mean either a natural person, firm, association, partnership, limited
liability company, trust, private corporation, public or quasi-public
corporation, or any combination thereof.
PARCEL OF LAND: A contiguous quantity of land, in the possession of, or owned
by, or recorded as the property of, the same owner.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A development designed pursuant to the planned unit
development ordinance set forth in the Farmington City zoning ordinance. Such
development is a subdivision and shall comply with the applicable provisions of
these regulations.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Farmington City planning commission.
PLANNING DEPARTMENT: The planning department of Farmington City.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: The initial map of a proposed land division or subdivision
required for major subdivisions.
PROTECTION STRIP: A strip of land bordering a subdivision, or a street within a
subdivision, which serves to bar access of adjacent property owners to required
public improvements installed within the subdivision until such time as the
adjacent owners share in the cost of such improvements.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS: Streets, curb, gutter, sidewalk, water and sewer lines,
storm sewers, and other similar facilities which are required to be dedicated
to the city in connection with subdivision, conditional use, or site plan
approval.
PUBLIC WAY: Any road, street, alley, lane, court, place, parkway, walk, public
easement, viaduct, tunnel, culvert or bridge laid out or erected as such by the
public, or dedicated or abandoned to the public, or made such in any action by
the subdivision of real property, and includes the entire area within the right
of way.
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT: The public works department of Farmington City.
RESERVATION OF LAND: Refers to land set aside for common use within a
subdivision, such land to be developed and maintained by the subdivider or by
the residents of the subdivision.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land used or intended to be used for a street,
sidewalk, sanitary or storm sewer, drainage, utility, railroad, or other
similar use.
SCHEMATIC PLAN: A sketch prior to the preliminary plat for major subdivisions
or prior to final plat in the case of minor subdivisions to enable the
subdivider to save time and expense in reaching general agreement with the
planning and zoning division as to the form of the plat and the objectives of
these regulations.
SIDEWALK: A passageway for pedestrians, excluding motor vehicles.
STREET, DEAD END: A street with only one outlet which is intended to be
extended at a future time to connect with other streets and to provide future
access for abutting properties.
STREET, LOCAL: A street for which the principal function is access to abutting
land. Traffic movement is a secondary function.
STREET, MAJOR COLLECTOR: A street which carries traffic from minor streets and
minor collector streets to the arterial street system. The primary function of
such streets is the movement of traffic. Providing access to abutting
properties is a secondary function.
STREET, MINOR ARTERIAL: A street for which the principal function is movement
of large volumes of traffic from collector streets to freeways. Providing
access to abutting land is a secondary function.
STREET, MINOR COLLECTOR: A street which carries traffic from minor streets to
the collector and major street system. Such streets include the principal
entrance streets of residential developments and the primary circulating
streets within such developments.
STREET, PRIVATE: A privately owned and maintained way used, or intended to be
used, for passage or travel by motor vehicles and to provide access to abutting
properties.
STREET, PUBLIC: A public way, having a width of at least fifty feet (50'), used
or intended to be used for passage or travel by motor vehicles and to provide
access to abutting properties, which has been accepted and is maintained by the
city.
SUBDIVIDER: The owner of the real property proposed to be subdivided, including
any successors or assigns.
SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, redivided or proposed to be divided into
two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other division of land
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions, including resubdivision. Subdivision includes the
division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and bounds description,
devise and testacy, lease, map, plat, or other recorded instrument, and
divisions of land for all residential and nonresidential uses, including land
used or to be used for commercial, agricultural and industrial purposes.
SURVEY MONUMENT: A mark affixed to a permanent object along a line of survey to
furnish a survey control.
UTILITIES: Includes culinary water lines, pressure and gravity irrigation
lines, sanitary and storm sewer lines, subsurface drainage systems, electric
power, natural gas and telephone transmission lines, cable television lines,
and underground conduits and junction boxes.
WATER AND SEWER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS: The Farmington City area pressure
irrigation district and the Central Davis sewer district, and any other water
or sewer improvement district existing or hereinafter organized, whichever has
jurisdiction over the land proposed to be subdivided.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The Farmington City zoning ordinance, as amended. (Ord. 1996-
24, 6-19-1996; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023; Ord. 2024-06, 1-16-
2024)
12-1-050: CONSIDERATIONS:
   A.   General Plan: The general plan shall guide the use of all land within
the corporate boundaries of the city. The size and design of lots, the nature
of utilities, the design and improvement of streets, the type and intensity of
land use, and the provisions for any special facilities in any subdivision
shall conform to the land uses shown and the standards established in the
general plan, the zoning ordinance and other applicable ordinances.
   B.   Natural Landscape: Trees, native land cover, natural watercourses and
topography shall be preserved when possible. Subdivisions shall be so designed
as to prevent excessive grading and scarring of the landscape in conformance
with the foothill development ordinance. The design of new subdivisions shall
consider, and relate to, existing street widths, alignments and names. (Ord.
1996-24, 6-19-1996)
   C.   Community Facilities: Community facilities, such as parks, recreation
areas, trails and transportation facilities shall be provided in the
subdivision in accordance with general plan standards, this title, and other
applicable ordinances and resolutions. This title establishes procedures for
the referral of information on proposed subdivisions to interested boards,
bureaus and other governmental agencies and utility companies, both private and
public, so that the extension of community facilities and utilities may be
accomplished in an orderly manner, coordinated with the development of the
subdivision. In order to facilitate the acquisition of land areas required to
implement this policy, the subdivider may be required to dedicate, grant
easements over or otherwise reserve land for schools, parks, playgrounds,
public ways, utility easements and other public purposes as specified. (Ord.
2006-28, 4-19-2006)
12-1-060: GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Subdivider: The subdivider shall prepare a plat consistent with the
standards contained herein and shall pay for the design and inspection of the
public improvements required. The city shall process said plats in accordance
with the regulations set forth herein. The subdivider shall not alter the
terrain or remove any vegetation from the proposed subdivision site or engage
in any site development until the necessary approvals as outlined herein have
been obtained.
   B.   Planning Department: The planning department shall review the plats for
design; for conformity to the master plan and to the zoning ordinance; for the
environmental quality of the subdivision design; and shall process the
subdivision plats and reports as provided for in this title. The City Planner
or designee shall be the land use authority as it pertains to preliminary and
final plat for conventional subdivisions creating lots for single-family, two-
family dwellings, and townhomes. The City Planner or designee shall also serve
as the land use authority for all final subdivision plats and subdivisions by
metes and bounds.
   C.   Other Agencies: Plats of proposed subdivisions may be referred by the
planning department to such city departments and special districts,
governmental boards, bureaus, utility companies and other agencies which will
provide public and private facilities and services to the subdivision for their
information and comment. The planning department shall decide which agencies to
refer proposed subdivision plats to.
   D.   Public Works And Engineer: The public works department and city
engineer shall make comments as to engineering requirements for street widths,
grades, alignments and flood control, whether the proposed public improvements
are consistent with this title and other applicable ordinances and shall be
responsible for the inspection and approval of all construction of public
improvements. Street layout and overall circulation shall be coordinated with
transportation planning in the planning department.
   E.   Planning Commission: The planning commission shall act as an advisory
agency to the city council as set forth herein. It is charged with making
investigations, reports and recommendations on proposed subdivisions as to
their conformance to the master plan and zoning ordinance, and other pertinent
documents. The planning commission shall recommend approval, approval with
conditions, or disapproval of schematic plans when applicable to the city
council. The planning commission shall act as the land use authority and has
final jurisdiction in the approval of preliminary plats for non-conventional
subdivisions.
   F.   City Attorney: The city attorney shall verify, prior to recordation of
a plat, that the form of the final plat is correct and acceptable, that the
subdivider dedicating land for use of the public is the owner of record, and
that the land is free and clear of unacceptable encumbrances according to the
title report submitted by the subdivider.
   G.   City Council: The city council has final jurisdiction as the land use
authority in the approval of schematic plans when applicable, and the
establishment of requirements and design standards for public improvements by
ordinance or development agreement, and the acceptance of lands and public
improvements that may be proposed for dedication, and shall consider appeals
regarding the administration of this title as provided herein. (Ord. 2015-06,
2-17-2015; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-1-070: APPEALS FROM SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PLAN DECISIONS:
   A.   Appeals from review comments made related to subdivision improvement
plans during the review cycle described in Section
12-6-130 of this Title may be made by filing a written notice of appeal to the
City Recorder within fifteen (15) days of denial of the final plat by the City
Engineer.
   B.   Upon receiving the appeal, the City Engineer and the appellant shall,
unless otherwise agreed by the City and appellant, designate a licensed
engineer to serve on a three (3) member panel described in Utah Code Ann § 10-
9a-508(5)(d). Neither engineer designated may have an interest in the
application subject to appeal. Any engineer employed by or working at a firm
retained by the city or appellant to review, modify or draft plans is
considered to have an interest in the application and are not eligible to
serve.
   C.   The two (2) designated engineers shall confer and designate one
additional licensed engineer.
   D.   The land use applicant is responsible for payment of fifty percent
(50%) of the cost of the panel and an appeal fee designated on the City's
consolidated fee schedule.
   E.   The panel shall hear arguments and exhibits provided by the parties and
render a written decision supported by applicable codes and the City's adopted
construction standards and specifications. The panel may not overrule the
City's adopted construction standards and specifications unless a state law
expressly overrides a provision of those standards.
The panel's decision may be reviewed by a district court by either party, by
filing a petition for review within thirty (30) days after the date on which
the decision is final. (Ord. 2015-06, 2-17-2015; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023;
Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-1-080: JUDICIAL REVIEW OF CITY COUNCIL DECISIONS:
Any person with standing aggrieved by a decision of the appeal authority or the
City Council under this title may have and maintain a plenary action for relief
therefrom in any court of competent jurisdiction; provided, petition for such
relief is presented to the court within thirty (30) days after the rendering of
the decision by the appeal authority or council. No person may challenge in
district court any land use decision made by the city under this title until
that person has exhausted his or her administrative remedies as provided
herein. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
CHAPTER 2
CONTROL AND APPLICATION
SECTION:
12-2-010: Subdivision Control
12-2-020: Required Plat Approval
12-2-030: Transfer Of Land
12-2-040: Transfer Of Land; Voidable
12-2-045: Building Permits
12-2-047: Certificates Of Occupancy
12-2-050: Penalties
12-2-010: SUBDIVISION CONTROL:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, or agent of the owner, of any land within
the corporate limits and jurisdiction of the city to subdivide such land unless
and until:
   A.   Plat: A plat, or metes and bounds description(s) based upon a survey as
specified in chapter 4 of this title, of such subdivision is made in accordance
with the requirements set forth herein;
   B.   Approval: Approval of such plat or metes and bounds description(s)
based upon a survey is secured as provided herein; and
   C.   Recording: The approved plat, or metes and bounds description(s) based
on a survey as approved herein, is recorded in the office of the Davis County
recorder by the city recorder or, in the case of a metes and bounds
description, by the subdivider. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996)
12-2-020: REQUIRED PLAT APPROVAL:
No plat of any subdivision shall be recorded in the county recorder's office
until it has been submitted and approved as provided herein by the planning
commission, or the city council in the case of minor plats, and such approvals
are entered in writing on the plat by the mayor and chair of the planning
commission. A plat shall not be approved if such plat is in conflict with any
provision or portion of the general plan, major street plan, zoning ordinance,
this title or any other state law or city ordinance. (Ord. 2015-06, 2-17-2015)
12-2-030: TRANSFER OF LAND:
Land shall not be transferred, sold or offered for sale, nor shall a building
permit be issued for a structure thereon, until the final subdivision plat is
recorded in the Davis County recorder's office in accordance with this title
and any applicable provisions of state law, and until the improvements required
in connection with the subdivision have been constructed or guaranteed as
provided herein. (Ord. 2001-13, 4-4-2001)
12-2-040: TRANSFER OF LAND; VOIDABLE:
No person shall offer to sell, contract to sell, sell, deed or convey any
property contrary to the provisions of this title. Any deed or conveyance, sale
or contract to sell made contrary to the provisions of this title is voidable
at the sole option of the grantee, buyer or person contracting to purchase, his
heirs, personal representative, or trustee in bankruptcy, within one year after
the date of execution of the deed of conveyance, sale or contract to sell, but
the deed of conveyance, sale or contract to sell is binding upon any assignee
or transferee of the grantee, buyer or person contracting to purchase, other
than those above enumerated, and upon the grantor, vendor or person contracting
to sell, or his assignee, heir or devisee. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996)
12-2-045: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   Requirements: No building permit shall be issued for any structure
within a subdivision until the final subdivision plat is recorded in the Davis
County recorder's office, a bond is provided acceptable to the city ensuring
the adequate installation of required public improvements and utilities, and
the required improvements and utilities have been installed and are operable as
provided herein. No building permit shall be issued for any structure within a
subdivision until all sanitary sewer, storm sewer, culinary water lines,
pressure irrigation (if applicable), fire hydrants, curb and gutter, streets,
other underground utilities located under the street surface, and required
grading and drainage improvements, are installed and fully functional, as
determined by the city, providing continuous access and/or service to the lot.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, for condominium projects only, permits for
footings and foundations which are accompanied by a certificate of survey by a
licensed surveyor verifying its location, may be issued by the city council,
subject to compliance with applicable requirements, including adequate access
for emergency vehicles, prior to the installation of utilities and street
improvements. For purposes of this section, street improvements shall require
asphalt or concrete hard surfacing of the streets, except as otherwise provided
in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Issuance Prior To Street Surfacing: A building permit may be issued by
the city for the construction of a structure within a subdivision prior to
application of hard surfacing of the streets within the subdivision under the
following conditions:
      1.   The street improvements are being constructed during the months when
cold weather prohibits the laying of a hard surface on the street.
      2.   The streets shall be completed with all utilities, rough grading,
and all weather road base sufficient for emergency vehicle access and
construction traffic. Sufficiency of the road base, including road base
gradation and thickness, shall be determined by the city engineer upon review
and consideration of applicable soils reports, drainage factors and existing
topographic conditions of the property.
      3.   The developer enters into an agreement with the city that the
developer will take responsibility to ensure that the road is accessible for
emergency vehicles and construction traffic at all times, including snow
removal and other required maintenance.
      4.   The developer enters into an agreement with the city that developer
will hard surface the road as soon as weather permits and as authorized by the
city. If developer fails to do so, the city can declare the developer in
default of the applicable improvements bond agreement and may withdraw any or
all of the funds from the bond and cause the improvements to the street to be
constructed, completed and/or repaired in accordance with the terms and
procedures set forth in the bond agreement for the withdrawal of funds.
      5.   The building contractor, property owner and building permit
applicant enters into an assumption of risk agreement acknowledging the lack of
hard surface streets within the subdivision and developer's obligation
regarding maintenance and access of the same and assuming the risk of
proceeding with construction under such circumstances pursuant to the terms and
conditions set forth herein.
      6.   No certificate of occupancy shall be granted by the city for any
structure within the subdivision until all streets are hard surfaced. (Ord.
2006-45, 7-11-2006)
12-2-047: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
No building within a subdivision shall be occupied until a certificate of
occupancy has been issued for such structure by the city. No certificate of
occupancy shall be issued for any structure within a subdivision by the city
until all required improvements for the subdivision are complete, including the
hard surfacing of the streets, all required street signs are installed for the
subdivision and house numbers are placed on the structure, all required
utilities are installed providing service to the structure, and all other
applicable ordinance provisions have been satisfied. (Ord. 2001-13, 4-4-2001)
12-2-050: PENALTIES:
It shall be a class C misdemeanor for any person to fail to comply with the
provisions of this title. In addition to any criminal prosecution, the city may
pursue any other legal remedies provided by law to ensure compliance with this
title, including, but not limited to, instituting an injunction, mandamus,
abatement or other appropriate actions, or proceedings to prevent, enjoin,
abate or remove the unlawful use or act. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996)
CHAPTER 3
CONVENTIONAL SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
12-3-010: Purpose
12-3-020: Applicability
12-3-030: Process
12-3-040: Administrative Land Use Authority
12-3-050: Schematic Plan
12-3-060: Preliminary Plat
12-3-065: Review Of Preliminary Plat
12-3-070: Final Plat
12-3-080: Subdivisions By Metes And Bounds
12-3-010: PURPOSE:
A conventional subdivision as defined in section
12-1-040 of this Code is a subdivision which is designed to meet all the
standard criteria of the zoning district where it is proposed. As such, the
review of a conventional subdivision is administrative in nature and an
exercise in verifying whether or not the existing codified standards have been
met. These types of subdivision are not subject to opinion or preference and
are therefore under the purview of the City Planner to provide simplicity and
efficiency to the review process. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-3-020: APPLICABILITY:
The conventional subdivision process shall be applied to those subdivision
types defined by section
12-1-040 of this Code as a conventional subdivision including the subdivision
of property for single family, two family, and townhome development by plat or
metes and bounds as further described in this title. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-3-030: PROCESS:
The process for review and approval of a conventional subdivision shall follow
section 10-9a-604.1 and 604.2 of the Utah State Code, as amended. The specific
requirements for applications for preliminary and final plat applications are
as established in sections 12-7-065 and 12-5-130 of this Title. (Ord. 2023-66,
11-16-2023)
12-3-040: ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE AUTHORITY:
The City Planner:
   A.   Is designated as the land use authority for both preliminary and final
plat approvals for conventional subdivisions, including subdivisions by metes
and bounds; and
   B.   Oversees review of all schematic plans when submitted. (Ord. 2023-66,
11-16-2023)
12-3-050: SCHEMATIC PLAN:
   A.   Optional Submittal For Conventional Subdivisions: A schematic plan is
not required, but is encouraged of all subdividers when pursuing a conventional
subdivision. This provides the subdivider with an opportunity to consult with
and receive assistance from the city regarding the regulations and design
requirements applicable to the subdivision of property and facilitates
resolution of problems and revisions before the preparation of a preliminary
plat or more detailed documentations and plans. The schematic plan should be
based on an accurate survey showing boundaries, topography, important physical
features, adjacent properties and the sketch of the proposed subdivision. The
applicant or applicant's duly authorized agent shall submit an application to
the city planning department for schematic plan approval and at the same time,
the applicant shall pay an application fee as provided in the city's
consolidated fee schedule.
   B.   Schematic Plan Does Not Bind City: The schematic plan process is
designed to provide the subdivider with helpful information and suggestions
before the expense and time involved in preparing more detailed documentation
is incurred. However, for conventional subdivisions City employees and all
other officers of the city act in advisory capacity. Employees and officers of
the city may make recommendations, suggestions, and dispense information
regarding city ordinances and the master plan, but such comments shall in no
way whatsoever be binding on the city at the schematic level of review.
Submission of a schematic plan shall in no way confer any vested rights upon
the subdivider. Vested rights may attach only upon the filing of a complete
application for preliminary plat review of a conventional subdivision. However,
if there is a compelling, countervailing public interest or the city has
initiated proceedings to amend this title or other applicable ordinances at the
time of the application, then there shall be no vested rights.
   C.   Submission:
      1.   Requirements: The subdivider choosing to undergo schematic plan
review shall submit documentation as required by the applicable application
form of the proposed schematic plan to the city planning department. The
planning department will determine if the application is complete and if all
the fees have been paid. If all requirements are met, a letter of
acknowledgment will be provided by the planning department. An application has
not been accepted by the city until the city issues a letter of acknowledgment.
      2.   Items Included: The proposed schematic plan shall include the
following items:
         a.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
         b.   A subdivision yield plan pursuant to title 11,
chapter 12 of this code if a conservation subdivision or a planned unit
development is proposed by the applicant.
         c.   A vicinity plan showing significant natural and manmade features
on the site and within five hundred feet (500') of any portion of it; the
property boundaries of the proposed subdivision; the names of adjacent property
owners; topographic contours at no greater interval than five feet (5'); and
north arrow.
         d.   A proposed lot and street layout.
         e.   A description of the type of culinary and irrigation water system
(s) proposed; also, documentation of water rights and secondary water shares.
         f.   A description of the size and location of sanitary sewer and
stormwater drain lines and subsurface drainage.
         g.   A description of those portions of the property which are
included in the most recent flood insurance rate maps prepared by FEMA.
         h.   The total acreage of the entire tract proposed for subdivision.
         i.   Proposed changes to existing zoning district boundaries or zoning
classifications or conditional use permits, if any.
   D.   Notification:
      1.   Distribution Of Plan: The planning department, after confirming
receipt of a complete application, shall distribute copies of the plan to such
government departments and other agencies or advisors as in the opinion of the
department may contribute to a decision in the best interest of the public.
(Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-3-060: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
An applicant shall submit plans and documents as outlined in Section
12-5-110 of this Title. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-3-065: REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The planning department will determine if the appropriate plan is submitted, if
the application is complete and if all the fees have been paid. If all
requirements are met, a letter of acknowledgment will be provided by the
planning department, and the planning department shall distribute plans for
comment to all appropriate public and private entities. An application has not
been accepted by the city until the city issues a letter of acknowledgment.
After fifteen (15) business days from the date of the letter of acknowledgment,
each of the public agencies and utilities will provide their review comments to
the subdivider indicating whether the plans are acceptable or need to be
revised, and may forward to the subdivider a written report of its findings and
recommendations. These agencies shall include, but are not necessarily limited
to, water and sewer improvement districts, the public works department, the
city engineer and the fire department. The planning department will also
provide the city manager with one full set of plans for comment and review. The
subdivider shall be required to address each comment made by a reviewing
entity, either modifying the plans or indicating their objection to the review
comment, citing code authority for their objection. Failure to address each
comment shall be grounds for rejection of the re-submission, and a subsequent
review cycle may not begin until those comments are addressed. The process of
accepting an application and completing a review may occur as many as four (4)
times, after which the applicant shall be entitled to remedies as specified in
Utah Code 10-9a-604.2 incorporated herein. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-3-070: FINAL PLAT:
An applicant shall submit plans and documents as outlined in Section
12-5-110 of this Title. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-3-080: SUBDIVISIONS BY METES AND BOUNDS:
   A.   Purpose: The intent of this section is to allow the division of lots
located in agricultural and residential zones into two (2) lots through the
recording of approved deeds in restricted situations rather than requiring the
recording of a subdivision plat.
   B.   Metes And Bounds Subdivisions; When Permitted: An owner or developer of
property consisting of a single parcel of land or lot located within any zone
may subdivide the parcel of land or lot into not more than two (2) lots for
residential dwellings or accessory buildings related to the primary use by
recording deeds containing metes and bounds descriptions of the lots without
the necessity of recording a plat; provided, that:
      1.   The area to be divided is immediately adjacent to existing streets
and utilities and does not involve the extension of any such streets or
utilities;
      2.   The area to be divided is not traversed by the mapped lines of a
proposed street as shown in the comprehensive general plan and does not require
the dedication of any land for street or other public purposes;
      3.   The proposed lots conform to the city's zoning regulations and
comprehensive general plan for the area;
      4.   No remnant parcels are created which, due to size, configuration or
location, cannot be developed under the provisions of the Farmington City
zoning ordinance;
      5.   No land immediately adjacent to the parcel of land or lot has been
divided by the recording of metes and bounds deeds within five (5) years of the
date of the application; and
      6.   The division of the property is approved by the city as set forth in
this chapter.
   C.   Application: An owner or subdivider wishing to divide a single parcel
of land or lot within an agricultural or residential zone within the city into
not more than two (2) lots shall submit an application to the city planner on a
form approved by the city. The application shall detail the proposed boundaries
of the property to be divided with a legal description prepared by a licensed
surveyor. The application shall also be accompanied by any necessary plans for
the installation of required public improvements and accompanying bond
agreements. At the time the application is submitted, the applicant shall also
pay the required application fee, as set forth in the city's consolidated fee
schedule.
   D.   City Planner Review: The city planner shall review the application with
applicable city departments to assure compliance with city ordinances and shall
determine if the application should be submitted to the providers of any
utility service for comment.
   E.   Requirements:
      1.   Improvements: As a condition of approval of a metes and bounds
subdivision, the applicant may be required to install or provide the following
improvements, unless specifically waived in writing by the city engineer:
         a.   Boundary monuments, established in accordance with standards set
forth by the Davis County surveyor and Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter
23;
         b.   Curb and gutter;
         c.   Sidewalk;
         d.   Asphalt or concrete paving of rights of way;
         e.   Appropriate storm drainage facilities; and
         f.   Public utility easements.
      2.   Installation: All required public improvements shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 8 of this title and the city
construction standards and specifications.
      3.   Security: The installation of any required public improvements shall
be secured as provided in section
12-6-160 Chapter 6 of this title.
   F.   Statement Of Approval: Upon approval of an application under this
chapter and the performance of all required conditions by the applicant, the
applicant shall submit to the city such proposed deeds as the applicant intends
to record to accomplish the division of the property provided for under this
chapter, along with one reproducible copy and two (2) prints of the record of
survey map filed in accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 23.
The city shall review such deeds to assure that they conform to the
representations made in the application. Upon approval, the city planner shall
sign a statement to be attached to the deeds reflecting the city's approval of
the division of the property into two (2) lots.
   G.   DADU Parcel - An existing lot which described by Metes and Bounds which
is not part of a platted subdivision may be subdivided by metes and bounds for
the purpose of creating a DADU parcel as defined in Section
11-2-020 . The Planning Commission shall act as the land use authority when
considering subdivision of a parcel by metes and bounds for the creation of a
DADU Parcel. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023; amd. Ord. 2024-43, 7-16-2024)
CHAPTER 4
NON-CONVENTIONAL SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
12-4-010: Schematic Review
12-4-020: Staff Cannot Bind City
12-4-030: Vested Rights
12-4-040: Submission
12-4-050: Notification
12-4-060: Review By The Planning Commission
12-4-070: Approval By The City Council
12-4-080: Preliminary Plat; Purpose
12-4-090: Preliminary Plat; Application And Fees
12-4-100: Preliminary Plat; Preparation And Required Information
12-4-110: Preliminary Plat; Evaluation Of
12-4-120: Preliminary Plat; Planning Commission Action
12-4-130: Preliminary Plat; Notification Of Action
12-4-140: Preliminary Plat; Effect Of Approval Of The Preliminary Plat
12-4-150: Final Plat; Purpose
12-4-160: Final Plat; Filing Deadline, Application And Fees
12-4-170: Final Plat; Preparation And Required Information
12-4-010: SCHEMATIC REVIEW:
   A.   A schematic plan shall be required of all subdividers pursuing a Non-
Conventional Subdivision including but not limited to one or more of the
following:
      1.   Planned Unit Development (PUD);
      2.   Conservation Subdivision;
      3.   Subdivision which includes alternative lot sizes and frontages, or
which deviates from development standards for public improvements;
      4.   Subdivision which includes Commercial, Industrial, or Multifamily
Development;
      5.   Any subdivision requiring a Project Master Plan (PMP) or similar
approval memorialized by a development agreement.
   B.   Schematic plan review provides the subdivider with an opportunity to
consult with and receive assistance from the city regarding the regulations and
design requirements applicable to the subdivision of property and facilitates
resolution of problems and revisions before the preparation of a preliminary
plat. The schematic plan should be based on an accurate survey showing
boundaries, topography, important physical features, adjacent properties and
the sketch of the proposed subdivision.
   C.   The applicant or applicant's duly authorized agent shall submit an
application to the city planning department for Schematic plan approval and at
the same time, the applicant shall pay an application fee as provided in the
city's consolidated fee schedule. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-020: STAFF CANNOT BIND CITY:
Schematic plan review is designed to provide the subdivider with helpful
information and suggestions before the expense and time involved in preparing a
preliminary plat is incurred, or to provide exhibits for development agreements
associated with certain applications. However, only the land use authority for
the specific land use application may bind the city. For zoning applications
and development agreements, only the city manager and planning commission can
make official recommendations to the city council. Employees and officers of
the city may make recommendations, suggestions, and dispense information
regarding city ordinances and the master plan, but such comments shall in no
way whatsoever be binding on the city. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-030: VESTED RIGHTS:
Submission of a schematic plan shall in no way confer any vested rights upon
the subdivider. Vested rights may attach only as memorialized by approval of
the City Council, which approval may come in the form of a development
agreement which has been approved by the City Council, and the subdivision
being able to meet the requirements of this title and other applicable
ordinances at the time of the application. However, if there is a compelling,
countervailing public interest or the city has initiated proceedings to amend
this title or other applicable ordinances at the time of the application, then
there shall be no vested rights. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-040: SUBMISSION:
   A.   Requirements: The subdivider undergoing Schematic plan review shall
submit documentation as required by the applicable application form of the
proposed schematic plan to the city planning department. The planning
department will determine if the application is complete and if all the fees
have been paid. If all requirements are met, a letter of acknowledgment will be
provided by the planning department. An application has not been accepted by
the city until the city issues a letter of acknowledgment.
   B.   Items Included: The proposed schematic plan shall include the following
items:
      1.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
      2.   A subdivision yield plan pursuant to title 11,
chapter 12 of this code if a conservation subdivision or a planned unit
development is proposed by the applicant.
      3.   A vicinity plan showing significant natural and manmade features on
the site and within five hundred feet (500') of any portion of it; the property
boundaries of the proposed subdivision; the names of adjacent property owners;
topographic contours at no greater interval than five feet (5'); and north
arrow.
      4.   A proposed lot and street layout.
      5.   A description of the type of culinary and irrigation water system(s)
proposed; also, documentation of water rights and secondary water shares.
      6.   A description of the size and location of sanitary sewer and
stormwater drain lines and subsurface drainage.
      7.   A description of those portions of the property which are included
in the most recent flood insurance rate maps prepared by FEMA.
      8.   The total acreage of the entire tract proposed for subdivision.
      9.   Proposed changes to existing zoning district boundaries or zoning
classifications or conditional use permits, if any. (Ord. 2006-28, 4-19-2006;
amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-050: NOTIFICATION:
   A.   Distribution Of Plan: The planning department, after confirming receipt
of a complete application, shall distribute copies of the plan to such
government departments and other agencies or advisors as in the opinion of the
department may contribute to a decision in the best interest of the public.
   B.   Notice Of Planning Commission Review: The planning department shall
mail to all owners of property located within three hundred feet (300') of the
boundary of the proposed subdivision a written notice of the time, date and
place where the planning commission will review and consider the subdivision
proposal. The written notice shall also advise the property owner that he/she
has the right to be present and to comment on the proposed subdivision.
   C.   Notice Of City Council Review: The planning department shall mail to
all owners of property located within three hundred feet (300') of the boundary
of the proposed subdivision a written notice of the time, date and place where
the city council will review and consider the subdivision proposal. The written
notice shall also advise the property owner that he/she has the right to be
present and to comment on the proposed subdivision. (Ord. 2000-13, 4-19-2000;
amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-060: REVIEW BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   Scope Of Review: At the time and place specified in the written notice
described in section
12-3-050 of this chapter, the planning commission shall review the submitted
schematic plan and check compliance with the city master plan, zoning
ordinance, this title, and other appropriate regulations. The planning
commission may recommend approval or denial to the city council, and shall make
findings regarding the submitted schematic plan, specifying any inadequacy in
the information submitted, noncompliance with city regulations, questionable or
undesirable design and/or engineering, and the need for any additional
information which may assist the planning commission to evaluate the proposed
subdivision and in making a recommendation to the city council.
   B.   Additional Information: The planning commission may require additional
information, data or studies to be provided to the planning commission by the
subdivider for the overall development before any recommendation is given by
the planning commission to the city council and the planning commission may
include requirements for the overall development as part of its findings on the
concept plan. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-070: APPROVAL BY THE CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Scope Of Approval: After receiving a recommendation from the planning
commission, together with any information related thereto and at the time and
place specified in the written notice described in section
12-4-050 of this chapter, the city council may grant or deny schematic plan
approval for the proposed subdivision and may adopt, amend or reject any of the
findings made by the planning commission regarding the submitted concept plan.
Such approval and any conditions or allowances deemed applicable by the City
Council may be memorialized in a development agreement.
   B.   Denial: If the city council denies schematic plan approval, no further
review of the proposed subdivision shall be made by the city council, and a new
submittal shall be required to reinitiate the subdivision process.
   C.   Limitation Of Approval: Granting of schematic plan approval by the city
council shall not constitute an absolute approval or disapproval of the
proposed subdivision, but is intended to give the subdivider general guidance
as to the requirements and constraints for subdivider's proposed subdivision
within the city. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-080: PRELIMINARY PLAT; PURPOSE:
The purpose of the preliminary plat is to require formal preliminary approval
of a major subdivision in order to minimize changes and revisions which might
otherwise be necessary on the final plat. The preliminary plat and all
information and procedures relating thereto, shall, in all respects, be in
compliance with the provisions of this title and any other applicable
ordinances. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-090: PRELIMINARY PLAT; APPLICATION AND FEES:
The subdivider of a non-conventional subdivision, shall schedule a meeting with
the planning department where the city planner and city engineer or their
representative will review submission requirements with the applicant, after
completing the schematic plan as applicable, the subdivider shall then file an
application for preliminary plat approval with the planning department on a
form prescribed by the city, together with the documentation requested on the
form. After submitting the application form and requested documentation, the
submittal shall be reviewed by the city planner and city engineer or their
representative to determine if all required documentation has been provided. If
all requirements for an application are met, a letter of acknowledgment will be
provided by the planning department. The subdivider shall then pay an
application fee as published in the consolidated fee schedule of the city to
complete the application. If the application has been determined to be complete
and if all the fees have been paid the planning department shall distribute
plans for comment to all appropriate public and private entities. An
application has not been fully accepted by the city or deemed complete until
the city issues a letter of acknowledgment and all fees have been paid. (Ord.
2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-100: PRELIMINARY PLAT; PREPARATION AND REQUIRED INFORMATION:
An applicant shall submit plans and documents as outlined in Section
12-5-110 of this Title. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-110: PRELIMINARY PLAT; EVALUATION OF:
The planning department will determine if the appropriate plan is submitted, if
the application is complete and if all the fees have been paid. If all
requirements are met, a letter of acknowledgment will be provided by the
planning department, and the planning department shall distribute plans for
comment to all appropriate public and private entities. An application has not
been accepted by the city until the city issues a letter of acknowledgment.
After fifteen (15) business days from the date of a complete application each
of the public agencies and utilities will provide their review comments to the
subdivider indicating whether the plans are acceptable or need to be revised,
and may forward to the subdivider a written report of its findings and
recommendations. These agencies shall include, but are not necessarily limited
to, water and sewer improvement districts, the public works department, the
city engineer and the fire department. The planning department will also
provide the city manager with one full set of plans for comment and review. The
subdivider shall be required to address each comment made by a reviewing
entity, either modifying the plans or indicating their objection to the review
comment, citing code authority for their objection. Failure to address each
comment shall be grounds for rejection of the re-submission, and a subsequent
review cycle may not begin until those comments are addressed. (Ord. 2023-66,
11-16-2023)
12-4-120: PRELIMINARY PLAT; PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Scope Of Action: Within a reasonable time after satisfying all
applicable reviewing entities during the preliminary plat review, the planning
commission shall act thereon. If the planning commission finds that the
proposed plat complies with the requirements of this chapter and that it is
satisfied with the plat of the subdivision, it shall approve, or approve with
conditions, the plat. If the planning commission finds that the proposed plat
does not meet the requirements of this title or other applicable ordinances, it
shall deny approval of such plat.
   B.   Findings: The planning commission may approve or deny the preliminary
plat and shall make findings regarding the submitted plat, specifying any
inadequacy in the information submitted, noncompliance with city regulations,
inconsistencies with the schematic plan when applicable, and the need for any
additional information which may assist the planning commission to evaluate the
preliminary plat and in making a final determination.
   C.   Examination Of Plat: Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, the planning
commission shall also examine the plat to determine whether the plat is
consistent with the concepts set forth in the approved schematic plan when
applicable and with all changes requested and all requirements imposed as
conditions of acceptance. If the preliminary plat has been altered
substantially from the schematic plan approved by the City Council, at the
discretion of the planning commission chair, with the recommendation of the
planning department, the chair may suspend planning commission review of the
preliminary plat and require that the subdivider resubmit the plan subject to
the schematic plan review process, or require a public hearing as part of the
commission's consideration of preliminary plat. The chair may also defer such
decisions related to schematic plan resubmittal or preliminary plat review to
the planning commission for its approval. Any public hearing in consideration
of a preliminary plat shall meet the notice requirements of section
12-3-050 of this title.
   D.   Substantial Change: The planning commission shall determine whether a
proposed modification to an approved schematic plan is a "substantial" change.
Alterations of the following types shall define a substantial change:
      1.   A significant change to the roadway alignment or configuration;
      2.   Significant changes to lot areas or lot configuration;
      3.   Any increase to the number of lots;
      4.   Any change to the configuration and amount of open space required;
      5.   A significant change to culinary water, sanitary sewer, or storm
drain plans related to the application;
      6.   Any deviation from the approved schematic plan as determined by the
provisions set forth in this title;
      7.   A modification of any other aspect of the schematic plan that would
significantly change its character. (Ord. 2015-06, 2-17-2015; amd. Ord. 2023-
66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-130: PRELIMINARY PLAT; NOTIFICATION OF ACTION:
The planning department shall notify the subdivider, in writing, of the action
taken by the planning commission. One copy of the plat and accompanying
conditions, if applicable, and the minutes of the planning commission meeting
shall be retained in the permanent file of the planning commission.
Notification of the approval of the preliminary plat shall be authorization for
the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of detailed plans and
specifications for the improvements required by city ordinances and the
planning commission, and with the preparation of the final plat. (Ord. 1996-24,
6-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-140: PRELIMINARY PLAT; EFFECT OF APPROVAL OF THE PRELIMINARY PLAT:
Approval of the preliminary plat shall in no way relieve the subdivider of the
responsibility to comply with all required conditions and ordinances, and to
provide the improvements and easements necessary to meet all city standards.
(Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-150: FINAL PLAT; PURPOSE:
The purpose of the final plat is to require formal approval by city staff
before a major subdivision plat is recorded. The final plat and all information
and procedures relating thereto shall in all respects comply with the
provisions of this title. The final plat and improvement plans submitted shall
conform in all respects to those regulations and requirements specified during
the preliminary plat procedure. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-
604, as amended, the planning commission designates the planning commission
chair as its agent to sign final subdivision plats. The planning commission
chair shall not sign any final plat until such plat has been approved by city
staff in accordance with the provisions set forth herein. (Ord. 2015-06, 2-17-
2015; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-160: FINAL PLAT; FILING DEADLINE, APPLICATION AND FEES:
The subdivider shall file an application for final plat approval with the
community development department on a form prescribed by the city along with
all documentation requested within the application form. After submitting the
application form and requested documentation, the submittal shall be reviewed
by the city planner and city engineer or their representative to determine if
all required documentation has been provided. If all requirements for an
application are met, a letter of acknowledgment will be provided by the
planning department. Upon receipt of the acknowledgment letter, the subdivider
shall pay all required fees. Upon receipt of all required documentation and
applicable fees, the final plat application shall be considered complete and
accepted by the city. The preliminary plat shall become null and void unless
the subdivider submits a complete application for and obtains final plat
approval for all phases encompassing the area of the preliminary plat within
twelve (12) months after approval or conditional approval of the preliminary
plat by the planning commission, except as otherwise provided for by written
agreement with the city. This time period may be extended for up to twelve (12)
months for good cause shown if the subdivider petitions the planning commission
in writing for an extension prior to the expiration date of the preliminary
plat together with any applicable fees. Only one extension of the preliminary
plat approval may be granted. If the final plat approval expires, or the city
does not grant an extension of final plat approval, or the city does not
reapprove a previously approved final plat, the preliminary plat approval shall
also expire, unless twelve (12) months has not lapsed from the date of its
approval and/or a twelve (12) month extension of time has been granted as
provided herein. (Ord. 2011-10, 5-17-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-4-170: FINAL PLAT; PREPARATION AND REQUIRED INFORMATION:
An applicant shall submit plans and documents as outlined in Section
12-5-110 of this Title. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
12-5-010: Subdivision Layout
12-5-020: Blocks
12-5-030: Lots
12-5-040: Streets
12-5-050: Protection Strips
12-5-060: Dedication And Reservation
12-5-070: Landscaping
12-5-080: Utilities And Easements
12-5-090: Watercourses
12-5-100: Warranty Period
12-5-110: Preliminary Plat Application Requirements
12-5-120: Final Plat Application Requirements
12-5-130: Evaluation Of Final Plat
12-5-140: Security Bond; Subdivider
12-5-150: Delay Agreement
12-5-160: Recording Of Plat
12-5-170: Expiration Of Final Approval
12-5-010: SUBDIVISION LAYOUT:
   A.   Conformance To Plan: The subdivision layout shall conform to the
official master plan.
   B.   Preservation Of Features: Where trees, groves, waterways, scenic
points, historic spots or other city assets and landmarks, as determined by the
city, are located within a proposed subdivision, every reasonable means shall
be provided to preserve these features.
   C.   Adjoining Existing Street: Whenever a tract to be subdivided adjoins or
embraces any part of an existing or proposed street so designated on the major
street plan, such part of the public way shall be platted, dedicated and
improved by the subdivider in the location and at the width specified.
   D.   Railroad Right Of Way: Where a railroad right of way abuts a
subdivision, the plat shall make provisions for future grade separations
whenever the city shall find such a requirement to be necessary. (Ord. 1996-24,
6-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-020: BLOCKS:
   A.   Double Frontage: Lots having double frontage shall not be approved
except where necessitated by topographic or other unusual conditions.
   B.   Width; Variation: The width of each block shall be sufficient for an
ultimate layout of two (2) tiers of lots therein of a size required by the
provisions of this title, unless the general layout of the vicinity, lines of
ownership, topographical conditions or locations of arterial streets or
freeways justify or make necessary a variation from this requirement.
   C.   Length: The maximum length of blocks shall be one thousand feet
(1,000') and the minimum length of blocks shall be four hundred feet (400'). In
blocks over eight hundred feet (800') in length, a dedicated walkway through
the block, at approximately the center of the block, may be required. Such
walkways shall be not less than ten feet (10') in width. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-
1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-030: LOTS:
   A.   General Requirements: All subdivisions shall result in the creation of
lots which are developable and capable of being built upon. A subdivision shall
not create lots, and no building permit shall be issued for any lots which
would make improvement impractical due to size, shape, steepness of terrain,
location of watercourses, problems of sewerage or driveway grades, or other
physical conditions.
   B.   Frontage; Private Streets: All lots or parcels created by the
subdivision shall have frontage on a dedicated street, improved to standards
hereinafter required, equal to at least fifty percent (50%) of its minimum
required width, except for flag lots which shall have a minimum of twenty eight
feet (28') of frontage. Private streets shall not be permitted unless the
planning commission finds that the most logical development of the land
requires that lots be created which are served by a private street or other
means of access, and makes such findings in writing with the reasons stated
therein. All private streets shall meet Farmington City development standards
as it pertains to standard street intersections, typical cul-de-sac and
standard roadway sections. This includes, but is not limited to, submittals,
quality control, site preparation, grading, excavating, backfilling and
compaction, base course, asphalt/concrete, curbs, gutters, drive aprons and
walks, slurry sealing, restoration of existing improvements, storm drainage
systems, boundary markers and survey monuments, geotextiles and concrete
reinforcement. Land designated as public right of way shall be separate and
distinct from lots adjoining such right of way and shall not be included in the
area of such lots.
   C.   Area, Dimensions: The minimum area and dimensions of all lots shall
conform to the requirements of the zoning ordinance for the district in which
the subdivision is located.
   D.   Side Lines At Right Angles: The side lines of all lots, so far as
possible, shall be at right angles to the street which the lot faces, or
approximately radial to the center of curves, if such street is curved. Side
lines of lots shall be approximately radial to the center of a cul-de-sac on
which the lot faces. The planning commission may allow exceptions to this
requirement where considerations for solar orientation are involved.
   E.   Corner Lots: Corner lots for residential use shall be platted ten feet
(10') wider than interior lots in order to facilitate conformance with the
required street setback requirements of the zoning ordinance.
   F.   Lot, Boundary Lines: A lot shall not be divided by a city limit line.
Each such boundary line shall be made a lot line.
   G.   Remnants: Remnants of property shall not be left in the subdivision
which do not conform to lot requirements or are not required or suitable for
common open space, private utility or public purpose.
   H.   Lot Numbers: Lot numbers shall begin with the number "1" and shall
continue consecutively through the subdivision, with no omissions or
duplications. No block designations shall be used. When a subdivision is
developed in phases, the phase number shall precede each lot number. For
example, phase 2 would be numbered 201, 202, 203, etc.
   I.   One Dwelling Per Lot: Except for group dwellings and planned unit
developments, as specifically authorized by this title and the zoning
ordinance, not more than one dwelling unit shall occupy any one lot.
   J.   Flag Lots: Flag lots may be approved by the planning commission and the
city council and are prohibited except to reasonably utilize an irregularly
shaped parcel, to reasonably utilize land with severe topography, to provide
for the protection of significant natural or environmentally sensitive areas,
or to allow a property owner reasonable use and benefit of a parcel of land not
otherwise developable.
      1.   General Requirements: The creation of a flag lot is a subdivision,
therefore all applicable subdivision ordinances, standards and regulations
apply. Flag lots are for single-family residential dwellings only and are
prohibited if the proposed flag lot will increase the number of access points
onto a major thoroughfare.
      2.   Design Requirements: The design requirements for a flag lot are as
follows:
         a.   A flag lot shall be comprised of a stem portion and a flag
portion.
         b.   The stem portion must be contiguous to a dedicated public street.
         c.   All buildings can be placed on the flag portion only.
         d.   The front yard shall be considered one of the two (2) sides of
the flag portion that adjoins the stem and all buildings must face the front
yard.
         e.   A flag lot must comply with all requirements, standards and
ordinances as determined by the underlying zone district in which it is
located. This includes setbacks, building height, accessory buildings, minimum
lot size, etc.
         f.   Minimum lot size calculations exclude the stem and only take the
flag portion of the lot into consideration.
         g.   The stem shall be at least twenty eight feet (28') wide and no
longer than one hundred fifty feet (150') long.
         h.   The stem shall service one lot only.
         i.   No more than two (2) flag lots shall be allowed in a subdivision.
         j.   For back to back flag lots, a reduction of each stem to twenty
feet (20') wide is permitted where the stems abut one another.
         k.   The access drive shall be at least twenty feet (20') wide and no
greater than a fifteen percent (15%) grade. The drive shall be paved with a
hard surface, such as asphalt or concrete, and conform to all applicable fire
code regulations, including access to fire hydrants, emergency access and
turnarounds.
         l.   The access drive must have a minimum of four feet (4') wide
landscaped yard along both sides.
         m.   All utilities and related services (including easements) shall be
provided to the flag lot in accordance with the applicable regulations and
ordinances adopted by the city.
   K.   Circular Drive: On lots with available access only onto a major
arterial, minor arterial or major collector street, a circular drive or some
other type of vehicular maneuvering area shall be provided to enable vehicles
to enter traffic moving forward rather than backing. The minimum depth of such
lots shall be not less than one hundred ten feet (110'). (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-
1996; Ord. 2006-28, 4-19-2006; Ord. 2016-07, 2-16-2016; Ord. 2016-23, 2-16-
2016; Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-040: STREETS:
   A.   Classification: All streets shall be designated and constructed with
the appropriate street classification requirements specified herein:
   STREET CLASSIFICATION
 
              Major    Minor Arterial Major     Minor     Important Local
              Arterial                Collector Collector Local
ROW width     106 ft.  100 ft.        80 ft.    66 ft.    60 ft.    56 ft.
Width to back 86 ft.   65 ft.         57 ft.    42 ft.    37 ft.    33 ft.
of curb
 
   B.   Study May Be Required: Where the potential impacts on the existing
street systems are considered to be great, or in the case of unique
circumstances concerning access, topography or street layout, a transportation
planning/engineering study may be required.
   C.   Street Names: The following principles shall govern street names in a
subdivision:
      1.   Assignment: Street names, wherever practical, shall be assigned
numerical names. Alphabetic names may be considered for streets of a meandering
or diagonal nature or for other streets as specifically approved by the city
council.
      2.   Continuation Of Existing Street: Each street which is a continuation
of, or an approximate continuation of, any existing dedicated street shall be
given the name of such existing street. When any street forms a portion of a
proposed street previously ordered by the city council to be surveyed, opened,
widened or improved, the street shall be given the name established in said
council order.
      3.   Duplication: The names of newly created streets of a noncontinuous
or noncontiguous nature shall not duplicate or nearly duplicate the name of any
streets in the city.
      4.   Name Designations: The words "Street", "Avenue", "Boulevard",
"Place", "Way", "Court", or other designation of any street shall be spelled
out in full on the plat and shall be subject to approval by the planning
commission. Any street name incorporating one of the terms used above shall
conform to the established definition of that term. Any named street shall also
have the proper numerical coordinate as approved by the city building
inspector.
   D.   Street Patterns: Street patterns in the subdivision shall be in
conformity with a master street plan for the most advantageous development of
adjoining areas and the entire neighborhood or district. In the event a master
street plan does not exist, the subdivider shall prepare such a plan for review
and approval by the planning commission and city council prior to consideration
of a subdivision application. The following principles shall be observed:
      1.   Continuous; Alignment: Where appropriate to the design and terrain,
proposed streets shall be continuous and in alignment with existing planned or
platted streets with which they are to connect;
      2.   Extension To Boundary Lines: Proposed streets shall be extended to
the boundary lines of the land to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography
or other physical conditions, or unless, in the opinion of the planning
commission, such extension is not desirable for the coordination of the
subdivision with the existing layout or the most advantageous future
development of adjacent tracts;
      3.   Dead End Streets: Dead end streets which exceed one lot depth in
length shall have a forty foot (40') radius temporary turnaround area at the
end. The turnaround shall have an all weather surface acceptable to the city.
The following standards shall apply to dead end streets:
         a.   Dead end streets shall serve as access for not more than twenty
four (24) dwelling units and shall not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in
length.
         b.   When a dead end street reaches its maximum length and/or maximum
number of lots, it shall not be extended except to connect to another street
which provides a second point of independent access.
         c.   Exceptions to the requirement for a second point of independent
access may be granted by the city council, after receiving a recommendation
from the planning commission, upon a finding that the topography or other
physical conditions of the development site make it impossible to provide a
second access which complies with street design standards established by the
city and that an increased street length and/or density will not unreasonably
impact the ability to provide emergency and other public services;
      4.   Nonconforming Dead End Streets: The provisions of this section shall
not be construed to prevent construction on approved residential lots fronting
on nonconforming streets exceeding one thousand feet (1,000') in length which
existed prior to January 9, 1991. These streets include, but are not
necessarily limited to, 1400 North Street, Summerwood Drive, Cherry Blossom
Drive, Welling Way, and 1100 West Street (south of Shepard Lane). Extension of
these nonconforming streets may be permitted, but shall be subject to the
following standards and restrictions:
         a.   Extension of a nonconforming street may be approved by the city
council only after receiving recommendations from the planning commission, fire
department, police department, public works department, and the city engineer.
The fire department and/or police department may recommend additional
conditions to facilitate public safety and emergency services;
         b.   All streets shall be fully improved and shall be designed and
constructed at locations shown on an approved street master plan;
         c.   A temporary turnaround, with a radius of forty feet (40'), shall
be provided at the end of the street. The temporary turnaround shall have an
all weather surface acceptable to the fire department; and
         d.   Until such time as nonconforming streets can be connected to a
second access, lots on such streets shall not be approved which are less than
two (2) acres in size, unless the city council in consideration of all
circumstances shall differently approve by resolution;
   5.   Cul-De-Sac Standards: The following standards shall govern the
development of cul-de-sacs:
         a.   Cul-de-sacs shall serve as access for not more than twenty four
(24) dwelling units, shall not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length, and
shall have a fully improved turnaround at the end with a minimum radius of
forty two feet (42') to back of curb and fifty feet (50') to the right of way
line. Exceptions to the maximum length or maximum number of lot standards may
be granted by the city council, after receiving a recommendation from the
planning commission, upon a finding that the topography or other physical
conditions of the development site make it impossible to develop the property
any other way and that an increased street length and/or density will not
unreasonably impact the ability to provide emergency and other public services;
         b.   Transverse grades within the turnaround of a cul-de-sac shall not
exceed five percent (5%);
         c.   If surface water drains into the cul-de-sac due to the grade of
the street, necessary catch basins and drainage easements shall be provided;
         d.   Driveways, mailboxes, fire hydrants or any other obstruction at
the terminal of a cul-de-sac shall be designed in such a way as to provide an
area for the piling of snow;
      6.   Intersect At Right Angles: Proposed streets shall intersect one
another as nearly at right angles as topography and other limiting factors of
good design permit. "T" intersections rather than "cross" intersections shall
be used wherever possible for minor streets;
      7.   Alleys: Alleys shall not be permitted in residential subdivisions
except when approved for access to lots abutting an arterial. Alleys in
nonresidential subdivisions may be permitted;
      8.   Grade: The maximum grade for any street in the city shall be ten
percent (10%). Where unusual and unique topographic or environmental conditions
exist on a proposed development site, exceptions may be specifically approved
by the city council to permit streets with grades up to, but not exceeding,
twelve percent (12%) for collector streets and fourteen percent (14%) for local
streets. Such exceptions may be granted only after careful review of each
individual application and after receiving a recommendation from the planning
commission. The maximum length of a street segment at grades steeper than ten
percent (10%) shall also be determined, and specifically approved, by the city
council.
   E.   Adjacent To Major Streets, Freeways: Subdivisions adjacent to major
streets and freeways shall be designed as specified in the major street plan
and as determined by the planning commission. The following principles and
standards shall be observed:
      1.   Design: Street design shall have the purpose of making adjacent
lots, if for residential use, desirable for such use by cushioning the impact
of heavy traffic and of minimizing the interference with traffic on major
streets. The number of intersecting streets along major streets shall be held
to a minimum;
      2.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks along major streets shall be not less than five
feet (5') in width;
      3.   Double Frontage Lot Bordering Major Street: When the rear line of a
double frontage lot borders a major street, the subdivider may be required to
execute and deliver to the city an instrument, deemed sufficient by the city
attorney, prohibiting the right of ingress and egress from the street to the
lot. The subdivider shall also be required to install such paving as necessary
to construct the street or to bring it up to standard width and shall install
curb, gutter and sidewalk, along the street. However, the city may for good
cause waive the foregoing requirements. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996; Ord. 2006-63,
9-19-2006; Ord. 2014-07, 3-4-2014; Ord. 2015-16, 5-26-2015; Ord. 2015-16A, 5-
26-2015; 2016 Code; Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-050: PROTECTION STRIPS:
Protection strips shall not be permitted under any circumstances. (Ord. 1996-
24, 6-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-060: DEDICATION AND RESERVATION:
   A.   Fee For Park Land: In order to satisfy increased recreation facility
needs created by new development, a fee shall be paid for the acquisition and
development of park land. The fee shall be listed in the consolidated fee
schedule and may be amended from time to time. The fee shall be deposited in a
designated account with monies expended only for planned park and recreation
facilities which will be of some demonstrable benefit to the subdivision for
which fees have been assessed. The fee shall be paid prior to recordation of a
subdivision plat.
   B.   Dedication In Lieu Of Fee: The planning commission may, at its
discretion, require the dedication of land for park and recreation purposes in
lieu of some or all of the fee. In subdivisions containing less than forty (40)
lots the subdivider may be required to dedicate up to one twenty-fifth (1/25)
of the total area of all lots for parks and recreation purposes in lieu of a
fee. For subdivisions containing more than forty (40) lots, additional
dedication may be required at the same ratio as for less than forty (40) lots.
The subdivider shall be notified, prior to preliminary plat approval, if
dedication of land is to be required in lieu of some or all of the fee.
   C.   Requirement Of Excess Land: When land in the subdivision in excess of
that required by subsection B of this section is determined to be needed in
order to meet the recreation needs of the city, the subdivider shall not be
required to hold such excess land for more than one year without payment being
made on the basis of land and improvement costs.
   D.   Suitable Land: All land to be dedicated for park or recreational
purposes shall be found to be suitable by the planning commission, the planning
department, public works department and recreation department as to location,
parcel size and topography for the park and recreation purposes for which it is
indicated in the master plan or any planned community plan. Such purposes may
include active recreation facilities, such as playgrounds, play fields,
pedestrian or bicycle paths, areas of particular natural beauty and wooded
areas to be developed or left in their natural state.
   E.   Preservation Conditions: When park or recreational facilities are
reserved, the developer shall establish conditions as to ownership, maintenance
and use of such areas as deemed necessary by the planning commission to assure
preservation of the intended use.
   F.   Commercial, Industrial Subdivisions: The provisions of this section
shall not normally apply to commercial or industrial subdivisions; however, the
planning commission may recommend as a condition of approval, that a commercial
or industrial subdivider dedicate to the city that portion of a streambed or
drainage channel falling within an industrial subdivision when such portion
forms part of an open space network designated in the master plan or a planned
community plan.
   G.   Applicability To Conditional Use Subdivisions: In addition to
subdivisions, the provisions of this section requiring the payment of a fee, or
dedication in lieu of a fee, shall apply to all residential developments which
require conditional use approval. Such developments shall include, but not be
limited to, condominiums, planned unit developments and dwelling groups.
However, open space normally provided in these types of developments may apply
toward the required fee or dedication of land up to a maximum of fifty percent
(50%) of the required fee. The percentage of credit shall be determined by the
planning commission prior to final approval of a development plan. The fee
shall be paid prior to issuance of a building permit for the first dwelling
unit in the development.
   H.   Hearing For Modification: If the subdivider or developer feels that the
impact of the proposed subdivision or other residential development is
substantially different than that presumed by this section, the subdivider or
developer may apply for a hearing before the city council to request a
modification of the fee, or in lieu of dedication requirement of this section.
The request for the hearing shall be made prior to the final approval by the
planning commission of the subdivision or conditional use approval of the
residential development. The planning commission may recommend the modification
only if the subdivider or developer proves that what is required under this
section bears no reasonable relationship to the need for parks and recreation
facilities created by the subdivision or development. If the planning
commission recommends such a modification, the request shall be submitted to
the city council for final determination. If the planning commission finds that
no modification is warranted, that finding may be appealed as provided in the
appeal provisions provided in chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-
1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-070: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Special Treatment: Whenever, in the opinion of the planning commission,
the cuts and fills in a hillside subdivision are of sufficient size or
visibility to demand special treatment, the subdivider shall be required to
landscape such areas with suitable permanent plant materials and to provide for
their maintenance.
   B.   Preservation: The subdivision shall be so designed as to either
preserve, or provide for, the greatest amount of on site vegetation.
   C.   Foothill Overlay: Subdivisions in the foothill overlay zones shall
comply with all provisions of the city foothill development ordinance. (Ord.
1996-24, 6-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-080: UTILITIES AND EASEMENTS:
   A.   Underground Utilities: All utilities shall be provided through
underground service, except where existing utilities are already in place.
   B.   Easements: Utility easements shall be provided within the subdivision
as required for public utility purposes. All lots shall have a front yard
easement of ten feet (10'). Additional easements, or increased width of
easements, may be required as necessary to provide for adequate utility service
and/or drainage within the subdivision and to or from adjoining parcels. (Ord.
2010-20, 5-18-2010; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-090: WATERCOURSES:
The subdivider shall dedicate a right of way for storm drainage conforming
substantially with the lines of any natural watercourse or channel, stream,
creek, irrigation ditch or floodplain that enters or traverses the subdivision,
as determined by Davis County flood control and/or the city engineer. The
subdivider shall also dedicate acceptable rights of way for any pipe, conduit,
channel, and retention or detention area as approved by the city engineer for
flood control. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-100: WARRANTY PERIOD:
The warranty period shall commence upon the date that all improvements required
by the city to be installed within the subdivision have been completed to the
satisfaction of the city and a final inspection thereof has been made approving
the same. The warranty period shall commence at that date and shall continue
for a period of one (1) year thereafter. If any deficiencies are found by the
city during the warranty period in materials or workmanship, the subdivider
shall promptly resolve such defects or deficiencies and request the city
engineer to reinspect the improvements. At the end of the one (1) year warranty
period, the subdivider shall request the city engineer to make a final warranty
period inspection of all improvements. If the city engineer verifies that the
improvements are acceptable, the city engineer shall notify the city manager.
The city manager shall then review the matter and upon approval of the same
shall release the balance of the security posted by the subdivider under the
bond agreement. (Ord. 2012-23, 6-5-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023; Ord.
2024-43, 7-16-2024)
12-5-110: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
The following shall be submitted with an application for a preliminary plat in
order to constitute a complete application, unless waived in writing by the
city engineer:
   A.   Format And General Items:
      1.   All engineering and surveying documents shall be stamped by engineer
or land surveyor in accordance with the procedures of the Utah State Board for
Professional Registration.
      2.   The words "Preliminary Plat - Not To Be Recorded" shall be shown on
the plat.
      3.   A title block showing:
         a.   Name of the subdivision.
         b.   Type of development (residential, commercial, PUD, PRD, etc.).
         c.   Name and address of owner of record, developer and designer.
         d.   Name and address of engineer or land surveyor.
         e.   Date of preparation.
         f.   Tabulation of acres, lots, open space and units per acre.
      4.   Graphic and written scale at no more than one (1) inch equals one
hundred (100) feet or as recommended by City Engineer.
      5.   North arrow.
      6.   Township and Range, section lines, and other monuments.
      7.   Vicinity map at a scale of one inch (1") equals one thousand feet
(1,000').
      8.   Topographic contour intervals of no greater than two feet (2'),
unless otherwise specified by City Engineer.
      9.   Surveyed boundary of the subdivision.
      10.   Location and names of adjacent properties/property owners and
platted subdivisions.
      11.   Location of zoning boundary lines within and adjacent to the
proposed subdivision.
      12.   Location, height and type of existing fence lines within and
contiguous to the subdivision.
      13.   Location, use, and dimensions of all existing buildings within the
proposed subdivision. Indicate which buildings are to remain and which are to
be removed.
      14.   Location of all proposed lots including:
         a.   Lot dimensions.
         b.   Lot frontage.
         c.   Lot area (square feet).
         d.   Building setback lines (building envelopes).
      15.   Lots consecutively numbered or lettered in alphabetical order.
      16.   Location of existing features within and contiguous to the proposed
subdivision including:
         a.   Existing public utility, drainage, and sewerage easements.
         b.   Existing dedications.
         c.   Deed restrictions
         d.   Existing utilities including power lines/poles (must identify
ownership of lines), telephone, cable, gas, fiber optic, etc. Indicate whether
they are to remain or be re-located. If they are to be relocated, show the
proposed new location.
         e.   Irrigation ditches.
         f.   Drain pipes, drainage channels, and culverts.
         g.   Railroads.
         h.   Bridges.
         i.   Water bodies, springs or water sources within twenty-five hundred
feet (2,500').
         j.   Wells (show and label whether the well is to remain or be
abandoned - if the well is to be abandoned, add a note on the plans stating
"existing well to be abandoned and capped by a certified well driller and
documentation provided to Farmington City").
         k.   Equestrian, pedestrian and bicycle trails.
      17.   Location and dimensions of any common space or open space areas
including property to be set aside for parks, playgrounds, trails, or other
public or private uses, with a designation of the purpose of those areas, and
conditions, if any, of the dedication or reservation.
      18.   Location and extent of all cuts and fills exceeding three feet (3')
anywhere on the project site and any associated retaining walls.
   B.   Roads:
      1.   The location and width of all existing and proposed roads, rights-
of-way, alleys, and other public ways (all main roads must comply with the
Farmington City Master Transportation Plan).
      2.   Cross sections of all existing and proposed roads (include road
dimensions and location of utilities within the road.)
      3.   Proposed names of all new roads.
      4.   Location of all existing and proposed curb, gutter and sidewalk
within the subdivision including:
         a.   An indication of the grades, TBC elevations.
         b.   Flow arrows showing direction of storm water surface flows.
      5.   Location of any necessary temporary turnaround easements for
emergency access on dead end roads.
      6.   Provide a circulation plan that includes information on cul-de-sac
lengths, block lengths, and connectivity.
      7.   Provide road centerline elevations.
      8.   Not more than twenty four (24) units off of a single point of access
and provision for future access to adjacent vacant parcels. Dead end streets
shall not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
      9.   Street intersection offsets of not less than one hundred fifty feet
(150').
      10.   Do not exceed twelve percent (12%) slope.
      11.   Minimum TBC slope of 0.50%.
      12.   Minimum cul-de-sac slope of 0.60%.
      13.   Cul-de-sac radius point to the property line shall measure 53.5
feet.
      14.   If adjacent to a state road specify UDOT access size and location
(UDOT approval will be required at final plat).
   C.   Water:
      1.   Location, type and size of existing and proposed culinary water
lines (including existing lines adjacent to and/or affected by the proposed
subdivision).
      2.   Water lines typically located on the north/east sides of the road.
      3.   Water lines and laterals separated ten feet (10') from sewer.
      4.   Water lines buried no deeper than four feet (4') to top of pipe.
      5.   Show in plan and profile views. Depict any and all utility
crossings.
      6.   Water lines to have a minimum vertical, edge of pipe to edge of
pipe, spacing of eighteen inches (18") for all sewer and water crossings.
      7.   A note stating that all fire hydrants are to be Clow.
      8.   A note that valves are to be Mueller or Clow.
      9.   Show water meters in the park strip.
      10.   Show sizes for all water meters.
      11.   A note stating that all water meters in driveways shall be
installed with a thirty inch (30") meter box with a traffic rated lid.
      12.   Valves are placed to isolate a maximum of fifteen (15) residential
lots.
      13.   Culinary water is located on the opposite side of the street from
secondary water.
      14.   Fire hydrants are spaced within three hundred feet (300') of each
other.
      15.   Fire hydrants are to be placed at intersections and dead end
streets.
      16.   Fire hydrants are typically located on property lines on the same
side of the road as the culinary water mains.
   D.   Secondary Water/Irrigation Systems:
      1.   Must have a secondary water connection.
      2.   Location, type and size of existing and proposed irrigation water
lines (including existing lines adjacent to and/or affected by the proposed
subdivision).
      3.   Located on the opposite side of the street from culinary water.
      4.   Show in plan and profile views. Depict any and all utility
crossings.
      5.   Must be reviewed and approved by the jurisdictional authority.
      6.   Secondary water meters shown in the park strip.
   E.   Irrigation Ditches:
      1.   A written statement from the appropriate agency (such as irrigation
companies, private land owners, etc.) regarding the effect of the proposed
subdivision on any irrigation channels or ditches and any piping or other
mitigation required.
      2.   The location, size and grade of any required piping for irrigation
ditches as per the irrigation company requirements.
   F.   Sewer:
      1.   Sewer lines typically located on the south/west sides of the road.
      2.   Location, type, rim elevation, slope and size of existing and
proposed sewer lines (including existing lines adjacent to and/or affected by
the proposed subdivision).
      3.   Easements for any necessary offsite water or sewer easements across
privately owned land.
      4.   Sewer separated six feet (6') from all other utilities except
culinary water where ten feet (10') is required. Including all laterals.
      5.   Sewer deeper than twelve feet (12') shall be PVC pipe Schedule 80
with solvent weld joints.
      6.   Manholes with three (3) or more pipes shall be sixty inch (60")
diameter.
      7.   No acute angles allowed in relationship to changes in flow direction
in manholes.
      8.   Laterals designed to connect to the upper quadrant of the sewer
main.
      9.   Maximum spacing of manholes is four hundred feet (400').
      10.   Show in plan and profile views. Depict any and all utility
crossings.
      11.   Sewer lines to have a minimum vertical, edge of pipe to edge of
pipe, spacing of eighteen inches (18") for all sewer and water crossings.
      12.   Sewer cleanouts are required on laterals that are one hundred feet
(100') or longer, and at bends.
   G.   Drainage:
      1.   Drainage system calculations and an explanatory narrative stamped
and signed by a licensed engineer.
         a.   Provide a drainage study showing calculations for the 25- and
100-year flood events.
         b.   Size detention basins for the100-year flood event.
         c.   Basins must retain the eightieth percentile storm.
         d.   Design storm drain lines using the 25-year flood event.
         e.   Show capacity and designed flow for all existing culverts,
drainage swells, storm drain lines and back yard drains.
         f.   Show high water elevation lines for basins, streams, waterways,
100-year flood inundation zone, or any area subject to flooding.
   2.   Existing and proposed storm drainage improvements including:
         a.   Major drainage facilities, outfalls, and discharge.
         b.   Drainage pipe locations, sizes, type, rim elevations, invert
elevations, slopes, and depths.
   3.   Location of detention/retention basins with an indication that the
basin(s) will include the following:
         a.   Minimum one foot (1') freeboard.
         b.   Three to one (3:1) slopes or flatter.
         c.   Grass covering with underground sprinkler system or xeriscaping.
         d.   Designation of the purpose and conditions, if any, of the
dedication or reservation.
         e.   Information on who will be owning and maintaining the detention
basins.
      4.   A written statement from the appropriate agency accepting
responsibility for all surface and subsurface drainage, which is directed into
channels owned, by the agency (such as irrigation companies, private land
owners, etc.).
      5.   Easements for any necessary offsite and onsite drainage easements
across privately owned land.
      6.   Drainage Report section describing how Low Impact Development (LID)
is being incorporated into the site and how storm water quality will be
improved.
      7.   Flood control and stream alteration permits
      8.   Show storm drain system in plan and profile views. Depict any and
all utility crossings.
      9.   Provide a lot grading and drainage plan depicting individual lot
grading with arrows.
   H.   Sensitive Lands
      1.   Identification of natural features or sensitive lands including, but
not limited to:
         a.   Wetlands.
         b.   Floodplains, floodways and areas that would be covered in water
in a 100-year storm event.
         c.   Areas where ground water rises periodically to within two feet
(2') of the surface of the ground.
         d.   Slopes exceeding thirty percent (30%) marked non-buildable.
         e.   Vegetation areas (including species and size of all existing
trees and shrubs which could be incorporated into the subdivision).
         f.   Threatened or endangered species habitat areas.
      2.   A letter from the Army Corp of Engineers regarding any wetland areas
within boundaries of the proposed plat.
   I.   Buffering:
      1.   The proposed treatment of the perimeter of the development,
including materials and techniques used, such as:
         a.   Fences;
         b.   Berms;
         c.   Walls.
      2.   Provide a note on the preliminary plat which states that the
following items will be reviewed at the time of Final Plat review:
         a.   All pipe types, specific locations and details (bends, detector
tape etc.).
         b.   Valves.
         c.   Blowoffs including size type and protection.
         d.   Manholes, boxes and related details.
         e.   Water and sewer service details.
         f.   Fire hydrant details.
         g.   Street lights/street signs/traffic signs.
         h.   Power line extensions and dome/transformer locations.
         i.   Lot addresses.
         j.   Subdivision monumentation and lot corner markers.
   J.   Other Required documents:
      1.   Landscaping plan for all park, open space, and common ownership
areas including:
         a.   Location, name and size of all proposed trees, shrubs, and
plants.
         b.   Indication of proposed seed mix for grass areas (previously
accepted seed mixes have included: eighteen percent (18%) "Bluestar" Kentucky
Bluegrass, nineteen percent (19%) "Marquis" Kentucky Bluegrass, seventeen
percent (17%) "Newport" Kentucky Bluegrass, seventeen percent (17%) "Touchdown"
Kentucky Bluegrass, sixteen percent (16%) "APM" Perennial Ryegrass, thirteen
percent (13%) "Accent" Perennial Ryegrass).
         c.   Indication of proposed irrigation facilities (underground
sprinkler system).
         d.   Location of the clear view area at all street intersections (a
triangular area formed by a line connecting the property lines at points thirty
five feet (35') in each direction from the intersection) and an indication that
no landscaping or other obstruction in excess of three feet (3') above finished
grade shall be allowed in the clear view area.
      2.   A development phasing schedule (if applicable) including the
sequence for each phase; approximate size in area of each phase; and, proposed
phasing of construction of public improvements, recreation and common open
space areas. A signed statement acknowledging the following:
         a.   Applicant and Applicant's engineer/surveyor has a copy of the
latest Farmington City Design Standards and Public Improvements Specifications
Manual; and
         b.   Applicant and Applicant's engineer/surveyor has reviewed
Farmington City's existing and master plan utility maps.
      3.   Soil Report:
         a.   Form: A soil report, based upon adequate test borings and
excavations, prepared by a civil engineer specializing in soil mechanics and
registered by the state of Utah, shall be required prior to preliminary
approval of any subdivision plat. The soil report shall include, among other
things, a description of the soil types and characteristics on the site,
describe whether or not groundwater was encountered in any of the test borings
and at what elevation it was encountered, recommendations for road designs,
slope stability studies, percolation rates, and shall identify the location of
any seismic zones or flood zones on the property.
         b.   Investigation: If the soil report indicates the presence of
critically expansive soils, high water table, the presence of toxic or
hazardous waste, or other soil problems which, if not corrected, would lead to
structural defects of the proposed buildings, damage to the buildings from the
water, premature deterioration of the public improvements, or which would
represent a public health hazard, a soil investigation of each lot in the
subdivision may be required by the city engineer. The soil investigation shall
recommend corrective actions intended to prevent damage to proposed structures
and/or public improvements. The fact that a soil report has been prepared shall
be noted on the final plat and a copy attached to the preliminary plat
application. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-120: FINAL PLAT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
The following items shall be submitted for review and consideration of the
Final Plat, unless waived in writing by the city engineer:
   A.   Format And General Items:
      1.   A title block which contains the following:
         a.   Name of the subdivision.
         b.   Type of development (residential, commercial, PUD, PRD, etc.).
         c.   Surveyor's certificate that has been signed and dated, showing
the name and registration number of the surveyor responsible for making the
survey.
         d.   A legal description of the subdivision boundaries that include
the quarter-quarter section, section, township, range, principal median and the
County of its location.
         e.   The owner's dedication that includes the dedication of all public
ways or spaces. The owner's dedication shall be signed by every person having a
security interest in the subdivision property, dated, and notarized and should
include a reference to any covenants that may be declared and blanks where the
County Recorder may enter the book and page number of their recording.
         f.   Signature blocks prepared for the dated signatures for the
following:
            (1)   City Council;
            (2)   City Recorder;
            (3)   City Engineer;
            (4)   City Attorney;
            (5)   Planning Commission;
            (6)   Respective irrigation water district;
            (7)   Central Davis Sewer District;
            (8)   Affected gas pipeline company (if applicable).
      2.   Graphic and written scale at no more than one (1) inch equals one
hundred feet (100') or as recommended by City Engineer.
      3.   The basis of bearings used and a north point.
      4.   Township and Range, section lines, and other monuments.
      5.   Vicinity map on the first sheet locating the subdivision showing
prominent landmarks.
      6.   The exterior boundaries of the platted areas giving lengths and
bearings of the boundary lines. All subdivisions must have proper closure.
      7.   If the subdivision is adjacent to a waterway or any other area which
is subject to flooding, the plat shall show the line of high water with a
continuous line and shall also show with a fine continuous line, any lots
subject to inundation by a 100-year flood.
      8.   Location of existing easements or right-of-way, including those
contiguous to the platted area, their nature, width, and the book and page
number of their recording in the County's records.
      9.   Location of proposed easements including any required easements for
water, sewer, drainage or irrigation, temporary turnaround easements and a ten
foot (10') public utility easement shown on the front of each lot and any side
or rear of a lot adjacent to a road right of way.
      10.   All lots, blocks, rights-of-way and easements (including open
space) created by the subdivision with their boundary, bearings, lengths,
widths, name, number, or purpose. For curved boundaries the curve radius,
central angle, and length of arc shall be given.
      11.   Indication of lot areas (square feet).
      12.   Lots consecutively numbered or lettered in alphabetical order.
      13.   Proposed addresses shown on each lot (corner lots should include
two addresses) as obtained from Farmington City Planning Department.
      14.   All proposed new streets named or numbered in accordance with the
street naming and numbering system of the City.
      15.   Location and names of adjacent properties/property owners and
platted subdivisions.
      16.   Location of zoning boundary lines within and adjacent to the
proposed subdivision.
      17.   Location of all existing homes or buildings within the proposed
subdivision that are to remain.
      18.   All existing monuments found during the course of the survey
(including a physical description such as "brass cap").
      19.   All monuments erected, corners, and other points established in the
field. The monuments shall be made of brass and the legend shall indicate the
diameter, length, and weight of the monuments All exterior boundary angle
points of the subdivision and lot corners shall be marked in accordance with
the Farmington City Design Standards and Public Improvements Specifications
including brass pins in the BOC for all front property lines.
      20.   A detail diagram showing typical setbacks for a corner and interior
lot and a typical thirty five feet (35') clear view area (sight triangle) on
the corner lot.
   B.   Required Notes On The Final Plat:
      1.   A notation of the distance (shown as a dimension and note on the
plat) from the centerline of each existing road right-of-way (centerline of
existing asphalt) to the new property line of the subdivision.
      2.   A summary of total project acreage, total acreage in lots, total
number of units, total acreage of open space or other dedicated parcels, and
total acreage in roads and lane miles of road.
      3.   A notation of any limited access restrictions on the lots that are
affected.
      4.   If a detention pond is required, note the capacity of the pond on
the final plat.
      5.   If there is no detention pond on the plat, provide a note explaining
how detention is handled.
      6.   If surface drainage is to be directed onto a privately owned area
for detention or retention as part of the storm drainage system, show an
easement around the detention/retention area on the final plat with the
following note on the easement area: "Permanent detention/retention (whichever
is applicable) facility to be owned and maintained by the owners of this
property not to be altered without approval by Farmington City Council and City
Engineer".
      7.   If the proposed subdivision is adjacent to or in close proximity to
an existing agricultural area or activity, the following note regarding the
Right to Farm must be added to the Final Plat: "This area is subject to the
normal everyday sounds, odors, sights, equipment, facilities, and all other
aspects associated with an agricultural lifestyle. Future residents should also
recognize the risks inherent with livestock."
      8.   If a temporary turnaround is required, add the following note on the
final plat with reference to the turnaround: "temporary asphalt turnaround with
appropriate road base, and no above ground utilities allowed in the turnaround
area. A letter will be provided to the Building Division prior to issuance of a
building permit for the affected lot stating that the homeowner/lot buyer is
aware of the temporary turnaround on their property and that it is to remain
unaltered and no parking allowed until the City approves removal of the
turnaround."
      9.   For PRD and PUD subdivisions, note any exceptions to minimum home
size requirements, setbacks, and note that all homes are required to meet the
architectural requirements contained in the Development Code including product
mix on home elevations.
      10.   For subdivisions with trails, a note stating that the trail
location(s) must be staked and reviewed by the Parks and Planning Divisions
prior to installation.
      11.   For subdivisions with common area where an HOA is involved, add the
following note in the owner's dedication area of the title block: "Pursuant to
Utah Code 10-9a-604 (D), the owner(s) hereby convey all common areas shown on
this plat as indicated hereon to the (insert name of HOA and their mailing
address)."
      12.   A note shall be placed on the final plat indicating that a soil
report has been prepared and submitted to the city for the proposed
subdivision.
      13.   A note stating that only one culinary water meter or 1 secondary
water meter shall be allowed in a driveway.
      14.   All culinary water meters located in driveways shall have a thirty
inch (30") meter box with a traffic rated lid.
      15.   Wells (show and label whether the well is to remain or be abandoned
- if the well is to be abandoned, add a note on the plans stating "existing
well to be abandoned and capped by a certified well driller and documentation
provided to Farmington City").
   C.   Construction Drawings:
      1.   Final construction/plan and profile drawings of all required public
improvements consistent with Farmington City Design Standards and Public
Improvement Specifications. An engineer or land surveyor must stamp all
construction drawings in accordance with the procedures of the Utah State Board
for Professional Registration. Construction drawings shall include:
         a.   Each sheet shall contain a signature box for the city engineer.
         b.   An overall public improvement plan or index sheet that includes a
summary of all improvement and utility information (this sheet is used by City
Staff to prepare the bond for public improvements).
         c.   Location, pipe type (pipe type may be noted in a utility legend),
and size of existing and proposed culinary and pressurized irrigation lines and
associated fire hydrants, valves, and blowoffs (note where bends are required
on water lines).
         d.   Location, depth, pipe type (pipe type may be noted in a utility
legend), and slope of all drainage, and sewer lines, including the location and
proper spacing of all boxes, manholes and other improvements.
         e.   A note stating that all mechanical joints require a mega lug or
other approved equal joint restraint.
         f.   Location of water and sewer service laterals for each lot
including the location of the laterals in relation to each other (water
laterals must be located at the center of the lot and sewer laterals 10 feet
downstream from the water laterals).
         g.   On each corner lot, add a label stating "front" to indicate which
street frontage is considered the front of the lot (the front of the lot must
be consistent with the location of the water and sewer service laterals).
         h.   Details of detention basin(s) including:
            (1)   Piping and orifices.
            (2)   A note stating that the bottom of the basin will be sloped
towards the outlet.
            (3)   Cross section of detention pond.
            (4)   One hundred (100) year water level.
            (5)   Capacity of detention pond in cubic feet.
            (6)   Minimum one foot (1') freeboard.
            (7)   Three to one (3:1) slopes or flatter.
            (8)   Grass covering and underground sprinkler system or approved
xeriscaping.
         i.   If the placement of irrigation system improvements is required,
show all irrigation improvements including piping, head gates, boxes, grates
etc. (in conformance with letter issued by the irrigation company) and provide
a signature block for the irrigation company on all applicable construction
drawing sheets.
         j.   Cross sections of all roads including pavement design, base and
sub base amounts and location of utilities within the street right of way
(please note that base and sub base should be shown and labeled extending one
foot (1') beyond the back of curb).
         k.   All roads must have a minimum standard of 3 inches of asphalt
with twelve inches (12") or road base, unless the soils report requires a
higher level of strength ratio. A note stating all concrete shall have fiber.
         l.   Sidewalk shall be installed along the entire frontage of the
property. The developer must provide sidewalk access to adjacent amenities when
required by the City Engineer. This may require the installation of sidewalk
off site.
         m.   Location of proposed underground power, domes and transformers.
         n.   Location of existing power infrastructure and ownership.
         o.   Location, type, and height of existing fencing and new fencing,
berming or other buffering to be installed as part of the development.
         p.   Street signs and traffic control signs.
         q.   Show existing and proposed streetlights. Proposed streetlights
are to be shown in the park strip. Street lights shall be installed at
intersections and spaced at three hundred fifty feet (350'). Streetlights are
to be installed per city standards.
         r.   Location of USPS gang box/mailbox locations (applicant must meet
with a Post Office representative to determine locations).
         s.   All other specifications, details, and references required by the
Design Standards and Public improvements Specifications and Standard Drawings.
      2.   Construction drawings are to include the following notes:
         a.   A note stating the developer will install all streetlights unless
otherwise directed by the City Engineer.
         b.   A note stating that all construction is to be done as per the
latest edition of the Farmington City Design Standards and Public Improvements
Specifications.
         c.   A note stating that all fire hydrants are to be Clow.
         d.   A note that valves are to be Mueller or Clow.
         e.   A note stating that all water meters in driveways shall be
installed with a thirty inch (30") meter box with a traffic rated lid.
      3.   Landscaping plan for all park, open space, and common ownership
areas including:
         a.   A table indicating the percent of the site to be landscaped.
         b.   Planting areas with a list of the name, number and size of plants
designated for each area.
         c.   Location, name and size of all existing and proposed trees and
shrubs.
         d.   Location and sizes of proposed irrigation facilities adequate to
maintain the planting areas.
         e.   Location of the clear view area at all street intersections (a
triangular area formed by a line connecting the property lines at points thirty
feet (30') in each direction from the intersection of the two street property
lines) and an indication that no landscaping or other obstruction in excess of
three feet (3') above top back of curb shall be allowed in the clear view area
unless otherwise approved by the City Transportation Engineer. Trees must be
planted outside of the sight triangle with branches trimmed to ten feet (10')
above the top back of curb.
   D.   Other Required Items:
      1.   Long Term Stormwater Maintenance Plan and Agreement for all
privately owned stormwater infrastructure.
      2.   Letters from the Utah Department of Environmental Quality regarding
any proposed exceptions to requirements of R309-500 through 550.
   E.   Required Items Prior To Recording Of Plat:
      1.   Bonded for the project. Bond amounts are provided by Farmington City
Engineering.
      2.   A final copy of any restrictive covenants (CC&Rs), reservations, or
private easements.
      3.   Evidence that all property taxes are current and that roll back
taxes have been paid, and that no other debts or obligations are outstanding
and no liens or encumbrances are placed on the property.
      4.   If the property has been in greenbelt, verification from the title
company that all roll-back taxes have been paid.
      5.   A preliminary title report covering all the property located within
the subdivision. The report shall be prepared or updated within thirty (30)
days of the date of recording of the Final Plat.
      6.   Warranty deed/title insurance on property dedicated to the City
(open space, detention, City park property, City trails, some road dedication).
Title insurance policies on each.
      7.   Prepared easements for any necessary offsite water, sewer, or
drainage easements across privately owned land, or for temporary turnarounds.
Farmington City requires a minimum of twenty feet (20') on through property
easements
      8.   A copy of any necessary deeds or boundary line agreements necessary
for recording of the Final Plat.
      9.   Any required UDOT approvals for access, etc.
      10.   An electronic (computer disc or email) copy of the proposed Final
Plat and Construction Drawings in a format acceptable to the City Engineer
(PDF, DGN or DXF).
      11.   During the DRC review process, the proposed property lines along
existing streets must be staked for review by staff.
      12.   Prior to the pre-construction meeting, the developer will provide
six (6) copies of the approved set of drawings, obtained a SWPPP, bonded for
the project and or obtained an excavation permit. When changes need to be made
to a check set, revise the affected sheets only. All these must be completed
prior to the preconstruction meeting being scheduled. (Ord. 2015-16, 5-26-2015;
amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-130: EVALUATION OF FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Planning Department: The planning department will determine if the
final plat submission is complete and if all the fees have been paid. If all
requirements are met and all fees have been, and the planning department shall
distribute plans, for comment to all appropriate public and private entities.
   B.   Reviewing Entities: Reviewing entities shall review plans within twenty
(20) business days of distribution. After reviewing the plans, each of the
public agencies and utilities will provide the their review comments to the
subdivider indicating whether the plans are acceptable or need to be revised,
and may forward to the subdivider a written report of its findings and
recommendations. These agencies shall include, but are not necessarily limited
to, water and sewer improvement districts, the public works department, the
city engineer and the fire department.
   C.   Additional Reviews: In cases where subdivider's submission or plat is
incomplete, incorrect or otherwise fails to comply with Farmington City
ordinances and/or development standards as determined by the city and where
such failure makes additional or repeat reviews on the part of the city
engineer and/or other consultants to the city necessary, subdivider shall be
required to resubmit the plans to those reviewing entities that will be
affected by changes. The subdivider shall be required to address each comment
made by a reviewing entity, either modifying the plans or indicating their
objection to the review comment, citing code authority for their objection.
Failure to address each comment shall be grounds for rejection of the re-
submission, and a subsequent review cycle may not begin until those comments
are addressed. Reviewing entities shall be allowed an additional twenty (20)
business days to review after each complete submittal or complete resubmittal.
After reviewing the plans, each of the public agencies and utilities will
provide their comments to the subdivider indicating whether the plans are
acceptable or need to be revised. This process shall continue for as many as
four (4) review cycles or until all reviewing entities have accepted the plans.
Approval by all reviewing entities shall be cause for the city engineer to give
final approval of a final plat application. If a developer does not address all
comments identified in acknowledgment letters from reviewers by the fourth
Final Plat review cycle, the application shall be denied, after which the
applicant shall be entitled to the remedies as specified in 10-9a-604.2
incorporated herein. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-140: SECURITY BOND; SUBDIVIDER:
Prior to the installation of or any work on any required public improvements,
the subdivider shall enter into a security bond agreement acceptable to the
city to insure completion of all public improvements required to be installed
in the subdivision. The bond agreement shall be in a form and contain such
provisions as approved by the city attorney. The bond agreement shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Incorporation: Incorporation by reference of the final plat and all
accompanying data required herein which is used to compute the cost of the
improvements by the city engineer;
   B.   Completion Of Improvements: Completion of the improvements within a
period of time not to exceed two (2) years from the date the bond agreement is
executed;
   C.   Satisfactory Completion: The improvements shall be completed to the
satisfaction of the city and according to city standards, as established by the
city engineer and as specified in chapter 8 of this title;
   D.   Amount: The bond amount shall be equal to one hundred ten percent
(110%) of the city engineer's estimated cost of the public improvements to be
installed;
   E.   Exclusive Control By City: The city shall have exclusive control over
the bond proceeds and they may be released only upon written approval of the
city manager;
   F.   Reduction: The bond proceeds may be reduced upon request of the
subdivider as the improvements are installed. The amount of the reduction shall
be determined by the city. Such requests may be made only once every thirty
(30) days and no reductions shall be authorized until such time as the city has
inspected the improvements and found them to be in compliance with city
standards. All reductions shall be by the written authorization of the city
manager;
   G.   Deficiency In Bond Proceeds: If the bond proceeds are inadequate to pay
the cost of the completion of the improvements according to city standards for
whatever reason, including previous reductions, the subdivider shall be
responsible for the deficiency and no further building permits shall be issued
in the subdivision or development until the improvements are completed or, with
city council approval, a new bond, satisfactory to the city, has been executed
and delivered to the city to ensure completion of the remaining improvements;
   H.   Deductions For Failure: If, upon written demand by the city after
expiration of the time period, bond proceeds are not transferred to the city
within thirty (30) days, the city's costs of obtaining the proceeds, including
attorney fees and court costs, shall be deducted from the bond proceeds;
   I.   Reimbursement To City: Upon receipt of the bond proceeds, after the
expiration of the time period, the costs of completion shall include
reimbursement to the city for the costs of administration incurred by the city
in obtaining the completion of the improvements;
   J.   Nonliability: The subdivider shall agree to hold the city harmless from
any and all liability which may arise as a result of the improvements which are
installed until such time as the city certifies the improvements as complete;
   K.   Type Of Bond Agreement: The bond agreement shall be one of the
following types as dictated by the city:
      1.   A cash bond agreement accompanied by a cashier's check or a money
market certificate made payable only to the city;
      2.   An escrow bond agreement and an escrow account with a financial
institution federally insured; or
      3.   A letter of credit bond agreement accompanied by an irrevocable
letter of credit with a financial institution federally insured;
   L.   Right Of Rejection: The city reserves the right to reject any bond. The
bonds required by this section are for the sole benefit of the city. The bonds
are not for the benefit of any individual citizen or identifiable class of
citizens, including the owners or purchasers of lots within the subdivision or
project;
   M.   Extension: The time period for the completion of the required public
improvements may be extended in the following manner upon approval of the city
council:
      1.   The subdivider may submit a new bond for approval;
      2.   The existing bond may be extended upon payment, by the subdivider,
of the actual administrative costs incurred in reevaluating the sufficiency of
the bond amount. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023; amd. Ord. 2024-43, 7-16-2024)
12-5-150: DELAY AGREEMENT:
In lieu of the bond requirements outlined above, at the City Council's sole
option, the subdivider may be permitted to execute an agreement, in a form
acceptable to the city attorney, delaying the installation of any or all of the
public improvements required pursuant to this title, such an agreement may
require the payment of a fee in lieu of installation of the improvements. (Ord.
2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-160: RECORDING OF PLAT:
After city engineer approval, completion of the required public improvements or
filing of the bond agreement described herein, and signing of the plat by the
planning commission chair and the mayor, the plat shall be presented by the
city to the Davis County recorder for recordation. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-5-170: EXPIRATION OF FINAL APPROVAL:
If the plat is not recorded within six (6) months from the date of city
engineer approval, such approval shall be null and void. This time period may
be extended for additional six (6) month periods by the city manager. The
subdivider must petition for an extension, prior to the expiration of the
original six (6) months, or an extension previously granted. An extension may
be granted only if it is determined that it will not be detrimental to the
city. If any of the fees charged as a condition of subdivision approval,
including, but not limited to, inspection fees, parks fees, flood control fees,
as well as the amounts the city uses to estimate bonds to ensure completion of
improvements, have increased, the city manager may require that the bond
estimate be recalculated and that the subdivider pay any applicable fee
increases as a condition of granting the extension. (Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
12-6-010: Design Standards
12-6-020: Required Improvements
12-6-030: Curb, Gutter, Sidewalk And Asphalt Paving
12-6-040: Storm Drainage
12-6-050: Underground Utilities And Sanitary Sewer
12-6-060: Fencing Or Piping Of Hazards
12-6-070: Monuments
12-6-080: Completion
12-6-090: Payback Or Pioneering Agreements For Improvements
12-6-100: Administrative Review For Public Street Standards Not Listed
12-6-010: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Preparation: Standards for design, construction, specifications and
inspection of street improvements, water distribution systems, storm drainage
and flood control facilities shall be prepared by the city engineer. Standards
for fire hydrants shall be prepared by the fire department. Standards for
sewage disposal facilities shall be prepared by the Central Davis County sewer
improvement district. Standards for pressure irrigation systems shall be
prepared by the Farmington City area pressure irrigation district. All such
standards for design and construction of public improvements and amendments
thereto, which are under the control of the city, shall be approved and adopted
by the city council before becoming effective. All subdividers shall comply
with the approved standards required herein.
   B.   Streets, Blocks, Etc.: The design of the subdivision in relation to
streets, blocks, lots, open spaces, and other design factors shall be in
harmony with design standards recommended by the planning commission and other
city staff and approved by the city council. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996; amd.
Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-6-020: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Scope Of Requirements: The subdivider shall improve, or agree to
improve, all streets, pedestrianways or easements in the subdivision and on
streets which abut, or serve as access to, the subdivision. Permanent
improvement work shall not commence until improvement plans and profiles have
been approved by the city and, if applicable, a bond agreement has been
executed between the subdivider and the city as specified in chapter 6 of this
title. As part of the street improvements, the subdivider shall deposit with
the city sufficient sums to provide a slurry seal for the street as required by
the city and additional sums to cover the cost of street signs and regulatory
signs which the city determines are required for the subdivision. The city will
utilize funds deposited for street signs to obtain the signs and install the
same within the subdivision.
   B.   Installation; Inspection: Improvements shall be installed to permanent
line and grade to the satisfaction of the city and in accordance with the
standard specifications adopted by the city council. Cost of inspection shall
be paid by the subdivider as outlined in the consolidated fee schedule.
   C.   Nonresponsibility Of City: Notwithstanding the fact that the land on
which the improvements will be located is dedicated at the time of the
recording of a plat, the city shall not be responsible for the improvements,
their construction or maintenance, until the warranty period specified in the
bond agreement has expired, the improvements have been inspected, and the city
certifies that they meet city standards. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996; amd. Ord.
2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-6-030: CURB, GUTTER, SIDEWALK AND ASPHALT PAVING:
High back curbs, gutters, sidewalks and asphalt paving shall be provided in
front of all commercial and residential lots. High back curb, gutter and paving
shall be required on all industrial property. At the discretion of the planning
commission, sidewalks may also be required for industrial property. At the
discretion of the city council, after receiving a recommendation from the
planning commission, curb, gutter and sidewalk improvements may be omitted in
major residential subdivisions where each lot has a frontage of at least one
hundred fifty feet (150') and an average minimum lot size of one acre if
adequate provisions have been made for stormwater runoff and pedestrian
traffic. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-6-040: STORM DRAINAGE:
   A.   Site Grading: Site grading shall be performed taking into consideration
the drainage patterns of adjacent improved and unimproved property and treating
upstream areas, where appropriate, as though fully improved.
   B.   Requirements: In every subdivision, provision shall be made for the
satisfactory drainage of stormwater by means of underground storm sewer pipes
and/or surface drainage ditches. No stormwater lines may be connected or
constructed so as to flow into sanitary sewers. Major natural drainage courses
shall not be appreciably altered from their natural condition except for
stabilization and erosion control. Subdividers shall be responsible for the
drainage of after development stormwater in conformity with the city master
storm drainage plan or as determined by the city engineer.
   C.   Installation Of Drains: Stormwater drains shall be installed as shown
on the subdivision development plans. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-
66, 11-16-2023)
12-6-050: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES AND SANITARY SEWER:
   A.   Utilities, Sewers, Drains: All underground utilities, sanitary sewers
and storm drains installed in streets or alleys should be constructed prior to
the surfacing of such streets or alleys. Connections for all underground
utilities, water lines, pressure irrigation lines, and sanitary sewers for each
lot should be laid to a point which will eliminate the necessity for disturbing
the street or alley improvements, when service connections thereto are made.
   B.   Wires, Cables: All telephone, electric power, cable television or other
wires or cables shall be placed underground. Equipment appurtenant to the
underground facilities, such as surface mounted transformers, pedestal mounted
terminal boxes and meter cabinets and concealed ducts may be above ground. The
subdivider shall make all necessary arrangements with the utilities involved
for the installation of the underground facilities.
   C.   Water Mains, Hydrants: Water mains and fire hydrants connecting to the
water system owned by the city shall be installed as approved by the city.
Mains and individual lot services shall be of sufficient size to furnish an
adequate water supply for each lot or parcel in the subdivision and to provide
adequate fire protection as determined by the fire chief and as required under
any applicable law, rule or regulation. Water system plans shall be reviewed
and approved by the Utah state health department prior to recordation of a
subdivision. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-6-060: FENCING OR PIPING OF HAZARDS:
   A.   Requirements: The subdivider shall install a six foot (6') nonclimbable
chainlink fence along all canals, waterways, nonaccess streets, open reservoirs
or bodies of water, railroad rights of way, property in agricultural use or
zoned for agricultural use and other such features of potentially hazardous
nature which are on, cross or are contiguous to, the property being subdivided,
except on those features which the planning commission shall determine would
not be a hazard to life, or where the fence itself would create a hazard to the
safety of the public. Fences required by this section shall comply with
construction standards established by the city.
   B.   Irrigation Ditches: All irrigation ditches shall be piped, unless this
requirement is waived by the city council. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996; amd. Ord.
2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-6-070: MONUMENTS:
Permanent monuments shall be furnished, accurately established, and set by the
subdivider at such points as are necessary to definitely establish all lines of
the plat except those defining rear property corners of individual lots which
will be semipermanent. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-6-080: COMPLETION:
A complete improvement plan “as built” shall be filed with the city upon
completion of said improvements. The “as built” plans shall be drawn on
reproducible copies of the original tracings and certified as to accuracy and
completeness by the subdivider’s licensed engineer. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996;
amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-6-090: PAYBACK OR PIONEERING AGREEMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Definitions. As used in this section:
BENEFITTED PROPERTY: A property that abuts or is adjacent to improvements that
are installed by a developer, and which improvements directly benefit the
abutting or adjacent property.
PAYBACK AGREEMENT: An agreement between a developer and Farmington City
governing the payment by the city for project improvements that are extended,
expanded or improved beyond what is necessary for the development.
PIONEERING AGREEMENT: An agreement between the developer and Farmington City
governing the requirement for each benefitted property owner to pay for a
portion of improvements that directly benefitted their property.
   B.   Payback Agreements. A payback agreement entered into between Farmington
City and the developer who installs the improvements or facilities for water,
storm sewer or roads is authorized, where the improvements installed are
intended to extend, expand or improve the city's water system, storm sewers or
roads beyond the improvements required to service or benefit the subdivision or
development proposed by the developer. Such payback agreements shall be for
project improvements and not system improvements as defined in the Utah impact
fees act. The payback agreement is not mandatory, but may be used at the option
of the city manager, upon approval of the payback agreement by the city
council. The amount of the payback to the developer shall be determined by the
city council after receiving a recommendation from the city engineer after
considering the improvements or facilities required or benefiting developer's
development, and those facilities or improvements that are specifically
oversized to provide for future development of non-abutting and adjacent
projects.
   C.   Pioneering Agreements. Pioneering agreements for improvements that
result in a benefitted property may be approved by the city council. The dollar
amount of the payment to the developer shall be solely determined by the city
under the direction of the city engineer after consideration of the portion of
the improvements or facilities installed that benefit the developer's
development, and the portion of the improvements or facilities that provide for
future development of the benefitted property. The determination of the charge
apportioned to each benefitted property owner shall be included in the
pioneering agreement.
   D.   At the time the pioneering agreement is entered into with a developer,
the developer is responsible to record a notice against the benefitted property
with the County Recorder's Office and provide written notice to the owner of
record of the benefitted property, which notice shall inform the benefitted
property owners that at such time as they develop the benefitted property, they
will be required to pay for a portion of the improvements previously installed.
   E.   Notice on the benefitted property owner shall be accomplished by
delivery requiring a signature of a responsible person at the registered
owner's address, or a signature of an individual who delivered the notice to a
person at that address.
   F.   The notices shall include a copy of the approved pioneering agreement.
   G.   The pioneering agreement shall expire fifteen (15) years from the date
of the pioneering agreement's execution, or at such time that the developer has
recovered the costs specified in the pioneering agreement, whichever comes
first.
   H.   Prior to recording a plat for a benefitted property under a pioneering
agreement, the city shall require proof of payment of the amount described in
this subsection, and may deny plat recordation until the city has received such
proof.
   I.   Notwithstanding subsection 3 of this section, the city may proceed with
plat recordation if the developer is non-responsive to the city's
communications regarding the payment under the pioneering agreement, if the
pioneering developer failed to comply with the requirements of this section, or
if other extenuating circumstances indicate that plat recordation is
appropriate.
   J.   A benefitted property owner that objects to the entry of a pioneering
agreement shall file a notice of appeal to the city recorder within thirty (30)
days of receiving notice under subsection (1) of this section. Failure to file
a timely appeal waives the right of benefitted property owners, or their
successors or assigns, to contest the agreement or the city's refusal to record
the plat under subsection (B)(3).
   K.   Nonliability Of City: The city shall, in all cases, be immune and not
liable for any payments to the developer if the payback or pioneering agreement
is determined to be unenforceable. Agreements under this section shall not
confer a benefit upon any third party and shall be in a form approved by the
city council. The responsibility for payment of the required improvements or
facilities shall rest entirely with the developer. The city shall not be
responsible for collection of amounts from third parties. (Ord. 2000-21, 5-17-
2000; amd. Ord. 2023-15, 3-14-2023; Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-6-100: FILING DEADLINE, APPLICATION AND FEES:
The subdivider shall file an application for final plat approval with the
community development department on a form prescribed by the city, together
with one reproducible copy and prints of the final plat, the number of which
shall be determined by city staff, and all required fees. The preliminary plat
shall become null and void unless the subdivider submits an application for and
obtains final plat approval for all phases encompassing the area of the
preliminary plat within twelve (12) months after approval or conditional
approval of the preliminary plat by the planning commission, except as
otherwise provided for by written agreement with the city. This time period may
be extended for up to twelve (12) months for good cause shown if the subdivider
petitions the planning commission in writing for an extension prior to the
expiration date of the preliminary plat together with any applicable fees. Only
one extension of the preliminary plat approval may be granted. In the event the
final plat approval expires, or the city does not grant an extension of final
plat approval, or the city does not reapprove a previously approved final plat,
the preliminary plat approval shall also expire, unless twelve (12) months has
not lapsed from the date of its approval and/or a twelve (12) month extension
of time has been granted as provided herein. (Ord. 2011-10, 5-17-2011)
12-6-110: FINAL PLAT; PREPARATION AND REQUIRED INFORMATION:
   A.   Requirements: The final plat shall consist of a sheet of approved mylar
to the outside or trim line dimensions of nineteen inches by thirty inches (19"
x 30"), and the border line of the plat shall be drawn in heavy lines leaving a
space of at least one and one-half inch (11/2") on the left margin of the sheet
for binding, and not less than a one-half inch (1/2") margin in from the
outside or trim line around the other three (3) edges of the sheet. The plat
shall be so drawn that the top of the sheet either faces north or east,
whichever accommodates the drawing best. All lines, dimensions and markings
shall be made on the mylar with approved waterproof black drawing ink. (Ord.
2010-20, 5-18-2010)
   B.   Scale: The final plat shall be drawn at a scale of not less than one
inch equaling one hundred feet (1" = 100'), and the workmanship on the finished
drawing shall be neat, clear and readable.
   C.   Signatures; Small Scale Vicinity Map: The plat shall be signed by all
required and authorized parties and the final drawings shall contain all
information set forth in this section. The location of the subdivision within
the city shall be shown by a small scale vicinity map on the first sheet. (Ord.
1996-24, 6-19-1996)
   D.   Name, Unit Number: The title of each sheet of the final plat shall
consist of the approved name and unit number of the subdivision in bold
letters, and if applicable, the words "a Planned Unit Development (PUD)" or "a
Conservation Subdivision", followed by the words "Farmington City" at the top
of the sheet. (Ord. 2011-10, 5-17-2011)
   E.   Coordinates: Wherever the city engineer has established a system of
coordinates, the survey shall use such system. The adjoining corners of all
adjoining subdivisions shall be identified by lot and block numbers,
subdivision name and place of record, or other proper designation.
   F.   Boundary Survey: An accurate and complete boundary survey to second
order accuracy shall be made of the land to be subdivided. A traverse of the
exterior boundaries of the tract, and of each block, when computed from field
measurements on the ground, shall close within a tolerance of one foot (1') to
twenty thousand feet (20,000') of perimeter.
   G.   Monuments, Lines: The final plat shall show all survey, mathematical
information and data necessary to locate all monuments and to locate and
retrace all interior and exterior boundary lines appearing thereon, including
bearing and distance of straight lines, and central angle, radius and arc
length of curves, and such information as may be necessary to determine the
location of the beginning and ending points of curves.
   H.   Dedications, Lots: All lots, blocks and parcels offered for dedication
for any purpose shall be delineated and designated with dimensions, boundaries
and courses clearly shown and defined in every case. The square footage of each
lot shall be shown. Parcels offered for dedication other than for streets or
easements shall be designated by letter. Sufficient linear, angular and curve
data shall be shown to determine readily the bearing and length of the boundary
lines of every block, lot and parcel which is a part thereof. Sheets shall be
so arranged that no lot is split between two (2) or more sheets, and wherever
practicable, blocks in their entirety shall be shown on one sheet. No ditto
marks shall be used for lot dimensions. Lot numbers shall begin with numeral
"1" and continue consecutively throughout the subdivision with no omissions or
duplications. When a subdivision is developed in phases, the phase number shall
precede each lot number. For example, phase 2 would be numbered 201, 202, 203,
etc.
   I.   Right Of Way Lines: The plat shall show the right of way lines of each
street, and the width of any portion being dedicated, and widths of any
existing dedications. The widths and locations of adjacent streets and other
public properties within fifty feet (50') of the subdivision shall be shown
with dotted lines. If any street in the subdivision is a continuation or an
approximate continuation of an existing street, the conformity or the amount of
nonconformity of such street to such existing streets shall be accurately
shown.
   J.   Street Names, Numbers: All streets within the subdivision shall be
assigned a name. Numerical names are preferred. Streets which have an
alphabetic name shall also be assigned a coordinate reference number which
conforms to the numbering system adopted by the city. All numbering shall be
accomplished by the city building official.
   K.   Easements: The side lines of all easements shall be shown by fine
dashed lines. The widths of all easements and sufficient ties thereto to
definitely locate the same with respect to the subdivision shall be shown. All
easements shall be clearly labeled and identified.
   L.   High Water Lines: If the subdivision is adjacent to a waterway or any
other area which is subject to flooding, the plat shall show the line of high
water with a continuous line and shall also show with a fine continuous line,
any lots subject to inundation by a 100-year flood.
   M.   Boundary Identification: The plat shall show fully and clearly stakes,
monuments and other evidence indicating the boundaries of the subdivision as
found on the site. Any monument or bench mark that is disturbed or destroyed
before acceptance of all improvements, shall be replaced by the subdivider
under the direction of the city engineer. The following required monuments
shall be shown on the final plat:
      1.   The location of all monuments placed in making the survey, including
a statement as to what, if any, points were reset by ties;
      2.   All right of way monuments at angle points and intersections as
approved by the city engineer. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996)
   N.   Identification; Certificates: The title sheet of the map shall show the
name of the engineer or surveyor, the scale of the map and the number of
sheets. The following certificates, acknowledgments and description shall
appear on the title sheet of the final maps, and such certificates may be
combined where appropriate: (Ord. 2010-20, 5-18-2010)
      1.   Registered land surveyor's "certificate of survey";
      2.   Owner's dedication certificate;
      3.   Notary public's acknowledgment for each signature on the plat;
      4.   A description of all property being subdivided with reference to
maps or deeds of the property as shall have been previously recorded or filed.
Each reference in such description shall show a complete reference to the book
and page of records of the county and commence from section corners of known
location, bearing and distance. The description shall also include reference to
any vacated area with the vacation ordinance number indicated; (Ord. 1996-24,
6-19-1996)
      5.   Blocks for authorized signatures of the planning commission, city
engineer, respective irrigation water district, Central Davis sewer district,
city attorney and city council shall be provided along the bottom or right side
of the plat. A block for the Davis County recorder shall be provided in the
lower right corner of the plat. Additionally, for any plat that has gas
pipelines traversing its boundaries, the plat shall have a signature block for
each affected gas pipeline company. (Ord. 2015-16, 5-26-2015)
      6.   Such other affidavits, certificates, acknowledgments, endorsements
and notarial seals as are required by law, by this title or by the city
attorney;
      7.   Prior to recordation of the plat, the subdivider shall submit a
current title report to be reviewed by the city attorney. A "current" title
report is considered to be one which is prepared and dated not more than thirty
(30) days before the proposed recordation of the final plat.
   O.   Soil Report: A note shall be placed on the final plat indicating that a
soil report has been prepared and submitted to the city for the proposed
subdivision in accordance with the provisions of this title.
   P.   Land Reserved In Private Ownership: When a subdivision contains lands
which are reserved in private ownership for community use, the subdivider shall
submit with the final plat, the name, proposed articles of incorporation and
bylaws of the owner or organization empowered to own, maintain and pay taxes on
such lands.
   Q.   Addresses: An address shall be placed on each lot shown on the final
plat. Addresses shall conform to the established grid system for Davis County
and shall include optional addresses for corner lots. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996)
12-6-120: DATA TO ACCOMPANY FINAL PLAT:
At the time a final plat of a subdivision is submitted to the city, the
subdivider shall also submit the following documents:
   A.   Calculation, Traverse Sheets: Calculation and traverse sheets giving
bearings, distances and coordinates of the boundary of the subdivision and
blocks and lots as shown on the final plat.
   B.   Data, Assumptions, Computations: Design data, assumptions and
computations for proper analysis in accordance with sound engineering practice,
along with appropriate plan, section and profile sheets for all public
improvements. (Ord. 1996-24, 6-19-1996)
12-6-130: EVALUATION OF FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Planning Department: The planning department will determine if the
final plat submission is complete and if all the fees have been paid. If all
requirements are met, a letter of acknowledgment will be provided by the
planning department, and the subdivider shall distribute plans, accompanied by
the letter, for comment to all appropriate public and private entities.
   B.   Reviewing Entities: After reviewing the plans, each of the public
agencies and utilities will provide the acknowledgment letter to the subdivider
indicating whether the plans are acceptable or need to be revised, and may
forward to the subdivider a written report of its findings and recommendations.
These agencies shall include, but are not necessarily limited to, water and
sewer improvement districts, the public works department, the city engineer and
the fire department.
   C.   Additional Reviews: In cases where subdivider's submission or plat is
incomplete, incorrect or otherwise fails to comply with Farmington City
ordinances and/or development standards as determined by the city and where
such failure makes additional or repeat reviews on the part of the city
engineer and/or other consultants to the city necessary, subdivider shall be
required to resubmit the plans to those reviewing entities that will be
affected by changes. After reviewing the plans, each of the public agencies and
utilities will provide the acknowledgment letter to the subdivider indicating
whether the plans are acceptable or need to be revised. This process shall
continue until all reviewing entities have accepted the plans.
   D.   Report To Planning Commission: Within a reasonable time after receipt
of a final plat and approval or comments from all appropriate reviewing
entities, the planning department shall include the final plat on the planning
commission agenda and prepare a report on the plat's compliance with the
general plan, city ordinances, rules and regulations. The plat and the report
of the city planning department shall then be presented to the planning
commission. (Ord. 2006-28, 4-19-2006)
12-6-140: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION; FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Scope: The planning commission shall not be bound by the
recommendations of the city departments or the city manager, and may set its
own conditions and requirements consistent with this title.
   B.   Examination Of Plat: Upon receipt of the final plat, the planning
commission shall examine the plat to determine whether the plat conforms with
the preliminary plat and with all changes requested and all requirements
imposed as conditions of acceptance. If the planning commission determines that
the plat is in conformity with the preliminary plat, the requirements of this
title, other applicable ordinances and any reasonable conditions as recommended
by the city departments, city manager or on its own initiative, and that it is
satisfied with such plat of the subdivision, it shall approve the plat. (Ord.
2015-06, 2-17-2015)
12-6-150: DISAPPROVAL BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION:
If the planning commission determines that the final plat is not in conformity
with this title or other applicable ordinances, or any reasonable conditions
imposed, it shall disapprove the plat specifying the reasons for such
disapproval. Within one year after the planning commission has disapproved any
plat, the subdivider may file with the planning department a plat altered to
meet the requirements of the planning commission. No plat shall have any force
or effect until the same has been approved by the planning commission. (Ord.
2015-06, 2-17-2015)
12-6-160: SECURITY BOND; SUBDIVIDER:
Prior to the installation of or any work on any required public improvements,
the subdivider shall enter into a security bond agreement acceptable to the
city to insure completion of all public improvements required to be installed
in the subdivision. The bond agreement shall be in a form and contain such
provisions as approved by the city attorney. The bond agreement shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Incorporation: Incorporation by reference of the final plat and all
accompanying data required herein which is used to compute the cost of the
improvements by the city engineer;
   B.   Completion Of Improvements: Completion of the improvements within a
period of time not to exceed two (2) years from the date the bond agreement is
executed;
   C.   Satisfactory Completion: The improvements shall be completed to the
satisfaction of the city and according to city standards, as established by the
city engineer and as specified in chapter 8 of this title;
   D.   Amount: The bond amount shall be equal to one hundred twenty percent
(120%) of the city engineer's estimated cost of the public improvements to be
installed;
   E.   Exclusive Control By City: The city shall have exclusive control over
the bond proceeds and they may be released only upon written approval of the
city manager;
   F.   Reduction: The bond proceeds may be reduced upon request of the
subdivider as the improvements are installed. The amount of the reduction shall
be determined by the city. Such requests may be made only once every thirty
(30) days and no reductions shall be authorized until such time as the city has
inspected the improvements and found them to be in compliance with city
standards. All reductions shall be by the written authorization of the city
manager;
   G.   Deficiency In Bond Proceeds: If the bond proceeds are inadequate to pay
the cost of the completion of the improvements according to city standards for
whatever reason, including previous reductions, the subdivider shall be
responsible for the deficiency and no further building permits shall be issued
in the subdivision or development until the improvements are completed or, with
city council approval, a new bond, satisfactory to the city, has been executed
and delivered to the city to ensure completion of the remaining improvements;
   H.   Deductions For Failure: If, upon written demand by the city after
expiration of the time period, bond proceeds are not transferred to the city
within thirty (30) days, the city's costs of obtaining the proceeds, including
attorney fees and court costs, shall be deducted from the bond proceeds;
   I.   Reimbursement To City: Upon receipt of the bond proceeds, after the
expiration of the time period, the costs of completion shall include
reimbursement to the city for the costs of administration incurred by the city
in obtaining the completion of the improvements;
   J.   Nonliability: The subdivider shall agree to hold the city harmless from
any and all liability which may arise as a result of the improvements which are
installed until such time as the city certifies the improvements as complete;
   K.   Type Of Bond Agreement: The bond agreement shall be one of the
following types as dictated by the city:
      1.   A cash bond agreement accompanied by a cashier's check or a money
market certificate made payable only to the city;
      2.   An escrow bond agreement and an escrow account with a financial
institution federally insured; or
      3.   A letter of credit bond agreement accompanied by an irrevocable
letter of credit with a financial institution federally insured;
   L.   Right Of Rejection: The city reserves the right to reject any bond. The
bonds required by this section are for the sole benefit of the city. The bonds
are not for the benefit of any individual citizen or identifiable class of
citizens, including the owners or purchasers of lots within the subdivision or
project;
   M.   Extension: The time period for the completion of the required public
improvements may be extended in the following manner upon approval of the city
council:
      1.   The subdivider may submit a new bond for approval;
      2.   The existing bond may be extended upon payment, by the subdivider,
of the actual administrative costs incurred in reevaluating the sufficiency of
the bond amount. (Ord. 2015-06, 2-17-2015)
12-6-170: DELAY AGREEMENT:
In lieu of the bond requirements outlined above, at the city's sole option, the
subdivider may be permitted to execute an agreement, in a form acceptable to
the city attorney, delaying the installation of any or all of the public
improvements required pursuant to this title. (Ord. 2015-06, 2-17-2015)
12-6-180: RECORDING OF PLAT:
After planning commission approval, completion of the required public
improvements or filing of the bond agreement described herein, and signing of
the plat by the planning commission chair and the mayor, the plat shall be
presented by the city recorder to the Davis County recorder for recordation.
(Ord. 2015-06, 2-17-2015)
12-6-190: EXPIRATION OF FINAL APPROVAL:
If the plat is not recorded within six (6) months from the date of planning
commission approval, such approval shall be null and void. This time period may
be extended for additional six (6) month periods by the city manager. The
subdivider must petition for an extension, prior to the expiration of the
original six (6) months, or an extension previously granted. An extension may
be granted only if it is determined that it will not be detrimental to the
city. If any of the fees charged as a condition of subdivision approval,
including, but not limited to, inspection fees, parks fees, flood control fees,
as well as the amounts the city uses to estimate bonds to ensure completion of
improvements, have increased, the city manager may require that the bond
estimate be recalculated and that the subdivider pay any applicable fee
increases as a condition of granting the extension. (Ord. 2015-06, 2-17-2015)
CHAPTER 7
LOT CONSOLIDATION, BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT, AND PLAT AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
12-7-010: Purpose
12-7-020: When Permitted
12-7-030: Property Boundary Unaffected
12-7-040: Applications
12-7-050: Review
12-7-060: Lot Consolidation Restrictions
12-7-070: Boundary Adjustment Restrictions
12-7-080: Statement Of Approval
12-7-090: Plat Amendments
12-7-010: PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to outline the process by which the consolidation of
lots or adjustments of boundaries between lots within the city is permitted.
(Ord. 2023-3, 1-3-2023; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023; Ord. 2024-40, 7-20-2024)
12-7-020: WHEN PERMITTED:
   A.   Lot Consolidation: Two (2) abutting lots located within the same
platted subdivision may be consolidated into a single lot if they share a
common boundary and a common owner. Likewise, two (2) abutting metes and bounds
parcels may be consolidated into a single lot if they share a common boundary
and a common owner. The zoning administrator shall act as the Land Use
Authority when considering a Lot Consolidation.
   B.   Boundary Adjustment: Two (2) abutting lots or parcels within the city
may have their boundary adjusted if they share a common boundary and consent of
both property owners is established by the applicant. The zoning administrator
shall act as the Land Use Authority when considering a Boundary Adjustment.
   C.   Plat Amendment: The shared common boundary between two (2) or more
abutting lots on one or more recorded plats may be adjusted on the records of
the county.
   Land use approvals established in section
12-7-090  are required for all plat amendments. A Plat amendment may involve
lots in adjacent subdivisions, or parcels outside of a platted subdivision as
part of the amendment. (Ord. 2023-3, 1-3-2023; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023;
Ord. 2024-40, 7-20-2024)
12-7-030: PROPERTY BOUNDARY UNAFFECTED:
   A.   Unless otherwise provided by Utah or Davis County law, lot
consolidation and boundary adjustments under this chapter that are made to
platted lots shall not have the effect of adjusting any property boundary in
the records of the county.
   B.   The application shall provide a notice to an applicant that property
boundaries for platted lots are not affected by lot consolidation or boundary
adjustments, which may impact the owner's ability to construct improvements on
the adjusted lots. (Ord. 2023-3, 1-3-2023; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-7-040: APPLICATIONS:
   A.   An applicant wishing to either combine two (2) lots, or to adjust a
boundary between two lots or parcels, shall submit an application to the city
planner on a form approved by the city. The application shall provide proof of
ownership of both lots. At the time the application is submitted, the applicant
shall pay the required application fee, as set forth in the city's consolidated
fee schedule.
   B.   For boundary adjustments, the application must be accompanied by a
survey and legal descriptions of the parcels with adjusted boundaries. The
applicant shall also present proof of ownership for properties, with an
executed and notarized consent to the boundary adjustment for each property.
(Ord. 2023-3, 1-3-2023; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-7-050: REVIEW:
The city planner shall review the application for completeness, which review
shall not exceed thirty (30) days. The applicant shall be notified as soon as
practicable if the application is not accompanied by the required
documentation. At the conclusion of the review period, the zoning administrator
shall render a decision on the application. (Ord. 2023-3, 1-3-2023; amd. Ord.
2023-66, 11-16-2023)
12-7-060: LOT CONSOLIDATION RESTRICTIONS:
A lot consolidation under this chapter shall not:
   A.   Combine two (2) lots that do not share a common boundary line;
   B.   Combine two (2) lots that are platted on different subdivision plats;
   C.   Extinguish or modify any easements of record; or
   D.   Create any new lots. (Ord. 2023-3, 1-3-2023; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-
2023)
12-7-070: BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT RESTRICTIONS:
A boundary adjustment under this chapter shall not:
   A.   Completely eliminate a lot;
   B.   Result in a lot that does not conform to zoning or lot regulations of
the city;
   C.   Extinguish or modify any easements of record; or
   D.   Create any new lots. (Ord. 2023-3, 1-3-2023; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-
2023)
12-7-080: STATEMENT OF APPROVAL:
   A.   Upon approval of the application, the applicant shall submit to the
city such proposed deeds or records that will accomplish the lot combination or
boundary adjustment.
   B.   The City Planner shall review such submissions to assure they conform
to the representations made in the application, and submit it to the zoning
administrator for approval.
   C.   Upon approval, the zoning administrator shall sign a statement to be
attached to the deeds reflecting the city's approval of the Lot Consolidation
or Boundary Adjustment. (Ord. 2023-3, 1-3-2023; amd. Ord. 2023-66, 11-16-2023;
Ord. 2024-40, 7-20-2024)
12-7-090: PLAT AMENDMENTS:
Process: Applications for an amendment to a Subdivision Plat under Part B of
this Section shall be considered as outlined by Utah State Code Sections 10-9a-
608 and 10-9a-609, and are subject to the following land use authority
designations:
   A.   Administrative Review: The zoning administrator shall act as the Land
Use Authority for applications seeking only to consolidate lots or adjust
common lot boundaries.
   B.   Planning Commission Review: The Planning Commission shall act as the
Land Use Authority for applications that include the creation of a new lot, if
the lot meets current standards identified in the ordinance or a previously
approved agreement, but in which no change is proposed to a common area,
existing easement, or right-of-way, whether public or private.
   C.   Council Review: The City Council shall act as the Land Use Authority
for applications that include any proposed modifications to a common area,
existing easement, or right-of-way, whether public or private. The City Council
shall also review applications that involve the creation of lots with standards
which vary from prior agreements or current land use regulations. (Ord. 2023-
66, 11-16-2023; Ord. 2024-40, 7-20-2024)
TITLE 13
CRIMINAL CODE
CHAPTER 1
ADOPTION OF STATE CODES
SECTION:
13-1-010: Utah State Code Criminal Violations
13-1-020: Utah Code Of Criminal Procedure
13-1-030: [Reserved]
13-1-040: [Reserved]
13-1-050: [Reserved]
13-1-060: [Reserved]
13-1-070: Limitations
13-1-080: Omission Not A Waiver
13-1-090: [Reserved]
13-1-100: Rules Of Construction
13-1-110: [Reserved]
13-1-120: Penalties
13-1-130: Fine Schedule
13-1-010: UTAH STATE CODE CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS:
All class "B" and "C" misdemeanors and infractions in the Utah Code, as they
exist now and as amended or enacted in the future, are hereby adopted and
incorporated by this reference as violation of City ordinances. Public
officials, including peace officers, are hereby authorized to cite violations
of the Utah Code by citing the appropriate section number. (Ord. 1995-47, 11-
15-1995; amd. Ord. 2023-53, 9-5-2023)
13-1-020: UTAH CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE:
The Utah code of criminal procedure as set forth at Utah Code Annotated section
77-1-1 et seq., as amended, is hereby adopted as the code of criminal procedure
of Farmington City. (Ord. 1995-47, 11-15-1995)
13-1-030: [RESERVED]:
13-1-040: [RESERVED]:
13-1-050: [RESERVED]:
13-1-060: [RESERVED]:
13-1-070: LIMITATIONS:
Each of the codes and acts adopted herein are hereby adopted as if fully set
forth at length; provided, however, that any provision which is classified as a
felony or a class A misdemeanor or which is not enforceable by Farmington City
under the laws of the state of Utah, is excluded as a violation of city
ordinance. (Ord. 1995-47, 11-15-1995; amd. Ord. 2023-53, 9-5-2023)
13-1-080: OMISSION NOT A WAIVER:
The omission to specify or enumerate in this title those provisions of general
criminal law and offenses applicable throughout the state of Utah shall not be
construed as a waiver of the benefits and enforcement of any such provisions.
(Ord. 1995-47, 11-15-1995; amd. Ord. 2023-53, 9-5-2023)
13-1-090: [RESERVED]:
13-1-100: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
Insofar as possible, the provisions of this title and the codes and acts
adopted herein shall be construed in a manner to ensure the enforcement of the
criminal laws of the state of Utah. In the event any provisions are
inconsistent, the inconsistency shall be resolved as follows:
   A.   Any provision of law that directly conflicts with Utah state law is not
enforceable and shall be controlled by the laws of the State of Utah.
   B.   Any provision of this title which deals with the particular local needs
and policies of Farmington City and is otherwise lawful shall control. (Ord.
1995-47, 11-15-1995; amd. Ord. 2023-53, 9-5-2023)
13-1-110: [RESERVED]:
(2016 Code)
13-1-120: PENALTIES:
Except as otherwise provided, any violation of this title shall be a class B
misdemeanor. This section shall not limit the authority of the court to impose
any other sanction or order any other relief as may be appropriate and lawful
under the laws of the state of Utah. (Ord. 1995-47, 11-15-1995)
13-1-130: FINE SCHEDULE:
Fines for violations of this title shall be assessed in accordance with the
uniform fine schedule as adopted and amended by the judicial council. (Ord.
1995-47, 11-15-1995)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES RELATING TO MINORS
SECTION:
13-2-010: Curfew
13-2-020: Aiding Minor To Violate Curfew
13-2-030: [Reserved]
13-2-040: [Reserved]
13-2-050: [Reserved]
13-2-060: [Reserved]
13-2-070: [Reserved]
13-2-010: CURFEW:
   A.   Hours: It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to be in any public place or on any public street, sidewalk or alley
within Farmington City between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
   B.   Exceptions: The foregoing prohibition shall not apply to situations:
      1.   Where the minor is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian or other
adult having the legal care and custody of said minor; or
      2.   Where the presence of the minor is connected with or required by
some legitimate employment or business of the minor; or
      3.   Where the presence of the minor is connected with a bona fide
meeting, dance, party, sporting event or practice sponsored by a church,
school, league, youth club or theater; or
      4.   Where the presence of the minor is connected with an emergency.
   C.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be a class C misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1996-07, 2-7-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-53, 9-5-2023)
13-2-020: AIDING MINOR TO VIOLATE CURFEW:
   A.   Generally: It is unlawful for any person to intentionally or knowingly
assist, aid, abet or encourage any minor to violate the provisions of section
13-2-010 of this chapter.
   B.   Parent Or Guardian: It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other
person having legal care of any minor, to intentionally or knowingly allow or
permit such minor to be in any public place or public street, sidewalk, or
alley within Farmington City in violation of section
13-2-010 of this chapter.
   C.   Owner Or Operator Of Business: It is unlawful for any person owning or
operating a business to intentionally or knowingly permit any minor to be or
remain on the premises where such business is conducted between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. in violation of
section 13-2-010 of this chapter.
   D.   Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be a class C misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1995-47, 11-15-1995; amd. Ord. 2023-53, 9-5-2023)
13-2-030: [RESERVED]:
13-2-040: [RESERVED]:
13-2-050: [RESERVED]:
13-2-060: SOLICITING THE SERVICE OF OTHERS:
It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) to solicit or
utilize the services of any other person to procure any prohibited article or
admission to any prohibited premises. (Ord. 1995-47, 11-15-1995)
13-2-070: [RESERVED]:
CHAPTER 3
[RESERVED]
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES AGAINST THE ADMINISTRATION OF GOVERNMENT
SECTION:
13-4-010: Manufacture Or Use Of Official Badges
13-4-020: Interfering With Officer In Discharge Of Duty
13-4-030: Concealing Identity Or Furnishing False Information
13-4-010: MANUFACTURE OR USE OF OFFICIAL BADGES:
It is unlawful to manufacture, sell, issue, possess or display any badge or
identification card or other insignia of the design prescribed by the
Farmington City police department or an officer or employee thereof, except by
authorized personnel in the lawful performance of their duties. (Ord. 1995-47,
11-15-1995)
13-4-020: INTERFERING WITH OFFICER IN DISCHARGE OF DUTY:
   A.   Interference: It is unlawful for any person to deter, interfere with or
prevent a police officer, firefighter, code enforcement official or any other
city employee from performing any official duty imposed upon such officer,
firefighter or employee.
   B.   Obstruction: It is unlawful to physically delay or physically obstruct
a police officer, firefighter, code enforcement official or any other city
employee in the discharge or attempt to discharge their official duties. (Ord.
1995-47, 11-15-1995; amd. Ord. 2023-53, 9-5-2023)
13-4-030: CONCEALING IDENTITY OR FURNISHING FALSE INFORMATION:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally conceal or attempt
to conceal his or her identity, to falsely identify himself or herself, or to
furnish or give false or misleading information to any person charged with the
enforcement or administration of any Farmington City ordinance. (Ord. 1995-47,
11-15-1995)
CHAPTER 5
[RESERVED]
CHAPTER 6
WEAPONS AND FIREARMS
SECTION:
13-6-010: Definitions
13-6-020: Discharge Of Firearm Prohibited
13-6-030: Hunting Prohibited
13-6-040: [Reserved]
13-6-050: Incendiary Weapons Prohibited
13-6-060: Tear Gas Weapons Prohibited
13-6-070: Spring Guns Prohibited
13-6-080: [Reserved]
13-6-010: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions contained within Part 5 of Chapter 76-10 of the Utah State
Code, as amended by the Utah Legislature in the future, are hereby adopted for
purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 1995-47, 11-15-1995; amd. Ord. 2023-53, 9-5-
2023)
13-6-020: DISCHARGE OF FIREARM PROHIBITED:
Except as otherwise provided by law, it is unlawful for any person to discharge
any firearm within the limits of Farmington City. (Ord. 1995-47, 11-15-1995)
13-6-030: HUNTING PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: As used herein, the following words shall have the meaning
described below:
   HUNT: To pursue, chase, harass, capture, possess, injure or kill any
wildlife, big game, upland game, waterfowl or small game using any kind of
firearm, handgun, rifle, muzzleloader gun or rifle, pellet gun, BB gun, dart
gun, blow gun, bow and arrow, crossbow, slingshot, or any other device designed
and used or used to propel a projectile of any nature.
   WILDLIFE: Vertebrate animals living in nature and captive vertebrate
animals, including hybrids, belonging to a species that naturally occurs in the
wild. Wildlife includes big game, upland game, waterfowl and small game as
designated by the Utah wildlife board.
   B.   Hunting Restrictions: It is unlawful for any person to hunt big game,
upland game, waterfowl, small game or wildlife within the limits of Farmington
City. (Ord. 2005-46, 9-21-2005; amd. Ord. 2023-53, 9-5-2023)
13-6-040: [RESERVED]:
13-6-050: INCENDIARY WEAPONS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to use, make, carry or possess any type of
"molotov cocktail", gasoline or petroleum base firebomb, or other incendiary
weapon, within the limits of Farmington City. "Molotov cocktail" means a bottle
or other container containing gasoline or other flammable liquid with a fuse
type wick inserted therein. (Ord. 1995-47, 11-15-1995)
13-6-060: TEAR GAS WEAPONS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to carry on his person or in any vehicle a tear
gas gun, projector or bomb, or any object containing noxious liquid gas or
substance. This provision shall not prohibit persons from carrying a small
amount of CS, CN or a similar type gas in aerosol containers for self-defense
purposes. (Ord. 1995-47, 11-15-1995)
13-6-070: SPRING GUNS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to set a spring gun. "Spring gun" means a firearm
that is rigged to fire when a line or other triggering device is tripped by
contact or sufficient force to pull the firearm trigger and thus discharge the
firearm. (Ord. 1995-47, 11-15-1995; amd. Ord. 2023-53, 9-5-2023)
13-6-080: [RESERVED]:
CHAPTER 7
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
13-7-010: [Reserved]
13-7-020: [Reserved]
13-7-030: Trespass By Persons And Motor Vehicles
13-7-040: [Reserved]
13-7-050: [Reserved]
13-7-060: [Reserved]
13-7-010: [RESERVED]:
13-7-020: [RESERVED]:
13-7-030: TRESPASS BY PERSONS AND MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   Exposing Enclosed Premises: It is unlawful for any person to open any
gate, take down any fence, or let down any barrier so as to expose any enclosed
premises of another without the permission of the owner or occupant thereof.
   B.   Presence On Premises: It is unlawful for any person to drive or park
any motor vehicle, motorcycle or other contrivance, or to walk, lodge, camp or
sleep upon the premises of another without the permission of the owner or
occupant thereof.
   C.   Presence On City Premises: It is unlawful for any person to drive or
park any motor vehicle, motorcycle or other contrivance upon any city owned
property which is not designated for vehicular traffic or parking. (Ord. 1995-
47, 11-15-1995)
13-7-040: [RESERVED]:
13-7-050: [RESERVED]:
13-7-060: [RESERVED]:
TITLE 14
TRAFFIC CODE
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
14-1-010: Adoption Of State Traffic Code Provisions
14-1-020: Adoption Of State Highways Act Provisions
14-1-030: Adoption Of State Driver License Act Provisions
14-1-040: Short Title
14-1-050: Citation
14-1-060: Rules Of Construction
14-1-070: Police Chief To Administer
14-1-080: Applicability Generally
14-1-090: Applicability To School Property
14-1-100: Exceptions
14-1-110: Reserved
14-1-120: Penalties
14-1-010: ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC CODE PROVISIONS:
Utah Code Annotated title 41, chapters 1a, 6a, 8, 12a and 22, as amended, are
hereby adopted by this reference as if fully set forth herein; provided,
however, that those provisions which are exclusive to the state of Utah or
which are not enforceable by Farmington City under the laws of the state of
Utah, are excluded. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
14-1-020: ADOPTION OF STATE HIGHWAYS ACT PROVISIONS:
Utah Code Annotated title 72, chapter 4, as amended, is hereby adopted by this
reference as if fully set forth herein; provided, however, that those
provisions which are exclusive to the state of Utah or which are not
enforceable by Farmington City under the laws of the state of Utah, are
excluded. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
14-1-030: ADOPTION OF STATE DRIVER LICENSE ACT PROVISIONS:
Utah Code Annotated title 53, chapter 3, as amended, known as the "uniform
driver license act", is hereby adopted by this reference as if fully set forth
herein; provided, however, that those provisions which are exclusive to the
state of Utah or which are not enforceable by Farmington City under the laws of
the state of Utah, are excluded. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-1-040: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the FARMINGTON CITY TRAFFIC CODE. (Ord. 1995-48,
11-15-1995)
14-1-050: CITATION:
For purposes of referring or citing to the Utah Code Annotated provisions
adopted herein by reference, the specific provision of the Utah Code Annotated
shall be cited by number preceded by this title, e.g., 14/41-1a-101. (Ord.
1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-1-060: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
Insofar as possible, the provisions of this title and the Utah Code Annotated
provisions adopted herein shall be construed in a manner to ensure the
enforcement of the traffic laws of the state of Utah. In the event any
provisions are inconsistent, the inconsistency shall be resolved as follows:
   A.   Any provision of this title which was at one time, but is not now,
consistent with the provisions adopted herein shall be controlled by the law as
it is reflected in the most recent version of the provision, as amended.
   B.   Any provision of this title which deals with the particular local needs
and policies of Farmington City and is otherwise lawful shall control. (Ord.
1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-1-070: POLICE CHIEF TO ADMINISTER:
The chief of police is hereby vested with the powers necessary to administer
the provisions of this title and all laws relating to the operation of vehicles
on the highways of Farmington City. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-1-080: APPLICABILITY GENERALLY:
Pursuant to the authority vested in municipalities under Utah Code Annotated
section 10-8-30, as amended, and to the extent permitted by law, this title
shall be applicable to all vehicular traffic and parking on any public roads,
streets and highways, whether state, federal or local, within the jurisdiction
of Farmington City, and the provisions of this title shall be enforceable by
any law enforcement officer having jurisdiction over such roads, streets and
highways. The provisions of chapter 14-5 and 14-6 may be enforced by any city
official authorized by the Chief of Police to issue notices and citations.
(Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995; amd. Ord. 2025-17, 4-15-2025)
14-1-090: APPLICABILITY TO SCHOOL PROPERTY:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 53A-3-504, as amended, this title is
hereby made applicable to vehicular traffic and parking on all public school
property within Farmington City. All law enforcement officers having
jurisdiction within Farmington City are hereby vested with the authority to
interpret and enforce this title to vehicular traffic and parking on all public
school property within Farmington City. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-1-100: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Emergency Vehicles: The provisions of this title shall not apply to
official emergency or law enforcement vehicles or persons driving such vehicles
when the authorized vehicle is being driven in response to an emergency, or
when used in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the laws, or
when responding to a fire alarm or other emergency, as provided in Utah Code
Annotated section 41-6-14, as amended. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
   B.   Maintenance Vehicles: The provisions of this title shall not apply to
official maintenance vehicles or persons driving such vehicles while actually
engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within the jurisdiction of
Farmington City, as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 41-6a-212, as
amended. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
14-1-110: RESERVED:
(2016 Code)
14-1-120: PENALTIES:
Except as otherwise provided, any violation of this title shall be an
infraction. This section shall not limit the authority of any other relief as
may be appropriate and lawful under the laws of the state of Utah. (Ord. 1995-
48, 11-15-1995; amd. Ord. 2025-17, 4-15-2025)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKINGS
SECTION:
14-2-010: Traffic Signs And Signals
14-2-020: Curb Markings
14-2-030: Failure To Obey
14-2-010: TRAFFIC SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
The city shall place and maintain official traffic signs, signals and markings
upon highways under its jurisdiction as necessary to regulate and guide traffic
and parking within Farmington City and to carry out the provisions of this
title. All signs and signals erected under this section shall conform to and be
maintained in conformance with the department of transportation manual and
specifications for a uniform system of traffic control devices under Utah Code
Annotated section 41-6a-301, as amended, which manual and specifications are
hereby adopted by the city as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-
1995; amd. 2016 Code)
14-2-020: CURB MARKINGS:
The city shall paint and maintain traffic markings upon curbs of any highway
under its jurisdiction as necessary to restrict or prohibit the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles in such areas and to carry out the provisions
of this title. For purposes of this section, any curb which is painted red
shall mean that no stopping, standing or parking is permitted at any time. For
purposes of this section, any curb which is painted yellow shall mean that
stopping, standing or parking is only permitted as designated by appropriate
signs. All markings made hereunder shall conform to the provisions of Utah Code
Annotated title 41, as amended. Any restrictions or prohibitions on stopping,
standing or parking provided in this section shall be effective when the
appropriate signs, signals and/or markings giving notice of such restrictions
or prohibitions are erected upon the affected highway in accordance with the
provisions set forth herein. (Ord. 1997-41, 9-3-1997)
14-2-030: FAILURE TO OBEY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to obey any lawfully erected
traffic sign, signal or curb marking provided herein, unless otherwise directed
to do so by a police officer or other law enforcement or public safety officer.
(Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
CHAPTER 3
ACCIDENTS
SECTION:
14-3-010: Written Report Required
14-3-020: False Information
14-3-010: WRITTEN REPORT REQUIRED:
The operator or owner of a vehicle involved in any accident occurring within
Farmington City shall fill out the required accident forms provided by
Farmington City and shall provide additional information regarding the accident
upon the request of the police department or any investigating officer. (Ord.
1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-3-020: FALSE INFORMATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person involved in an accident within Farmington
City to falsely identify himself or herself, to conceal or attempt to conceal
his or her identity, or to give false information to any law enforcement
officer. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
CHAPTER 4
SPEED RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
14-4-010: Prima Facie Speed Limit
14-4-020: Posted Limits
14-4-010: PRIMA FACIE SPEED LIMIT:
The prima facie speed for all highways under the jurisdiction of Farmington
City shall be as follows:
   A.   Twenty (20) miles per hour when passing a school building or its
grounds during school recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during opening or closing hours;
   B.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour when passing through a residential
district;
   C.   Thirty (30) miles per hour when passing through a business district.
(Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-4-020: POSTED LIMITS:
The city shall declare and post alternative speed limits for highways under the
jurisdiction of Farmington City when it is determined after an engineering and
traffic investigation that the reasonable and safe prima facie limit may be as
posted. Any speed limit altered under this section is effective when
appropriate signs giving notice are erected upon the affected highway. (Ord.
1995-48, 11-15-1995)
CHAPTER 5
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
14-5-010: All Night Parking
14-5-020: Permit For All Night Parking
14-5-030: Two Hour Parking
14-5-040: Parking For Certain Purposes
14-5-050: Storing Vehicle On Street
14-5-050.1: Parking In City Parks
14-5-050.2: Parking In Angled Spaces On Street
14-5-060: Parking In City Cemetery
14-5-060.1: Parking Of Large Vehicles
14-5-060.2: Restricted Customer Parking In Certain Residential Areas
14-5-070: Hazardous And Congested Places
14-5-080: Owner's Responsibility For Parking Violation
14-5-090: Fines
14-5-100: Impoundment
14-5-110: Parking Violations Identified In State Law
14-5-120: Civil Enforcement
 
14-5-010: ALL NIGHT PARKING:
No person shall park a vehicle on any street within the jurisdiction of
Farmington City during the period from November 15 to and including the last
day of February, between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. of any day, except physicians during emergency calls or by permit
provided in section
14-5-020 of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-41, 11-7-2001)
14-5-020: PERMIT FOR ALL NIGHT PARKING:
Any resident of Farmington City may apply to the City for a permit for all
night parking when the same is required by emergency or other unusual
circumstances. The City Chief of Police, upon good cause shown, may issue such
a permit for a period not to exceed twenty four (24) hours and shall issue a
sticker to be displayed by the owner under the windshield wiper of the
automobile to be parked. The City Chief of Police shall be the sole judge as to
the necessity and requirement for the issuance of such permit. (Ord. 1995-48,
11-15-1995)
14-5-030: TWO HOUR PARKING:
No person shall park a vehicle on State Street between 100 West and 100 East,
or on Main Street between 100 South and 100 North in Farmington City between
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. in one place
for more than a continuous two (2) hour period. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-5-040: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES:
No person shall park a vehicle upon any highway within the jurisdiction of
Farmington City for the principal purpose of:
   A.   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   B.   Displaying any advertising;
   C.   Greasing or repairing such vehicle other than repairs necessitated by
an emergency; or
   D.   Displaying for sale or selling any foodstuffs or merchandise. (Ord.
1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-5-050: STORING VEHICLE ON STREET:
No person shall park a motor vehicle or similar conveyance upon any public
street within the jurisdiction of Farmington City for more than a continuous
forty eight (48) hour period. Such motor vehicle shall be considered to be in
violation of this paragraph if parked in any one location for longer than forty
eight (48) hours or if the vehicle has been parked in one or more locations
within the same block for longer than such forty eight (48) hour period.
Any nonmotorized vehicle, recreation vehicle, boat, trailer, hauling trailer,
similar apparatus, or other conveyance can only be parked upon any public
street within the jurisdiction of Farmington City for the immediate loading or
unloading and never longer than a twenty four (24) consecutive hour period.
(Ord. 2018-36, 10-2-2018)
14-5-050.1: PARKING IN CITY PARKS:
Parking areas in City parks are intended for use by persons using the City park
facilities. No person shall park a vehicle, boat, trailer, semitruck or
trailer, or other conveyance, within City park parking areas for private
storage purposes, or for any other purpose inconsistent with City park use,
such as parking for car pools, park and rides or overflow residential parking,
except by special use permit issued by the Chief of Police or his designee.
(Ord. 2017-22, 9-19-2017)
14-5-050.2: PARKING IN ANGLED SPACES ON STREET:
No person shall park a vehicle, boat, trailer, semi-truck and/or trailer,
recreational vehicle, or other conveyance in angled parking spaces on a public
street in excess of seven feet (7') in height and twenty one feet (21') in
length. (Ord. 2017-22, 9-19-2017)
14-5-060: PARKING IN CITY CEMETERY:
Cemetery parking areas are intended for use by persons attending services
within the cemetery or visiting gravesites, or for any other legitimate
cemetery patron or maintenance use. No person shall park a vehicle, boat,
trailer or other conveyance within the boundaries of the Farmington City
Cemetery for private storage purposes, including, but not limited to, semi-
trucks and trailers, or for any other purpose inconsistent with cemetery use,
such as parking for car pools, park and rides or overflow residential parking,
except by special permit issued by the Chief of Police or his designee. (Ord.
2017-22, 9-19-2017)
14-5-060.1: PARKING OF LARGE VEHICLES:
No person shall park any commercial truck, trailer, tractor or other vehicle
having a total gross weight, loaded or unloaded, in excess of twelve thousand
(12,000) pounds, or having a total length in excess of twenty four feet (24'),
within any single- family or multiple-family residential zone, as defined
herein and designated on the City zoning map, or on any important local or
local street, as defined in the City General Plan, within the jurisdiction of
the City, except when making actual deliveries or doing work at the site where
parked. (Ord. 2018-36, 10-2-2018)
14-5-060.2: RESTRICTED CUSTOMER PARKING IN CERTAIN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
Patrons or employees of any commercial establishment or any institutional
entity shall not park along the street frontages within residential areas and/
or other private property which is not associated with the commercial
establishment and/or institutional entity where such frontages are properly
signed restricting such parking. (Ord. 2003-20, 5-21-2003)
14-5-070: HAZARDOUS AND CONGESTED PLACES:
No persons shall stop, stand or park a vehicle at any hazardous or congested
place within the jurisdiction of Farmington City when such place is properly
designated by the City with official signs or markings. (Ord. 1998-35, 9-2-
1998, eff. 9-2-1998)
14-5-080: OWNER'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR PARKING VIOLATION:
Whenever any vehicle shall have been parked in violation of any ordinance
prohibiting or restricting parking, the person in whose name such vehicle is
registered shall be prima facie responsible for such violation and subject to
the penalty therefor. (Ord. 1998-35, 9-2-1998, eff. 9-2-1998)
14-5-090: FINES:
The City Council shall by resolution set a schedule of fines to be levied for
parking violations within Farmington City. (Ord. 1998-35, 9-2-1998, eff. 9-2-
1998)
14-5-100: IMPOUNDMENT:
Any vehicle parked in violation of any ordinance restricting or prohibiting
stopping, standing and/or parking on any public highway within the jurisdiction
of Farmington City, as provided herein, shall be subject to impoundment as
provided in chapter 7 of this title. (Ord. 1998-35, 9-2-1998, eff. 9-2-1998)
14-5-110: PARKING VIOLATIONS IDENTIFIED IN STATE LAW:
The parking laws promulgated by chapter 41-6a of Utah Code Annotated are
adopted by reference and may be enforced by authorized city officials using the
civil procedures established in this chapter. This section does not prohibit
the use of criminal enforcement by law enforcement officers to address parking
violations. (Ord. 2025-17, 4-15-2025)
14-5-120: CIVIL ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Civil enforcement is the preferred method of addressing parking
violations of this chapter. Criminal enforcement may be utilized at the
discretion of law enforcement officials for egregious, repeated, or imminently
dangerous situations. Civil penalties may be in addition to other remedies,
such as towing or impoundment.
   B.   The Chief of Police may vest any city official with authority to
investigate, notice and cite violations of this chapter.
   C.   Initial warnings for first-time violators may be utilized by
enforcement officials, which warnings may be attached to or prominently
displayed on vehicles or trailers parked in violation of this chapter. No
additional notification is provided to the registered owner for warnings. This
subsection does not prohibit the use of citations for a first-time violation,
nor require an additional warning when a registered owner did not receive or
discover an issued warning.
   D.   Citations may be issued by an enforcement official by leaving a
citation prominently displayed on the violating vehicle or trailer. The
physical citation constitutes the sole notification necessary to initiate the
enforcement process. The City may as a courtesy provide additional written or
verbal notice to a registered owner when a citation is issued. The failure of a
registered owner to receive additional notice under this subsection shall not
invalidate the citation nor constitute a failure of notice.
   E.   Citations shall include: the date and time; the approximate location of
the vehicle or trailer; the section violated; the penalty fee owed; and, if
readily available, the make model and license plate.
   F.   Citations may be appealed by filing a notice of appeal with the City
Recorder in accordance with section
3-7-050 of this code, within ten calendar days of the citation’s placement on
the vehicle or trailer.
   G.   The issuance of a citation or initiation of an administrative appeal
does not prevent additional enforcement activity, including issuance of
additional citations or impoundment of an illegally parked vehicle or trailer.
   H.   All penalty fees collected shall be payable to Farmington City, and the
City may use such lawful means as are available to collect unpaid penalties. If
a collections action is pursued, the City shall be entitled to reasonable
attorney fees and costs associated with collection. Unpaid fees may be referred
to a collection agency. (Ord. 2025-17, 4-15-2025)
CHAPTER 6
MISCELLANEOUS RULES
SECTION:
14-6-010: Driving To The Left Of Double Centerline
14-6-020: Driving Within Safety Zones
14-6-030: Driving Within Bicycle Lanes
14-6-040: Driving Over "Wet" Traffic Markings
14-6-050: Driving On New Pavement
14-6-060: Avoiding Intersection Or Highway
14-6-070: Turning After Giving Signal
14-6-080: Duty To Keep Proper Lookout
14-6-090: Interference With Control
14-6-100: Seating
14-6-110: Standing On Seat
14-6-120: Hanging On Outside Of Moving Vehicle
14-6-130: Attaching Sled Or Other Conveyance
14-6-140: Tampering With Vehicle
14-6-150: Excessive Acceleration
14-6-160: Safe Operation
14-6-170: Driving While Impaired
14-6-180: Funeral Processions
14-6-190: Parades And Processions
14-6-200: Discharge Of Debris
14-6-210: Load Limitation
14-6-220: Lending Vehicle
14-6-230: Pedestrian Obstruction
14-6-240: Roller Skating And Skateboard Restrictions
14-6-010: DRIVING TO THE LEFT OF DOUBLE CENTERLINE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle along the street or
highway to the left of a double centerline, or other space, median or barrier
of a divided highway, except where authorized by an official traffic control
device or peace officer. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-020: DRIVING WITHIN SAFETY ZONES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle through or within a
safety zone, dividing section, roadway traffic island or any area within or
along a roadway from which vehicular traffic is intended to be excluded. (Ord.
1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-030: DRIVING WITHIN BICYCLE LANES:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to use a marked bicycle lane
as a turning lane, or to drive within, through, park or stop within a marked
bicycle lane, except to briefly cross said lane to turn into an intersection,
street, alley, driveway or other parking area. Any vehicle so turning must
yield the right of way to all bicycles within the lane which are close enough
to constitute an immediate hazard. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-040: DRIVING OVER "WET" TRAFFIC MARKINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or ride any vehicle or animal
over, on or across any painted traffic markings which are indicated as being
"wet". (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-050: DRIVING ON NEW PAVEMENT:
No person shall drive or ride any vehicle or animal over or across any newly
made pavement in any public street when there is a person, sign, or barrier
warning persons not to drive or ride over or across such pavement or that the
street is closed. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-060: AVOIDING INTERSECTION OR HIGHWAY:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to purposefully avoid
designated intersections or highways, or the traffic regulations set forth
herein, by cutting through any service station lot, parking lot, or other
public or private lot. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-070: TURNING AFTER GIVING SIGNAL:
Once the driver of any vehicle has given any signal indicating an intention to
turn, the driver must make such indicated turn. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-080: DUTY TO KEEP PROPER LOOKOUT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle without keeping a
reasonable and proper lookout for other traffic, objects and persons. (Ord.
1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-090: INTERFERENCE WITH CONTROL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any activity that interferes
with the safe control and operation of any vehicle while the same is in motion.
(Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-100: SEATING:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to have on his or her lap
any other person, adult or child, or animal, or for the driver to be seated in
the lap of any other person while the vehicle is in motion. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-
15-1995)
14-6-110: STANDING ON SEAT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle while any person,
adult or child, is standing on a seat within such vehicle. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-
15-1995)
14-6-120: HANGING ON OUTSIDE OF MOVING VEHICLE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to climb, swing or otherwise hold onto the
outside of any moving vehicle. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-130: ATTACHING SLED OR OTHER CONVEYANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly drive or operate a vehicle
upon any street within the jurisdiction of Farmington City while any person
riding a bicycle, moped, coaster, skateboard, roller skates, sled or similar
conveyance is attached or connected to such vehicle. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-140: TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, tamper or interfere with another
person's vehicle without the authority of the owner or the person lawfully in
charge of the vehicle. Such acts include, but are not limited to, climbing upon
or into the vehicle, sounding the horn or any other signaling device,
manipulating any of the levers, starter, brakes or machinery thereof, or
setting the vehicle in motion. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-150: EXCESSIVE ACCELERATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to race the motor of any vehicle
unnecessarily in such a manner that the vehicle is so rapidly accelerated that
the vehicle emits a loud noise unusual to its operation or whereby the tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the pavement or other surface. (Ord.
1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-160: SAFE OPERATION:
No person shall drive a vehicle in such a manner as to endanger life or
property by failing to keep his or her vehicle under safe and proper control,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle with such lack of
due care and in such negligent manner as to cause the same to collide with any
vehicle, person or object. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-170: DRIVING WHILE IMPAIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle while his or her
ability or alertness is so impaired through fatigue, illness or any other cause
as to make it unsafe for him or her to drive such vehicle. This section shall
not be interpreted to include circumstances amounting to "driving while
intoxicated" or "reckless driving", as defined in Utah Code Annotated section
41-6a-501 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995; amd. 2016 Code)
14-6-180: FUNERAL PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Procession Identification: Every person driving a motor vehicle in a
funeral procession shall display illuminated headlights thereon and shall
follow not more than thirty feet (30') behind the next preceding vehicle in
such procession.
   B.   Adequate Escort: All funeral processions having a police escort or
other escort service consisting of two (2) escort vehicles or one escort
vehicle for each twenty five (25) vehicles in the procession, whichever is
greater, shall be deemed to have "adequate police or other escort service".
   C.   Right Of Way: All vehicles in an adequately escorted funeral
procession, as defined in subsection B of this section, may proceed past a red
or stop signal within the jurisdiction of Farmington City and shall have the
right of way at any street intersection within the jurisdiction of Farmington
City.
   D.   Interference: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive between the
vehicles of an adequately escorted funeral procession so as to break the
consecutive line of travel of the procession. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-190: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: Any persons desiring to engage in a procession or
parade, other than a funeral procession, shall obtain a permit from the city
before occupying, marching or proceeding along any street within the
jurisdiction of Farmington City.
   B.   Permit Request: All requests for permits shall be made in writing at
least ten (10) days prior to the actual time of the procession or parade and
shall state the time, place of formation, proposed line of march, destination
and such other information as the city may require.
   C.   Time, Place And Manner: The city may alter the time, place and manner
of the parade or procession as it deems necessary to promote the health,
safety, welfare and convenience of the public.
   D.   Supervision: The person or persons obtaining a permit, together with
the sponsoring organizations, shall provide at their own expense, police
supervision for such parades or processions which are not of a community wide
nature when the city determines that such supervision is necessary to promote
the health, safety and welfare of the public. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-200: DISCHARGE OF DEBRIS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or load, or cause to be operated
or loaded, a vehicle upon any public highway within the jurisdiction of
Farmington City from which any kind of sand, gravel, rocks, materials or debris
fall, discharge or otherwise escape therefrom. This section shall not apply to
official street maintenance crews or to other persons who have obtained a
proper permit from the city. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-210: LOAD LIMITATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or load, or cause to be operated
or loaded, any vehicle upon any public highway within the jurisdiction of
Farmington City in which the contact points of the material being hauled are
less than six inches (6") from the top of the bed, unless the vehicle is
sufficiently covered or tied down so as to prevent such materials from
littering, spilling or otherwise escaping therefrom. This section shall not
apply to official street maintenance crews or to other persons who have
obtained a proper permit from the city. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-220: LENDING VEHICLE:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or person lawfully in control of a vehicle
to lend the same to another without first obtaining the person's name and
verifying that such person is legally licensed to operate a vehicle under the
laws of this state, or in the case of a nonresident, licensed under the laws of
the state or country of his or her residence. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-230: PEDESTRIAN OBSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or prevent the free use of
sidewalks or crosswalks within Farmington City by other pedestrians. (Ord.
1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-6-240: ROLLER SKATING AND SKATEBOARD RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person upon roller skates, rollerblades,
skateboards, or riding in or by means of any coaster, sled, toy wagon, scooter
or similar device, to obstruct or restrict vehicular traffic upon any street
within Farmington City or to otherwise use such devices in a dangerous or
unsafe manner with regards to pedestrians within the public right of way. (Ord.
1995-48, 11-15-1995)
CHAPTER 7
IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
14-7-010: City Impoundment
14-7-020: State Impound
14-7-030: Other Remedies
14-7-010: CITY IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Authority: The city may seize and take possession of any vehicle left
unattended on any public highway within the jurisdiction of Farmington City
when:
      1.   The vehicle is left parked in the same place continuously for
seventy two (72) hours;
      2.   The vehicle obstructs traffic or creates a hazard to the safety and
welfare of the public;
      3.   The vehicle obstructs firefighting apparatus or constitutes a fire
hazard; (Ord. 1997-41, 9-3-1997)
      4.   The person in charge of the vehicle is physically incapacitated to
an extent as to be unable to provide for its custody or removal, for reasons
other than "driving while intoxicated" or "reckless driving", as defined in
Utah Code Annotated section 41-6a-501 et seq., as amended;
      5.   The person in charge of the vehicle has been taken into custody by
the police department for reasons other than "driving while intoxicated" or
"reckless driving", as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 41-6a-501 et
seq., as amended; or (Ord. 1997-41, 9-3-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
      6.   The vehicle is parked in violation of any ordinance or lawfully
erected traffic sign or curb marking restricting or prohibiting stopping,
standing or parking. (Ord. 1997-41, 9-3-1997)
   B.   Procedure: When a vehicle is impounded pursuant to subsection A of this
section, the city need not notify the state division of motor vehicles nor fill
out a state tax impound form, but shall comply with all the other towing and
impound procedures set forth at Utah Code Annotated sections 41-1a-1101 through
41-1a-1106, as amended. (Ord. 1997-41, 9-3-1997; amd. 2016 Code)
   C.   Fees: The fees for impounding a vehicle under this chapter shall be set
forth by the city council by resolution. (Ord. 1997-41, 9-3-1997)
14-7-020: STATE IMPOUND:
Nothing herein shall be interpreted to permit the impoundment of any vehicle
contrary to the requirements of state impoundment procedures when applicable.
(Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
14-7-030: OTHER REMEDIES:
The impounding of a vehicle under this chapter shall not prevent or preclude
the city from instituting other appropriate criminal or civil proceedings
against the owner. (Ord. 1995-48, 11-15-1995)
CHAPTER 8
TRUCK ROUTES
SECTION:
14-8-010: Findings And Purpose
14-8-020: Definitions
14-8-030: Restrictions
14-8-040: Truck Route Designation
14-8-050: Special Permit
14-8-060: Signs
14-8-070: Violations
14-8-010: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
The Farmington City council finds and declares that the travel of restricted
vehicles on streets other than those identified as truck routes herein, in
certain climatic conditions, results in abnormal and accelerated deterioration
of public streets. Such travel also presents a hazard to public health and
safety. The purpose of this chapter is to promote the safe and normal movement
of traffic within the city and to prevent undue burden and damage to streets
and highways within the city through the establishment of designated "truck
routes". (Ord. 2002-01, 1-2-2002)
14-8-020: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein, the following words shall have the meanings set forth below:
CITY: Farmington City.
RESTRICTED VEHICLE: All vehicles, combination of vehicles or combinations of
vehicles and load having a length of more than forty five feet (45') or a width
of more than eight and one-half feet (81/2') or a height of more than fourteen
feet (14') and all vehicles registered for thirty six thousand (36,000) pounds'
gross weight or more.
TRUCK ROUTES: Those streets and highways within the corporate limits of the
city designated in section
14-8-040 of this chapter which are open to restricted vehicle traffic. (Ord.
2002-01, 1-2-2002)
14-8-030: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Limited To Truck Routes: No restricted vehicle shall move upon any
street within the jurisdiction of Farmington City which is not designated as a
truck route, except as otherwise provided herein.
   B.   Necessary Deviations: Restricted vehicles may use other streets and
highways within the city only when such use is sporadic and occasional and is
necessary to access a destination point within the city which is not situated
along a designated truck route or to access the designated truck routes when
leaving from a place originating within the city which is not situated along a
designated truck route. Any deviation from the designated truck routes as
permitted herein shall be accomplished by the most reasonable and direct route
available. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-2-2002)
14-8-040: TRUCK ROUTE DESIGNATION:
The following streets and parts of streets lying within the corporate
boundaries of Farmington City are hereby designated as permissible "truck
routes" within the city, as further delineated on the map attached to the
ordinance codified herein:
   Frontage Road north from Lund Lane to 200 West Street.
   Lagoon Drive north from the 200 West/I-15 northbound off ramp to Burke Lane.
   Main Street north from State Street to Shepard Lane.
   Park Lane west from Main Street to I-15.
   Shepard Lane from 1075 West east to U.S. 89.
   State Street west from 100 East to Main Street.
   1075 West from the Cherry Hill interchange south to Shepard Lane.
Any and all federal, state or county roads or highways designated as such
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated title 72, chapters 3 and 4, not otherwise
described herein. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-2-2002; amd. 2016 Code)
14-8-050: SPECIAL PERMIT:
   A.   Special Permit: Persons may file with the city an application for a
"special truck routing permit" authorizing the applicant to operate or move a
restricted vehicle upon city streets not otherwise permitted herein. Unless
otherwise provided, any permit issued hereunder shall be in addition to any and
all other licenses or permits required by law.
   B.   Application: Applications for special truck routing permits shall be
made in writing to Farmington City on a form provided by the city, which form
shall require the following information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Activity or purposes for which the permit is desired;
      3.   Description of the truck(s) to be operated or moved pursuant to the
permit;
      4.   Specification of the roads or streets to be used; and
      5.   Specification of the time frame and number of trips to be covered by
the permit.
   C.   Fees: Each application for permit filed hereunder shall be accompanied
by the required permit fees as set forth by resolution by the city council. No
permit shall be issued until the proper fees have been paid to the city. Unless
otherwise provided, the fees required herein shall be in addition to any and
all other license or permit fees imposed by any other law.
   D.   Issuance: The city zoning administrator or his/her designee shall
review applications seeking authorization to move restricted vehicles upon
streets other than designated truck routes. Restricted vehicle use of city
streets for less than three (3) days annually and/or for less than ten (10)
loads shall be exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter. The zoning
administrator may issue or deny a permit based upon consideration for the
safety of the traveling public and protection of the foundation, surfaces and
structures of city streets. Issuance of the permit may be conditioned upon
certain terms, including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Limiting the number of trips the vehicle may take;
      2.   Reducing speed limits for restricted vehicles in residential areas
or near schools;
      3.   Establishing seasonal or other time limits within which the vehicle
may operate or move on the street;
      4.   Requiring bonds or other forms of security to assure payment to the
city or other damaged parties for any damage or expense caused by such vehicle
use;
      5.   Requiring an indemnification agreement holding the city harmless
from any damage or expense incurred as a result of such vehicle use; and
      6.   Compliance with Utah pollutant discharge elimination system (UPDES)
requirements.
   E.   Denial: If the proper fees have not been paid, or the zoning
administrator determines that the application does not conform with applicable
law or it is not in the public's best interest to issue the permit, the zoning
administrator shall deny the permit and notify the applicant in writing of such
denial. The notice shall state the reasons for denial and inform the applicant
that he or she may file a written appeal of such denial pursuant to subsection
K of this section.
   F.   Term: Any permit issued hereunder shall specifically state the term and
purpose for which it was issued, not to exceed one year.
   G.   Limitation: Except as provided herein, each permit issued hereunder
shall be valid only for the person to whom it is issued and only for the
purpose for which is it issued.
   H.   Records: The city recorder shall keep a record of all permits issued,
including the name of the person to whom the permit was issued, the type of
permit issued, and the fees collected. In addition, a copy of all permits
issued, with appropriate documentation, including any restrictions and
conditions attached to the permit, shall be forwarded to the Farmington City
police chief.
   I.   Display: Any permit issued hereunder shall be carried in the truck to
which it refers and shall be available for inspection by any peace officer or
authorized law enforcement agent.
   J.   Revocation: Any permit issued hereunder may be revoked or suspended by
the city due to the permit holder's failure to comply with the provisions
hereof or other applicable law. Prior to revocation of any permit, proper
notice and an opportunity to be heard shall be provided to the permit holder.
   K.   Appeal: Any determination made by the zoning administrator relative to
the issuance, denial or revocation of a permit hereunder may be appealed to the
administrative hearing officer by any affected person by filing, within ten
(10) calendar days from the date of said determination, a written notice of
appeal setting forth the grounds for the appeal and any other pertinent
information. Such notice of appeal shall be filed by delivering a written
notice of appeal to the city recorder during regular business hours. (Ord.
2006-18, 3-15-2006; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
14-8-060: SIGNS:
The city shall install and maintain appropriate truck routing signs, signals
and markings upon the streets and highways under its jurisdiction as necessary
to regulate and guide traffic in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. All signs, signals and markings installed by the city shall conform to
and be maintained in conformance with the "Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" as adopted by the state transportation commission pursuant to Utah
Code Annotated section 41-6a-301, as amended. (Ord. 2002-01, 1-2-2002; amd.
2016 Code)
14-8-070: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Penalty: Any person found in violation of this chapter shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor and subject to imprisonment and/or fines as set forth
in Utah Code Annotated sections 76-3-204 and 76-3-301, as amended.
   B.   Damages: In addition to any criminal penalties provided for herein, any
person who operates or moves any vehicle within the city in violation of this
chapter or who by any means wilfully or negligently injures or damages any city
street, equipment or sign, shall be liable for the damages resulting therefrom.
(Ord. 2002-01, 1-2-2002)
TITLE 15
SIGN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
15-1-010: Short Title
15-1-020: Purpose And Intent
15-1-030: Scope Of Provisions
15-1-040: Definitions
15-1-050: Variances
15-1-010: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the FARMINGTON CITY SIGN ORDINANCE and may be
referenced as this title. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-1-020: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this title is to provide minimum standards to safeguard
property, public health, safety and general welfare, and to preserve the unique
character of Farmington City through the establishment of guidelines governing
the size, height, design, location and maintenance of signs. It is not the
intent of this title to regulate the message content of signs or to regulate
any signs which are not intended to be viewed by the general public from
outside the property line. The following goals have been established to help
achieve such purpose and intent:
   A.   To encourage signs which help to visually organize the activities of
the city, lend order and meaning to business identification, and make it easier
for the public and service delivery systems to locate and identify their
destinations;
   B.   To assure that all signs, in terms of size, scale, height and location,
are compatible with adjacent land uses and with the size of the development
which they serve;
   C.   To implement principles established in the Farmington City general plan
which recognize that the special character of the city rests largely in the
quality of its appearance;
   D.   To minimize unnecessary distractions to motorists, protect pedestrians,
and provide safe working conditions for those persons who are required to
install, maintain, repair and remove signs; and
   E.   To be fair to each property owner by providing that equal and adequate
exposure to the public is made available and that no signs are allowed to
visually dominate neighboring signs. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-1-030: SCOPE OF PROVISIONS:
In interpreting the provisions of this title, the requirements contained herein
are declared to be the minimum standards necessary to accomplish the purposes
set forth. The types of signs allowed by this title are fully described. Signs
not specifically described herein shall be prohibited. Where the provisions of
this title impose greater restrictions than any other statute, regulation,
ordinance or covenant, these provisions shall prevail. Where the provisions of
any statute, regulation, ordinance or covenant impose greater restrictions than
the provisions of this title, the provisions of such statute, regulation,
ordinance or covenant shall prevail. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-1-040: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever any words or phrases used in this title are not defined herein, but
are defined in related sections of this code or international building code,
such definitions are incorporated herein and shall apply as though set forth
herein in full, unless the context clearly indicates a contrary intention.
Words not defined in any code shall have their ordinarily accepted meanings
within the context in which they appear. Unless a contrary intention clearly
appears, words used in the present tense include the future, the singular
includes the plural, the term "shall" is always mandatory, and the term "may"
is permissive. The following terms as used in this title shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them:
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign which displays evidence of neglect, no longer identifies
or advertises a bona fide business, lessor, service, owner, product or
activity, and/or a sign for which no legal owner can be found.
ALTERATION: A change or rearrangement in the structural parts of a sign causing
an increase in the height, width or area, or moving the sign from one location
to another.
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign which uses movement of all or part of the sign or a
rapid or intermittent change of lighting to attract attention, depict action or
to create a special effect or scene. This includes sign spinners.
ARCHITECTURAL DETAIL: Any projection, relief, cornice, column, change of
building material, window or door opening on any building.
ARCHITECTURAL, SCENIC OR HISTORIC AREA: An area that contains unique visual or
historic characteristics or whose natural beauty requires special sign
regulations to ensure that all signs displayed within the area are compatible
with the area.
AWNING SIGN: A sign attached to a building which consists of a fireproof space-
frame structure with sign copy imprinted on a translucent flexible reinforced
vinyl covering designed in awning form. Such signs may, or may not, be
internally illuminated by fluorescent or other light sources in fixtures
approved under the national electrical code.
BANNER OR PENNANT: Any cloth, bunting, plastic, paper or similar material used
for temporary commercial or home sale advertising purposes attached to, or
appended on or from, any structure, staff, pole, line, framing or vehicle.
BARBER'S POLE: A traditional pole or symbol used to identify the place of
business of a barber, containing no advertising. Barber's poles are classified
as projecting signs. For the purpose of this title, barber's poles are not
considered to be animated signs.
BILLBOARD: An off premises ground sign.
BUILDING FACE: All window and wall area of a building in one plane, from ground
level to the peak of the roof and/or top of parapet wall.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign on which the characters, letters or illustrations
can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or surface of the sign
regardless of method of attachment. Any type or classification of sign may
contain changeable copy.
COMMERCIAL COMPLEX: A group of two (2) or more commercial uses, whether on one
lot under one ownership or on several adjacent lots under separate ownership,
which are dependent on one another to meet minimum standards for parking,
vehicular circulation and/or landscaping, or are approved as elements in an
overall site plan under a conditional use or subdivision application.
COPY: Any words, letters, numbers, figures, designs or other symbolic
representations on the display surface of a sign.
CORPORATE FLAG: A flag with a corporate name or logo flown in front of a
corporate office or facility for the purpose of identifying the company located
within. Corporate flag does not include flags or banners with a company name or
logo used to advertise products or homes for sale.
DIRECTORY SIGN: A common sign identifying two (2) or more persons, businesses
or establishments.
DISPLAY SURFACE: The surface available on the sign structure for the mounting
of material to advertise or promote a product, event, person or subject.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN: A changeable copy sign that uses lights to form a sign
message wherein the sequence of messages and the rate of change is
electronically programmed and can be modified by electronic processes. Time
and/or temperature shall not be considered an electronic message sign. For the
purposes of this title, electronic message signs are not considered to be
animated signs.
FRONTAGE: A linear measurement along the property line of a lot or parcel of
property which fronts on a public street. Frontage is used as the basis for
determining, in part, the maximum sign area and number of signs allowed for
individual activities.
GROUND SIGN: A sign which is three (3) or more feet above the ground and is
supported by one or more uprights, poles, posts or braces placed in or upon the
ground which are not a part of, or attached to, a building. The definition
includes "pylon signs", "freestanding signs" and "pole signs".
HEIGHT (Of A Sign): The greatest distance measured from the top of the nearest
curb or sidewalk to the top of the sign, including any protruding architectural
features.
IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign which serves to identify only the name and address
of the building, institution, person and/or lawful use which occupies the
premises.
ILLEGAL SIGN: A sign which does not meet the requirements of this title and
which has not received legal nonconforming status.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs or
outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes. This definition shall
also include reflectorized, glowing or radiating signs.
LOGO: A symbol, design or graphic representation, which may include text that
identifies a business, activity or company.
MAINTENANCE: The cleaning, painting, repair or replacement of defective parts
of a sign in a manner that does not alter the basic copy, design or structure
of the sign.
MODEL HOME SIGN: An off premises sign designed solely to provide direction or
guidance for vehicular traffic to a model home.
MONUMENT SIGN: An on premises sign, the entire bottom of which is in full
contact with, or closer than three feet (3') to, the ground.
NAMEPLATE: A nonilluminated identification sign, attached to the main building
on a lot, which gives only the name, address and/or occupation of the occupant
or occupants of a dwelling.
NEON SIGN: A sign which incorporates into its design neon or gaseous light
tubing that is uncovered, or covered by a transparent cover, allowing the
tubing to be visible.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign which was legally installed under laws or ordinances
in effect prior to the effective date hereof, or subsequent revisions, but
which is in conflict with the provisions of this title.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: A sign which directs attention to a use, product, commodity,
event or service not related to the property on which the sign is located. This
definition includes billboards.
ON PREMISES SIGN: A sign which directs attention to a use, product, commodity,
event or service which exists or is available on the property on which the sign
is located.
OPEN HOUSE: A home for sale, lease or rent that is open for inspection on a
specific day and is occupied by at least one person present to show the house.
The open house need not be occupied if the seller has a model home in the same
subdivision which is occupied by a person present to show the open house.
OPEN HOUSE SIGN: An off premises sign designed solely to provide direction or
guidance for vehicular traffic to real estate that is for sale, lease or rent.
OWNER: A person, corporation, organization or agency having a legal or
equitable interest in property and includes successors in interest, assigns or
the agent of any of the aforesaid.
PERMANENT SIGN: A sign intended to exist for the duration of time that the use
or occupant is located on the premises and which is designed to be permanently
attached to the ground or to a building. The sign shall be constructed entirely
of durable materials.
POLITICAL SIGN: A sign limited to issues, ballot measures, ballot propositions,
candidates or groups of candidates in any district, municipality, community,
state or federal election.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign that is not permanently attached to the ground or a
building, signs designed to be transported by wheels or other means, "A" or "T"
frame signs unless specifically allowed by this title, or signs attached to,
painted on or supported by stationary vehicles or trailers, which are visible
from a public street and have the express purpose of advertising a business,
product, service or event.
PREMISES: A lot or a building site, combination of lots or building sites, or a
specific portion of a lot or building site, that contains the structures and
the open spaces owned in connection with a lot, for the location, maintenance
and operation of the use of the property.
PROJECT IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A permanent sign identifying an area of distinct
character under multiple ownerships such as a residential neighborhood,
historic district, shopping center or industrial park.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign other than a wall sign suspended from, or supported by,
a building or structure and projecting outward more than twelve inches (12").
PROPERTY SIGN: A sign related to the property on which it is located and
offering such property for sale or lease, advertising contemplated
improvements, announcing the name of the builder, designer, owner or developer
of a project, or warning against trespass. Similar signs not related to the
property on which they are located are considered off premises signs, not
temporary signs.
ROOF SIGN: A sign displayed on or above the roof, peak or parapet of a building
and attached to the building.
SERVICE SIGN: An on premises sign erected for the purpose of facilitating,
directing, or controlling the efficient or safe movement of pedestrians or
vehicles on or into private property and which conveys information such as
"restrooms", "no parking", "entrance", "exit" or other messages of information,
direction or warning, but does not contain brand, trade or business
identification.
SIGN: Means and includes every advertising message, announcement, declaration,
demonstration, merchandise display, illustration, insignia, surface or space
erected or maintained in view of a public street for identification,
advertisement or promotion of the interests of any person, entity, event,
product or service. This definition shall also include the sign structure,
supports, lighting system and any attachments, ornaments or other features
designed to attract the attention of observers.
SIGN AREA: The area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding the
minimum frame and support structure. In computing sign area, only one side of a
double faced sign covering the same subject shall be computed when the two (2)
faces are parallel or diverge from a common edge at an angle of forty five
degrees (45°) or less. When a sign has more than two (2) faces, the area of the
third face, and all additional faces, shall be included in determining the area
of the sign. For signs that do not have a frame or integral background, sign
area shall be computed based on the area of the smallest square, rectangle or
triangle which will completely frame the display.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign, balloon, banner, valance or advertising display
constructed of paper, cloth, canvas fabric, cardboard, wallboard, wood or other
light material, with or without a frame, intended to be displayed out of doors
for a short period of time.
WALL SIGN: A sign attached to and parallel with the exterior wall or windows of
a building, extending not more than twelve inches (12") from such wall, and
having messages or copy on the front side only. This definition includes
painted, individual letter and cabinet signs. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009; amd.
Ord. 2009-45, 8-18-2009; Ord. 2011-18A1, 8-16-2011; Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012;
2016 Code)
15-1-050: VARIANCES:
The administrative hearing officer may authorize a variance from this title in
accordance with the provisions of section
11-5-080 of this code. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION OF REGULATIONS
SECTION:
15-2-010: Conformity Of Signs
15-2-020: Construction Standards
15-2-030: Maintenance
15-2-040: Sign Permits
15-2-050: Application Requirements
15-2-060: Sign Permit Fees
15-2-070: Approval
15-2-080: Improper Issuance
15-2-090: Permit Not Required
15-2-100: Exempt Signs
15-2-110: Prohibited Signs
15-2-010: CONFORMITY OF SIGNS:
Except as provided in this title, no sign shall be erected, raised, moved,
placed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered, except in conformity with
the regulations herein specified for the zoning district in which it is
located. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-2-020: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All signs erected in the city shall comply with the current standards of the
national electrical code, the international building code and all provisions of
this title and the Farmington City zoning ordinance. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009;
amd. 2016 Code)
15-2-030: MAINTENANCE:
All signs shall be properly maintained. Exposed surfaces shall be clean and
painted if paint is required. Defective parts shall be replaced. The ground
space within a radius of ten feet (10') from the base of any ground sign shall
be kept free and clear of all weeds, rubbish and flammable material. The zoning
administrator is empowered to order the repair or removal of any sign which is
defective, damaged or substantially deteriorated as more particularly specified
in chapter 7 of this title. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-2-040: SIGN PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether acting as owner, occupant,
contractor or otherwise, to erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge, locate or
alter any sign within the city without first obtaining a sign permit from the
city. The zoning administrator shall be empowered to:
   A.   Issue permits to erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge, locate or
alter signs which conform to the provisions of this title; and
   B.   Ascertain, in conjunction with the building official, that all sign
construction, reconstruction or modifications of existing signs is done in
conformance with the zoning ordinance and building codes of the city. (Ord.
2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-2-050: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Sign permit applications shall be made to the building official and shall
include the following:
   A.   A completed application form; and
   B.   Three (3) sets of plans, drawn approximately to scale, but with
accurate dimensions, which include the following information:
      1.   Sign elevations which indicate sign area, sign height, dimensions,
colors, materials, letter height, structural supports and/or method of
illumination;
      2.   A site plan which indicates the length of street frontage, setbacks
from property lines, location of existing and proposed buildings, curb cuts,
parking lots and the location and size of all existing signs; and
      3.   If wall signs are proposed, building elevation with proposed signs
depicted. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-2-060: SIGN PERMIT FEES:
A fee shall accompany all sign permit applications. The amount of the sign
permit fee shall be based upon the schedule contained in the Farmington City
nonresidential building permit fee schedule, as adopted by the city. For the
purpose of determining the fee, the valuation of the sign shall be the total
value of all construction work for which the sign permit is issued. (Ord. 2009-
17, 4-21-2009; amd. 2016 Code)
15-2-070: APPROVAL:
A permit for the erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement,
alteration or relocation of a sign shall be issued within a reasonable time
after a valid application is submitted; provided, that the sign complies with
all applicable laws and regulations of the city and meets all of the conditions
set forth in this title. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-2-080: IMPROPER ISSUANCE:
The zoning administrator, or his or her designee, shall comply with the
provisions of this title in issuing sign permits. A permit shall be null and
void if its issuance is based on false or misleading information provided by an
applicant for such permit. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-2-090: PERMIT NOT REQUIRED:
The following types of signs shall be exempt from the permit requirements of
this title, but shall be in conformance with all other provisions:
   A.   Nameplates;
   B.   Property signs;
   C.   Service signs; and
   D.   Temporary signs. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009; amd. Ord. 2009-45, 8-18-
2009)
15-2-100: EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following types of signs are exempt from the requirements of this title:
   A.   Direction, warning or information signs or structures required or
authorized by law or by federal, state, county or city authority;
   B.   Signs identifying a public building, giving directions to or
identifying offices or departments within a public building, or to other signs
placed by a public agency or by its authority within the building it occupies;
   C.   Tombstones;
   D.   Memorial tablets and plaques installed by a recognized governmental
historical agency;
   E.   Official and legal notices issued by any court, public body, person or
officer in performance of a public duty or in giving any legal notice;
   F.   Official flags of the United States Of America, the state of Utah, and
other states of the United States, counties, municipalities, official flags of
foreign countries, and flags of internationally and nationally recognized
organizations;
   G.   Religious symbols and identification emblems of religious orders,
affixed to religious buildings, which do not exceed four (4) square feet in
size;
   H.   Signs located further than twenty five feet (25') from a public street
or within malls, courts, arcades, porches, patios, parking lots or other
similar areas where such signs are not intended to be viewed or read from
public streets immediately adjacent to the property;
   I.   Signs located inside buildings which may or may not be visible from
outside, except animated signs;
   J.   Logos on licensed commercial vehicles; provided, that such vehicles
shall not be used as parked or stationary outdoor display signs;
   K.   Signs on vehicles, regulated by the city, that provide public
transportation;
   L.   Art or art forms which do not contain or imply any advertising message;
   M.   Searchlights for temporary advertising purposes;
   N.   Corporate flags mounted on approved posts, poles or standards;
   O.   Vending machines, gasoline pumps, telephone booths, newspaper racks,
"take out" or "pick up" windows, or menus posted for reading in drive-in
restaurant parking lots;
   P.   Signs advertising public and quasi-public events, such as public
concerts, school plays, etc. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
   Q.   Signs for a short term event shall be exempt from the provisions of
this chapter. Such signs may include notices for garage sales, lost and found
notices, etc. Such signs shall not be placed more than twenty four (24) hours
before the event, shall be removed immediately following the event, shall be
limited to not more than four (4) signs per event, and shall not be for
commercial businesses. (Ord. 2013-09, 5-7-2013; amd. 2016 Code)
15-2-110: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following signs are expressly prohibited by this title:
   A.   Animated signs;
   B.   Off premises signs, except for temporary home occupations, model home
signs and open house signs as provided herein;
   C.   Billboards and other off premises outdoor advertising signs;
   D.   Portable signs, except as provided herein;
   E.   Light bulb strings and any exposed lamp in excess of forty (40) watts
which consist of unshielded light bulbs, festoons and/or strings of open light
bulbs, other than temporary decorative holiday lighting or holiday displays;
   F.   Roof signs;
   G.   Any display of merchandise within ten feet (10') of a public road; and
   H.   Signs within public street rights of way. (Ord. 2009-45, 8-18-2009)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL SIGN REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
15-3-010: Signs Not To Cause Traffic Hazard
15-3-020: Signs On Public Property
15-3-030: Maintenance Of Clear View At Intersections
15-3-040: Signs On Utility Poles And Street Trees
15-3-050: Signs In Proximity To Utility Lines
15-3-060: Signs On Doors, Windows Or Fire Escapes
15-3-070: Transition Zoning
15-3-080: Minimum Clearance Of Signs
15-3-090: Anchoring
15-3-100: Wind Loads
15-3-110: Illumination Of Signs
15-3-120: Street Addresses
15-3-130: Repair Of Building Facade
15-3-140: Signs In Conjunction With Conditional Use
15-3-010: SIGNS NOT TO CAUSE TRAFFIC HAZARD:
No person shall install or maintain or cause to be installed or maintained any
sign which will cause a roadway safety distraction such as glare from internal
or external illumination. No sign shall simulate or imitate in size, color,
lettering or design any traffic sign or signal, or which makes use of the words
"STOP", "YIELD", "DANGER" or any other words, phrases, symbols or characters in
such a manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic. (Ord. 2009-17,
4-21-2009)
15-3-020: SIGNS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No signs shall be located on public property, except for signs rented, owned or
erected by express permission of the city as provided herein. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-
21-2009)
15-3-030: MAINTENANCE OF CLEAR VIEW AT INTERSECTIONS:
In all zones with a required front yard, no material obstruction to view
between a height of two feet (2') and ten feet (10') above the level of the
curb or sidewalk shall be permitted on any corner lot within a triangular area
formed by the street property lines and a line connecting them between points
thirty feet (30') from the intersection of the two (2) street property lines.
(Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-3-040: SIGNS ON UTILITY POLES AND STREET TREES:
To ensure safe access for maintenance and emergency services by the various
companies using utility poles, signs may be affixed to utility poles only after
receiving express permission from the utility companies involved. Signs on
street trees, traffic regulatory sign poles and street name poles are
prohibited. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-3-050: SIGNS IN PROXIMITY TO UTILITY LINES:
No permit shall be issued for any sign, and no sign shall be constructed or
maintained, which has less horizontal or vertical clearance from authorized
communication or energized electrical power lines than that prescribed by the
laws of the state of Utah, or rules and regulations duly promulgated by
agencies thereof. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-3-060: SIGNS ON DOORS, WINDOWS OR FIRE ESCAPES:
No sign shall be installed, relocated or maintained so as to prevent free
ingress to or egress from any door, window or fire escape. No sign of any kind
shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape, except those signs as required
by other codes or ordinances. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-3-070: TRANSITION ZONING:
Where the frontage on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting streets
is zoned partly residential and partly office, commercial or industrial, a
minimum front yard setback for any sign shall be equal to the most restrictive
front yard setback required on any portion of the block. Signs shall not be
located so as to project into a required side yard resulting from an office,
commercial or industrial zone or use abutting a residential zone or use. (Ord.
2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-3-080: MINIMUM CLEARANCE OF SIGNS:
Where pedestrian traffic is anticipated near a sign, minimum clearance of ten
feet (10') shall be maintained from the bottom edge of a projecting sign or
ground sign to the final grade beneath such sign(s). The minimum clearance for
projecting signs or ground signs located near driveways or parking areas shall
be fourteen feet (14'). (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-3-090: ANCHORING:
No sign shall be suspended by nonrigid attachments that will allow the sign to
swing in the wind. All ground signs shall have self-supporting structures
erected on and permanently attached to concrete foundations. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-
21-2009)
15-3-100: WIND LOADS:
All signs, except those attached flat against the wall of a building, shall be
constructed to withstand wind loads as follows:
   A.   Solid signs thirty five feet (35') in height or above, other than wall
signs, shall be designed to withstand a wind load of twenty five (25) pounds
per square foot on any face. Solid signs, less than thirty five feet (35') in
height, shall be designed to withstand a wind load of twenty (20) pounds per
square foot on any face.
   B.   Signs, other than wall signs, with an open framework shall be designed
to withstand a wind load of thirty six (36) pounds per square foot of the total
face area of the letters and other sign surfaces, or ten (10) pounds per square
foot of the gross area of the sign as determined by the overall dimensions of
the sign, whichever is greater. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-3-110: ILLUMINATION OF SIGNS:
All signs may be illuminated, except where specifically limited by this title
or by the planning commission as a requirement related to a conditional use
approval. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-3-120: STREET ADDRESSES:
All business and residential locations shall be identified by a street address
number, affixed to the main building, which is clearly visible from the public
street. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-3-130: REPAIR OF BUILDING FACADE:
A building facade, damaged as a result of the removal, repair, replacement or
installation of any sign, shall be repaired by the property owner within thirty
(30) calendar days from the date of such damage. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-3-140: SIGNS IN CONJUNCTION WITH CONDITIONAL USE:
If signs are proposed in conjunction with a conditional use, a master plan for
signs shall be included with the initial application. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
CHAPTER 4
STANDARDS FOR SPECIFIC SIGNS
SECTION:
15-4-010: Awning Signs
15-4-020: Directory Signs
15-4-030: Electronic Message Signs
15-4-040: Identification Signs
15-4-050: Monument Signs
15-4-060: Nameplate Sign
15-4-070: Open House And Model Home Signs
15-4-080: Political Signs
15-4-090: Project Identification Signs
15-4-100: Property Signs
15-4-110: Service Signs
15-4-120: Temporary Signs
15-4-130: Wall Signs
15-4-010: AWNING SIGNS:
The following standards shall govern the use of awning signs:
   A.   Classification: Awning signs shall be classified as projecting signs;
   B.   Projection: Such signs shall not extend more than three feet (3') from
the face of the building to which they are attached;
   C.   Clearance Above Sidewalk: Minimum clearance of ten feet (10') shall be
maintained above sidewalks;
   D.   Setback: The awning shall comply with the same setback established for
all other signs in the zone in which it is located; and
   E.   Maximum Copy: The copy on an awning sign shall not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the sign's total area. (Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012)
15-4-020: DIRECTORY SIGNS:
The following standards shall govern the use of directory signs:
   A.   Type: Directory signs may be ground, monument or wall signs;
   B.   Number Permitted: One directory sign for each separate frontage on a
public street may be allowed for a commercial complex;
   C.   Area Of Monument: The area of a monument directory sign or wall
directory sign shall not exceed four (4) square feet for each business located
on the site; and
   D.   Area Of Directory: The area of a directory ground sign shall not exceed
the maximum allowed in the zone in which the sign is located. (Ord. 2012-32,
10-16-2012)
15-4-030: ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGNS:
The following standards shall govern the use of electronic message signs. The
nighttime and daytime illumination of an electronic message sign shall conform
with the criteria set forth in this section:
   A.   Illumination Measurement Criteria: The illuminance of an electronic
message sign shall be measured with an illuminance meter set to measure foot-
candles accurate to at least two (2) decimals. Illuminance shall be measured
with the electronic message sign off, and again with the electronic message
sign displaying a white image for a full color capable electronic message sign,
or a solid message for a single color electronic message sign. All measurements
shall be taken perpendicular to the face of the electronic message sign at the
distance determined by the total square footage of the electronic message sign
as set forth in the "Sign Area Versus Measurement Distance" table in this
section:
SIGN AREA VERSUS MEASUREMENT DISTANCE
 
Area Of Sign (Square Feet) Measurement Distance (Feet)
10                         32
50                         71
100                        100
200                        141
 
Note: For signs with an area in square feet other than those specifically
listed in the table, the measurement distance may be calculated with the
following formula: The square root of the product of the sign area and 100.
   B.   Measurement Difference: The difference between the off and solid
message measurements using the electronic message sign measurement criteria
shall not exceed 0.3 foot-candle at night.
   C.   Automatic Dimming Technology: Electronic message signs shall come
equipped with automatic dimming technology that must automatically adjust the
sign's brightness in direct correlation with ambient light conditions not to
exceed fifteen percent (15%) of full brightness at night and eighty five
percent (85%) of full brightness at day.
   D.   Minimum Hold Time: The minimum hold time between messages, for an
electronic message sign, shall be no less than three (3) seconds. Any such sign
with a hold time less than three (3) seconds shall be considered an animated
sign and shall be prohibited.
   E.   Images: Fading, transitioning or dissolving of images shall occur on an
electronic message sign of no less than one second, but not to exceed 1.5
seconds, to reduce the abrupt "flashing" effect as the message on the sign
changes from one image to another.
   F.   Color LED: All images on electronic message signs shall be full color
RGB LED (light emitting diode). (Note: The RGB color model is an additive color
model in which red, green and blue light are added together in various ways to
reproduce a broad array of colors. The name of the model comes from the
initials of the 3 additive primary colors: red, green and blue.)
   G.   Traveling Messages: Traveling messages are prohibited.
   H.   Prohibited Hours: Electronic message signs must be turned off between
the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord.
2012-32, 10-16-2012)
15-4-040: IDENTIFICATION SIGNS:
The following standards shall govern the use of identification signs:
   A.   Classification: Identification signs are classified as wall signs;
   B.   Number Permitted: One identification sign is permitted for each
business at a commercial location;
   C.   Area: Area of an identification sign shall be not more than sixteen
(16) square feet. (Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012)
15-4-050: MONUMENT SIGNS:
The following standards shall govern the use of monument signs:
   A.   Design: Monument signs shall be designed as an integral part of a
landscaped area and/or raised planter. If berms are a part of the landscaped
area they shall have a slope no greater than one foot (1') of vertical distance
to four feet (4') of horizontal distance and/or shall be not more than three
feet (3') in height above the elevation of the top of the nearest curb. Raised
planters which contain monument signs shall be not more than three feet (3') in
height;
   B.   Height Above Grade: Monument signs shall be not more than six feet (6')
in height above final grade;
   C.   Area: The area of a monument sign shall not exceed fifty (50) square
feet. (Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012)
15-4-060: NAMEPLATE SIGN:
The following standards shall govern the use of nameplate signs:
   A.   Classification: Nameplate signs are classified as wall signs; and
   B.   Area: The area of a nameplate sign shall not exceed one square foot.
(Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012)
15-4-070: OPEN HOUSE AND MODEL HOME SIGNS:
   A.   Classification: Open house and model home signs are classified as
portable signs.
   B.   Content: Such signs may advertise homes for sale which are open for
inspection on a specific day and may also indicate the hours of the open house
or model home and the real estate firm sponsoring it. Signs may be displayed
only during those hours which a home will be open.
   C.   Setback: Open house and model home signs shall conform to the setback
requirements of the zone in which they are located and must have the consent of
the owner, lessee or occupant of the property on which they are located prior
to placement.
   D.   Number Permitted; Placement: Not more than four (4) off premises open
house or model home signs shall be allowed for each house advertised. Not more
than ten (10) off premises open house or model home signs shall be posted by
any single seller, agent, developer or builder. Only one open house or model
home sign may be placed on any off premises parcel of land.
   E.   Area: The area of open house and model home signs shall not exceed six
(6) square feet. (Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012)
15-4-080: POLITICAL SIGNS:
Political signs are classified as temporary signs and are governed by standards
set forth in section
15-4-120 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012)
15-4-090: PROJECT IDENTIFICATION SIGNS:
Project identification signs may be monument, wall or ground signs. Height,
size and number of signs shall be determined according to the standards for the
zone in which the sign is located. (Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012)
15-4-100: PROPERTY SIGNS:
   A.   Wall Signs Included: Property signs may include wall signs.
   B.   Construction Projects: One on site sign, not exceeding sixty four (64)
square feet, may be erected in conjunction with a construction project in a
commercial or industrial zone. Such signs shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in
height. All signs shall be removed within thirty (30) days after final
inspection of the last building in the project. Such signs shall not be
illuminated.
   C.   Property For Sale: One sign, advertising property for sale, lease or
rent may be placed on a lot. On a corner lot, one sign may be placed on each
street frontage. Such signs shall refer only to the lot on which they are
located and shall be removed within ten (10) days following the sale, rental or
leasing of the property. In residential zones, the area of such signs shall not
exceed six (6) square feet on parcels which are less than one acre or are
within a platted subdivision, and sixteen (16) square feet on parcels which are
one acre or greater in size and not in a platted subdivision. In addition, one
open house or model home sign may be placed on the lot to which it refers
during the hours which it is open. In commercial zones, the area of such signs
shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet.
   D.   New Subdivision: The following signs may also be used to promote the
sale of homes in new subdivisions until the last lot is sold:
      1.   For subdivisions that contain five (5) or more lots, two (2) major
promotional signs on separate entrances to the subdivision, not to exceed sixty
four (64) square feet, may be used. Individual phases of a subdivision shall
not be considered separate subdivisions.
      2.   Subdivisions which include five (5) or more lots may attach one wall
sign to each model home in the subdivision. This sign shall not exceed thirty
two (32) square feet.
      3.   One monument sign may be used to identify a model home. The area of
this sign shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet.
   E.   Subdivisions, PUDs: In subdivisions or planned unit developments
consisting of more than one hundred (100) units, one on site property sign for
any I-15 or Highway 89 frontage on the development may be erected and each sign
may have a size up to one hundred twenty eight (128) square feet, a height up
to twelve feet (12'), shall be set back one hundred feet (100') from the public
right of way, and may be illuminated with a spotlight to be extinguished at or
before eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. Lighting shall be designed, located and
directed so as to eliminate glare and minimize reflection of light into
neighboring properties. The sign shall be removed within ten (10) days of when
the last unit in the project or the last lot in the subdivision is sold by the
developer.
   F.   Changes By Special Exception Process: The following may be changed by
the city's special exception process:
      1.   Additional on site property and directional signage as may be
reasonably required to create a sense of community, including the final size,
character, location and design of the signage.
      2.   Adjustments to the signage requirements.
   G.   Large Commercial, Mixed Use Projects: In large commercial or mixed use
projects of ten (10) acres or more, one sign may be allowed for each three
hundred feet (300') of major street frontage of the development area on which
the signs are located, not to exceed three (3) signs per frontage. The area of
such signs shall consist of one square foot for each two feet (2') of street
frontage, but shall not exceed two hundred (200) square feet per sign. The
height of the sign shall not exceed thirteen feet (13') above finished grade
next to the sign. The sign shall not be illuminated or animated. Once
installed, these signs shall be valid for a period of not more than eighteen
(18) calendar months and shall thereafter be removed from the property. (Ord.
2012-32, 10-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2021-13, 5-18-2021)
15-4-110: SERVICE SIGNS:
   A.   Classification: Service signs are classified as on site monument signs
or ground signs.
   B.   Height: Ground signs, under this heading, shall not exceed five feet
(5') in height, unless a greater height is necessary, as determined by the
zoning administrator, to provide adequate traffic control.
   C.   Area: The area of a service sign shall not exceed sixteen (16) square
feet.
   D.   Number Permitted: The number of service signs shall be limited to the
minimum number necessary to adequately and safely direct and inform the public.
(Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012)
15-4-120: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   A.   Duration: A temporary sign may be displayed for a maximum period of
eighty (80) days during a calendar year, after which it must be removed or
replaced by a new temporary sign that meets the other requirements of this
title.
   B.   Durability: All temporary signs shall be securely attached to stakes or
posts embedded in the ground or shall be securely attached to a permanent
structure. Signs shall be made of durable materials such as will withstand the
elements for the period of duration.
   C.   Size And Setback: The size, setback and location of all temporary signs
shall conform to the specifications that pertain to the zone in which the
temporary sign is located.
   D.   Owner Consent: Any person wishing to display a sign must have the
consent of the owner, lessee or occupant of the property on which the sign will
be located, prior to placement.
   E.   Illumination: Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
   F.   Spacing: No temporary sign shall be within three feet (3') of any other
temporary sign.
   G.   Public Right Of Way: No sign shall be posted in the public right of
way, or on any traffic regulatory sign pole or tree within any public street
right of way, or on any utility pole.
   H.   Clear View At Intersections: All signs placed near intersections shall
comply with the clear view standards set forth in section
15-3-030 of this title. (Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012)
15-4-130: WALL SIGNS:
Wall signs shall not extend above the building face upon which they are
affixed. (Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING STANDARDS FOR SIGNS AND ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN AREA STANDARDS
SECTION:
15-5-010: Agricultural And Residential Zones
15-5-020: Business And Special Use Zones
15-5-030: Business Park Zone
15-5-040: Commercial Zones
15-5-050: Light Manufacturing And Business Zone
15-5-060: Electronic Message Sign Area
15-5-070: Mixed-Use Zones
15-5-010: AGRICULTURAL AND RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
Signs in agricultural districts A, AE and AA, and residential districts R, LR,
S, LS, OTR, R-2, R-4 and R-8, are subject to all standards set forth in this
title and to the following additional standards:
   A.   Permitted Signs: Only the following signs are permitted in agricultural
and residential districts:
      1.   Monument signs;
      2.   Nameplate signs;
      3.   Open house signs;
      4.   Political signs;
      5.   Project identification signs;
      6.   Property signs;
      7.   Temporary signs advertising garage or yard sales, craft boutiques or
sale of fruits and vegetables during the normal harvest season.
   B.   Project Identification Signs: Apartment developments, condominium
projects and residential subdivisions may have one project identification sign
indicating only the name of the development. Such signs shall be either wall or
monument signs and shall be not more than thirty two (32) square feet in size.
   C.   Nameplate Signs: One nameplate sign may be used for each dwelling unit.
No permanent signs other than nameplates are permitted on individual lots.
   D.   Monument, Wall Signs For Public Uses: One monument or wall sign, not to
exceed thirty two (32) square feet, may be permitted in conjunction with a
public use, quasi-public use or public utility installation.
   E.   Monument, Wall Signs In R-4, R-8: One monument or wall sign, not to
exceed sixteen (16) square feet, may be permitted in an R-4 or R-8 zone for a
daycare center or professional office.
   F.   Monument Signs In OTR Zone: One monument sign, not to exceed sixteen
(16) square feet, may be permitted for a nonconforming professional office in
the OTR zone.
   G.   Temporary Signs For Fruit, Vegetable Sales: Temporary signs advertising
sale of fruits and vegetables during the normal harvest season shall not exceed
a total of thirty two (32) square feet for all signs on the premises.
   H.   Temporary Home Occupations: Temporary home occupations, such as a
garage or yard sale, or craft boutiques, may have a maximum of one temporary on
premises sign and two (2) temporary off premises signs for each event. Each
sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet in one area. The number of events on
an individual residential lot shall not exceed four (4) in any calendar year.
   I.   Distance to Property Line: No on premises sign shall be located closer
than one foot (1') to any property line so long as the site distance for
vehicles entering traffic is not compromised. (Ord. 2015-10, 2-17-2015; amd.
Ord. 2021-01, 1-19-2021)
15-5-020: BUSINESS AND SPECIAL USE ZONES:
The business/residential district BR and special use district B are considered
to be unique districts in the city and, as such, allow a mix of residential,
office and low intensity commercial uses. Signs in these districts are subject
to all standards set forth in this title and to the following additional
standards: (Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012)
   A.   Residential Uses, Developments: Signs for residential uses and
developments in these districts shall be limited to those types listed in
section
15-5-010 of this chapter.
   B.   Office, Commercial Uses: For office and commercial uses in these
districts, only the following additional signs are permitted:
      1.   Awning signs;
      2.   Changeable copy signs;
      3.   Directory signs;
      4.   Identification signs;
      5.   Monument signs;
      6.   Project identification signs;
      7.   Projecting signs;
      8.   Temporary signs;
      9.   Service signs; and
      10.   Wall signs.
   C.   Ground Signs Prohibited: Ground signs, as defined in section
15-1-040 of this title, are not permitted.
   D.   Setback: The minimum setback from front property lines shall be ten
feet (10'). If widening of public streets is planned or projected, this setback
shall be measured from the future right of way line.
   E.   Size Of Temporary Signs: Temporary signs shall not exceed sixteen (16)
square feet in size.
   F.   Wall Signs: The maximum area of wall signs shall not exceed ten percent
(10%) of the front building face of a main building and five percent (5%) of
not more than one additional building face. For the purpose of this title,
canopies over gasoline islands shall be considered accessory structures and may
have wall signs incorporated into them which cover not more than twenty percent
(20%) of the fascia of the roof portion of such structures.
   G.   Monument Sign For Complex: Each business or commercial complex may have
one monument sign for each separate public street frontage. Such signs shall be
set back a minimum of twenty five feet (25') from side property lines.
   H.   Master Plan For Signs: When site plan review is required for a proposed
development, a master plan for signs shall be included with the application.
   I.   Exceptions: Exceptions to the provisions of this section may be made
for signs for office and commercial uses within the business/residential (BR)
zone. Such exceptions shall be requested and reviewed in accordance with the
conditional use permit process set forth in title 11, chapter 8 of this code.
This exception is founded upon the provisions of the downtown master plan for
Farmington City. As noted in the downtown master plan, the downtown area of the
city contains mixed and diverse uses necessitating and requiring flexibility
and discretion in implementing and allowing special deviations from standard
requirements of the zoning ordinance and other regulations in this area. (Ord.
2012-32, 10-16-2012)
15-5-030: BUSINESS PARK ZONE:
Signs in the business park (BP) district are subject to all standards set forth
in this title and to the following additional standards:
   A.   Residential Uses, Developments: Signs for residential uses and
developments in the BP district shall be limited to those types listed in
section
15-5-010 of this chapter.
   B.   Office, Commercial Uses: For office and commercial uses in the BP
district, the following additional signs are permitted:
      1.   All signs listed in section
15-5-020 of this chapter.
   C.   Setback: All signs shall be set back ten feet (10') from existing or
future public street right of way lines. Setback shall be measured from the
right of way line to the nearest part of the sign extending toward such line.
   D.   Projection: No projection of any sign shall be allowed into the
required side yard where the BP district abuts any residential zone or
residential use.
   E.   Wall Signs: The maximum area of wall signs on main buildings shall not
exceed ten percent (10%) of the front face and five percent (5%) of any other
building face. For the purpose of this title, canopies over gasoline islands
shall be considered accessory structures and may have wall signs incorporated
into them which cover not more than twenty percent (20%) of the fascia of the
roof portion of such structures. (Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012)
15-5-040: COMMERCIAL ZONES:
For the purpose of this section, the commercial districts C, C-H and C-R are
considered to be commercial zones. Signs in these districts are subject to all
standards set forth in this title and to the following additional standards:
   A.   Permitted Signs: The following signs are permitted in commercial zones:
      1.   All signs listed in section
15-5-020 of this chapter;
      2.   Ground signs; and
      3.   Neon signs.
   B.   Setback: All signs shall be set back ten feet (10') from existing or
future public street right of way lines. Setback shall be measured from the
right of way line to the nearest part of the sign extending toward such line.
   C.   Sizes Of Temporary Signs: Temporary signs shall not exceed sixteen (16)
square feet in size.
   D.   Projections: No projection of any sign shall be allowed into the
required side yard where a commercial zone abuts any residential zone or
residential use.
   E.   Wall Signs: The maximum area of wall signs on main buildings shall not
exceed ten percent (10%) of the front face and five percent (5%) of any other
building face. If no ground signs are proposed, the coverage of the front face
of a building may be increased to fifteen percent (15%). For the purpose of
this title, canopies over gasoline islands shall be considered accessory
structures and may have wall signs incorporated into them which cover not more
than twenty percent (20%) of the fascia of the roof portion of such structures.
   F.   Ground Signs: The following provisions shall apply to ground signs:
      1.   Lot frontage of at least one hundred feet (100') is required before
a ground sign will be permitted;
      2.   For each commercial lot or commercial complex with between one
hundred feet (100') and three hundred feet (300') of frontage on a public
street, one ground sign may be allowed for each separate street frontage. For
each additional three hundred feet (300') of separate street frontage, one
additional ground sign may be permitted;
      3.   Ground signs on individual lots or commercial complexes shall be
separated by at least one hundred feet (100') from signs on adjacent lots.
Where there are multiple signs on one lot or commercial complex, such signs
shall be separated by at least two hundred feet (200');
      4.   The area of a ground sign shall not exceed one square foot of area
for each linear foot of street frontage, or two hundred (200) square feet,
whichever is less. This standard may be reviewed by the planning commission in
conjunction with a special exception application and may be adjusted either up
or down;
      5.   The maximum height of ground signs at the minimum setback shall be
twenty feet (20') above the elevation of the top of curb nearest to the sign.
This height may be increased to a maximum of forty feet (40') if the sign is
set back an additional one and one-half feet (11/2') for each foot of height
over twenty feet (20'). These standards may be reviewed by the planning
commission in conjunction with a special exception application and may be
adjusted either up or down; and
   6.   On corner lots, ground signs shall be set back thirty feet (30') from
the intersection of property lines.
   G.   Monument Signs: One monument sign may be allowed for each business on a
lot, or in a commercial complex; provided, that a minimum separation of fifty
feet (50') is maintained between such signs and they are set back a minimum of
twenty five feet (25') from side property lines. (Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012;
amd. Ord. 2021-13, 5-18-2021)
15-5-050: LIGHT MANUFACTURING AND BUSINESS ZONE:
Signs and sign standards for the light manufacturing and business (LM&B) zone
shall be as specified in section
15-5-040 of this chapter, except neon signs are not permitted in the LM&B zone.
(Ord. 2012-32, 10-16-2012)
15-5-060: ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN AREA:
Electronic message signs shall only be allowed in the electronic message sign
area as illustrated on exhibit_A attached to the ordinance codified herein and
by this reference made a part hereof. All electronic message signs in the
electronic message sign area shall be subject to standards set forth in this
title and to the following additional standards:
   A.   Zone Standards Apply: Electronic message signs shall be subject to the
sign standards specific to the zone designation of the property.
   B.   Standards; Prohibited Signs: Electronic message signs shall be a
permanent on premises sign and shall be limited only to ground signs and
monument signs. Electronic message signs shall not include directory signs,
identification signs, project identification signs, property signs or service
signs.
   C.   Conditional Use: Electronic message signs shall be a conditional use
subject to all provisions of title 11, chapter 8 of this code. (Ord. 2012-32,
10-16-2012; amd. Ord. 2013-07, 4-16-2013; 2016 Code)
15-5-070: MIXED-USE ZONES:
For the purpose of this section, the mixed-use districts TMU, GMU, RMU, OMU,
OS, CMU, and NMU are considered to be mixed-use zones. Signs in these districts
are subject to all standards set forth in this title and to the following
additional standards:
   A.   Residential Uses, Developments: Signs for residential uses and
developments in the mixed-use districts shall be limited to those types listed
in section
15-5-010 of this chapter.
   B.   Office And Commercial Uses, Developments: Signs for office and
commercial uses and developments in the mixed-use districts shall be limited to
those types listed in section
15-5-030 of this chapter.
   C.   Live/Work Residential: Signs for live/work units shall be limited to a
maximum of one of each of the following:
      1.   Wall signs: A wall sign on a live/work unit shall not be placed
above the finished floor of the second story of the building on which it is
located where the top of the sign does not exceed fourteen (14) feet above
finish grade, whichever height is greater. No combination of signs may not
exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the ground floor facade square footage for the
unit on which they are located. Window signs are included as a type of wall
sign and count towards the maximum size total. A wall sign may be internally or
externally illuminated. Electronic messaging, flashing lights, and animated
components are prohibited.
      2.   Blade Sign: One (1) Blade sign per live/work unit is permitted. A
blade sign shall not be placed above the finished floor of the second story of
the building on which it is located where the top of the sign does not exceed
fourteen (14) feet above finish grade, whichever height is greater. A blade
sign may extend beyond the front facade of a building by no more than three (3)
feet. A vertical clearance above any sidewalk or walkway of at least eight (8)
feet shall be maintained. A blade sign cannot exceed nine (9) square feet in
size. A blade sign may be internally or externally illuminated. Electronic
messaging, flashing lights, and animated components are prohibited. (Ord. 2020-
11, 5-19-2020; amd. Ord. 2024-53, 10-15-2024)
CHAPTER 6
NONCONFORMING SIGNS
SECTION:
15-6-010: Purpose And Intent
15-6-020: General Requirements
15-6-030: Signs On Nonconforming Buildings
15-6-010: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter to recognize that the eventual elimination of
existing signs that are not in conformity with the provisions of this title is
as important as the prohibition of new signs that would violate these
regulations. It is also the intent of this chapter that any elimination of
nonconforming signs shall be effected so as to avoid any unreasonable invasion
of established property rights. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-6-020: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
A nonconforming sign shall be properly maintained in accordance with provisions
of this title. A sign shall not be modified in any way except to bring it into
conformity with all provisions of this title. For the purpose of this title,
modification includes:
   A.   A change to another nonconforming sign;
   B.   Any modification resulting in an increase in height or a change to the
outside dimensions of the sign cabinet;
   C.   Reestablishment of a nonconforming sign after having been abandoned for
ninety (90) days or more;
   D.   Reestablishment of a nonconforming sign after damage or destruction of
more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value, regardless of the
cause. In making a determination, the city shall require a detailed estimate of
the cost to repair and restore the damaged sign to its previous condition as
well as an estimate of the cost to totally replace the sign; and
   E.   Moving, replacing at the same location, or relocating a nonconforming
sign. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-6-030: SIGNS ON NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS:
Nonconforming buildings closer than ten feet (10') to a public street right of
way shall only be allowed to have wall signs or awning signs. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-
21-2009)
CHAPTER 7
VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
15-7-010: Legal Action
15-7-020: Violations
15-7-030: Penalties
15-7-040: Appeals
15-7-010: LEGAL ACTION:
The zoning administrator, or his designee, shall be empowered to institute any
appropriate action or proceeding in any case where any sign is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, maintained or used in
violation of this title or the city building regulations or zoning ordinance.
The purpose of such action shall be to prevent such unlawful uses and restrain,
correct or abate the violations. Legal actions may include:
   A.   Notice: Issuing a notice of violation to the person having charge,
control or benefit of any sign found to be unsafe, dangerous or in any
violation of a city ordinance;
   B.   Citation; Complaint: Issuing of citations and/or swearing out
complaints against violators of this title or causing such citations or
complaints to be issued; or
   C.   Impound: Impounding illegal signs and assessing an impound fee for
their return. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-7-020: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Order Of Violation: If it is determined that a violation of this title
exists, the zoning administrator shall issue a written order to the alleged
violator. The order shall specify those sections of the city ordinances of
which the individual may be in violation and shall state that the individual
has ten (10) business days from the date of the order in which to correct the
alleged violation or to appeal to the administrative hearing officer.
   B.   Abandoned Signs: The following provisions shall govern the treatment of
abandoned signs:
      1.   If, upon inspection, it is found that a sign is abandoned or
structurally, materially, electrically or otherwise defective, in such a way as
to endanger the public, the zoning administrator shall issue a written order to
the owner of the sign and/or the occupant of the premises, stating the nature
of the violation and requiring the repair or removal of the sign within fifteen
(15) days of the date of the order.
      2.   Signs shall be considered abandoned and subject to removal pursuant
to the procedures of this section under any of the following circumstances:
         a.   Where a sign is not kept in good condition, adequately repaired
and maintained at all times; the standard for adequate repairs is that the
repairs shall be at least equal to the quality and design of the original work
in manufacturing and installing the sign, reasonable wear and tear excepted;
         b.   Where a sign pertains to activities or occupants that are no
longer using the premises on which it is located, and it has not been removed
or the sign copy changed within thirty (30) days after the associated
enterprise or occupant has vacated the premises; or
         c.   Where the sign concerns a specific event and five (5) days have
elapsed since the occurrence of that event.
   C.   Hazardous Conditions: In cases of emergency, or an identified hazard,
the zoning administrator may cause the immediate removal of a dangerous or
defective sign, which presents a hazard to the public safety, without notice.
   D.   Impound: Signs located in, or within ten feet (10') of, any public
street right of way and determined to be in violation of the provisions of this
title, may be impounded at any time. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-
65, 11-14-2023)
15-7-030: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation, association, partnership or governmental
instrumentality, whether as principal, agent, employee or otherwise, violating
or causing the violation of any of the provisions of this title, or failing or
refusing to do some act required under this title, shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed to have been committed for each
day that the violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009)
15-7-040: APPEALS:
Appeals may be made to the land use appeal authority by any person aggrieved by
the city's action on a sign permit application, as provided in chapter 3-7 of
this code. (Ord. 2009-17, 4-21-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-2023)
TITLE 16
STORMWATER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
16-1-010: Purpose
16-1-020: Applicability
16-1-030: Administration And Interpretation
16-1-040: Appeals
16-1-050: Ultimate Responsibility
16-1-060: Storm Drainage Master Plan
16-1-070: UPDES General Permit
16-1-080: Stormwater Management Plan
16-1-090: Definitions
16-1-100: Severability
16-1-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to establish and provide policies, rules and
regulations regarding the city's storm drain system and for the control,
management, discharge, removal and prevention of pollutants entering the city's
storm drain system. It is further the purpose of this title to protect the
health, safety and welfare of Farmington City, its inhabitants and the
environment by improving the city's storm drain system, managing and
controlling stormwater runoff, protecting property, and preventing polluted
water from entering the city's storm drain system and other receiving waters to
the maximum extent practicable as required by federal and state law. This title
is intended to comply with all regulations and requirements of the NPDES and
UPDES programs. The objectives of this title are:
   A.   To regulate and prevent the contribution of pollutants to the city's
storm drain system by stormwater discharges by any user;
   B.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the city's storm
drain system;
   C.   To guide, regulate and control the design, construction, use and
maintenance of any development or other activity that results in the movement
of earth on land within the city;
   D.   To minimize increases in nonpoint source pollution caused by stormwater
runoff from development which would otherwise degrade local water quality;
   E.   To reduce stormwater runoff rates and volume, soil erosion and nonpoint
source pollution, wherever possible, through stormwater BMPs, and to ensure
that these BMPs are properly maintained and pose no threat to public safety;
   F.   To establish a viable and fair method of financing the construction,
operation and maintenance of the city's storm drain system;
   G.   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this title;
   H.   To establish penalty and enforcement procedures for violations of this
title; and
   I.   To ensure compliance with requirements of the Farmington City UPDES
general permit and the Farmington City stormwater management plan. (Ord. 2008-
03, 1-8-2003)
16-1-020: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this title shall apply to any activities conducted within the
incorporated area of the city, to all real property and development within the
incorporated area of the city, and to all portions of the city's storm drain
system. This title shall also apply to all water entering the city's storm
drain system generated on any developed or undeveloped land or entering any
creek, stream or stormwater facility located within the city, unless explicitly
exempted in writing by the city or other authorized enforcement agency. (Ord.
2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-1-030: ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION:
The city manager is hereby designated as the city's authorized enforcement
official and as such shall implement, administer and enforce the provisions of
this title. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the city manager may be
delegated by the city manager or the city council to persons or entities acting
in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the city. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-
2003; amd. 2016 Code)
16-1-040: APPEALS:
Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, any person aggrieved by a
final decision of any designee of the city manager interpreting or
administering the provisions of this title may appeal such decision by filing a
written notice of appeal with the city recorder within ten (10) calendar days
from the date of the decision being appealed and stating the specific grounds
for the appeal. The appeal shall be conducted in accordance with chapter 3-7,
of this code. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003; amd. 2016 Code; Ord. 2023-65, 11-14-
2023)
16-1-050: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards and requirements set forth in this title and promulgated pursuant
to this title are minimum standards and requirements. This title does not
intend or imply that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no
contamination, pollution or unauthorized discharge of pollutants. The issuance
of any permit or any inspection conducted under the terms and provisions of
this title shall not release any person from responsibility, liability, penalty
or requirement set forth herein, or by any applicable state or federal laws or
regulations. Any person violating the terms and conditions of this title or
discharging contaminated waters into the city's storm drain system shall be
liable and responsible for such violations and/or contaminations. (Ord. 2008-
03, 1-8-2003)
16-1-060: STORM DRAINAGE MASTER PLAN:
The city has adopted a master plan for the construction of storm drainage
facilities within the city known as the Farmington City storm drainage master
plan. All construction and development within the city and any connections or
discharges of water into the city's storm drain system shall comply with
provisions of the storm drainage master plan, as may be amended from time to
time. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-1-070: UPDES GENERAL PERMIT:
The city has applied for and received from the state of Utah, department of
environmental quality, division of water quality, a UPDES general permit for
discharges from small municipal separate storm sewer systems (MS4s). All
construction and development within the city and any and all connections and
discharges of waters into the city's storm drain system shall comply with
terms, conditions and provisions of the city's UPDES general permit, as may be
amended from time to time. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-1-080: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN:
The city has adopted a stormwater management plan in accordance with applicable
state and federal rules and regulations. All construction and development
within the city and any and all connections and discharges of waters into the
city's storm drain system shall comply with the provisions of the stormwater
management plan, as may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-1-090: DEFINITIONS:
Words not otherwise defined but used in this title or the materials referenced
herein are defined in the federal clean water act, and any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and any applicable state laws, rules and
regulations, including, but not limited to, the UPDES and NPDES programs. As
used herein, the following terms, phrases and words shall have the following
meanings:
AQUIFER RECHARGE AREAS: Retention basins, detention basins with retention
attributes, or other locations in which a creek, stream, or canal infiltrates
the ground.
AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: City employees designated to administer and
enforce this title.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Includes schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, design standards and other
management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly
or indirectly into the waters of the United States. BMPs also include treatment
requirements, operating procedures, educational activities and practices to
control site runoff spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage
from raw material storage.
CATCH BASIN: A basin combined with a storm drain inlet used to trap solids.
CITY APPROVALS: Any permit or approval required by the city prior to any
construction activity, including, but not limited to, site preparation,
grading, excavation or construction.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act, 33 USC 1251 et seq.,
and any subsequent amendments thereto.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: Any land disturbance or activities, such as clearing,
grubbing, grading, excavating, building and demolition.
CONVEYANCE SYSTEM: Any channel or pipe for collecting and directing the
stormwater.
CULVERT: A covered channel or large diameter pipe that directs water flow below
the ground surface.
DEGRADATION:
   Biological Or Chemical: The breakdown of chemical compounds into simpler
substances, usually less harmful than the original compound, as with the
degradation of a persistent pesticide.
   Geological: Wearing down by erosion.
   Water: The lowering of the water quality of a watercourse by an increase in
the amount of pollutant(s).
DETENTION: The process of collecting water from developed areas and releasing
it at a slower rate than it enters the collection system. The excess of inflow
over outflow is temporarily stored in a pond or a vault and is typically
released over a few hours or a few days.
DETENTION BASIN: A depression, designed with an inlet and outlet that regulates
water flow and allows debris to settle out, that is capable of detaining
stormwater runoff until it can be released downstream.
DISCHARGE: The release of stormwater or other substance from a conveyance
system or storage container.
DRAIN INLET: A point of entry into a detention basin, storm drain or other
inlet used to trap solids.
DRAINAGE: The collection, conveyance, containment and/or discharge of surface
and stormwater runoff.
ENTITY: Any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, organization,
association, trust, governmental agency or any other legal entity.
ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS: Those areas with fragile biophysical
characteristics or with significant environmental resources as identified by
the city. Environmentally sensitive areas include but are not limited to:
aquifer recharge areas, frequently flooded areas, steep slopes, delineated
wetlands, streams, creeks, canals, and lake floodplain areas.
EROSION: The wearing away of land surface by wind or water. Erosion occurs
naturally from weather or runoff, but can be intensified by land clearing
practices related to farming, residential or industrial development, road
building or timber cutting.
FILL: A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
FINAL STABILIZATION: All soil disturbing activities at the site have been
completed, and that a uniform (e.g., evenly distributed, without large bare
areas) perennial vegetative cover with a density of seventy percent (70%) of
the native background vegetative cover for the area has been established on all
unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures, or equivalent
permanent stabilization measures (such as the use of riprap, gabions or
geotextiles) have been employed.
FREQUENTLY FLOODED AREAS: Areas flooded at least annually for three (3) of the
past five (5) years.
GENERAL PERMIT: A permit issued under the NPDES or UPDES program to cover a
class or category of stormwater discharges.
GRADING: The cutting and/or filling of the land surface to a desired slope or
elevation.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Byproducts of society that can pose a substantial or potential
hazard to human health or the environment when improperly managed. Possesses at
least one of four (4) characteristics (flammable, corrosive, reactive or
toxic), or appears on special EPA lists.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the storm
drain system, except discharges from firefighting activities and other
discharges exempted in this title.
ILLICIT CONNECTION: Any physical connection to a publicly maintained storm
drain system allowing discharge of nonstormwater which has not been permitted
by the public entity responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
system.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any hard surface area which prevents or retards the
penetration, absorption or entry of water into the ground, or any hard surface
area which causes water to run off the surface in greater quantities or at an
increased rate of flow from that present under natural conditions preexistent
to development. Common impervious surfaces include, but are not limited to:
roofs; sidewalks; concrete or asphalt paving; walkways; patios; decks;
driveways; parking lots; storage areas; trafficked or compacted gravel; road
base; or other surfaces which similarly impede the natural infiltration of
storm and surface water.
INDIVIDUAL PERMIT: A permit issued under the NPDES or UPDES program for a
specific facility, whereby the unique characteristics of that facility may be
addressed through the imposition of special conditions or requirements.
INFILTRATION: The downward movement of water from the surface to the subsoil.
The infiltration capacity is expressed in terms of inches per hour.
INLET: An entrance into a ditch, storm sewer or other waterway.
MULCH: A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other materials
covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in place, aids
in establishing plant cover and minimizes temperature fluctuations.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): A municipally owned and operated
stormwater collection system that may consist of any or all of the following:
curb, gutter, drainage swales, piping, ditches, canals, detention basins, inlet
boxes, or any other system used to convey stormwater that discharges into
canals, ditches, streams, rivers or lakes not owned and operated by that
municipality.
NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM): The EPA's program to
control the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States.
NPDES PERMIT: An authorization or license, or equivalent control document,
issued by EPA or an approved state agency to implement the requirements of the
NPDES program.
NONPOINT SOURCE: Pollution caused by diffuse sources (not a single location,
such as a pipe) such as agricultural or urban runoff.
NONSTRUCTURAL PRACTICES: A preventative action to protect receiving water
quality that does not require construction. Nonstructural BMPs rely
predominantly on behavioral changes in order to be effective. Major categories
of nonstructural BMPs include education, recycling, maintenance practices and
source controls.
OFF SITE: Any area lying upstream of the site that drains onto the site, any
area lying downstream of the site to which the site drains, and any area that
is not on site of the project.
ON SITE: The entire property that includes the proposed development.
OUTFALL: The point, location or structure where wastewater or drainage
discharges from a sewer pipe, ditch or other conveyance to a receiving body of
water.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company,
organization, association, trust, governmental agency or any other legal
entity.
POINT SOURCE: Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance, including, but
not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation or
vessel, or other floating craft, from which pollutants are or may be
discharged.
POLLUTANT: Generally, any substance introduced into the environment that
adversely affects the usefulness of a resource. Pollutants may include, but are
not limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other automotive
fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; sand, dirt,
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects and
accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables;
pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes;
sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal
wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
RECEIVING WATERS: Bodies of water or surface water systems receiving water from
upstream constructed or natural systems.
RETENTION: The process of collecting and holding surface and stormwater runoff
with no surface outflow.
RIPARIAN: A relatively narrow strip of land that borders a stream or river.
RUNOFF: That part of precipitation, snowmelt or irrigation water that runs off
the land into streams or other surface water. It can carry pollutants from the
air and land into the receiving waters.
SOURCE CONTROL: A practice or structural measure to prevent pollutants from
entering stormwater runoff or other environmental media.
STEEP SLOPE: A slope greater than an eighteen inch (18") vertical rise in a ten
foot (10') horizontal plane (i.e. >15% slope).
STORM DRAIN: A closed conduit for conducting stormwater that has been collected
by inlets or collected by other means.
STORM DRAIN SYSTEM: The city's storm drain system comprised of storm and
subsurface water facilities, improvements, streets, gutters, drains, swales,
detention basins, property or other interests therein made, constructed or
acquired by the city for purposes of managing and controlling storm or
subsurface water.
STORMWATER: Water produced by storms, surface drainage, snow and ice melt, and
spring flows and drainage. Stormwater does not include infiltration.
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP): A document which describes the
BMPs and activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify
sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or
reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance systems and/or
receiving waters.
STRUCTURAL PRACTICES: Constructed facilities or measures to help protect
receiving water quality and control stormwater quantity. Examples include
storage, vegetation, infiltration and filtration.
SWALE: An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least seasonally
wet, is usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without flowing water.
Swales direct stormwater flows into primary drainage channels and allow some of
the stormwater to infiltrate into the ground surface.
UPDES PERMIT: An authorization or license, or equivalent control document,
issued by the state of Utah to implement the requirements of the NPDES and
UPDES program.
WATERS OF THE STATE: Surface waters and groundwaters within the boundaries of
the state of Utah and subject to its jurisdiction.
WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES: Surface watercourses and water bodies as defined
in 40 CFR 122.2, including all natural waterways and definite channels and
depressions in the earth that may carry water, even though such waterways may
only carry water during rains and storms and may not carry stormwater at and
during all times and seasons. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003; amd. Ord. 2023-54, 9-19-
2023)
16-1-100: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this title are hereby declared severable. If any provision,
clause, section or sentence of this title or the application thereof to any
person, establishment or circumstance is held invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect or invalidate any other
remaining provisions or application of this title. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
CHAPTER 2
STORM DRAINAGE UTILITY
SECTION:
16-2-010: Purpose
16-2-020: Definitions
16-2-030: Drainage Utility
16-2-040: Enterprise Fund
16-2-050: Facilities And Assets
16-2-060: Fees
16-2-070: Billing
16-2-080: Exemptions
16-2-090: Credits
16-2-100: Reserved
16-2-110: Policies
16-2-010: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
city and its inhabitants by improving the city's storm drain system, managing
and controlling groundwater and stormwater runoff, protecting property,
improving water quality, preventing polluted waters from entering the city's
water supply and other receiving waters, providing for flood mitigation, and
establishing a viable and fair method of financing the construction, operation
and maintenance of the city's storm drain system and flood mitigation projects.
(Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-2-020: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
16-1-090 of this title, for the purposes of this chapter, the following terms,
phrases and words shall have the following meanings:
DEVELOPED PARCEL: Any parcel that has been altered from its natural condition
by the construction of improvements or other impervious surface areas or by
grading or filling of the ground surface areas which grading or filling affects
the hydraulic properties of the parcel.
EQUIVALENT SERVICE UNIT OR ESU: The average amount of impervious surface,
expressed in square feet, on developed parcels in the city.
PARCEL: The smallest separately segregated unit or plot of land having an
identified owner, boundaries and surface area which is documented for tax
purposes and given a tax account (lot) number by the Davis County assessor.
(Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-2-030: DRAINAGE UTILITY:
The city council hereby creates and establishes a drainage utility. The
drainage utility shall plan, design, construct, maintain, administer and
operate the city's storm drain system. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-2-040: ENTERPRISE FUND:
The city council hereby establishes a drainage utility enterprise fund to
handle all income, expenses and other financial transactions related to the
drainage utility. All drainage utility service charges shall be deposited in
the drainage utility enterprise fund. Money in the drainage utility enterprise
fund shall not be commingled with or transferred to other city funds. However,
the drainage utility may pay other city funds for services and expenses
directly attributable to the drainage utility. The drainage utility enterprise
fund shall be operated according to state law and city ordinances, rules,
regulations and policies. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-2-050: FACILITIES AND ASSETS:
The drainage utility shall operate independently of city operations funded by
the general fund. Upon creation of the utility, all of the city's storm drain
system, facilities and assets (other than streets and other facilities and
assets designated by the city council) shall be transferred to the drainage
utility in consideration for the drainage utility's agreement to take primary
responsibility for planning, designing, constructing, maintaining,
administering and operating the city's storm drain system. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-
2003)
16-2-060: FEES:
   A.   Imposed: Each developed parcel of real property in the city shall be
charged a drainage utility fee.
   B.   ESU: The fee shall be based on the number of equivalent service units
(ESUs) contained on the parcel. The city council finds that the ESU is the most
accurate measurement for determining the amount that each parcel contributes
to, benefits from, and otherwise uses the drainage utility. Based on a study
completed within Farmington City, the city council finds and establishes that
one ESU equals four thousand eighty three (4,083) square feet of impervious
surface area.
   C.   Calculation: The fees established herein are based upon studies
conducted by the city, or caused to be conducted by the city. Based on
collected data, the city council finds that each single-family residential unit
and residential duplex contributes approximately the same amount of stormwater
runoff; therefore, each developed single-family residential parcel or
residential duplex shall pay a base rate of one ESU. All developed multi-
family residential parcels, commercial parcels and other nonresidential parcels
shall pay a multiple of this base rate, expressed in ESUs, according to the
measured impervious area on the parcel.
   D.   Charge Per ESU: The amount charged for each ESU shall be established by
resolution of the city council and set forth in the city's fee schedule. (Ord.
2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-2-070: BILLING:
The city council finds that the city's storm drain system, culinary water
system and solid waste collection system are all interrelated services that are
part of a unified city plan to provide for the health, safety and welfare of
the city and its residents in an environmentally responsible manner. Therefore,
the drainage utility fee shall be included on the city's regular monthly
utility bill for any given property. If there is no regular utility bill for
the property, the drainage utility fee shall be charged to the owner of the
property. The fee shall be deemed a civil debt owed to the city by the person
or entity paying for the city utility service provided to the property. All
developed parcels shall be charged the fee, regardless of whether or not the
owner or occupant of the property requests the drainage utility service.
Failure to pay any portion of the utility bill may result in termination of
water service. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-2-080: EXEMPTIONS:
The following exemptions shall be provided regarding required drainage utility
fees:
   A.   Undeveloped Parcels: Undeveloped parcels shall not be required to pay
any drainage utility fees.
   B.   Streets: The city council finds that fully improved dedicated public
streets, constructed in compliance with city standards and specifications, are
part of the storm utility conveyance system and are therefor exempt from the
drainage utility fees set forth herein. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-2-090: CREDITS:
   A.   Credits And Adjustments: The city acknowledges the need to provide
credits and adjustments to the drainage utility fees charged for various
developments as more particularly provided herein.
   B.   Residential Units: All single-family residential units and residential
duplexes have been assumed to be similar in terms of their impact and
contribution of stormwater runoff to the city's storm drainage systems. As
such, all single-family residential units and duplexes pay a common base user
fee and will not be considered for a user fee credit.
   C.   Multi-Family, Commercial And Industrial Developments: As there are many
varying site runoff conditions for multi-family, commercial, industrial,
institutional and other nonresidential developments, the city will consider
granting a reduction and/or credit to the calculated user fee for certain
parcels based upon detention, retention and/or mitigation management facilities
and/or measures provided on the parcel.
   D.   Amendments: The city council reserves the right to alter the criteria
on which credits are granted, based on the objectives of the drainage utility
program. The current primary object behind the credit policies set forth herein
is to encourage on site detention, retention and/or mitigation measures in
accordance with this title, the city's storm drain master plan and stormwater
management plan, and to address water quality.
   E.   Limitations: The credits provided herein are intended to encourage
property owners to implement on site stormwater management facilities and/or
best management practices to assist and improve the city's overall ability to
address stormwater management and water quality. The various types of credits
may be utilized alone or cumulatively to address such issues, provided the
maximum amount of credit that may be granted for any parcel or property shall
be seventy percent (70%) of the original calculated fee. In no event shall any
credit be granted that would reduce the minimum monthly storm drainage utility
fee below one ESU. No credit shall be imposed retroactively.
   F.   Application For Credit Or Adjustment: Any multi-family, commercial,
industrial or institutional property owner, or their agent, may apply to the
city manager for a reduction in the monthly drainage utility fee. A reduction
in the monthly fee will be considered if one or more of the following credit or
adjustment criteria apply:
      1.   Adjustments:
         a.   Adjustment criteria #1: Calculation of the impervious surface
area is incorrect.
         b.   Adjustment criteria #2: The amount of impervious surface area on
the property changes.
      2.   Credits:
         a.   Credit criteria #1: Property owner has constructed on site
stormwater retention or detention basin(s) which limit the stormwater discharge
rate and have a benefit to the overall system of the city, as determined by the
city.
         b.   Credit criteria #2: Property owner has constructed on site
stormwater detention that has the capacity to detain more water than the
property generates and is considered to be a regional detention facility by the
city.
         c.   Credit criteria #3: Property owner has constructed, installed
and/or maintains improvements that meet best management criteria as approved by
the city, state or federal agencies in accordance with the NPDES phase II
program for improving water quality for stormwater runoff.
   G.   Adjustment Criteria #1: A great amount of time and effort has been
expended in analyzing and determining the measurement and calculation of the
impervious surface area for property within the city to ensure accuracy and
correctness. The impervious surface area for most properties is determined from
site plans on file with the city, aerial photos and/or actual field
measurements. Property owners, or their agents, who disagree with the amount of
impervious surface area measured on their property may apply for an adjustment
based on an incorrect calculation of impervious surface. In order to receive an
adjustment, the property owner, or his or her agent, must provide sufficient
evidence that indicates that the amount of impervious surface has been
miscalculated. This information may include, but is not limited to, final site
plans, as built drawings, aerial photos, actual field measurements and/or other
documents that indicate the impervious surface areas. All properties that are
reevaluated by the city will be billed according to the new measurements. This
new billing may result in a lower or higher fee applied to the property.
   H.   Adjustment Criteria #2: There is a possibility that changes may occur
in the amount of impervious surface area as a result of development or other
improvements to the property. If changes have been made on a parcel of land
that alters the amount of impervious surface area (e.g., new areas of
landscaping, or a reduction of impervious surface areas), the property owner,
or his or her agent, may apply for an adjustment. Supporting documentation must
accompany the application, including, but not limited to, final site plans, as
built drawings, aerial photos, actual field measurements and/or other documents
that indicate the impervious surface areas. All properties that are reevaluated
by the city will be billed according to the new calculations. This new billing
may result in a lower or higher fee applied to the property.
   I.   Credit Criteria #1: Many properties within the city have constructed
retention or detention areas on site. These retention or detention areas or
basins help control the amount of stormwater that enters into the city's system
during and after a storm event. Nonresidential property owners, or their
agents, that have constructed such on site stormwater retention or detention
facilities may be eligible to apply for credit. In order for a property to
receive credit for retention or detention capabilities on their site, the
property owner, or their agent, must provide detailed information about the
retention or detention area. This information shall include, but is not limited
to: final site plans, as built drawings and blueprints, engineers' studies or
reports, and/or drainage calculations. In order to receive credit, it must be
determined by the city that the retention or detention facility has a
sufficient benefit to the city's overall storm drain system; that the retention
or detention facility helps to reduce the city's costs in operating and
maintaining the city's storm drain system; and/or that the retention or
detention facility reduces downstream flow or adds capacity or reduces the
city's downstream costs in providing stormwater services. The retention or
detention facility must be inspected by the city to determine that the system
is in good working order as represented by the applicant.
      1.   Conditions: If granted, the credit provided may remain in effect,
subject to amendment to this credit policy, as long as:
         a.   The retention or detention system is in working order and
properly maintained.
         b.   The property owner remains responsible for all costs of operation
and maintenance of the facility.
         c.   The city has access to the stormwater retention or detention
facility for the purpose of inspecting its compliance with design, maintenance
and operating standards.
         d.   The retention or detention system continues to provide a
sufficient benefit to the city's overall storm drain system; helps to reduce
the city's costs in operating and maintaining the city's overall storm drain
system; and/or reduces downstream flow, adds capacity or reduces the city's
downstream costs in providing stormwater services, as determined by the city.
      2.   Amount: The amount of credit, if any, for an on site stormwater
detention basin shall be determined by the city manager, upon recommendation by
the review committee, as to the benefit of the facility and the following
table:
 
Basin Outlet Rate Maximum Credit Amount
0.8 cfs per acre  30%
0.6 cfs per acre  35%
0.4 cfs per acre  40%
0.2 cfs per acre  45%
 
      3.   Maximum: A maximum credit of up to fifty five percent (55%) may be
granted for on site retention facilities with a discharge of zero, as
determined by the city manager, upon recommendation by the review committee as
to the benefits of the facility.
   J.   Credit Criteria #2: A maximum credit of up to forty five percent (45%)
may be granted for on site stormwater detention facilities that have the
capacity to detain more water than the property generates and is considered to
be a regional detention facility by the city as more particularly described
herein. In some instances, certain nonsingle-family residential parcels may
have the space needed and the location desired for construction of a regional
detention basin. Regional detention basins can have a great overall benefit to
the city's storm drain system. In order for a property to be considered a
regional detention facility, it must have the needed space to construct
facilities that can detain the property's own runoff as well as additional
amounts of stormwater runoff from other properties within the same drainage
basin. It must also be in a geographical location that is in agreement with the
city's storm drain master plan and stormwater management plan, as determined by
the city. Properties that qualify as regional detention facilities may receive
an approved credit under credit criteria #1 for on site detention, plus an
additional credit based on the amount of additional regional detention that the
site can provide. Properties requesting additional credits for excess detention
must provide detention facilities with a maximum minimum 0.2 cfs per acre basin
outlet rate. The amount of additional credit given for a property that has
regional detention shall be based on the following table:
 
If on site detention exceeds the needed The additional amount of credit given
amount by:                              is:
   25% - 49%                         35%
   50% - 74%                         40%
   75% or more                       45%
 
   K.   Credit Criteria #3: A maximum credit of thirty percent (30%) may be
granted by the city manager, upon recommendation of the review committee, for
the installation and maintenance of improvements, facilities and/or measures
that meet best management criteria as approved by the city, state or federal
agencies in accordance with the NPDES phase II program for improving water
quality for stormwater runoff. A sample of city approved best management
practices are more particularly set forth in the Farmington City stormwater
management plan as adopted, and amended, by the city.
   L.   Approval And Granting Of Credit Or Adjustment: Each property owner, or
their agent, applying for a drainage utility fee adjustment or credit will be
required to complete a credit or adjustment application and submit this
application, together with any required calculations and specific site data, to
the city manager. A review committee shall meet and evaluate the adjustment or
credit application and supporting documents. The review committee shall consist
of the stormwater official, city planner, public works director and city
engineer. The applicant may be invited to present his/her application, if
desired by the review committee. The review committee shall evaluate the merits
of each credit application and shall recommend to the city manager the approval
or denial of the fee credit or adjustment and the recommended amount of any
credit or adjustment. The city manager shall make the final decision regarding
fee credits and adjustments. The city manager's decisions for credit or
adjustment may be based on the review committee's recommendation, the data
submitted, as well as the city manager's and the review committee's evaluation
of how the facilities comply with and/or further the city's storm drain master
plan and stormwater management plan; the sufficiency of the benefit of the on
site facilities to the city's overall storm drainage system; the amount of
benefit that a facility provides to the city in reducing the costs associated
with operating and maintaining the storm drain system; and whether the facility
adds capacity or reduces the city's costs in providing stormwater services. If
approved, the monthly fee will be reduced or adjusted in accordance with the
amount granted by the city manager.
   M.   Duration Of Credits: Subject to amendment to this policy or the city's
storm drainage utility, any credit for the drainage utility fee granted by the
city shall remain in effect as long as the property owner, or their agent,
receiving the credit is in compliance with the criteria that the credit is
based upon. If a property owner, or their agent, is not in compliance, the city
may suspend the fee credit granted to the property owner or their agent. (Ord.
2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-2-100: RESERVED:
(2016 Code)
16-2-110: POLICIES:
The city manager may recommend for adoption by the city council policies and
procedures to assist in the application, administration and interpretation of
this chapter. Said policies and procedures may be adopted by resolution of the
city council. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
CHAPTER 3
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND PERMIT
SECTION:
16-3-010: City Stormwater Permit Required
16-3-020: Exemptions
16-3-030: City Stormwater Permit Application
16-3-040: City Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
16-3-050: Licensed Professional Engineer
16-3-055: Bond
16-3-060: Permit Review And Approval
16-3-070: Notice Of Commencement Of Work
16-3-080: Permit Duration And Extensions
16-3-090: Permit Nontransferable Or Nonassignable
16-3-100: Compliance With Other Ordinances
16-3-110: Permit Kept On Site
16-3-120: Inspections
16-3-130: As Built Plans
16-3-140: Notice Of Termination (NOT)
16-3-150: Stormwater Management Performance Criteria
16-3-160: Stormwater Management Design Criteria
16-3-170: Waivers
16-3-180: Fee In Lieu
16-3-190: Dedication Of Land
16-3-010: CITY STORMWATER PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Except as otherwise exempted under section 16-3-020 of this chapter,
any person or entity proposing to disturb one (1) acre or more of ground in
connection with any development, land disturbance or construction activity
within the city or any person or entity proposing to disturb less than one (1)
acre of ground which is part of a larger common plan of development that
disturbs one (1) acre or more of ground shall be required to obtain a
stormwater permit from the state of Utah. Such a permit is required to be
obtained prior to or in conjunction with the issuance of any demolition,
excavation, land disturbance, building, site plan, land use or subdivision
permit or approval, or any development or construction activity within the
city.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall not be interpreted to conflict
with federal or Utah state laws governing stormwater management. If any
ordinance conflicts with those laws, then the city code is overridden by the
conflicting law. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003; amd. Ord. 2023-54, 9-19-2023; Ord.
2024-60, 12-17-2024)
16-3-020: EXEMPTIONS:
A stormwater permit is not required for the following activities:
   A.   Emergency: Any emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the
protection of life, property or natural resources; or
   B.   Existing Nursery, Agricultural Operations: Existing nursery and
agricultural operations legally conducted as a permitted main or accessory use.
(Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-030: CITY STORMWATER PERMIT APPLICATION:
A completed application for a stormwater permit shall be submitted to the
stormwater official on forms provided by the city. All applications for a
stormwater permit shall contain the following information and/or documents:
   A.   Contacts: The name, address and contact information for the owner of
the site, the developer of the site, contractors working at the site, and any
consulting firm retained by the applicant;
   B.   Dates: The proposed starting date and estimated completion date for the
proposed work and/or construction activity;
   C.   Plan: A city stormwater pollution prevention plan, as more particularly
described in section
16-3-040 of this chapter, for the subject property and the proposed
construction activities to be prepared and implemented in accordance with the
terms and conditions of this title;
   D.   Permit: A copy of the UPDES permit issued by the state and a copy of
the stormwater pollution prevention plan submitted in conjunction with the
UPDES permit for the subject property and the proposed construction activities,
as applicable;
   E.   Fee: The required stormwater pollution prevention review and
application fee as set forth in the city's fee schedule; and
   F.   Bond: A bond in the amount deemed sufficient by the city to cover all
costs and required performance under the terms and conditions of this title
regarding stormwater pollution prevention, including, but not limited to,
compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter, the stormwater
pollution prevention plan and any additional conditions required by the
stormwater official or city engineer as provided herein. All bonds shall comply
with the provisions of section
16-3-055 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-040: CITY STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN:
   A.   Required: A city stormwater pollution prevention plan (city SWPPP)
shall be required with all permit applications and shall include sufficient
information (e.g., maps, hydrologic calculations, soil reports, erosion and
sediment control plan, etc.) to evaluate the environmental characteristics of
the project site, the potential impacts of all proposed development of the
site, both present and future, on the water resources, and the effectiveness
and acceptability of the structural and/or nonstructural BMPs proposed for
managing stormwater generated at the project site. The city SWPPP shall include
a landscaping plan in accordance with subsection
16-3-160C of this chapter. The intent of the city SWPPP is to determine the
type of stormwater BMPs necessary for the proposed project and to ensure
adequate planning for long term operation, management and maintenance of
stormwater runoff from future development. The stormwater official may prepare
a city SWPPP checklist for assistance in preparing such plans.
   B.   Previously Developed Site: For development, redevelopment or
construction activities occurring on a previously developed site, an applicant
shall be required to include within the city SWPPP BMPs for controlling
existing stormwater runoff discharges from the site in accordance with the
standards of this title to the maximum extent practicable.
   C.   Subdivisions: For developments, projects or construction activities
involving a residential, commercial or industrial subdivision, the applicant
shall be required to include with the city SWPPP individual lot development
standards and recommended BMPs for home or building construction activities
within the subdivision.
   D.   State Requirements: For projects, developments and construction
activities requiring a state UPDES permit and SWPPP, applicants may submit the
SWPPP submitted to the state for purposes of the city SWPPP, provided, the city
reserves the right to require additional information or conditions in
accordance with the provisions of this title.
   E.   Previously Approved Subdivisions: For individual lot developments,
projects or construction activities within a subdivision previously approved
under the terms and conditions of this title, including issuance of a city
stormwater permit and city SWPPP, the applicant may submit the city SWPPP
submitted for the previously approved subdivision, provided, the city reserves
the right to require additional information or conditions in accordance with
the provisions of this title.
   F.   Waiver: The stormwater official may waive any city SWPPP requirements
set forth herein in conjunction with the issuance of a stormwater permit for
any building permit or individual lot development or construction activity
which is not subject to the federal EPA requirements to obtain a city
stormwater permit (i.e., disturbs 1 acre or more of ground in connection with
any development, land disturbance or construction activity within the city or
disturbs less than 1 acre of ground which is part of a larger common plan of
development that disturbs 1 acre or more of ground). In determining whether to
grant a waiver of any of the city SWPPP requirements, the stormwater official
shall consider the following with respect to the property and circumstances
associated with the same: topography, vegetation, wetlands, steep slopes,
sensitive areas, high water table, proximity to water channels, creeks, wells
or riparian areas, and existing construction and infrastructure. (Ord. 2008-03,
1-8-2003)
16-3-050: LICENSED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER:
All proposed stormwater facilities and submitted plans shall be calculated,
designed and certified by a licensed professional engineer. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-
2003)
16-3-055: BOND:
Prior to issuance of a stormwater permit, the applicant and responsible parties
shall enter into a bond agreement with the city to insure completion of,
compliance with and performance under the terms and conditions of this title
regarding stormwater pollution prevention, including, but not limited to,
compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter, the stormwater
pollution prevention plan and any additional conditions required by the
stormwater official and/or city engineer as provided herein. The bond agreement
shall be in a form and contain such provisions as approved by the city. Such
provisions may be included in and combined with any other additional bonds
required for the project, development or construction activity, such as the
public improvements bond for subdivisions. The bond amount shall be determined
by the stormwater official and city engineer on a case by case basis depending
upon the property and circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
stormwater BMPs proposed for the project. The city shall have the right to use
the bond proceeds in the event the permit holder fails to comply with the terms
and conditions of the bond agreement. The city shall retain a percentage of the
bond proceeds to cover administrative costs incurred by the city in obtaining
compliance or completion of improvements. If the bond proceeds are inadequate
to pay the cost of completion of, compliance with and performance under the
terms and conditions of the bond agreement, the permittee shall be responsible
for the deficiency and no further construction or development activities shall
be conducted on the project until the deficiency is paid or remedied and a new
bond, satisfactory to the city, is executed and delivered to the city. (Ord.
2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-060: PERMIT REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   A.   The stormwater official and/or city engineer shall review all
stormwater permit applications and city SWPPP for compliance with the terms and
conditions of this title.
   B.   In the event the stormwater permit application or city SWPPP as
submitted is deemed inadequate or fails to meet the terms and requirements of
this title, the stormwater official and/or city engineer may require additional
information or impose additional conditions and requirements on the proposed
construction activities to the extent necessary to bring the application and/or
plan into compliance with the terms and purposes of this title.
   C.   Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of this title shall be
grounds for denial of the stormwater permit and/or any development, land use,
subdivision or land disturbance permit or approval.
   D.   No construction activity, land use or land disturbance activity shall
occur on property subject to a requirement to obtain a stormwater permit until
a stormwater permit is approved by the stormwater official and/or city
engineer. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-60, 12-17-2024)
16-3-070: NOTICE OF COMMENCEMENT OF WORK:
After issuance of a permit, the stormwater official shall be notified by the
permittee of proposed commencement of the work at least twenty four (24) hours
prior to commencement of work. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-080: PERMIT DURATION AND EXTENSIONS:
A stormwater permit shall be valid for the time period specified in the permit.
If the work is not completed during such period, prior to the expiration of the
permit, the permittee may apply to the city for a permit extension. A permit
extension shall be reviewed and approved by the stormwater official and/or city
engineer and shall only be issued upon a showing of good cause. The length of
the extension shall not exceed the original term and shall be determined by the
stormwater official and/or city engineer. Any extension shall require written
review and amendment to the stormwater permit, SWPPP and bonding, as necessary.
(Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-090: PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE OR NONASSIGNABLE:
Stormwater permits shall not be transferable or assignable and work shall not
be performed under a permit in any place other than that specified in the
permit. Nothing contained herein shall prevent a permittee from subcontracting
the work to be performed under a permit; provided, however, that the holder of
the permit shall be and remain responsible for the performance of the work
under the permit, and for all bonding, insurance and other requirements of this
title. Subcontractors shall be appropriately licensed, insured and bonded.
(Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-100: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER ORDINANCES:
The issuance of any stormwater permit by the city shall be subject to and
conditioned upon compliance with all other applicable city ordinances regarding
the proposed land disturbance or construction activity, including, but not
limited to, subdivision ordinance, zoning ordinance, excavation, erosion
control and grading permit ordinances, and other land use development
requirements. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-110: PERMIT KEPT ON SITE:
Any approved stormwater permit, SWPPP and all related documents and plans shall
be kept on site at the project. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-120: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspections may occur during and postconstruction to verify BMPs are
built and properly designed and to ensure BMPs are properly maintained.
   B.   Pursuant to Utah state law, inspections shall be conducted
electronically as described in subsection 19-5-108.3(14) of the Utah Code. On-
site inspections are appropriate if the stormwater official has a documented
reason justifying an on- site inspection, which include, without limitation,
the following:
      1.   Evidence of BMP failures or stormwater contamination in the
electronic documentation provided by the permittee;
      2.   Failure of permittee to provide scheduled photographic or video
evidence of each BMP identified on the permittee’s stormwater pollution
prevention plan;
      3.   Complaints of stormwater violations or concerns;
      4.   Written consent form the permittee to on-site inspections for the
construction activity;
      5.   Discovery of discharges into the stormwater system from the
permittee’s site, which could reasonably be attributed to the permittee’s work;
and
      6.   Prior contamination or dishonest activities of the permittee,
documented by the stormwater official.
   C.   On-Site inspections for compliance with this title and any permits
issued hereunder shall be conducted by the stormwater official, the city
building inspector, the city ordinance enforcement officer and/or other
designated agent of the city. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-60, 12-
17-2024)
16-3-130: AS BUILT PLANS:
In addition to all other ordinance requirements, all permittees subject to the
terms and conditions of this chapter are required to submit actual as built
plans for any and all permanent stormwater BMPs and facilities after final
construction is completed. As built plans must show the final design
specifications for all stormwater BMP facilities and must be certified by a
licensed professional engineer. A final inspection by the stormwater official
and/or city engineer is required before release of any bond can occur. (Ord.
2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-140: NOTICE OF TERMINATION (NOT):
   A.   Operators: Operators wishing to terminate coverage under the city
stormwater permit must submit a notice of termination (NOT) to the city. Such
NOT shall be submitted to the stormwater official.
   B.   Permittees: All permittees must submit an NOT within thirty (30) days
after completion of their construction activities and final stabilization of
their portion of the site, or another operator taking over all of their
responsibilities at the site. A permittee cannot submit an NOT without final
stabilization unless another party has agreed to assume responsibility for
final stabilization of the site. Appropriate enforcement action may be taken
for permit violations where a permittee submits an NOT but the permittee has
not transferred operational control to another permittee or the site has not
undergone final stabilization. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-150: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE CRITERIA:
Unless determined by the stormwater official and/or city engineer to be exempt
or granted a waiver, the following performance criteria shall be utilized and
addressed for stormwater BMPs at all sites and proposed land disturbance or
construction activities:
   A.   Site Designs: All site designs shall establish stormwater BMPs to
control the peak flow rates of stormwater discharge associated with specified
design storms (specified by the UPDES stormwater general permit for
construction activities UTR100000) and reduce the generation of stormwater.
These practices should seek to utilize pervious areas for stormwater treatment
and to infiltrate stormwater runoff from driveways, sidewalks, rooftops,
parking lots and landscaped areas to the maximum extent practical to provide
treatment for both water quality and quantity.
   B.   Discharges: No stormwater runoff generated from new development shall
be discharged directly into a jurisdictional wetland or local water body
without adequate treatment. Where such discharges are proposed, the impact of
the proposal on wetland functional values shall be assessed using a method
acceptable to the stormwater official and city engineer. In no case shall the
impact on functional values be any less than allowed by the army corps of
engineers (ACE) or the department of environmental quality (DEQ) responsible
for natural resources.
   C.   Recharge: Annual groundwater recharge rates shall be maintained by
promoting infiltration through the use of structural and nonstructural methods.
At a minimum, annual recharge from the postdevelopment site shall mimic the
annual recharge from predevelopment site conditions. This subsection shall not
apply to areas with high water tables.
   D.   Pollutants: All site designs shall establish stormwater BMPs to
minimize, to the maximum extent practicable, sediment, debris and all other
pollutants from entering the storm drain system during all phases of
demolition. The owner, developer, contractor and/or their authorized agents
shall be responsible for the removal of all construction debris, dirt, trash,
rock, sediment and sand that may accumulate in the storm drain system and
stormwater appurtenances as a result of site development.
   E.   Soil Erosion: All site designs shall establish stormwater BMPs to
minimize, to the maximum extent practicable, soil erosion. Any earth
disturbance shall be conducted in such a manner so as to effectively reduce
accelerated soil erosion and resulting sedimentation. All earth disturbances
shall be designed, constructed and completed in such a manner so that the
exposed area of any disturbed land shall be limited to the shortest possible
period of time. Soil erosion control measures for all slopes, channels, ditches
or any disturbed land area shall be completed within fourteen (14) calendar
days after final grading, or final earth disturbance, has been completed. All
temporary soil erosion control measures shall be maintained until permanent
soil erosion control measures are implemented.
   F.   Critical Areas: Stormwater discharges to critical areas with sensitive
resources (i.e., cold water fisheries, shellfish beds, swimming beaches,
recharge areas, water supply reservoirs) may be subject to additional
performance criteria, or may need to utilize or restrict certain stormwater
BMPs.
   G.   Hotspots: Stormwater discharges from land uses or activities with
higher potential pollutant loadings, known as "hotspots", may require the use
of specific structural BMPs and pollution prevention practices.
   H.   Postconstruction: Postconstruction stormwater BMPs, where practicable,
shall be installed during the construction process to control pollutants in
stormwater discharges that will occur after construction operations have been
completed. Postconstruction stormwater BMPs may include, but are not limited
to, stormwater detention structures (including wet ponds); stormwater retention
structures; flow attenuation by use of open vegetated swales and natural
depressions; infiltration of runoff on site; and sequential systems (which
combine several practices).
   I.   Additional Requirements: Prior to design, applicants shall consult with
the stormwater official to determine if the project or activity is subject to
additional stormwater design requirements. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-160: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT DESIGN CRITERIA:
   A.   Site Design: Stormwater BMPs for a site shall be chosen based on the
physical conditions of the site. Among the factors that should be considered:
      1.   Topography;
      2.   Maximum drainage area;
      3.   Depth to water table;
      4.   Removal of suspended sediment;
      5.   Soils;
      6.   Slopes;
      7.   Terrain;
      8.   Head; and
      9.   Location in relation to environmentally sensitive features.
   B.   Conveyance: All stormwater BMPs shall be designed to convey stormwater
to allow for the maximum removal of pollutants and reduction in flow
velocities. This shall include, but is not limited to:
      1.   Maximizing of flow paths from inflow points to outflow points;
      2.   Protection of inlet and outfall structures;
      3.   Elimination of erosive flow velocities; and
      4.   Providing of underdrain systems, where applicable.
   C.   Landscaping: When deemed necessary by the stormwater official or city
engineer, all stormwater BMPs and city SWPPP shall have a landscaping plan
detailing both the vegetation to be in the practice and how and who will manage
and maintain this vegetation. When required, this plan shall be prepared by a
registered landscape architect.
   D.   Maintenance: The permittee carrying out all BMPs and control measures
under the provisions of this title, and all subsequent owners or tenants of the
property on which such measures have been taken, shall maintain all temporary
and permanent BMPs and control measures. Should the permittee, or any
subsequent property owner and/or tenants, fail to adequately maintain the
temporary and permanent BMPs and control measures, the city reserves the
authority to enter the affected property and to take such action as is
necessary in accordance with the enforcement and violation provisions of
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-170: WAIVERS:
   A.   Scope: Every applicant shall provide for stormwater management as
required by this title unless a written request to waive such requirement is
filed with and approved by the city. Requests to waive the stormwater
management permit and/or plan requirements shall be submitted to the stormwater
official and shall be reviewed and approved by the stormwater official and the
city engineer. The city is not authorized to grant any waiver of state or
federal requirements and no waiver granted by the city hereunder shall be
interpreted to grant such authority. The decision to grant a waiver under this
section shall be within the sole discretion of the city.
   B.   Conditions: The minimum requirements for stormwater management may be
waived in whole or in part upon written request of the applicant and approval
by the city; provided, that at least one of the following conditions applies:
      1.   It can be demonstrated that the proposed development is not likely
to impair attainment of the objectives of this title;
      2.   Alternative minimum requirements for on site management of
stormwater discharges have been established in a stormwater management plan
that has been approved by the stormwater official and city engineer and the
implementation of the plan is required by city ordinance;
      3.   Provisions are made to manage stormwater by an off site facility.
The off site facility is required to be in place, to be designed and adequately
sized to provide a level of stormwater control that is equal to or greater than
that which would be afforded by on site practices and there is a legally
obligated entity responsible for long term operation and maintenance of the
stormwater practice; or
      4.   The stormwater official and city engineer find that meeting the
minimum on site management requirements is not feasible due to the natural or
existing physical characteristics of a site.
   C.   Adverse Impacts: In instances where one of the conditions above
applies, the stormwater official and city engineer may grant a waiver from
strict compliance with these stormwater management provisions, as long as
acceptable mitigation measures are provided. However, to be eligible for a
waiver, the applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the stormwater
official and city engineer that the waiver will not result in the following
impacts to downstream waterways:
      1.   Deterioration of existing culverts, bridges, dams and other
structures;
      2.   Degradation of biological functions or habitat;
      3.   Accelerated stream bank or streambed erosion or siltation; or
      4.   Increased threat of flood damage to public health, life or property.
   D.   Mitigation Measures: Where compliance with minimum requirements for
stormwater management is waived, the applicant will satisfy the minimum
requirements by meeting one of the mitigation measures selected by the
jurisdictional stormwater authority. Mitigation measures may include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      1.   The purchase and donation of privately owned lands, or the grant of
an easement to be dedicated for preservation. These lands should be located
adjacent to the stream corridor in order to provide permanent buffer areas to
protect water quality and aquatic habitat;
      2.   The creation of a stormwater management facility or other drainage
improvements on previously developed properties, public or private, that
currently lack stormwater management facilities designed and constructed in
accordance with the purposes and standards of this title; or
      3.   Monetary contributions (fee in lieu) to fund stormwater management
activities, such as research and studies (e.g., regional wetland delineation
studies, stream monitoring studies for water quality and macroinvertebrates,
stream flow monitoring, threatened and endangered species studies, hydrologic
studies, and monitoring of stormwater BMPs). (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-180: FEE IN LIEU:
Where the city waives all or part of the minimum stormwater management
requirements, or where the waiver is based on the provision of adequate
stormwater facilities provided downstream of the proposed development, the
applicant shall be required to pay a fee in an amount determined by the city in
accordance with the provisions of this section. When an applicant obtains a
waiver of the required stormwater management, the monetary contribution
required shall be in accordance with a fee schedule (unless the developer and
the stormwater authority agree on a greater alternate contribution) established
by the city, and based on the cubic feet of storage required for stormwater
management of the development in question. All of the monetary contributions
shall be credited to an appropriate capital improvements program project, and
shall be made by the developer prior to the issuance of any city approval or
permit for the development, land disturbance or construction activity. (Ord.
2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-3-190: DEDICATION OF LAND:
In lieu of a monetary contribution, an applicant may obtain a waiver of the
required stormwater management by entering into an agreement with the city for
the granting of an easement or the dedication of land by the applicant, to be
used for the construction of an off site stormwater management facility. The
agreement shall be entered into by the applicant and the city prior to the
recording of plats or, if no record plat is required, prior to city approval or
permit for the development, land disturbance or construction activity. (Ord.
2008-03, 1-8-2003)
CHAPTER 4
PROHIBITED ACTIONS
SECTION:
16-4-010: Violations Of This Title
16-4-020: Permit Required
16-4-030: No Polluted Waters
16-4-040: Obstructions
16-4-050: Dumping
16-4-060: Damage To Facilities
16-4-070: Tracking Mud Or Materials On Public Street
16-4-080: Washing Out Concrete Trucks
16-4-090: Stockpiling Debris Or Materials
16-4-100: Chemical Storage Or Use
16-4-110: Dumpster Location
16-4-120: Portable Toilet Location
16-4-130: Dust Control
16-4-140: Illicit Discharges
16-4-150: Residential Roof Drainage Restrictions
16-4-010: VIOLATIONS OF THIS TITLE:
It is unlawful for any person or entity to violate or cause to be violated any
of the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-4-020: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person or entity to conduct or cause to be conducted any
activity which is subject to the stormwater permit requirements of this title
upon any parcel of real property within the city unless a stormwater permit and
all of its applicable components have been issued for the subject parcel of
real property and activity. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-4-030: NO POLLUTED WATERS:
The only substance allowed to be discharged under this title into the city's
storm drain system is stormwater, surface drainage, subsurface drainage,
groundwater, roof runoff or nonpolluted water. Such water may be discharged
only into city storm drain system facilities which have adequate capacity for
the accommodation of such water. Such discharged water shall comply with the
terms and provisions of this title and the city's stormwater quality standards.
(Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-4-040: OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Obstruction: It is unlawful for any person or entity to obstruct or
contribute to the obstruction of the flow of stormwater runoff or nonstormwater
runoff into any detention basin, storm drain, curb and gutter, drain inlet or
other associated structural controls that convey stormwater and/or
nonstormwater runoff, unless the obstruction is authorized in writing by the
city.
   B.   Interference: It is unlawful for any person or entity to cause any
obstruction that inhibits the normal flow of stormwater and/or nonstormwater
runoff in any curb and gutter, unless the obstruction is associated with a
street and/or storm drainage improvement project and is authorized in writing
by the city and granted with the issuance of a permit signed by an authorized
agent of the city.
   C.   Covering Inlet: It is unlawful for any person or entity to cover any
drain inlet for any reason or purpose, unless the obstruction is authorized in
writing by the city; provided, however, that a drainage system inlet may be
temporarily obstructed in emergency situations in order to prevent contaminants
from entering the storm drain system.
   D.   Exceptions: Subsections A and B of this section shall not apply during
cleanup periods established by the city, provided the materials are placed
according to any directions from the city and do not obstruct drain inlets.
(Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-4-050: DUMPING:
   A.   Dumping: It is unlawful for any person or entity to place or dump or
allow to be placed or dumped into any detention basin, storm drain, curb,
gutter, drain inlet or other storm drainage structure that conveys stormwater
and/or nonstormwater, any type of deleterious product, including, but not
limited to, debris, dirt, sand, petroleum product, chemical, paint, pesticide,
herbicide, heavy metal, acid or base product, solid or liquid waste product,
hazardous waste product and/or human or animal waste.
   B.   Exceptions: The restrictions set forth in subsection A of this section
shall not apply to the normal runoff of nonstormwater related to domestic home
uses; for example, lawn watering. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-4-060: DAMAGE TO FACILITIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to place or cause to be placed in
the easement, channel, bed or bank of any river, stream, wash or other natural
drain or within or upon any storm drain, flood control channel, reservoir,
detention basin, debris basin, spreading ground or other property over which
the city has an interest, matter of any kind that may operate to impede, retard
or change the normal direction of the flow of flood, storm or other waters, or
that may catch or collect debris carried by such waters, or that may be carried
downstream by such waters to the damage and detriment of adjacent private or
public property, or that may degrade the quality of the water, without first
obtaining a written permit for such placement from the city. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-
8-2003)
16-4-070: TRACKING MUD OR MATERIALS ON PUBLIC STREET:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person or entity to track or drop mud, stones,
dirt, concrete, gravel, sediment or other similar materials onto public streets
by construction or delivery vehicles.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the driver of a vehicle who unlawfully drops or
deposits mud, stones, concrete, gravel, sediment or other similar materials or
permits the load or any portion thereof to be dropped or deposited upon any
public street to immediately remove the same or cause the same to be removed.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the driver of any vehicle to clean the tires
and vehicle undercarriage of dirt or debris before the vehicle enters onto a
paved public street.
   D.   Developers, builders and any responsible person shall provide for the
cleaning of all construction vehicles on site before the vehicles leave the
site. Developers, builders and any responsible person shall be required to bond
for protection measure and potential cleanup costs as determined by the
stormwater official or city engineer in connection with the stormwater permit.
   E.   If construction traffic causes debris to be dropped or deposited onto
public streets in violation of this section, developers, builders and any
responsible person shall also be responsible and liable for cleaning the public
streets.
      Curbs, gutters and streets adjacent to construction projects will be
inspected by the city for compliance with the provisions herein, as provided in
state code and section 16-3-120 of this code. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003; amd.
2024-60, 12-17-2024)
16-4-080: WASHING OUT CONCRETE TRUCKS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person or entity to wash out a concrete truck,
including windows, tires and the truck exterior, at any construction site,
other than in preapproved designated areas or to discharge waste concrete or
concrete truck rinse water, except into preapproved discharge facilities.
Dumping of excess concrete at any construction site shall not be allowed.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the driver of the concrete vehicle to wash out
his or her concrete truck in preapproved designated areas. The driver of the
vehicle shall be responsible for cleaning up any concrete or debris deposited
on any site in violation of this section.
   C.   Developers, builders and any responsible person shall provide a
preapproved designated area for the cleaning of concrete trucks.
   D.   Developers, builders and any responsible person shall be required to
bond for protection measure and potential cleanup costs as determined by the
stormwater official or city engineer in connection with any city approvals or
permits issued for the land disturbance or construction activity.
   E.   In the event a concrete truck is washed out or excess concrete is
deposited on any site, the developers, builders and any responsible person
shall also be responsible and liable for cleaning up the illegally deposited
concrete from the site.
   F.   Projects will be inspected by the city for compliance with the
provisions herein, as provided in Utah state code and section 16-3-120 of this
code.. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-60, 12-17-2024)
16-4-090: STOCKPILING DEBRIS OR MATERIALS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person or entity to stockpile construction or
yard improvement materials or debris in the street, gutter or in any drainage
channel (natural or manmade). This includes, but is not limited to, ramps being
constructed for temporary access across the existing curb and gutter,
stockpiling of topsoil or other fill material, stockpiling of sand, gravel,
landscape rock, bark, mulch or any other material that may be considered a
source of pollution in the storm drain system.
   B.   Materials stored on a pallet, in a self-contained storage unit, or by
other acceptable means, may be preapproved by the stormwater official as a BMP.
(Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-60, 12-17-2024)
16-4-100: CHEMICAL STORAGE OR USE:
It is unlawful for any person or entity to use or store chemicals in a manner
that causes pollution to the city's storm drain system. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-
2003)
16-4-110: DUMPSTER LOCATION:
Dumpsters shall not be allowed in the street or on any paved surfaces, except
as may be approved under special circumstances by the stormwater official.
Drain plugs with respect to containers designed with drains shall be in place
at all times. Dumpsters shall be serviced with sufficient frequency so as to
prevent overflow, spillage and the emanation of offensive odors. (Ord. 2008-03,
1-8-2003)
16-4-120: PORTABLE TOILET LOCATION:
Portable toilets shall not be allowed in the street, on any paved surfaces or
in the park strip, except as may be approved under special circumstances by the
stormwater official. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-4-130: DUST CONTROL:
Dust control measures shall be implemented on all construction sites where
there will be major soil disturbances or heavy construction activity, such as
clearing, excavation, demolition or excessive vehicle traffic. Dust control
measures include, but are not limited to, mulch, sprinkling, vegetative cover,
windbreaks, stone and spray on chemical soil treatments. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-
2003)
16-4-140: ILLICIT DISCHARGES:
   A.   Prohibited: No person or entity shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into the city's storm drain system or watercourses any materials,
including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any pollutants
that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards.
   B.   Exceptions: The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illicit
discharge to the city's storm drain system is prohibited, except as described
as follows:
      1.   Water line flushing or other potable water sources;
      2.   Landscape irrigation or lawn watering;
      3.   Approved diverted stream flows;
      4.   Groundwater infiltration to storm drains;
      5.   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
      6.   Air conditioning condensation;
      7.   Natural riparian habitat or wetland flows;
      8.   Firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing
pollutants;
      9.   Swimming pools (only if dechlorinated in accordance with federal
regulations to less than 0.4 ppm chlorine);
      10.   Springs;
      11.   Natural riparian habitat or wetland flows; or
      12.   Discharges specified in writing by the stormwater official as being
necessary to protect public health and safety.
   C.   Dye Testing: Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a
written notification to the stormwater official at least five (5) business days
prior to the time of the test.
   D.   Permitted Discharges: The prohibitions set forth in this section shall
not apply to any nonstormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit,
waiver or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under
the authority of the federal environmental protection agency; provided, that
the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit,
waiver or order, and other applicable laws and regulations; and provided, that
written approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system
by the city.
   E.   Connections: The prohibitions set forth in this section expressly
include, without limitation, connections made in the past, regardless of
whether the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or
prevailing at the time of connection. The prohibition also expressly includes,
without limitation, connections of sanitary sewer lines to the storm drain
system.
   F.   Curbside Drainage Outlets: No person or entity shall install drainage
outlets into curbsides unless approved by the city engineer or stormwater
official. Approval shall be granted in limited circumstances and must be based
on a showing of good cause. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-4-150: RESIDENTIAL ROOF DRAINAGE RESTRICTIONS:
No person or entity shall connect roof drains to the subsurface drainage
system. The capacity of the subsurface drainage system is not designed to
handle the quantity of runoff generated from roof drains. Runoff from roof
drains should be directed to a lawn or a flowerbed. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
CHAPTER 5
VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
16-5-010: Notification Of Spills
16-5-020: Inspections
16-5-030: Testing And Monitoring
16-5-040: Removal Of Obstruction
16-5-050: Stop Work Order; Revocation Of Permit
16-5-060: Order Compliance
16-5-065: Use Of Bond Proceeds
16-5-070: Violation And Penalty
16-5-010: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
   A.   Responsibility: All persons in charge of a project, development or
facility, or responsible for emergency response for a project, development or
facility, are responsible to train personnel, maintain records of such training
and maintain notification procedures to assure that immediate notification is
provided to the city upon becoming aware of any suspected, confirmed or
unconfirmed release of material, pollutants or waste that creates a risk of
discharge into the city's storm drain system.
   B.   Containment; Notice To City: As soon as any person in charge of a
project, development or facility or responsible for emergency response for a
project, development or facility has knowledge of any release of materials as
described in subsection A of this section, such person shall take all necessary
steps to ensure the containment and clean up of such release and shall
immediately notify the city stormwater official of the occurrence (no later
than the next business day).
   C.   Requirements Additional: The notification requirements of this section
are in addition to any other notification requirements set forth in federal,
state or local regulations and/or laws. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-5-020: INSPECTIONS:
Whenever the stormwater official determines it is necessary to make an
inspection to enforce any of the provisions of this title, or whenever an
authorized enforcement official has reasonable cause to believe that there
exists in any building or upon any premises any condition which may constitute
a violation of the provisions of this title, the official and/or stormwater
official may enter such building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect
the same or perform any duty imposed upon the official by this title; provided,
that: a) if such building or premises is occupied, he or she first shall
present proper credentials and request entry; and b) if such building or
premises is unoccupied, he or she first shall make a reasonable effort to
locate the owner or other persons having charge or control of the building or
premises and request entry. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-5-030: TESTING AND MONITORING:
   A.   Scope Of Requirements: Whenever the stormwater official or his or her
designee determines that any person engaged in any activity and/or owning or
operating any facility may cause or contribute to stormwater pollution or
illicit discharges to the city's storm drain system, the stormwater official or
his or her designee may, by written notice, order that such person undertake
such monitoring activities and/or analyses and furnish such reports as the
stormwater official or his or her designee may recommend. The written notice
shall be served either in person or by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, and shall set forth the basis for such order and shall
particularly describe the monitoring activities and/or analyses and reports
required. The burden to be borne by the owner or operator, including costs of
these activities, analyses and reports, shall bear a reasonable relationship to
the need for the monitoring, analyses and reports and the benefits to be
obtained. The recipient of such order shall undertake and provide the
monitoring, analyses and reports within the time frames set forth in the order.
   B.   Failure To Comply: In the event the owner or operator of a project,
development or facility fails to conduct the monitoring and/or analyses and
furnish the reports required by the order in the time frames set forth therein,
the city may cause such monitoring and/or analyses to occur and assess all
costs incurred, including reasonable administrative costs and attorney fees, to
the facility owner or operator. The city may pursue judicial action to enforce
the order and recover all costs incurred. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-5-040: REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTION:
In addition to any penalties which may be imposed pursuant to this title, the
city may do the following:
   A.   Removal: Remove any of the obstructions and any pipelines or other
devices installed in violation of the provisions of this title;
   B.   Notice: Give written notice to persons in violation of the provisions
of this title requiring the removal of offending installations from natural
channels or other storm drainage facilities. Notices may be personally served
or may be mailed to violators by registered mail; provided, that a copy is also
posted on offending installations for a period of ten (10) days. If such
installations are not removed within ten (10) days after notice is given, the
city may effect removal at the expense of the person in violation and may
recover its costs and expenses therefor; and/or
   C.   Abatement: Bring an action for the abatement of the nuisance caused by
the offending installation and/or for the recovery of the city's costs and
expenses incurred in removing the offending installation pursuant to subsection
A or B of this section. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-5-050: STOP WORK ORDER; REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   If any person holding a stormwater permit pursuant to this title fails
to complete the work required under the permit, fails to comply with all the
requirements, conditions and terms of the permit, or violates the terms of the
permit, the city may pursure enforcement as provided in section 19-5-108.3 of
the Utah Code. If the city issues a stop work order, the permittee, and its
subcontractors, shall immediately stop all work on the project, building or
permit activity. Except as otherwise authorized by the city, no work shall be
conducted on the project, building or permit activity until and unless the
violation has been remedied and the city has issued a reinstated permit. The
permittee shall be required to pay a reinstatement fee in accordance with the
Farmington City fee schedule.
   B.   The city may authorize completion of all necessary temporary or
permanent erosion control or stabilization measures and may use authorized bond
funds to pay for the same. The permittee shall be liable to the city for all
costs and expenses that may be incurred or expended by the city in bringing the
property into compliance with the requirements of the permit and any collection
costs, including legal fees, incurred by the city. The city may recover these
costs through appropriate legal action. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003; amd. Ord.
2024-60, 12-17-2024)
16-5-060: ORDER COMPLIANCE:
Whenever the city finds that a person or entity has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this title, the authorized enforcement official
may order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person,
in conformance with subsection 19-5-108.3(11) of the Utah code. Such notice may
require, without limitation:
   A.   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
   B.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
   C.   An order to stop construction activity, unless the permittee:
      1.   Selected the city’s preferred best management practices for the
site:
      2.   Implemented and properly maintained the preferred best management
practices; and
      3.   The violation resulted from a deficiency in the preferred and
implemented best management practice.
   D.   That violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease and
desist;
   E.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or contamination
hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
   F.   A recoupment of administrative and remediation costs; and
   G.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs. (Ord. 2008-03,
1-8-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-60, 12-17-2024)
16-5-065: USE OF BOND PROCEEDS:
In addition to the remedies and procedures set forth in this chapter, the city
is authorized to utilize the bond proceeds in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the bond agreement entered into by the parties for the particular
project, development or construction activity in accordance with section
16-3-055 of this title. (Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
16-5-070: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Criminal Violation: Any person who violates any provision of this title
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and shall be subject to fines as
provided in Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301, as amended, and/or
imprisonment as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-204, as amended.
Each day during which any violation of any of the provisions of this title is
committed, continued or permitted shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Civil Penalty: Any person who violates any provision of this title may
be subject to civil penalties as more particularly set forth by resolution or
ordinance of the city council.
   C.   Damages: If, as the result of the violation of any provision of this
title, the city or any other party suffers damage and is required to make
repairs to and/or replace any materials, the cost of the repair or replacement
shall be borne by the party in violation, in addition to any criminal fines
and/or penalties.
   D.   Nuisance: In addition to the penalties provided herein, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
title shall be considered a threat to the public health, safety, welfare and
the environment, and may be declared and deemed a nuisance by the stormwater
official, or his or her designee, and may be abated and/or restored by the city
in accordance with nuisance procedures.
   E.   Other Relief: This section shall not limit the authority of any court
of competent jurisdiction to impose any other sanction or order any other
relief as may be appropriate and lawful under local, state or federal law.
(Ord. 2008-03, 1-8-2003)
 
