CITY CODE
OF
FILLMORE CITY, UT
Code current through:
Ord. 25-02, passed 7-1-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Fillmore City, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 25-02, passed July 1, 2025. Ordinances
of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 25-05
 
AN ORDINANCE OF FILLMORE CITY, UTAH AMENDING THE FILLMORE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE,
TITLE 1 ADMINISTRATION, CHAPTER 6 MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL, SECTION 3
COMPENSATION, INCREASING THE COMPENSATION FOR THE MAYOR AND EACH CITY COUNCIL
MEMBER.
 
   The City Council of the City of Fillmore, Utah, (referred to herein as the
“City Council”),
states the following as the basis for enacting this ordinance:
 
RECITALS
 
A.    WHEREAS, Fillmore City (“City”) is an incorporated municipality duly
organized under the laws of the State of Utah;
 
B.    WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized pursuant to Utah Code Annotated,
Title 10, Chapter 3, Section 818, to establish compensation schedules;
 
C.    WHEREAS, on August 19, 2025, the City Council held a public hearing on
the proposed ordinance amendments;
 
D.    WHEREAS, the last date on which increases to compensation for the City
Mayor and members of the City Council were in 2003;
 
E.    WHEREAS, The City Council has now considered the matter and has found the
changes to be in the best interest of Fillmore City and its residents by
promoting the health, safety and general welfare of the City and has determined
to adopt the Planning Commission’s recommendation as set forth herein; and,
 
F.    WHEREAS, the City Council finds now that the increases in compensation
for the City mayor and City Council members are appropriate for the continued
operation of the City.
 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FILLMORE,
UTAH:
 
SECTION 1: Adoption of Recitals. The recitals set forth above are hereby
adopted and incorporated into this ordinance be reference.
 
SECTION 2: All previous compensation ordinances regarding elected officials are
hereby repealed.
 
SECTION 3: The compensation for the Mayor of Fillmore City is hereby set at
$1,100.00 per month.
 
SECTION 4: The compensation for the members of the City Council is hereby set
at $600.00 per month.
SECTION 5: Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon
publication.
 
SECTION 6: Publication. This ordinance or a summary thereof is ordered
published in
accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-711, as a class A notice under Section
63G-30-102.
 
SECTION 7: Severability. If any provision of this ordinance less than the
entire ordinance is
held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, this ordinance shall be
deemed severable, and
such finding of invalidity shall not affect the remaining portions of this
ordinance.
 
SECTION 8: Conflicting Ordinances. To the extent that any ordinances,
resolutions, or policies
of Fillmore City conflict with the provisions of this ordinance, they are
hereby amended to be in
accordance with the provisions hereof.
 
PASSED AND ADOPTED this _____ day of _______________ 2025.
 
CITY OF FILLMORE, UTAH:
 
By: ____________________________
MICHAEL D. HOLT, Mayor
 
Attest: _____________________________
KEVIN ORTON, City Recorder
 
VOTING:
 
Dennis Alldredge    ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain   
Curt Hare      ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain
Gene Larsen      ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain
Kyle Stevens      ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain
Michael Winget   ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1-6-3: COMPENSATION:
 
A.   Mayor Compensation: The Mayor shall receive a monthly salary in the amount
of one thousand and one hundred dollars ($1,100.00).
B.   City Council Compensation: Each member of the City Council shall receive a
monthly salary of six hundred dollars ($600.00). (Ord. 03-09, 9-23-2003, eff.
1-1-2004)
 
 
RESOLUTION NO. 25-11
 
A RESOLUTION OF FILLMORE CITY, UTAH ESTABLISHING PER DIEM COMPENSATION FOR
MEMBERS OF THE PLANNING COMMISSION IN ACCORDANCE WITH FILLMORE CITY MUNICIPAL
CODE, TITLE 10 LAND USE REGULATIONS, CHAPTER 4 PLANNING COMMISSION, SECTION 5
COMPENSATION.
 
   WHEREAS, pursuant to Fillmore City Code Title 10 Land Use Regulations,
Chapter 4 Planning Commission, Section 5 Compensation, the City Council may, by
resolution, fix per diem compensation for the members of the Planning
Commission for meetings actually attended; and
 
   WHEREAS, the City Council has determined compensation in the amount of fifty
dollars ($50.00) per meeting attended is a reasonable amount to compensate
members of the Planning Commission for necessary expenses associated with
attendance at meetings.
 
   NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Fillmore,
Utah that pursuant to Fillmore City Code Title 10 Land Use Regulations, Chapter
4 Planning Commission, Section 5 Compensation, per diem compensation for
planning commission in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00) is hereby
established.
 
PASSED AND ADOPTED this __9th _day of _September______________ 2025.
 
CITY OF FILLMORE, UTAH:
 
By: ____________________________
MICHAEL D. HOLT, Mayor
 
Attest: _____________________________
KEVIN ORTON, City Recorder
 
 
 
VOTING:
 
Dennis Alldredge    ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain   
Curt Hare      ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain
Gene Larsen      ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain
Kyle Stevens      ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain
Michael Winget   ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-06
 
AN ORDINANCE OF FILLMORE CITY, UTAH ENACTING FILLMORE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE,
TITLE 10 LAND USE REGULATIONS, CHAPTER 4 PLANNING COMMISSION, SECTION 5
COMPENSATION, CREATING PER DIEM PROVISIONS FOR PLANNING COMMISSION MEMBERS.
 
   The City Council of the City of Fillmore, Utah, hereby ordains (referred to
herein as the “City Council”):
 
SECTION 1: Enactment of Fillmore City Municipal Code, Title 10, Chapter 4,
Section 5. The Fillmore City Code Title 10 Land Use Regulations, Chapter 4
Planning Commission, Section 5 Compensation, is hereby enacted as follows:
 
10-4-5: COMPENSATION:
 
The City Council may, be resolution, fix per diem compensation for the members
of the Planning Commission based on meetings actually attended. Members of the
Planning Commission may also be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred
while acting in their official capacity. The non-voting representative of the
City Council shall not receive per diem.
 
Adoption of Recitals. The recitals set forth above are hereby adopted and
incorporated into this ordinance be reference.
 
SECTION 2: Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon
publication.
 
SECTION 3: Severability. If any provision of this ordinance less than the
entire ordinance is
held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, this ordinance shall be
deemed severable, and
such finding of invalidity shall not affect the remaining portions of this
ordinance.
 
SECTION 4: Conflicting Ordinances. To the extent that any ordinances,
resolutions, or policies
of Fillmore City conflict with the provisions of this ordinance, they are
hereby amended to be in
accordance with the provisions hereof.
 
PASSED AND ADOPTED this __16th ___ day of __September_____________ 2025.
 
CITY OF FILLMORE, UTAH:
 
By: ____________________________
MICHAEL D. HOLT, Mayor
 
Attest: _____________________________
KEVIN ORTON, City Recorder
 
 
 
VOTING:
 
Dennis Alldredge    ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain   
Curt Hare      ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain
Gene Larsen      ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain
Kyle Stevens      ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain
Michael Winget   ___Yea   ___Nay   ___Absent   ___Abstain
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-07
 
AN ORDINANCE OF FILLMORE CITY, UTAH AMENDING THE FILLMORE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE,
TITLE 10 LAND USE REGLUATIONS, CHAPTER 8 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS, ARTICLE A
GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT, ALLOWING SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLING,
REMOVING COMMERCIAL KENNEL, AND INCLUDING PUBLIC UTILITY STATION DEVELOPMENT
STANDARDS.
The City Council of the City of Fillmore, Utah, 
(referred to herein as the “City Council”), states the following as the basis
for enacting this ordinance:
RECITALS
 
A.   WHEREAS, Fillmore City (“City”) is an incorporated municipality duly
organized under the laws of the State of Utah;
 
B.   WHEREAS, Fillmore City previously adopted a land use ordinance, pursuant to law, which
is set forth in Chapter 10 of the Fillmore City Municipal Code;
C.   WHEREAS, Fillmore City may enact and amend ordinances, resolutions, and
rules regarding land use for the purposes outlined in Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-
102;
 
D.   WHEREAS, Fillmore City received an application to amend an ordinance
regulating certain uses in the General Commercial zone;
E.   WHEREAS, on September 10, 2025, Fillmore City Planning Commission reviewed
the
application and held a public hearing to receive public comment regarding such enactment,
after publishing notice as required by law, and there allowed the opportunity
for public comments related to the proposed enactment;
F.   WHEREAS, after considering the matter, the Planning Commission found the amendment
to be appropriate and found that it was in the public interest to recommend the adoption to
the City Council;
 
G.   WHEREAS, the City Council has now considered the matter and received public comment,
after publishing notice as required by law, and has determined that the
Planning Commission recommendation is appropriate and the changes should be
adopted as such changes further the health, safety, and welfare of Fillmore
City.
 
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED  BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FILLMORE,
UTAH:
 
SECTION 1:
   Adoption of Recitals.   The Recitals set forth above are hereby adopted and
incorporated into this ordinance by reference.
 
SECTION 2: Amendment of Fillmore City Municipal Code, Title 10, Chapter 8,
Article A, General Commercial District. The Fillmore City Municipal Code Title
10, Chapter 8, Article A, General Commercial District, is hereby amended as
attached, to be incorporated herein.
 
SECTION 3: Continuing Effect of Fillmore City Municipal Code. Except as
specifically amended hereby, all terms, provisions, and conditions set forth in
Title 10 of the Fillmore City Municipal Code shall remain and continue in full
force and effect.
SECTION 4: Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon
publication.
 
SECTION 5: Publication. This ordinance or a summary thereof is ordered
published in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-711, as a class A notice
under Section 63G-30-102.
 
SECTION 6: Severability. If any provision of this ordinance less than the
entire ordinance is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, this
ordinance shall be deemed severable, and such finding of invalidity shall not
affect the remaining portions of this ordinance.
 
SECTION 7: Conflicting Ordinances. To the extent that any ordinances,
resolutions, or
policies of Fillmore City conflict with the provisions of this ordinance, they are hereby amended
to be in accordance with the provisions hereof.
 
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 7th    day of October 2025.
 
CITY OF FILLMORE, UTAH:
 
By:    
MICHAEL D. HOLT, Mayor
Attest:    
KEVIN ORTON, City Recorder
 
 
VOTING:
Dennis Alldredge    Y   N   Abse   Abstain
Curt Hare           Y   N   Abse   Abstain
Gene Larsen         Y   N   Abse   Abstain
Kyle Stevens        Y   N   Abse   Abstain
Michael Winget      Y   N   Abse   Abstain
ARTICLE A. GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT SECTION:
10-8A-1: Definitions 10-8A-2: Purpose 10-8A-3: Use Table
10-8A-4: Development Standards 10-8A-5: Performance Standards
 
10-8A-1: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING, OCCUPIED:  A building on the same lot as the principal
building, and that is:
A.   Clearly incidental to, and customarily found in connection with, such principal
building.
B.   Operated and maintained for the benefit of the principal use; and
C.   A dwelling unit or home office.
ACCESSORY BUILDING, UNOCCUPIED:  A building on the same lot as the principal
building, and that is:
A.   Clearly incidental to, and customarily found in connection with, such principal
building.
B.   Operated and maintained for the benefit of the principal use; and
C.   Not a dwelling unit.
ATHLETIC CLUB: An establishment providing facilities for physical development,
exercise, sports, or recreation. Facilities may include exercise equipment, indoor and/
or outdoor racquetball or tennis courts, jogging track, swimming pools, ice
skating rink, indoor bathing, restaurant or snack bar, and sales of athletic
equipment. Facilities may be open to the public for a fee, or available only to
persons holding membership.
AUTOMOTIVE SELF-SERVICE STATION: An establishment for the retail sale of
automobile fuels and lubricants at which the customer provides the service to
his own vehicle, and at which no vehicle repair or maintenance service is
offered. Such an establishment may offer for sale at retail other convenience
items as a clearly secondary activity. Stations located at interstate exchanges
catering to semitrucks, which also include accommodations for truckers, also
known as truck stops, require a conditional use permit. Automotive Self-
Service Station includes establishments for the retail sale of gasoline,
natural gas, and propane, but specifically excludes electric vehicle charging
stations.
 
AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION: An establishment whose primary purpose is the
retail sale of gasoline or other motor vehicle and related fuel, oil, or lubricant. Secondary
activities may include minor automotive repair, maintenance, or an automatic
car wash. Automotive Service Station includes establishments for the retail
sale of gasoline, natural gas, and propane, but specifically excludes electric
vehicle charging stations.
AUTO, TRUCK, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT SALES AND
RENTAL: Sales of both new and used motor vehicles and equipment stored and
displayed both indoors and on outside lots, but not to include non-
serviceable or junk vehicles or equipment.
AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment primarily engaged in the
repair or maintenance of motor vehicles, trailers, and similar large mechanical
equipment. Establishments involving auto-
body repair and painting services will require a conditional use permit. Not
included are automotive salvage yards.
BANKING OR FINANCIAL SERVICE: A bank, credit union, savings and loan
association, or other establishment with a primary purpose of receiving,
lending, exchanging, or safeguarding money, or performing financial advisory
services. This definition shall include outside drive-
up facilities for service to customers in automobiles.
BAR, TAVERN, LOUNGE AND CLUB: An establishment intended primarily for the on-
premises sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages, open either to the public or
operated as a nonprofit private club for members only.
BED AND BREAKFAST:  A building where, for compensation, meals and lodging are
provided for at least five (5) but not more than fifteen (15) persons.
CHILDCARE CENTER:  A business providing for the childcare of sixteen 
(16) or fewer children, including the provider's children who are twelve (12)
years of age or under, within the provider's home.
CHILDCARE FACILITY: 
Any business providing for childcare which does not qualify as a childcare
center.
CHURCH: A building set apart primarily for the purpose of worship in which
religious
services are held and with which clergy is associated, the main body of which is kept for
that use and not put to any other use inconsistent with its primary purpose, and which is
tax exempt under the laws of the State of Utah.
CINEMA, INDOOR:  An enclosed building used primarily for the presentation of
motion pictures.
CINEMA, OUTDOOR:  An establishment at which motion pictures are projected onto
an outdoor screen for viewing by patrons seated in parked motor vehicles.
CIVIC CLUB, FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION:  A building or use, other than a church or
school, operated by a nonprofit association or organization for a social,
fraternal, political, civic, or philanthropic purpose, which may include a
meeting hall and cooking and dining facilities for large groups, but shall not
provide overnight lodging.
 
CONVENIENCE GOODS SALES AND SERVICES:  Stores or shops intended for retail
sales of convenience goods or performance of convenience services. Goods and
services regarded as convenience are those generally needed for daily home
consumption and for which locations near residential neighborhoods are
considered desirable. This category includes grocery store, drug store, variety
store, personal service, hardware store, dry cleaning pick up, and uses
considered similar and compatible.
CULTURAL, CIVIC SERVICES:  A building primarily used for the public, nonprofit
display of art, historic or cultural artifacts, or other inanimate exhibits, or
a building primarily used as a lending library or reading room.
DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment employing volatile or
explosive substances for the cleaning or dyeing of fabrics. Excluded from this definition
are traditional laundries employing water and soaps in the cleaning of fabrics
and patron-operated dry-cleaning machines associated with laundromats.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY:  A building arranged or designed to be occupied by one
family, the structure having only one dwelling unit.
FIREWORKS SALES/STANDS: The temporary display and sale of legally allowed
fireworks. This use requires a business license and a temporary permit issued
from the Fillmore City Fire Chief or his/
her designee after the business has had a satisfactory fire inspection.
GENERAL MERCHANDISE SALES AND RELATED SERVICES:  Stores, department
stores, or shops intended for the sale of goods or merchandise, but not including
convenience goods, liquor, motor vehicles, campers, trailers, or lumber.
HEALTHCARE CENTER (CONVALESCENT CENTER): A publicly or privately operated
facility, other than a hospital, intended for the long-term, inpatient care of
human illness or infirmity, including the elderly and developmentally disabled, normally
employing the services of skilled and licensed practitioners.
HEAVY/FARM EQUIPMENT SALES:  Vehicles or equipment in excess of one ton used in
farming, construction, or other related services.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation carried on by the occupant of a dwelling as a
secondary use in connection with which there is no display other than that provided in
Fillmore City ordinance with relation to signs, no stock in trade, no person
employed other than members of the family residing on the premises, and no
power tools used requiring a motor in excess of one horsepower. A home
occupation requires an administrative conditional use permit issued by the Land
Use Authority.
HOSPITAL: An institution designed for the diagnosis, treatment, and care of
human illness or infirmity and providing health services, primarily for in-
patients, and including, as related facilities, laboratories, out-patient
departments, training facilities, and staff offices, but not including clinics
or healthcare centers.
 
HOTEL: 
A building designed or occupied as the more or less temporary abiding place of
fifteen (15) or more individuals who are, for compensation, lodged, with or
without meals.
INTERMITTENT USE:  A temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares,
and merchandise within Fillmore City.
LAUNDROMAT:  An establishment in which patrons wash, dry, or dry clean clothing
and other fabrics in coin-operated, self-service machines.
LINEN SERVICE: 
A service whereby materials, including but not limited to linens, textiles, and
uniforms, are collected, rented, cleaned, and delivered.
LIQUOR STORE:  A retail sales store authorized by the Utah Alcoholic Beverage
Control Commission to sell packaged alcoholic beverages for off-premises
consumption.
LUMBER SALES AND STORAGE:  The sale and display of lumber and building
supplies, including the outside storage of lumber and related merchandise.
MENTAL HEALTH CENTER: 
A publicly or privately operated facility, intended for the diagnosis and
treatment of mental or emotional disorders.
MILITARY SURPLUS GOODS/STORE:  New or used military equipment, vehicles, or
supplies, which are available for resale to the general public.
MORTUARY, FUNERAL HOME: An establishment in which the human dead are
prepared for burial or cremation. The facility may include a chapel for the conduct of
funeral services, spaces for informal gatherings, and related accessory uses.
MOTEL: 
A building or group of buildings containing individual sleeping units designed
and used primarily for the accommodation of transient automobile travelers and
with automobile parking immediately accessible.
MUSEUM: 
A building or institution in which objects of historical, scientific, artistic, or
cultural interest are procured, studied, stored, and exhibited.
NURSERY:  A business that grows, cultivates, and/
or distributes and sells plants and other landscaping or horticulture-related
items.
OFFICE, BUSINESS OR GOVERNMENT:  A place intended for the conduct of
administration or services by a business enterprise or unit of government.
OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL: A place intended for the conduct of a recognized learned
profession. Such uses include offices or clinics devoted to the treatment and
care of human illness or injury (medical, dental, chiropractic offices, massage
therapist, and similar uses). Other professions so defined would include, but
not be limited to, accountants, architects, engineers, and
lawyers. Office, professional may be conducted in allowed zones of the zoning
matrix and may be conducted as a home occupation,
provided they meet the criteria for home occupation, under an administrative conditional
use permit in zones where home occupation is allowed. Definition does not allow
for inpatient care facilities or sexually oriented businesses.
 
OUTDOOR RECREATION, PARK OR PLAYGROUND (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE): An
area free of buildings except for restrooms, dressing rooms, equipment storage and
maintenance buildings, and open-air pavilions and used primarily for recreation
activities not involving motor vehicles or overnight use.
PAWNSHOPS:  A business dealing in or collecting used or secondhand merchandise
or personal property, which has been legitimately obtained.
PERSONAL SERVICES: Establishments primarily involved in providing personal
grooming and related services. This definition shall include barbershops, beauty parlors,
hair salons, ear piercings, tailors or massage services, but not laundries, dry
cleaners, or other body piercings. This definition also includes services for
permanent facial cosmetics of the eye, brow, and lip only, that are a form of
tattooing, and subject to all
licensing requirements of a tattoo parlor. This use must be in conjunction with a licensed
provider and a commercial beauty parlor or hair salon, but not as a home
occupation.
PET GROOMING: 
The grooming of small pets, such as dogs and cats, provided, that no more than
five (5) animals may be on the premises at one time and that no lodging of
animals is allowed.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY:  An area of land that is legally described in a registered
deed for the provision of public access.
PUBLIC SERVICE:  Uses, which may be housed in separate buildings, or which may
occupy a space within a building, that are operated by a unit of government to
serve public needs, such as police (with jail), fire
service, ambulance, Post Office, or Judicial Court, but not including public
utility stations or maintenance facilities.
PUBLIC UTILITY STATIONS:  A structure or facility used by a public or quasi-
public agency to store, distribute, generate, or chemically treat water, power,
gas, sewage, equipment, or other service elements.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (TRAVEL TRAILER PARK):  Any area or tract of
land or separately designated section where lots are rented to one or more owners or
users of recreational vehicles for a temporary time.
REPAIR SERVICES, SMALL APPLIANCE OR EQUIPMENT:  An establishment for
the repair of household or other small appliances or equipment, and at which no such
appliances or their parts are stored outdoors.
RESTAURANT, CAFE, CONFECTIONERY:  An establishment where food is prepared and
served to customers for consumption on the premises.
RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD, DRIVE-IN: An establishment distinguished from a
traditional sit-down restaurant in that service is provided from a counter or
window for consumption either off or on the premises; on-premises consumption
normally requires
considerably less time than consumption in a traditional restaurant. Service may also be
provided to customers in automobiles by use of an outside drive-up window;
parking is provided immediately adjacent to the building. This definition
includes also specialty
 
food stores such as ice cream parlors or delicatessens, having counter or window
service.
SHOPPING CENTER, COMMUNITY (RETAIL BUSINESS):  A completely planned
and designed commercial development providing for the sale of general merchandise
and convenience goods and including a variety store, discount store, or
supermarket.
SHORT TERM RENTAL: 
The use of property located in the following zoning districts: Agriculture,
Rural Residential, Residential 2, General Commercial, Highway Commercial, and
Office Residential; by a person or entity; for occupancy, rent or lease; for
the purpose of receiving compensation, money, rent, or other bargained
consideration; for less than thirty (30) consecutive days. Any rental that is
leased out consecutively to the same tenant for thirty (30) days or more will
not constitute a residential Short-Term Rental. Short-term rentals do not
include other lodging facilities, such as bed and breakfast facilities.
SMALL ENGINE REPAIR: An establishment engaged in the repair and maintenance
of small engines with an engine displacement size no greater than two thousand 
(2,000)
cc. This includes, but is not limited to, motorcycles, OHVs, ATVs, home and garden
tools and equipment, outboard motor watercraft (engine removed), snowmobiles,
chainsaws, and other similar small engines.
STORAGE LAND SEA CONTAINERS:  Any sea container that is commonly described as a
storage container or storage unit, limited to land sea containers with a
storage space of greater than one hundred twenty (120) square feet. No wheeled
trailers such as semitrailers and cargo trailers.
SUBDIVISION: Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed to be
divided into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other
division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale,
lease or development, either
on the installment plan or upon any and all other Residential and Nonresidential zoned
land, whether by deed, metes and bounds description, devise and testacy, lease, map,
plat or other recorded instrument.
SURPLUS, SECONDHAND STORE:  An establishment that sells surplus items, used
furniture, appliances, clothing, and miscellaneous small items. Excluded from
this definition are establishments selling used motor vehicles, their parts,
military surplus, and other heavy equipment.
SWAP MEET: A temporary use business where the owner of the business lends or
leases portions of real property, which he owns or leases, to persons for use as an open
marketplace to barter, exchange, or sell goods. The marketplace may be located
either outdoors or indoors. The business owner is responsible for providing
that all persons bartering, exchanging, or selling goods at the swap
meet comply with all laws relating to the conduct of business within the City
and also comply with all zoning provisions, including, but not limited to, the
terms of any conditional use permit granted to the owner. A swap meet includes
farmers markets and flea markets. Yard sales and garage
 
sales are not swap meets. Persons, as set out herein, include both individuals and
entities.
TATTOO OR BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT: Any business that is engaged primarily
in the practice of tattooing or body piercing. This definition does not include
services for permanent facial cosmetics of the eye, brow, and lip, or piercings of the ear,
contained under the definition of Personal Services.
TELE- COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY:  A telecommunications facility of less than
thirty-five feet (35') in height consisting of antenna equipment shelters and
related structures used for transmitting and/or receiving telecommunications
and/or radio stations.
TEMPORARY OUTDOOR USE: A use, activity, vending cart, special event, or
commercial use outside that is not permanent in nature and after a seventy-two 
(72) hour time period ceases or is removed.
THEATER, CONCERT HALL:  A building or amphitheater used primarily for the
presentation of live stage productions or performances.
WAREHOUSE STORAGE UNITS: A structure in which goods, merchandise, or
equipment are stored for eventual distribution, or for which storage space is rented. For
all zones, except the light industrial zoning district, such structure must be
a building.
For the light industrial zoning district, only a warehouse storage unit may include cargo
shipping containers as provided in Section 10-9A-101 et seq., upon approval of
a conditional use permit.
WELDING MACHINE SHOP:  A building or structure where pieces of metal are
welded.
 
10-8A-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to create a zone which:
A.   Provides for basic retail, commercial, and office service uses in addition
to those uses
normally permitted in downtown locations. These commercial uses may be relatively large
or intense in nature and require convenient access.
B.   Mitigates incompatibility between commercial uses and residential uses by
considering the commercial uses proximity and location in relation to
residential districts to avoid adverse impacts on the residential areas.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-17, 6-18-2024)
 
 
10-8A-3: USE TABLE:
If a use is not specifically designated, then it is prohibited.
 
Type                        Allowed Administrative   Business Conditional Use
                                    Conditional Use License
Accessory structure,        X
occupied.
Accessory building,         X
unoccupied
Athletic club                                        X        X
Automotive self-service    X                        X
station
Automotive service station X                        X
Auto, truck, recreational
vehicle, and equipment      X                        X
sales and rental
Automotive repair                                    X        X
establishment
Banking or financial      X                        X
services
Bar, tavern, lounge, and X                        X
club
Bed and breakfast          X                        X
Childcare for business:
Center                              X                X
Facility                            X                X
Church                              X
Cinema, indoor              X                        X
Cinema, outdoor                                      X        X
Civic club                  X                        X
Convenience goods, sales,   X                        X
and services
Cultural, civic services   X                        X
Dry cleaning and laundry X                        X
establishment
Dwelling, single-family,
including Modular and                                         X
Manufactured homes
Fireworks sales/stands                  X   X
General merchandise sales and service   X   X
Healthcare center                       X   X
Heavy/farm equipment sales or rental X   X
Home occupation                           X X
Hospital                                X   X
Hotel                                   X   X
Intermittent commercial use             X   X
Laundromat                              X   X
Linen service                           X   X
Liquor store                            X   X
Lumber sales/storage                        X X
Mental health center                       X X
Military surplus goods/store           X   X
Mortuary, funeral home                 X   X
Motel                                   X   X
Museum                                  X   X
Nursery                                 X   X
Office, business, government           X
Office, professional                    X   X
Outdoor recreation, park, or playgrouXd  X
Pawnshops                               X   X
Personal services                       X   X
Pet grooming                            X   X
 
Preschools                                           X X
Public rights-of-way                              X
Public service                                     X
Public utility stations                                 X
Recreational vehicle park                             X X
Repair services, small appliances                  X   X
Restaurant, café                                  X   X
Restaurant, fast food                             X   X
Shopping center, community                        X   X
Short-Term Rental                                      X X
Small engine repair                               X   X
Storage Container                                        X
Subdivisions or RMF Overlay (must meet subdivision X
requirements of chapter 18 of this title)
Surplus, secondhand store                            X X
Swap meets                                           X X
Tattoo or Body Piercing Establishment           X   X
Telecommunications facility                          X
<45'
Temporary outdoor use                             X   X
Theater, concert hall                                 X X
Warehouse storage units                           X   X
Welding machine shop                              X   X
 
1. Establishments involving auto-
body repair and painting services will require a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021; Ord. 24-05, - -2024; Ord. 24-
17, 6-18-
2024; Ord. 24-23, 12-3-2024)
 
 
10-8A-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
MINIMUM LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 
 
 
Lot      Area  Width   Height  Setbacks                                                                Sidewalk, Curb, and Gutter
                               Front: None                                                             Sidewalk: Required along lot frontage. For corner lots, a sidewalk is
         7,500 90’   45’   Side: 0’ next to existing general commercial uses, 15’ next to required along the lot frontage and along the lot side adjacent to the
Standard sq.   minimum maximum residential uses, including single-family dwellings, apartments,     street. For single-family dwellings, any portion of a sidewalk required
         ft.                   and undeveloped uses.                                                  over 165' is eligible to participate in the city cost-sharing program for
                               Rear: 0’                                                             the construction of that portion of the sidewalk.
 
 
Exceptions:                       Front: 25’                         Curb and Gutter: Required along lot frontage. For corner lots, required
Single-     7,500 75’   35’   Side: 8’                           along the lot frontage and along the lot side adjacent to the street.
family      sq.   minimum maximum Rear: 20’                          Exceptions would be limited to instances in which the City Engineer
dwelling    ft.                   15’ away from any commercial usdetermines construction of the sidewalk, curb, and/or gutter would be
                                                                       detrimental to public safety or the protection of property.
Accessory   7,500 75’   35’   Front: 25’
Structure   Sq.   minimum maximum Side: 3’
            ft.                   Rear: 3’
 
A.   One Principal Structure On Lot: Only one principal structure is permitted
on a single lot.
B.   Structure To Have Access: All structures shall be on a lot adjacent to a
public street or with access to an approved private street, and shall be so
located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for fire protection.
C.   Utility Connections: Single-
family dwellings allow one utility connection; external
accessory dwellings must connect to the existing utility connection. Multi-
family dwelling
units shall have individual utility connections per dwelling unit. Commercial uses shall
have individual utility connections per commercial unit. City engineers will review for
adequate utility connections.
D.   Public Utility Stations: Public utility stations shall meet the following
requirements:
1.   Lot Area:
 Each station shall be located on a lot not less than two thousand (2,000)
square feet in area.
2.   Access:
 Each station shall be located on a lot that has adequate access from a street,
alley, or easement.
 
3.   Yards: Each station shall be provided with a yard on each of the four (4)
sides of the building or structures not less than fifteen feet (15') in width,
except that for such stations
located on lots fronting on a street and abutted by one or more residential lots. The lot size
should be seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet with a privacy fence
and possible barbed or razor wire around the perimeter. Setbacks should be
twenty-five feet (25') from the front, fifteen feet 
(15') from each side, and forty feet (40') in the rear. This will
allow equipment to enter the property and maintain or repair the utility station. The access
and parking area of the lot should have some type of weed barrier with gravel
throughout the lot for aesthetics and weed control.
E.   Fencing to Separate Residential and Commercial Uses:
1.   Purpose: Six-foot (6') sight-
obscuring fences will be required in situations where residential uses and non-
residential uses are developed next to each other or when residential uses are
developed next to undeveloped property in order to mitigate the incompatibility
between such uses.
2.   Fencing Required: Any person who applies for a residential use or any
commercial use in which a person resides or intends to reside, including
apartments, shall construct a six-foot (6') sight-obscuring fencing around the
use prior to receiving a certificate of occupancy. In cases where the use
immediately adjacent to such property is residential in nature and has
similarly completed construction of such fencing, fencing is not necessary to
divide the completed residential development from the completed residential
development. Any person who applies for a non-residential use that is
reasonably likely to impose an impact upon existing, adjacent residential uses,
will unreasonably disturb existing, adjacent residential uses, or is adjacent
to an existing primarily residential zone shall construct a fence separating
such non-residential use from the residential use or zone. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-
2019; amd. Ord. 22-27, 1-3-2022; Ord. 23-09, 6-6-2023; Ord. 24-17,
6-18-2024)
 
 
10-8A-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The operation of any use permitted in this district is subject to the following standards of
performance:
A.   Nuisances Or Disturbances:
 All uses must be operated so that all practical means are
used to confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration, or other similar feature to the
premises upon which they are located.
B.   Lighting: Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas, or for any
other purpose
shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the lighted property by appropriate
directional hooding.
C.   Parking: Parking shall follow the standards found in Chapter 14.
D.   Signage: Signs Shall Follow the standards in Chapter 19.
 
E.   Conditional Use: CUP shall follow the standards found in Chapter 20.
F.   Temporary Uses: Temporary uses shall follow the standards found in Chapter
21.
G.   Home Occupations:
 Home occupations shall follow the standards found in Chapter 23.
H.   Accessory Dwelling Units: Any ADU shall meet the standards of the ADU
Ordinance found in Chapter 24.
I.   Fencing: Fencing shall follow the standards found in Chapter 25.
J.   Apartment: Apartments are only permitted in the Residential Multi-Family
Overlay.
5.   Accessory Building:
b. No more than one unoccupied accessory structure, not including a detached
garage or carport, per lot.
6.   Landscaping: At least one (1) tree per fifty (50) feet of lot frontage,
including
frontage along any side or rear street, if any. Any new tree shall be at least 1.5 inches in diameter at
the time of planting. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; Ord. 24-17, 6-18-2024)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 25-08
 
AN ORDINANCE OF FILLMORE CITY, UTAH ENACTING THE FILLMORE CITY MUNICIPAL CODE,
TITLE 10, CHAPTER 25, CONDITIONAL USES.
 
The City Council of the City of Fillmore, Utah, 
(referred to herein as the “City Council”), states the following as the basis
for enacting this ordinance:
RECITALS
 
A.   WHEREAS, Fillmore City (“City”) is an incorporated municipality duly
organized under the laws of the State of Utah;
 
B.   WHEREAS, Fillmore City previously adopted a land use ordinance, pursuant to law, which
is set forth in Chapter 10 of the Fillmore City Municipal Code;
C.   WHEREAS, Fillmore City may enact and amend ordinances, resolutions, and
rules regarding land use for the purposes outlined in Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-
102;
 
D.   WHEREAS, Fillmore City received an application to enact an ordinance to
compile and re-locate all conditional use ordinances in Title 10 into a new
chapter, Chapter 25, of its municipal code;
 
E.   WHEREAS, on September 10, 2025, Fillmore City Planning Commission reviewed
the
application and held a public hearing to receive public comment regarding such enactment,
after publishing notice as required by law, and there allowed the opportunity
for public comments related to the proposed enactment;
 
F.   WHEREAS, after considering the matter, the Planning Commission found the amendment
and enactment to be appropriate and found that it was in the public interest to recommend
the adoption to the City Council;
G.   WHEREAS, The City Council has now considered the matter and received
public
comment, after publishing notice as required by law, and has determined that the Planning
Commission recommendation is appropriate and the changes should be adopted as
such changes further the health, safety, and welfare of Fillmore City.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED  BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FILLMORE,
UTAH:
SECTION 1: Adoption of Recitals. The Recitals set forth above are hereby
adopted and incorporated into this ordinance by reference.
 
SECTION 2:
 Enactment of Fillmore City Municipal Code, Title 10, Chapter 25, Conditional Uses.
The Fillmore City Municipal Code Title 10, Chapter 25, Conditional Uses, is
hereby enacted as attached.
 
SECTION 3: Continuing Effect of Fillmore City Municipal Code. Except as
specifically amended hereby, all terms, provisions, and conditions set forth in
Title 10 of the Fillmore City Municipal Code shall remain and continue in full
force and effect.
 
SECTION 4: Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon
publication.
 
SECTION 5: Publication. This ordinance or a summary thereof is ordered
published in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-711, as a class A notice
under Section 63G-30-102.
SECTION 6: Severability. If any provision of this ordinance less than the
entire ordinance is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, this
ordinance shall be deemed severable, and such finding of invalidity shall not
affect the remaining portions of this ordinance.
 
SECTION 7: Conflicting Ordinances. To the extent that any ordinances,
resolutions, or
policies of Fillmore City conflict with the provisions of this ordinance, they are hereby amended
to be in accordance with the provisions hereof.
 
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 7 th      day of October    2025.
 
CITY OF FILLMORE, UTAH:
 
By:    
MICHAEL D. HOLT, Mayor
 
Attest:    
KEVIN ORTON, City Recorder
 
 
VOTING:
Dennis Alldredge    Y   N   Abse   Abstain
Curt Hare           Y   N   Abse   Abstain
Gene Larsen         Y   N   Abse   Abstain
Kyle Stevens        Y   N   Abse   Abstain
Michael Winget      Y   N   Abse   Abstain
CHAPTER 25 CONDITIONAL USES SECTION:
10-25-1   : Purpose
10-25-2   : Use Table
10-25-3   : Permit Requirements
10-25-4   : Review
10-25-5   : Duration
10-25-6   : Specific Use Regulations
10-25-7   : Conditional Use Standards of Review
 
10-25-1   : PURPOSE:
There are certain uses that, because of unique characteristics or the potential for
detrimental impacts, may not be compatible in some areas of a zone or may be compatible
only if certain conditions are imposed to mitigate the detrimental impacts. The land use is
permitted in the respective zoning district, but may have impacts deemed detrimental. If
the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be
substantially mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to
achieve compliance with applicable standards, the land use authority may deny
the conditional use.
 
10-25-2   : USE TABLE
 
                                                                                 R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                       AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                  P
Accessory structure, occupied:
A building on the same lot as the principal building, and that is:
A.   Clearly incidental to, and customarily found in connection with, such
principal building;                                                       C  C  C  C    C  N  N  C
B.   Operated and maintained for the benefit of the principal use; and
C.   A dwelling unit or home
office.
 
 
                                                                                    R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                          AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                     P
Adult-oriented business: Any or all of the following or any portion of the
following: a(n) adult bookstore or adult video store, adult business,
adult motion picture theater, adult theater, outcall services, seminude    N  N  N  N    N  N  C  N
dancing agency, seminude entertainment business, as
defined in Title 3, Chapter 11, of the Fillmore City Municipal Code, and
similar uses.
Agricultural industry: An industry or business involving agricultural
products in manufacturing, packaging, treatment, sales, or storage,
including, but not limited to, food packaging or
processing plants, and similar uses as determined by the Planning          C  N  N  N    N  C  C  N
Commission with a conditional use permit. This definition does not include
hog farms, commercial poultry businesses, or rendering
facilities.
Animal Hospital:
An establishment where animals are medically treated, lodged, or trained bC aN  N  N    N  C  C  N
licensed veterinarian.
 
 
                                                                                  R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                        AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                   P
Apartment:
A building that contains four
(4) or more dwelling units primarily for rent or lease, or a building NhaN  P  N    RM N  N  C
contains an apartment or apartments and also contains other approved uses,             F
such as office or retail
space.
Asphalt batch plant:
A facility where asphaltic materials are manufactured, including accessory  N  N  N  N    N  C  P  N
asphalt materials storage and equipment.
Athletic club:
An establishment providing facilities for physical development, exercise,
sports, or recreation.
Facilities may include exercise equipment, indoor and/
or outdoor racquetball or tennis courts, jogging track, swimming pools, iNe N  C  C    C  N  N  C
skating rink, indoor bathing, restaurant or snack bar, and sales of
athletic equipment. Facilities may be open to the public for a fee, or
available only to persons holding
membership.
Automotive body/paint repair establishment:
An establishment primarily                                                 N  N  N  N    P  P  P  N
engaged in the repair or
 
 
                                                                                 R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                       AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                  P
maintenance of motor vehicles, trailers, and similar large mechanical
equipment. Establishments involving auto-body repair and painting services
will require a conditional use permit. Not included are automotive
salvage yards.
Bar, tavern, lounge:
An establishment intended primarily for the on-premises sale and
consumption of alcoholic beverages, open either to the public or operated  N  N  N  C    P  P  P  N
as a nonprofit private club for members
only.
Cinema, indoor:
An enclosed building used                                                N  N  N  C    P  P  C  N
primarily for the presentation of motion pictures.
Cinema, outdoor:
An establishment at which motion pictures are projected onto an outdoor N  N  N  C    P  P  C  N
screen for viewing by patrons seated in
parked motor vehicles.
 
 
                                                                                 R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                       AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                  P
Civic club:
A building or use, other than a church or school, operated by a nonprofit
association or organization for a social, fraternal, political, civic, or  C  C  C  C    C  C  N  C
philanthropic purpose, which may include a meeting hall and cooking and
dining facilities for large groups, but shall not provide overnight
lodging.
Coal yard:
The storage of coal in quantities in excess of ten                     N  N  N  N    N  N  C  N
(10) tons and/or the retail or
wholesale sale of coal.
Concrete Plants: Concrete batch plant. A facility where sand, gravel,
cement, water, and other materials are turned into
concrete, and may be either a drum mix plant or a batch plant, and    N  N  N  N    N  C  P  N
including batchers and mixers, and accessory materials storage and
equipment.
Condominium:
Any structure or parcel that has been submitted to
fractionalize ownership under the provisions of the Utah                 N  N  C  C    C  N  N  C
Condominium Ownership
Act.
Drycleaning establishment:                                                 N  N  N  C    P  P  C  N
 
 
                                                                              R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                    AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                               P
An establishment employing volatile or explosive substances for the
cleaning or dyeing of fabrics. Excluded from this definition are
traditional laundries employing water and soaps in the cleaning of
fabrics and patron-operated dry cleaning machines associated with
laundromats.
Dwelling, single, and manufactured/modular home:
A building arranged or designed to be occupied by one family, the   P  P  P  P    C  N  N  C
structure
having only one dwelling unit.
Dwelling, two-family:
A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two                  C  P  P  P    RM N  N  N
(2) families, the structure having only two (2) dwelling                           F
units.
Dwelling,  three-family:                                                            RM
A building arranged or designed to be occupied by three (3) families,   N  N  P  N    F  N  N  N
the structure having only three (3) dwelling units.
Dwelling,  four-family:
A building arranged or designed to be occupied by four                 N  N  P  N    RM N  N  N
(4) families, the structure having only four (4) dwelling                          F
units.
 
 
                                                                               R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                     AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                P
Dwelling, Town home units: Single-family dwelling units of separate
ownership having a zero-lot line. Each unit is
structurally independent with separate utility connections. The                      RM
adjoining dwellings may be offset, but not separated from each other.    N  N  P  N    F  N  N  N
Each side of the townhome shall be considered a single-family dwelling
unit, however, one building permit and certificate of occupancy shall
be issued for units.
Dwelling, Twin home 2 units:
Two (2) single-family dwelling units of separate ownership having a
zero-lot line. Each unit is structurally independent with separate
utility connections. The adjoining dwellings may be                      N  P  P  P    RM N  N  N
offset but not separated from each other. Each side of the twin home               F
shall be considered a single-family dwelling unit, however, one building
permit and certificate of occupancy shall
be issued for both units.
Farm animals/livestock: Animals other than household pets that may,     P  P  P  P    N  N  N  C
where permitted, be kept and
 
                                                                                 R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                       AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                  P
maintained on private
property.
Gated communities:
A subdivision or residential area where primary access is regulated        N  P  P  P    C  N  N  C
through a gated
entry point.
Gated communities for                                                     N  N  N  N    C  C  C  N
industrial developments:
General merchandise sales and service:
Stores, department stores, or shops intended for the sale of goods or C  N  N  C    P  P  P  N
merchandise, but not including convenience goods, liquor, motor vehicles,
campers, trailers, or lumber.
Group home:
A profit or nonprofit boarding home for the sheltered care of persons with
special needs, which, in addition to providing food and shelter, may also
provide some combination of personal care, social or counseling services,
and transportation. Group home includes congregate living facilities for
all persons.
Assisted living facility                                                  C  C  C  C    C  C  N  C
Disabled Care                                                              C  C  C  C    C  C  N  C
Elderly Care                                                               C  C  C  C    C  C  N  C
Heavy/farm equipment                                                       P  N  N  N    P  P  P  N
sales:
 
 
                                                                               R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                     AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                P
Vehicles or equipment in excess of one ton used in farming,
construction, or
other related services.
Hotel:
A building designed or occupied as the more or less temporary abiding    N  N  N  C    P  P  C  N
place of fifteen (15) or more individuals who are, for compensation,
lodged, with or without meals.
Industrial Park:
A tract of land that is subdivided and developed according to a plan for
the use of a community of industries and related uses and that is of
sufficient size and physical improvement to protect surrounding areas N  N  N  N    N  N  P  N
and the general community and to assure a harmonious integration into
the
neighborhood.
Industrial, Light:
The manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling, packaging, or
testing of goods or equipment entirely within an enclosed structure, C  N  N  N    C  C  P  N
with no outside storage, serviced by small (3/4 ton) trucks or vans, and
imposing a nearly negligible
 
 
                                                                                 R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                       AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                  P
impact upon the surrounding environment by noise, vibration, smoke, dust,
or
pollutants.
Industrial, medium:
The manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling, packaging, or
testing of goods or equipment within an enclosed structure, or an open
yard that is capable of being screened from neighboring properties, is     C  N  N  N    C  C  P  N
serviced by trucks or other vehicles, and whose environmental impact is
within the industrial performance standards as
outlined in this title.
Industrial, Heavy:                                                         C  N  N  N    N  C  P  N
Kennel, commercial:
A shelter for or a place where more than three (3) dogs or cats are bCedN  N  N    C  C  N  N
boarded, or
trained for monetary gain.
Kennel, private:
A shelter for or a place where more than three (3) and no more than fNveC  N  N    N  N  P  N
(5) dogs and cats are bred, boarded, or
trained for no monetary gain.
 
 
                                                                                 R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                       AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                  P
Liquor store:
A retail sales store authorized by the Utah Alcoholic                  N  N  N  C    P  P  P  N
Beverage Control Commission to sell packaged alcoholic beverages for off-
premises consumption.
Lumber sales/storage:
The sale and display of lumber and building supplies, including the        C  N  N  C    C  C  P  N
outside storage of lumber and related
merchandise.
Master planned development:
A form of development characterized by a comprehensive and unified
site plan and design reviewed under the master planned development review
processes described in each zone chapter or article of this title. The MPD
generally includes a number of housing units; a mix of building types aCd C  P  C    C  N  N  C
land uses; clustered buildings designed to integrate one with another and
to complement the surrounding land uses; significant open space; flexible
in interior setbacks, heights, and density; and
valued community amenities.
 
 
                                                                                   R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                         AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                    P
Mental health center:
A publicly or privately operated facility, intended for the diagnosis and N  N  N  C    C  C  N  N
treatment of mental or emotional disorders.
Military surplus store: New or used military equipment, vehicles or
supplies, which are available                                              N  N  N  C    P  P  P  N
for resale to the general public.
Public rights-of-way:
An area of land that is legally described in a registered deed for the P  P  P  P    P  P  P  P
provision of
public access.
Public use:
A use operated exclusively by a public body, or quasi-public body, such use
having the purpose of serving the public health, safety, or general welfare,
and including, but not limited to, parks, recreational facilities,
administrative and service offices and facilities, and public utilities, and C  C  C  C    C  C  C  C
found by the commission to conform to the general plan, or has been
considered by the commission and the board of county commissioners has
approved the proposed
location and/or public use as
 
 
                                                                                 R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                       AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                  P
an amendment to the general plan. Public uses do not include an animal
control facility, landfill, water treatment plant, sewer treatment plant,
airport, heliport, correctional facility, or liquor store (state-owned).
See section 10-17-3 of this
title.
Public utility. A water, sewer, telephone, cable television,
power, or other utility facility, which is located underground and buried
beneath the surface or located above the surface of the ground and found
by the city to conform to the general plan, or has been considered by
the Public Works Director and has approved the proposed location as an
amendment to the general plan. Public utility does not include electricC  C  C  C    C  C  C  C
transmission right of way (major) or (minor), electric generating
facility, electric substation (major) or (minor), gas pipeline right of
way (major) or (minor), natural or manufactured gas storage, petroleum
pipeline right of way (major) or (minor), or wind energy system (major) or
(minor).
 
 
                                                                               R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                     AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                P
Recreational activity specialties:
An area or facility that offers entertainment or recreation and may
include, as accessory uses, associated eating and drinking areas, retail
sales areas, staff offices, and maintenance facilities. This use may
include a golf course, miniature golf facility, and facilities for       C  C  N  C    P  P  P  N
equestrian- related activities, including riding arena and a rodeo
arena. This use also includes shooting range, go-kart, motor vehicle,
and/or motorbike tracks, or similar activities that may create noise,
dust, or other impacts to adjoining properties
and uses.
Recreational vehicle park:
1.   Any area or tract of land or
separately designated section where lots are rented to one or more C  N  N  N    C  C  N  N
owners or users of recreational vehicles for a temporary time.
2.   Cabins in an RV Park will
have additional standards to follow.
Resort:                                                                  C  N  N  N    C  C  N  N
A facility which serves as a destination for guests and
 
 
                                                                              R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                    AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                               P
generally provides recreational or personal development facilities and
may include both on-site and off-site activities and services,
including food, overnight lodging, equipment rentals, entertainment,
and other conveniences for guests of the resort. Guest residency is
limited to no longer than 60 calendar days. See section 10-17-33 of
this
title.
School, public:
In Utah, a public school is defined as a school that is open to all
students, funded by public sources (primarily taxes), and accountable   C  N  N  N    N  N  N  P
to the public. This includes traditional district schools, charter
schools, and the Utah Schools for the Deaf and the
Blind.
School, private, quasi- public:
Owned and operated by an individual, religious
institution, partnership, or a corporation other than the state, a   C  N  N  N    N  N  N  P
subdivision of the state, or the federal
government.
Sexually oriented business                                             N  N  N  N    N  N  C  N
or activity:
 
 
                                                                               R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                     AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                P
A use or facility providing adult and/or sexually oriented activities
and entertainment, including, but not limited to, adult arcade,
adult bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret,
adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, or nude or
seminude model studio. See section 10-
18-21 of this title.
Shopping center- community:
A completely planned and designed commercial development providing for
the sale of general merchandise and convenience goods and including a    N  N  N  C    P  P  P  N
variety store, discount store, or
supermarket.
Skating-roller board park:                                               C  C  C  N    C  C  N  C
Slaughterhouse, Meat and Poultry:
Meat or poultry processing facility. A facility for the commercial
processing of meat and poultry for human consumption, including, but CotN  N  N    N  N  P  N
limited to, the slaughtering, butchering, cutting, dressing, and
packaging of meat and
poultry products.
 
 
                                                                                   R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                         AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                                    P
Small engine repair:
An establishment engaged in the repair and maintenance of small engines with
an engine displacement size no greater than two thousand (2,000) cc. This
includes, but is not limited to, motorcycles, OHVs, ATVs, home and gardeC  N  N  C    P  P  P  N
tools and equipment, outboard motor watercraft (engine removed),
snowmobiles, chainsaws, and other similar small
engines.
Stable, public:
A detached accessory structure used for the keeping and housing of livestock P  N  N  N    N  N  N  C
by the occupants of the premises.
Storage containers:
A container fabricated for the purpose of transporting freight or goods on a
truck, railroad or ship, including cargo containers, shipping containers,
storage units, or other portable structures that are placed on private    C  C  C  C    C  C  C  C
property and used for storage of items, including, but not limited to,
clothing, equipment, goods,
household or office fixtures or
 
 
                                                                              R- 0FF.          P-
Type                                                                    AG RR 2  RES. GC HC ID Q/
                                                                                               P
furnishings, materials and merchandise.
Shipping container storage                                              C  N  N  N    C  C  P  N
facility:
Subdivision (compliance                                                 N  P  P  C    P  N  N  C
with chapter 18 of this title):
Telecommunications                                                      C  C  C  C    C  C  C  C
facility 45’ in height:
Warehouse storage units- commercial only:
A structure in which goods, merchandise, or equipment are stored for
eventual distribution, or for which storage space is rented. For all
zones, except the light industrial zoning district, such a structure   N  N  N  N    N  N  P  N
must be a building. For the light industrial zoning district, only a
warehouse storage unit may include cargo shipping containers as
provided in Section 10-9A-101 et seq., upon approval of a
conditional use permit.
Welding machine shop:                                                  C  N  N  C    C  C  P  N
A building or structure where pieces of metal are welded.
10-25-3   : PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
Except for a use that is legal non-conforming, it shall be unlawful to conduct
a use
designated as a conditional use within the respective zoning district without first obtaining
a conditional use permit.
 
A.   To apply for a conditional use permit, an applicant shall submit the
following:
1.   Complete application;
2.   Site plan showing the location of the building(s), uses, parking, ingress/
egress, landscaping, external lighting, signage, storage, fencing, and any
other information requested to assist the land use authority to make an
informed decision;
3.   Written explanation of the specific activities associated with the
conditional
use permit and any steps taken to mitigate impacts on adjacent properties and
the neighborhood at large;
4.   Elevations and/or building plans for any new or remodeled structures and
plans for any site improvements; and
5.   Payment of application fee.
 
10-25-4   : REVIEW:
The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall review all applications for a
conditional use permit according to the following procedure:
1.   Development Review Committee: An applicant may attend a pre-application
conference with the Planning and Zoning Administrator and other City staff or
departments to discuss the proposed improvements associated with the
conditional
use and the conditions that the staff would recommend to mitigate proposed adverse
impacts. This meeting will allow other City departments to provide comments on
the application.
2.   Public Comment: Within fourteen (14) days of receipt of a complete
application, the Planning and Zoning Administrator shall provide written
notification of the proposed
conditional use to all property owners within two hundred 
(200) feet of the property and utility providers/public works. A public hearing
is not required. The purpose of public comment is a fact-finding mission to
provide both the applicant and the City
information about the scope of potential detrimental impacts and mitigation measures,
and the reasonable viability of the measures to sufficiently mitigate the
detrimental impact.
3.   The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall approve the proposed
conditional use if reasonable conditions are proposed, or can be imposed, to
mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in
accordance with applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental
effects of the proposed use cannot be substantially mitigated by the proposal
or the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with
applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
 
4.   The applicant can appeal the decision of the Planning and Zoning
Administrator, in writing, within ten 
(10) days of the decision and as outlined in section 10-3-11 of this code.
A. Factors and criteria to consider include:
1.   Compliance: The application complies with all applicable provisions of
this title, and State and Federal law;
2.   The nature of the surrounding neighborhood and detrimental impacts from the
proposed use that are reasonably likely to occur
3.   Measures to reduce noise, pollution, debris, vibration, and smell or odor
4.   Exterior Lighting: That exterior lighting complies with the lighting
standards of the
zone, such as lighting and light shielding, and similar standards.
5.   Restrictions on hours of operation
6.   Structure Compatibility: The structures associated with the use are
compatible with surrounding structures in terms of use, scale, density, and
circulation;
7.   Impacts on and improvements to roads, streetscape, trails, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, and vehicular circulation. This may include turn lanes, pedestrian
access, trails or bike infrastructure, capacity of the existing streets,
installation of curb and gutter, or any other improvement necessary to mitigate
detrimental impacts.
8.   Utility Capacity: Impacts on and capacity to include power, natural gas,
sewer, water, and stormwater. Specifically, the City’s Public Works Director
and those owning or
maintaining other utilities or waterways – including gas, power, and water conveyance
facilities – must be notified of applications for CUPs pursuant to Section 10-
20- 30(A)(2).
9.   Emergency Vehicle Access: There is sufficient emergency vehicle access.
10.   Off-Street Parking: The location and design of off-
street parking are in compliance with current off-street parking standards;
11.   Fencing, Screening, Landscaping:
 A plan for fencing, screening, and landscaping to
create a buffer between adjoining uses and mitigate the potential for conflict in uses;
12.   Crowd management, pedestrian facilities, and vehicular circulation;
13.   Flood Control: That within and adjoining the site, impacts on the
aquifer, slope
retention, and flood potential have been fully mitigated and is appropriate to the
topography of the site.
14.   Other impacts on city systems and residents
 
10-25-5   : DURATION
Transferability: A conditional use permit runs with the land and expires one
year from the date of initial approval unless the conditionally permitted use
has commenced on the site,
 
in which case the permit shall remain active and not expire until any one of the following
occurs:
1.   The use has ceased, in which case the permit shall lapse upon one year of
inactivity, the permit is otherwise revoked as outlined in this chapter, or
2.   the use has become a permitted and conforming use in the applicable zone.
A.   Annual Review:
 The Planning and Zoning Administrator may review conditional use permits on an
annual basis for compliance with all final conditions of approval.
B.   Revocation:
 If the Planning and Zoning Administrator or the building official determines
that the holder of a conditional use permit is in violation of the terms or
conditions upon which the permit was issued, the City Recorder shall notice the
permit holder and schedule a hearing before the Planning Commission, at which
the permit holder must show cause to the Planning Commission why the
conditional use permit should not be
revoked. If the Planning Commission determines that the terms or conditions of the permit
have been violated, it shall cause the permit holder to specify how the holder will promptly
comply with the terms and conditions of the permit, or it shall revoke the
permit.
C.   Appeals: Appeals must be pursuant to section 10-3-11 “Appeals and
Reconsideration Process”.
 
10-25-6   : SPECIFIC USE REGULATIONS
A.   Kennel Permit: Only allowed in specified zones. Permit Must Be Renewed
Annually
1.   Enclosures must be provided which shall allow adequate protection against the
weather.
2.   Floors of buildings, runs, and walls shall be of an appropriate material as required by
the specific breed of dog, and also to permit proper cleaning and disinfecting.
3.   Adequate ventilation shall be maintained and appropriate for the specific
breed of dog housed therein.
4.   Each animal shall have sufficient space to stand up, lie down, and turn around
without touching the sides or tops of cages.
5.   Runs shall provide an adequate exercise area and protection from the
weather.
6.   All animal quarters and runs are to be kept clean, dry, and in sanitary
condition.
7.   The food shall be free of contamination, palatable, and of sufficient nutritive value as
to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and size of the animal.
8.   Fresh water is to be available at all times. Water vessels shall be mounted or secured
in a manner that prevents tipping and shall be of the removable type.
9.   The proposed kennel must be one hundred fifty feet from any neighboring house and
fifty feet from any road.
B.   Concrete/Asphalt Batch Plants:
 
1.   Due to the potential for noise, dust, and pollutants, the land use
authority shall consider the nature of surrounding properties, the potential
for noise, dust, and pollutants from the concrete batch plant, and the
potential harm to those surrounding properties. To mitigate the impact,
consideration should be given to require landscape buffers, fencing, additional
setbacks, and modifications to site design. The conditional use permit shall
specify the measures taken and how they are reasonably anticipated to mitigate
the harm.
2.   The city engineer shall review and make recommendations regarding the
vehicular routes for commercial trucks accessing the batch plant and determine
whether the streets accessing the plant are adequately designed to accommodate
commercial travel.
3.   The city engineer shall review access to and from the site to determine the impact
on city streets and recommend actions to reduce damage to city streets from
vehicles exiting the batch plant. Under no circumstances shall residential roads be
used as part of a truck route.
4.   The utility systems shall be sufficient to accommodate the batch plant
5.   If the street design, access, or utility systems are inadequate, the
application may
be denied. An applicant may take curative measures by providing off-
site or system improvements to better facilitate the use.
6.   No portion of the batch plant shall be within 500 feet of an existing residence. If any
portion of the batch plant is within 500 feet of a residential property or a property
zoned residential, a landscape buffer of at least 10 feet wide shall be
required. The applicant is responsible to provide a landscape plan that shows
how the proposed vegetation will effectively shield residential properties from
impacts.
C.   Automobile Repair and Auto Body Work:
1.   Any outdoor storage, if permitted, shall be screened.
2.   The front setback and all areas in front of the primary structure shall be kept free of
repair, restoration, and other bodywork.
3.   All vehicle parking shall be on site, this includes vehicles under repair,
staging, employee, and patron parking.
4.   Areas used for painting shall meet all state and federal regulations. The
land use
authority may require additional measures to protect nearby properties from fumes.
5.   Depending on compatibility with neighboring properties, a landscape buffer may be
required to reduce noise, fumes, and pollutants, and any visual clutter.
D.   Meat, Poultry, and Slaughterhouses:
1.   Slaughterhouses or meat processing plants, and related activities, are
typically not
harmonious with other land uses. Due to the potential for adverse impacts on surrounding
properties, slaughterhouses and the keeping of animals or any facility used in
the
 
slaughtering of animals shall be at least three hundred 
(300) feet from any adjacent parcel zoned for residential or commercial uses
and at least three hundred (300) feet from any existing or proposed residential
dwelling or commercial business.
2.   All slaughterhouses shall have a perimeter landscaping buffer. In
instances where there is visual proximity from residential, office, or retail
use, a landscape plan will show the location and type of landscaping and how it
will reasonably shield the view of operations.
3.   All slaughterhouses shall satisfy the requirements of the drinking water
source protection plan.
4.   Delivery of animals to be slaughtered shall not have a negative impact on existing or
proposed residential or commercial uses.
5.   Retail sales are not permitted on-site.
E.   Outdoor Cinema: Careful steps shall be taken to limit the impact of the
outdoor
cinema to the impact of the uses typically found in the zone. At a minimum, the following
shall be considered:
1.   Measures to shield light and sound,
2.   Landscape buffers to block light, sound, and smell, with special attention
given to protecting residential and agricultural properties,
3.   A circulation and parking plan that provides safe vehicular and pedestrian
movement,
4.   Hours of operation appropriate for the community context,
5.   Travel demand and capacity,
6.   Safety for the pedestrian of the surrounding streets used to access the theater,
and
7.   Any other design features to reduce the adverse impacts on the surrounding
community.
F.   Gated Communities: Applicants must comply with the following standards:
1.   Scope: The applicants have demonstrated a need for an entry gate to
effectively control ongoing negative health, safety, and welfare issues; or, in
highly unique circumstances, excessive non-neighborhood parking or traffic on a
regular basis.
2.   Private Street:
 The private street is not a through street, and traffic circulation through
the neighborhood to other parts of the community is not impacted.
3.   Setback Of Entry Gate: The entry gate shall be set back twenty-five feet
(25'),
4.   Building Permit Required: A building permit for the gate must be approved.
5.   Design Standards: The entry gate shall meet the following design
standards:
(a)   The clearance distance from the gate bottom to the ground shall be a minimum of
two feet (2').
(b)   The maximum height from the bottom to the top rail shall be three feet
(3').
 
(c)   The gate will be constructed from visually open materials that shall not obstruct
more than fifty percent (50%) visibility (i.e., open fencing).
(d)   Fencing adjacent to the gate shall not exceed a height of four feet 
(4') for solid fencing materials and six feet (6') for open materials;
(e)   Columns added for architectural interest shall not exceed nine feet (9').
(f)   The gate design shall be minimal in height and scale to accomplish the
goal of preventing unauthorized access.
6.   Access Plan: An access plan for emergency services and authorized City
representatives shall be provided to and approved by the City.
7.   Location:
 A gated community shall not interfere with the streets Master Plan for any
planned or existing collector or arterial status road, nor shall block or
remove access for any existing public trail or area of public lands access.
 
10-25-7   : CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
The City shall not issue a conditional use permit unless the Planning and
Zoning
Administrator fully mitigates all identified adverse impacts and complies with the following
general standards applicable to all conditional uses or administrative
conditional uses as well as the specific standards for the use:
A.   General Review Criteria:
 An applicant for a conditional use in the zone must demonstrate:
1.   Compliance: The application complies with all applicable provisions of
this title, and State and Federal law;
2.   Structure Compatibility: The structures associated with the use are
compatible with surrounding structures in terms of use, scale, density, and
circulation;
3.   Use Not Detrimental:
 The use is not detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare;
4.   Consistent With General Plan:
 The use is consistent with the City General Plan as amended;
5.   Traffic Conditions: Traffic conditions are not adversely affected by the
proposed use, including the existence or need for dedicated turn lanes,
pedestrian access, and capacity of the existing streets;
6.   Utility Capacity: There is sufficient utility capacity.
7.   Emergency Vehicle Access: There is sufficient emergency vehicle access.
8.   Off-Street Parking: The location and design of off-
street parking are in compliance with off-street parking standards.
9.   Fencing, Screening, Landscaping:
 A plan for fencing, screening, and landscaping to
separate the use from adjoining uses and mitigate the potential for conflict in uses;
10.   Exterior Lighting:
 That exterior lighting complies with the lighting standards of the zone;
11.   Flood Control:
 That within and adjoining the site, impacts on the aquifer, slope retention,
and flood potential have been fully mitigated and is appropriate to the
topography of the site.
 
B.   Specific Review Criteria For Certain Conditional Uses: In addition to the
foregoing, the Planning and Zoning Administrator, as the case may be, must
evaluate the applicant’s
compliance with each of the following criteria when considering whether to approve, deny,
or condition an application for each of the following conditional uses or
administrative conditional uses:
1.   Accessory Structure (Occupied): See Chapter 20 Accessory Dwelling Units.
2.   Childcare Facility/Center:
a.   Application: Each application for a childcare facility or center must
include and comply with:
(1)   Proof of application for State childcare license;
(2)   Compliance with State, Federal, and local law;
(3)   A design that does not include a front yard playground;
(4)   A parking and traffic plan that adequately mitigates the adverse impacts of
increased traffic in the neighborhood.
b.   Number Permitted:
 Childcare providers operating as a childcare center in their own dwelling may
not exceed sixteen (16) children at any given time, including the provider’s
own children twelve (12) years of age or younger.
c.   Infants: Childcare providers operating as a childcare center in their own
dwelling may not provide services for more than two (2) infants.
3.   Intermittent Commercial Uses: The occasional use of dwellings, community
buildings, private clubs, lodges, social or recreational establishments, and/
or their
accessory buildings for commercial purposes may be allowed upon receiving an
administrative conditional use permit and provided that there is compliance with the
provisions of this subsection. The following standards shall apply to all intermittent
commercial uses in addition to any conditions the Planning and Zoning Administrator
deems necessary and desirable to protect the public health, safety, and general welfare:
a.   Displays:
 The display and sales of merchandise should be contained primarily within a
building;
b.   Setback, Clear Vision, Code Compliance: The building proposed for
the intermittent commercial use must comply with setback and clear vision area
requirements of this title and with applicable Building and Fire Codes;
c.   Business License Required:
 A business license from the City is required to conduct an intermittent
commercial use;
d.   Parking:
 Adequate parking is provided to serve the commercial use that does not create
a parking shortage for other existing uses on site;
e.   Nuisances Or Disturbances:
 The use does not cause noise, light, or glare which adversely impacts
surrounding uses.
4.   Small Engine Repair: Each application for a small engine repair shall be
reviewed as a home occupation using the review criteria outlined in subsection
B5 of this section.
5.   Home Occupation: See Chapter 23 Home Occupations.
6.   Gated Communities: Applicants must comply with the following standards:
a.   Scope:
 The applicants have demonstrated a need for an entry gate to effectively
control ongoing negative health, safety, and welfare issues; or, in highly
unique circumstances, excessive non-neighborhood parking or traffic on a
regular basis.
 
b.   Private Street:
 The private street is not a through street, and traffic circulation through
the neighborhood to other parts of the community is not impacted.
c.   Setback Of Entry Gate: The entry gate shall be set back twenty-five feet
(25');
d.   Building Permit Required: A building permit for the gate must be approved.
e.   Design Standards: The entry gate shall meet the following design
standards:
(1)   The clearance distance from the gate bottom to the ground will be a
minimum of two feet (2');
(2)   The maximum height from the bottom to the top rail shall be three feet
(3');
(3)   The gate shall be constructed from visually open materials that will not
obstruct more than fifty percent (50%) visibility (i.e., open fencing);
(4)   Fencing adjacent to the gate shall not exceed a height of four feet 
(4') for solid fencing materials and six feet (6') for open materials;
(5)   Columns added for architectural interest shall not exceed nine feet (9');
(6)   The gate design shall be minimal in height and scale to accomplish the
goal of preventing unauthorized access.
f.   Access Plan: An access plan for emergency services and authorized City
representatives shall be provided to and approved by the City.
7.   Temporary Outdoor Use: Temporary vendors must:
a.   Notification In Writing: Notify the City of the date, place, and duration
of their
intended use, along with permission in writing from the property owner or event organizer;
b.   Setback: Have the use set back twenty-five feet 
(25') from any public street, sidewalk, or right-of-way; and
c.   Hours Permitted: Last no longer than seventy-two (72) hours.
8.   Minor Telecommunications Facility:
a.   Purpose; Intent: The purpose of this subsection B5 is to establish general
requirements for the siting of wireless telecommunications facilities. The intent is to:
(1)   Encourage the location of facilities in nonresidential areas;
(2)   Minimize the total number of monopole facilities throughout the
community;
(3)   Encourage the joint use of new and existing communications sites;
(4)   Encourage providers of facilities to locate them where the adverse impact on the
community is minimal;
(5)   Encourage providers of facilities to use innovative design to minimize adverse
visual impact; and
(6)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunication services to provide
such services to the community quickly, effectively, and efficiently.
b.   Applicability: The requirements of this subsection B5 apply to both
commercial and private wireless telecommunications services, such as “cellular”
or “PCS” (personal communications services) communications and paging systems.
All facilities shall comply with the following regulations and all other
ordinances of the City and any pertinent regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission and the Federal Aviation Administration.
c.   Facility Types And Standards: Wireless telecommunications facilities are
characterized by the type and location of the antenna structure. There are four 
(4) general
 
types of antenna structures: wall-mounted, roof-mounted, monopoles, and lattice
towers. Standards for the installation of each type of antenna are as follows:
(1)   Wall-Mounted Antenna:
(a)   Wall-
mounted antennas shall not extend above the wall line of the building or
structure or extend more than four feet 
(4') horizontally from the face of the building or structure;
(b)   Antennas, equipment, and the supporting structure shall be painted to
match the color of the building or structure or the background against which
they are most commonly seen. Antennas and the supporting structures on building
should be
architecturally compatible with the building and the supporting structures on the building
should be architecturally compatible with the building.
(c)   Antennas mounted directly on existing parapet walls, penthouses, or
mechanical equipment rooms, with no portion of the antenna extending above the
roofline of such structures, shall be considered a wall-mounted antenna;
(d)   Stealth wall-mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be allowed to vary
from the provisions of this subsection as determined by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator as part of the administrative conditional use.
(2)   Roof-Mounted Antenna:
(a)   Roof-mounted antennas shall be allowed on top of existing penthouses or
mechanical equipment rooms, provided the antennas and antenna mounting
structures shall not extend more than eight feet 
(8') above the existing roofline of the penthouse or mechanical equipment room.
(b)   For antennas not mounted on a penthouse or mechanical equipment room
and on a flat roof, the antennas shall be mounted at least five feet 
(5') from the exterior wall or
parapet wall of the building or structure and shall be measured from the top of the antenna
to the roofline of the building, structure, or parapet. The height of the
antenna shall be equal to the distance the antenna is set back from the
exterior wall or parapet wall;
(c)   Roof-mounted antennas on a pitched roof shall be allowed, provided the
antennas and antenna support structures do not extend higher than the peak of the roof
measured by a horizontal line from the peak extending over the roof;
(d)   Stealth roof-
mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be allowed to vary from the
provisions of this subsection as determined by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator as part of the administrative conditional use.
(3)   Monopole:
(a)   The height limit for monopoles is thirty-five feet (35').
(b)   In Residential Zones, the monopole will only be allowed in conjunction with an
existing public or quasi-public use, including, but not limited to, churches,
schools, utilities, and parks;
(c)   No monopoles shall be allowed in the front yard setback of any lot;
(d)   Stealth monopole facilities are encouraged and shall be allowed to vary from the
provisions of this subsection as determined by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator as part of the administrative conditional use.
(4)   Lattice Towers: Lattice towers are not allowed.
 
(a)   Color/Design: Monopoles, antennas, and any associated buildings or
equipment shall be painted to blend with the surroundings that are most
commonly seen. The color shall be determined on a case-by-case basis by the
Planning and Zoning Administrator as part of the administrative conditional use
process. Within six (6) months after the facility
has been constructed, the Planning and Zoning Administrator may require the color to be
changed if it is determined that the original color does not blend well with
the surroundings.
(b)   Additional Requirements:
 The following shall be considered by the Planning and Zoning Administrator as
part of the administrative conditional use process:
(c)   Compatibility of the proposed structure with the height and mass of existing
buildings and utility structures;
(d)   Location of the antenna on other existing structures in the same
vicinity, such as other monopoles, buildings, water towers, utility poles,
athletic fields, lights, parking lot lights, etc., where possible without
significantly impacting antenna transmission or reception;
(e)   Location of the antenna in relation to existing vegetation, topography, including
ridge lines, and buildings to obtain the best visual screening;
(f)   Spacing between monopoles which create detrimental impacts to adjoining
properties;
(g)   Installation of, but not limited to, curb, gutter, sidewalk, landscaping, and
fencing.
(h)   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings to antenna structures must
comply with the required setback, height, and landscaping requirements of the
zoning district in which they are located. All utility lines on the lot leading
to the accessory building and antenna structure shall be underground.
(i)   Non-maintained Or Abandoned Facilities: The building official may require
each non-maintained or abandoned telecommunications facility to be removed from
the building or premises when such a facility has not been repaired or put into
use by the owner or agent within ninety (90) calendar days after notice of non-
maintenance or
abandonment is given to the owner or agent. The applicant shall post a site-
specific bond when a permit is issued to guarantee the removal of the facility
and site restoration. The type of bond and amount shall be determined upon
review by the City staff on a case-by- case basis. No bond shall be required
for roof or wall-mounted facilities.
(j)   Building Permit Required: A building permit is required for all wireless
telecommunication facilities, including, but not limited to, monopoles, and
roof and wall- mounted antennas.
9.   Temporary Drive Test: Companies wishing to perform drive tests shall
submit notice to the Planning and Zoning Administrator stating the location and
the date of the
proposed test. Antennas in use for the drive tests shall be limited to testing functions only
and shall not be used for telecommunication services to customers.
10.   Recreational Activity Specialties: The following recreational activities
specialties shall be allowed as conditional uses:
a.   Off-Highway Vehicles: Recreational activities involving off-highway
vehicles and similar motorized vehicles for recreational use.
 
b.   Equine Activities: Horse arenas, equestrian parks, and equine activity,
including, but not limited to equine shows, fairs, competitions, performances,
racing or sales that involve any breeds of equines and any equine disciplines;
boarding or training equines; teaching persons equestrian skills; and other
equine activities as determined by the Planning Commission to be consistent
with this subsection.
c.   Other Activities:
 Any other recreational activity as determined by the Planning Commission to be
consistent with this district.
11.   Gated Communities For Industrial Developments: Applicants must comply
with the following standards:
a.   Need Established: The applicants have demonstrated a need for an entry
gate to
effectively control ongoing negative health, safety, and welfare issues; or, in highly unique
circumstances, excessive non-neighborhood parking or traffic on a regular
basis.
b.   Private Street:
 The private street is not a through street, and traffic circulation through
the neighborhood to other parts of the community is not impacted.
c.   Setback Of Entry Gate: The entry gate shall be set back twenty-five feet
(25').
d.   Building Permit Required: A building permit for the gate must be approved.
e.   Design Standards: The entry gate shall meet the following design
standards:
(1)   The clearance distance from the gate bottom to the ground shall be a minimum
of two feet (2');
(2)   The maximum height from the bottom to the top rail shall be three feet
(3');
(3)   The gate will be constructed from visually open materials that will not obstruct
more than fifty percent (50%) visibility (i.e., open fencing);
(4)   Fencing adjacent to the gate shall not exceed a height of four feet 
(4') for solid fencing materials and six feet (6') for open materials;
(5)   Columns added for architectural interest shall not exceed nine feet (9');
(6)   The gate design shall be minimal in height and scale to accomplish the
goal of preventing unauthorized access.
f.   Emergency Access Plan: An access plan for emergency services and
authorized City representatives will be provided to and approved by the City.
12.   Sexually Oriented Businesses: The purpose and objective of this
subsection B1 is to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
concentration of sexually oriented businesses or their location in areas
deleterious to the health, safety, and welfare of the City, and to prevent
inappropriate exposure of such businesses to the community. This subsection B1
regulates the time, place, and manner of the operation of sexually oriented
businesses, consistent with the United States and Utah State Constitutions. See
also title 3, chapter 11, “Sexually Oriented Businesses”, of this Code.
a.   Location: No sexually oriented business may be located within one thousand
feet (1,000') of any:
(1)   School, childcare facility, cemetery, public park, library, or religious
institution;
(2)   Residential zoning boundary;
(3)   Liquor store; or
(4)   Other sexually oriented business.
 
b.   Measuring Distance: For the purposes of this subsection, distance is
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which the sexually
oriented business is located and:
(1)   The closest exterior wall of another sexually oriented business;
(2)   The closest property line of any school, childcare facility, public park,
library, cemetery, or religious institution; and
(3)   The nearest property line of any Residential Zone.
13.   Storage Containers:
Storage Container Defined: For purposes of this subsection B8 only, “storage
container” shall mean a storage container or storage unit, or sea container,
including, but not limited to, a storage of one hundred twenty 
(120) square feet but no more than three hundred (300) square feet.
Trailers that are commonly described as a storage container or storage unit, including, but
not limited to, semitrailers, cargo trailers, and any other similar unit with
storage, are not allowed.
“Temporary storage container” shall mean any storage container greater than one
hundred twenty (120) square feet but less than three hundred 
(300) square feet permitted as a temporary use during the construction or
alteration of a building, and allowed as a conditional use issued with a
building permit;
a.   Requirement to follow the International Building Code development
standards
b.   Conditional use permit and building permit required before setting storage
containers.
c.   Number Permitted: A maximum of two 
(2) storage containers, either temporary or permanent, per business shall be
allowed as a conditional use in all zones;
d.   Requirement for a security fence with visibility sufficient to allow visibility to units
and deter criminal activities
e.   Setback: Storage containers shall be required to have a setback from the
primary
building or structure. Permanent storage containers shall be painted a color to match the
primary building or structure or, in the direction of the Planning Commission,
shall be painted a neutral color. Storage containers shall be placed on a
gravel or concrete pad or similar material.
f.   Prohibition against stacking shipping containers;
g.   Requirement to provide a site plan, which addresses and includes plans for
sufficient ingress, egress, and access to and from units, as well as a
stormwater drainage and retention plan as part of the building permit process;
h.   Removal: Temporary storage containers shall be removed within ten (10)
days of completion of the construction and prior to the issuance of an
occupancy permit. Failure to remove the containers may result in the
termination of utility services.
14.   Security Watchman Dwelling:
Purpose:
 Limited use to allow a security guard or watchman opportunity to secure property
on-site and protect against theft, trespassers, and vandalism. This use is not
for the purpose of residential rentals dwellings or for the purpose of accruing
residential rental income. It is limited to two (2) security watchman
employees.
a.   Additional Development Standard:
 
(1)   No standalone dwelling unit: The security watchman's dwelling must be
located within or attached to the industrial structure. A separate dwelling
unit, including an RV or travel trailer, mobile home, home, or other standalone
structure, is prohibited.
(2)   No separate utilities: Existing utility laterals and service connections
will need to be inspected and upgraded as deemed necessary by the utility
provider. Establishment of a security watchman's dwelling does not authorize an
additional connection or utility
meter. The property shall have no more than one 
(1) connection and meter for each utility service.
(3)   Maximum area: A security watchman dwelling shall be no more than nine
hundred square feet in area (900 sq. ft.).
(4)   Compliance with law: A security watchman dwelling shall be compliant with
all state statutes and regulations, and all ordinances and resolutions of the
City, including adopted codes of the City pursuant to Fillmore City Municipal
Code Title 9, Chapter 1.
(5)   Business License Required: Upon application, and annually thereafter,
a business license shall be submitted by the security watchman in compliance
with Fillmore City Municipal Code, Title 3, Chapter 1. In conjunction with such
a business license, the applicant must submit proof of employment and
compliance with this section, which may include a signed affidavit by the
security watchman that such security watchman is following the conditions
required herein and within an approved conditional use permit.
15.   Warehouse Storage Units:
a.   Site Plan and Permit Required:
(1)   The construction and design shall be in accordance with and follow the
International Building Code.
(2)   A site plan must be provided, addressing and including plans for
sufficient ingress, egress, and access to and from units as well as stormwater
drainage and retain prior to approval of a building permit.
(3)   The minimum lot and development standards under section 10-9A-3 must be
followed, including the minimum area, width, and setbacks.
(4)   This use may not be combined with other uses, commercial or otherwise, on the
same property.
b.   Use:
 Shipping containers shall only be used to store the same items as similar self-
storage facilities, such as personal household items. business supplies, etc.
c.   Exterior:
(1)   Shipping containers must be uniform in color and shall be beige, brown, or a
similar color.
(2)   Security fencing shall be constructed around the perimeter in accordance
with
title 10, chapter 21, with sufficient visibility to allow patrolling law enforcement the ability
to view the units.
d.   Prohibition. The following practices are prohibited:
(1)   Stacking of shipping containers.
(2)   Storage of hazardous materials within shipping containers.
(3)   Occupancy of humans or animals within shipping containers.
(4)   Utility connection to shipping containers.
 
(5)   Container Yard Practices. If containers are added or removed to the site,
the applicant must first receive approval under this section after submitting a
revised site plan. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -2024; Ord. 24-06,
- -2024; Ord. 24-22, 10-15-
2024)
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
FILLMORE CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alterations
1-1-5: Conflict Of Ordinances
1-1-6: Constitutional And Statutory Provisions Adopted
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this Code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the Official City Code of Fillmore City. This Code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the FILLMORE CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (2019 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2019 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
(2019 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Recorder shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the Office of the City
Recorder. Any person having custody of a copy of this Code shall make every
effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered or made available to such person through the Office of
the City Recorder. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and
shall be returned to the Office of the City Recorder when directed so to do by
order of the City Council. (2019 Code)
1-1-5: CONFLICT OF ORDINANCES:
When the provisions of any section of this Code conflict with any other section
of this Code and one provision is more restrictive than the other, the more
restrictive provision shall apply. (1995 Code § 30-2-103)
1-1-6: CONSTITUTIONAL AND STATUTORY PROVISIONS ADOPTED:
The provisions of the Constitution and Statutes of the State, relative to
cities of the fifth class, are hereby declared to have the same force and
effect as if the provisions thereof had been specifically ordained. (1995 Code
§ 30-2-111)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-5: Omission To Specify General Law Not Waiver
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the City passed prior
to the adoption of this Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: Tax Levy
Ordinances; Appropriation Ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; Franchise Ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; Contract Ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; Salary Ordinances; Fee
Ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; Improvement Ordinances; Bond Ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the City; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2019 Code)
   C.   Repeal Not To Revive Ordinance: The repeal of an ordinance shall not
repeal the repealing clause of an ordinance or revive any ordinance which has
been repealed thereby. (1995 Code § 30-2-104)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2019 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the City herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Code. (2019 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1995 Code § 30-2-110; amd.
2019 Code)
1-2-5: OMISSION TO SPECIFY GENERAL LAW NOT WAIVER:
The omission to specify or enumerate herein those provisions of the general law
applicable to all cities shall not be construed as a waiver of the benefits of
any or all such provisions. (1995 Code § 30-2-105)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Interpretation Of Language: All words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar
and appropriate meaning.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Except when otherwise provided, the time within
which an act is required to be done shall be computed by excluding the first
day and including the last day, unless the last day is Sunday or a holiday, in
which case it shall be excluded.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other City officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: Each gender includes the masculine, feminine and neuter gender.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the words "must", "will" and
"shall" are mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Singular And Plural: The singular number includes the plural and the
plural includes the singular.
   J.   Officers And Employees: Whenever any officer or employee is referred by
title, such reference shall be construed as if followed by the words "of
Fillmore City".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the present tense include the past and the future
tenses and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City
has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the City ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances.
   M.   Acts By Agents: When an act is required by an ordinance, the same being
such that it may be done as well by an agent as by the principal, such
requirement shall be construed to include all such acts performed by an
authorized agent.
   N.   Prohibited Acts Include Causing And Permitting: Whenever, in the
ordinances of the City, any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall include
causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering or concealing the
fact of such act or omission. (1995 Code §§ 30-2-102, 30-2-106, 30-2-107, 30-2-
108; amd. 2019 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: Fillmore City, Utah.
CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of Fillmore City, Utah.
CODE: Unless otherwise specifically stated, the City Code of Fillmore City.
COUNTY: The County of Millard, State of Utah.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to City regulation,
authorization or limitation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this Code,
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by State law.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the City; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code, or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this Code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Includes the singular and plural and also means and includes any
person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or any other form of
association or organization.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action, and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged, or diminished, and every right or
interest therein.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
ROAD AND HIGHWAY: May be held equivalent to the words "County highway", "County
road", "common road", and "State road", and also includes public bridges.
STATE: The State of Utah.
STREET: Includes the street surface and rights-of-way, alleys, lanes,
sidewalks, curbs or the public ways in Fillmore City, which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so
designated in any law of the State of Utah.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent, with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1995 Code § 30-2-101; amd. 2019 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2019
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Applicability
1-4-2: Classification Of Offenses
1-4-3: Sentencing And Fines
1-4-4: Corporations, Associations, Partnerships Or Governmental
Instrumentalities
1-4-1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Scope: When the provisions of any section of this Code prohibit the
commission of an act, not only the person actually doing the prohibited act or
omitting the directed act, but also the employer and all other persons
concerned with or in aiding and abetting such person shall be guilty of the
offense described and liable to the penalty set forth. (1995 Code § 30-2-102
(3))
   B.   Penalty Where No Other Prescribed: Whenever no other penalty is
prescribed, any person convicted of violating any provision of any ordinance
included in these revised ordinances or ordinances hereafter enacted, shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. (1995 Code § 30-3-101; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Separate Offense: A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during, on, or which a violation occurs or continues.
   D.   Maximum Penalty May Be Prescribed: Any person guilty of a misdemeanor
may receive the maximum penalties as prescribed by the Statutes of the State.
(1995 Code § 30-3-101)
1-4-2: CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this Code or the
ordinances of this City shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this Code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified:
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into the following categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this Code or any ordinance of this City when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a Class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this Code or other
ordinances of this City, or which is expressly designated an infraction and any
offense designated by this Code or other ordinances of this City which is not
designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this Code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (1995 Code § 10-1-104; amd. 2019 Code)
1-4-3: SENTENCING AND FINES:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance:
      1.   Criminal: The City Council may impose a minimum criminal penalty for
the violation of any Municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum
Class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or by a
term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
      2.   Civil:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the City
Council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any
Municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum Class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   The Municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a Municipal Moving Traffic Ordinance.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors: A person who has been convicted
of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a Class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a Class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions:
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a Class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons: A person convicted of an offense may be sentenced to
pay a fine, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a Class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a Class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction. (1995 Code § 10-1-104; amd. 2019 Code)
1-4-4: CORPORATIONS, ASSOCIATIONS, PARTNERSHIPS OR GOVERNMENTAL
INSTRUMENTALITIES:
The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon a corporation, association,
partnership or governmental instrumentality for an offense defined in this
Code, or the ordinances of the City, or for an offense defined outside of this
Code, for which no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an
amount, fixed by the court, not exceeding:
   A.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a Class B misdemeanor; and
   B.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when
the conviction is for a Class C misdemeanor or for an infraction. (1995 Code §
10-1-107)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Fillmore City Seal
1-5-1: FILLMORE CITY SEAL:
The Seal provided for Fillmore City shall be circular in form, approximately
one and three-fourths inches (13/4") in diameter and the inscription "Fillmore
City, Utah, Corporate Seal" around the outer edge with the representation of a
beehive in the center, or it may have the inscription "Fillmore City, State of
Utah" around the outer edge with the inscription of "Corporate Seal" in the
center. The seal may be either embossed or ink stamped. (Ord. 95-139, 1-7-1995;
amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Mayor
1-6-2: City Council
1-6-3: Compensation
1-6-4: Meetings
1-6-5: Ordinances And Resolutions
1-6-1: MAYOR:
   A.   Powers Of Mayor: The Mayor of the City:
      1.   Shall be the Chief Executive and Administrative Officer to whom all
employees of the Municipality shall report;
      2.   Shall keep the peace and enforce the laws of the City, including
offering rewards for the apprehension of those who violate City ordinances;
      3.   Shall remit fines and forfeitures and may release any person
imprisoned for violation of any Municipal ordinance, and shall report such
remittances or release to the Council at its next regular session;
      4.   Shall perform all duties prescribed by Utah law and City ordinances
or resolutions;
      5.   Shall ensure that all the laws and ordinances and resolutions are
faithfully executed and observed;
      6.   May at any reasonable time examine and inspect the books, papers,
records or documents of the City or of any officer, employee or agent of the
City;
      7.   Shall report to the Council the condition of the City and recommend
for Council consideration any measures as deemed to be in the best interests of
the City;
      8.   Shall, when necessary, call on the residents of the City over the
age of twenty one (21) years to assist in enforcing the laws of the State and
ordinances of the City;
      9.   Shall appoint, with the advice and consent of the Council, persons
to fill Municipal offices or vacancies on commissions or committees of the
City;
      10.   May, when necessary, limit all nondomestic uses of water. For
purposes of this subsection, a domestic use of water is water used for human or
animal consumption, household cleaning or personal hygiene;
      11.   Shall have whatever other power the City Council prescribes that is
not prohibited by State Statute. (1995 Code § 1-1-101)
   B.   Mayor As Member Of City Council: The Mayor shall occupy a seat on the
City Council. However, the Mayor shall not vote except in the case of a tie
vote by the other members of the Council or as provided in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3b-302. (1995 Code § 1-1-102; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Mayor As Presiding Officer; Mayor Pro Tempore: The Mayor shall be the
Chairperson and preside at the meetings of the City Council. The Mayor shall
set the agenda of each meeting. In the absence of the Mayor or because of his
or her inability to act, the City Council may elect a member of the Council to
preside over the meeting as Mayor Pro Tempore, who shall have all of the powers
and duties of the Mayor during the Mayor's absence or disability. The election
of the Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting. (1995
Code § 1-1-103)
1-6-2: CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   City Council As Governing Body: The City Council shall be the Governing
Body of the City and shall exercise the legislative powers of the City. The
Council shall be a Council of six (6) members, one of whom shall be the Mayor
and the remaining five (5) shall be Council members. (1995 Code § 1-2-101)
   B.   Powers Of City Council: The City Council may perform any such functions
as may be specifically provided or necessarily implied by law. (1995 Code § 1-
2-102)
1-6-3: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Mayor Compensation: The Mayor shall receive a monthly salary in the
amount of six hundred dollars ($600.00).
   B.   City Council Compensation: Each member of the City Council shall
receive a monthly salary of three hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 03-09, 9-23-
2003, eff. 1-1-2004)
   C.   Changes In Compensation Of Elected Officials:
      1.   Any change in the Mayor or City Council monetary compensation may
only occur within ninety (90) days prior to a general election wherein the
Mayor seat or a Council member seat is open for election.
      2.   All changes in the Mayor and City Council compensation must be done
in accordance with the procedure set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-
818. (1995 Code § 1-3-103)
1-6-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   The City Council shall assemble on the first and third Tuesday of
each month in the City Council Chambers of the City building. If a legal
holiday falls on either the first or third Tuesday, the City Council shall not
assemble on that Tuesday, but set a date mutually agreeable to the majority.
Meetings shall begin at six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M. and run until all
scheduled business is completed. (Ord. 03-11, 10-7-2003)
      2.   If at any time the business of the City requires a special meeting
of the City Council, such meeting may be ordered by the Mayor or any two (2)
members of the City Council. The order shall provide at least twenty four (24)
hours' notice of the special meeting and notice thereof shall be served by the
City Recorder on each member who did not sign the order by delivering the
notice personally or by leaving it at the member's usual residence. The
personal appearance of a member at any specially called meeting constitutes a
waiver of the notice required in this section. (1995 Code § 1-5-101; amd. 2019
Code)
      3.   The Mayor shall set the agenda and all meetings of the City Council
shall be held in compliance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title
52, chapter 4 relating to open and public meetings. (1995 Code § 1-5-101)
   B.   Quorum Necessary To Do Business: No action of the City Council shall be
official or of any effect except when a quorum of the members are present.
(1995 Code § 1-5-102)
   C.   Quorum Defined: The number of members of the City Council necessary to
constitute a quorum is three (3) or more of the voting members of the City
Council. A Mayor Pro Tempore retains voting privileges and shall be included in
a quorum count. (1995 Code § 1-5-103)
   D.   Attendance: The City Council shall have the power to compel the
attendance of its own members and provide such penalties as it deems necessary
for the failure to comply therewith. (1995 Code § 1-5-104)
   E.   How Vote Taken: A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all
ordinances, resolutions and any action which would create a liability against
the Municipality and in any other case at the request of any member of the City
Council by a "yes" or "no" vote and shall be recorded. Every resolution or
ordinance shall be in writing before the vote is taken. (1995 Code § 1-5-105)
   F.   Minimum Vote Required:
      1.   The minimum number of yes votes required to pass any ordinance,
resolution or to take any action by the City Council, unless otherwise provided
by Utah law, shall be a majority of the members of the quorum, but shall never
be less than three (3).
      2.   Any ordinance, resolution or motion of the City Council having fewer
favorable votes than required herein shall be deemed defeated and invalid,
except a meeting may be adjourned to a specific time by a majority vote of the
City Council even though such majority is less than that required herein.
      3.   A majority of the members of the City Council, regardless of the
number, may fill any vacancy in the City Council. (1995 Code § 1-5-106)
   G.   Reconsideration: Any action by the City Council shall not be
reconsidered or rescinded at any meeting unless the number of members of the
City Council present at the meeting is equal to or greater than the number of
members present at the meeting when the action was approved. (1995 Code § 1-5-
107)
1-6-5: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
The form, enacting clause, effective date, publication and posting of
ordinances and resolutions shall be governed as provided in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-3-701 et seq. (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointed Positions
1-7-2: Nonappointed Positions; Power To Employ
1-7-3: Compensation
1-7-1: APPOINTED POSITIONS:
   A.   Appointment Of City Recorder and City Treasurer: The City Recorder and
City Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor, upon the advice and consent of
the City Council. The City Recorder and City Treasurer can be non-residents of
Fillmore City, so long as the non-resident appointed employee can commute from
his/her permanent residence to his/her placed of employment in no more than
twenty (20) minutes. The City Recorder is ex officio the City Auditor and shall
perform the duties of that office. The City Recorder is the designated Budget
Officer for the City. (1995 Code § 2-1-101; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Duties Of City Recorder: The City Recorder shall:
      1.   Be located at the City offices;
      2.   Attend the meetings of the City Council and cause a record of the
meeting to be kept;
      3.   Keep the Corporate Seal and all papers and records of the City;
      4.   Countersign all contracts made on behalf of the City and maintain a
properly indexed record of all such contracts;
      5.   Provide a quarterly report to each member of the City Council which
sets forth the budget appropriations, the disbursements to date from such
appropriations, the amount of indebtedness incurred or contracted against
appropriations but not yet paid. Such monthly reports shall be public records
and available for public inspection;
      6.   Maintain the general books for each fund of the City and all
subsidiary records relating thereto, including a list of the outstanding bonds,
their purpose, amount, terms, date and place payable;
      7.   Keep accounts with all receiving and disbursing officers of the
City; (1995 Code § 2-1-102)
      8.   Preaudit all claims and demands against the City before they are
allowed to ensure in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-139;
(1995 Code § 2-1-102; amd. 2019 Code)
      9.   Prepare the necessary checks in payment;
      10.   In the event the City is without funds on deposit in one of its
appropriate bank accounts with which to pay any lawfully approved claim, the
City Recorder shall draw and sign and warrant upon the City Treasurer for
payment of the claim, the warrant to be tendered to the payee named thereon;
      11.   The City Recorder shall also perform any other lawful function as
the City Council directs. (1995 Code § 2-1-102)
   C.   Duties Of City Treasurer: The City Treasurer shall:
      1.   Be custodian of all money, bonds or other securities of the City;
(1995 Code § 2-1-103)
      2.   Determine the cash requirements of the City and provide for the
investment of all money by following the procedures and requirements of Utah
Code Annotated title 51, chapter 7, the State Money Management Act; (1995 Code
§ 2-1-103; amd. 2019 Code)
      3.   Receive all public funds and money payable to the City, within three
(3) business days after collection and keep an accurate detailed account
thereof in the manner the City Council may direct by ordinance or resolution;
      4.   Collect all special taxes and assessments as provided by law and
ordinance;
      5.   Give or cause to be given to every person paying money to the City
Treasury, a receipt or other evidence of payment therefor, specifying, as
appropriate, the date of payment and upon which account paid and shall file the
duplicate of the receipt, a summary report, or other evidence of payment in the
Office of the City Recorder;
      6.   Countersign all checks prepared by the City Recorder:
         a.   Prior to affixing the signature, the City Treasurer shall
determine if a sufficient amount is on deposit in the appropriate bank account
of the City to honor the check.
         b.   The City Council may designate an additional staff member to
countersign checks in the absence of the City Recorder or City Treasurer.
      7.   Pay all warrants in the order presented and as money becomes
available for payment thereof in the appropriate funds of the City. The
Treasurer shall note upon the back of each warrant presented the date of
presentation and the date of payment;
      8.   Apply all money received on any special assessment to the payment of
the improvement for which the assessment was made unless allowed to do
otherwise pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-6-131;
      9.   Promptly deposit all City funds into the appropriate bank accounts
of the City. (1995 Code § 2-1-103)
   D.   Justice Court Judge: The City Council shall appoint a Justice Court
Judge who shall preside over the Fillmore Justice Court. The Judge may, with
the consent of Millard County, hold the positions of both Fillmore City Justice
Court Judge and Millard County Justice Court Judge. The Justice Court Judge
shall ensure that all fees prescribed by law or ordinance are collected and
that all monies received from fines or otherwise collected in the Justice Court
are submitted to the City Treasurer. (1995 Code § 2-1-104; amd. Ord. 21-15, 9-
21-2021)
1-7-2: NONAPPOINTED POSITIONS; POWER TO EMPLOY:
The Mayor, upon the advice and consent of the City Council, shall have power to
employ such other persons as it deems necessary for the effective operation of
the City. (1995 Code § 2-2-101)
1-7-3: COMPENSATION:
Appointed officers of the City and regular employees shall be paid twice each
month. Legislative and judicial officials, temporary and seasonal employees
shall be paid once each month. (1995 Code § 2-3-101; amd. Ord. 00-01, 3-7-2000,
eff. 4-1-2000)
CHAPTER 8
CITY DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE A. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Authority
1-8A-2: Department Created
1-8A-3: Department Head Appointment
1-8A-4: Administrator Of Department
1-8A-5: Budget
1-8A-1: AUTHORITY:
Authority is granted to create and carry out the objectives of this department
by Utah Code Annotated sections 10-8-1, 10-8-2, 10-8-84, 10-7-79 through 10-7-
84 and title 11, chapter 17. (1995 Code § 3-2-102)
1-8A-2: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created the Department of Economic Development. The department
is created for the purpose of:
   A.   Stimulating economic growth within the City;
   B.   Promoting the employment of its residents;
   C.   Developing markets for industrial products manufactured in the City;
   D.   Authorizing the City to facilitate capital formation and to finance
acquisition, ownership, sale or lease of projects which reduce pollution and
promote the general health and welfare of the City residents;
   E.   Encouraging the development of free enterprise and other employment
opportunities within the City. (1995 Code § 3-2-101)
1-8A-3: DEPARTMENT HEAD APPOINTMENT:
The department shall be administered by a department head appointed by the
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council. (1995 Code § 3-2-104)
1-8A-4: ADMINISTRATOR OF DEPARTMENT:
The City Council may also appoint an Administrator to administrate the affairs
of the department. He or she shall work under the supervision of the department
head and the City Council. The Administrator of Economic Development may serve
either in a voluntary capacity or may be compensated at a rate determined by
the City Council. (Ord. 98-01, 1-20-1998)
1-8A-5: BUDGET:
   A.   Special Fund; Revenues: The Department of Economic Development
(referred to in this article as "department") budget shall be classified as a
special fund under the City budgets, as the term "special fund" is defined in
the Utah Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah Cities. The department budget
shall be funded from interfund loans, proceeds of revenue bonds, grants from
the City or other entities, gifts from private individuals or enterprises, and
revenues from department projects.
   B.   Prohibited Revenues: However, no revenues shall be provided from:
      1.   City General Fund monies;
      2.   Monies raised pursuant to the taxing power of any county or
municipality, including the City; or
      3.   Monies raised against the general credit of the City or any other
municipality or county. (1995 Code § 3-2-103)
ARTICLE B. LIBRARY DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Department Created
1-8B-2: Library Advisory Board
1-8B-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created the Library Department. The Library Department shall be
governed by the Mayor and City Council, which constitutes the ex officio Board
of Directors. The department shall consist of a librarian and a Library
Advisory Board appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City
Council, and such other persons as shall be appointed to serve in the
department from time to time. (1995 Code § 3-9-101; amd. 2019 Code)
1-8B-2: LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD:
Duties and responsibilities of the Library Advisory Board shall be as provided
in title 2, chapter 1 of this Code, and set by policy. (1995 Code § 3-9-102;
amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 9
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Elections To Follow State Statute
1-9-2: Campaign Finance Disclosure
1-9-1: ELECTIONS TO FOLLOW STATE STATUTE:
The City shall follow the election requirements set forth in Utah Code
Annotated title 20A, for nonpartisan elections for cities of the fifth class.
Each declaration of candidacy shall be accompanied by a filing fee as set forth
in the City Fee Policy. (Ord. 15-01, 2-17-2015)
1-9-2: CAMPAIGN FINANCE DISCLOSURE:
   A.   Compliance Required: All candidates for elective Municipal office shall
comply with the campaign finance disclosure requirement set forth in this
section.
   B.   Definitions: The following definitions shall be applicable to this
section:
CANDIDATE: Any person who files a declaration of candidacy for an elective
office of the City; or is nominated by a committee, party or petition; or
received contributions or makes expenditures or consents to another person
receiving contributions or making expenditures with a view to bringing about
such persons nomination or election to such office; or causes on his/her behalf
any written material or advertisement to be printed, published, broadcast,
distributed or disseminated which indicates an intention to seek such office.
CONTRIBUTION: Monetary and nonmonetary contributions such as in-kind
contributions and contributions of tangible things, but shall not include
personal services provided without compensation by individuals, volunteering
their time on behalf of a candidate.
   C.   Filing Of Disclosure Reports: Each candidate for elective office who
either receives more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) in campaign
contributions or spends more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) in
campaign expenses shall file with the City Recorder dated and signed financial
reports which comply with this section. Forms shall be made available by the
City. Other forms in substantially the same format are also acceptable.
   D.   Time Of Filing: The reports required by this section shall be filed at
least seven (7) days before both the primary and general elections and at least
once within thirty (30) days following the final election. A candidate losing
in the primary election shall file the final report within thirty (30) days of
the date of the primary election.
   E.   Contents Of Statement:
      1.   The statements filed seven (7) days before the election shall
include:
         a.   A list of each contribution of more than fifty dollars ($50.00)
received by the candidate, and the name of the donor;
         b.   An aggregate total of all contributions of fifty dollars ($50.00)
or less received by the candidate; and
         c.   A list of each expenditure for political purposes made during the
campaign period as of ten (10) days before the date of the election, and the
recipient of each expense.
      2.   The statement filed thirty (30) days after the election shall
include:
         a.   A list of each contribution of more than fifty dollars ($50.00)
received after the cutoff date for the statement filed seven (7) days before
the election, and the name of the donor;
         b.   A total of all contributions of fifty dollars ($50.00) or less
received by the candidate after the cutoff date for the statement filed seven
(7) days before the election;
         c.   A list of all expenditures for political purposes made by the
candidate after the cutoff date for the statement filed seven (7) days before
the election, and the recipient of each expense;
         d.   All contributions and expenditures related to the candidate's
candidacy should be accounted for between the pre-election and post-election
statement. (Ord. 01-02, 2-20-2001)
   F.   Penalty For Noncompliance: Any candidate who fails to comply with the
provisions of this chapter is guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty as
provided in chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 01-02, 2-20-2001; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 10
PURCHASES, DISPOSALS AND SALES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Short Title
1-10-2: Purpose
1-10-3: Definitions
1-10-4: Purchasing Power And Authority
1-10-5: Authorization For City Purchases
1-10-6: General Purchasing Procedure
1-10-7: Formal Purchase Procedure
1-10-8: Department Purchase Requests
1-10-9: Building Improvement Project, Public Works Project, And Class C Roads
1-10-10: Local Bidder Preference
1-10-11: Exemptions
1-10-12: Prohibition Against Subdivisions
1-10-13: Prohibition Of Interest
1-10-14: Protests
1-10-15: Disposal And Sale Of Property
1-10-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the PURCHASES, DISPOSALS AND
SALES ORDINANCE OF FILLMORE CITY. (Ord. 22-17, 10-4-2022)
1-10-2: PURPOSE:
The underlying purposes of this chapter are to:
   A.   Encourage competition in a transparent manner;
   B.   Procure the best value to the City; and
   C.   Provide fair treatment of persons who conduct business or wish to
conduct business with the City. (Ord. 22-17, 10-4-2022)
1-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
BUILDING IMPROVEMENT PROJECT: The construction or repair of a public building
                              or structure.
                              The City of Fillmore, the redevelopment agency of
CITY:                         the City of Fillmore, and all departments and
                              divisions of the City of Fillmore.
CITY PROPERTY:                Any item of real or personal property owned by
                              the City.
                              Under conditions which reasonably do not permit
                              fulfilling all of the purchasing requirements
                              provided for in this chapter, an emergency is an
                              imminent threat to the public's health, welfare,
                              or safety; an imminent and substantial risk of
EMERGENCY:                    injury or loss to persons or property; or an
                              imminent risk of interruption of an essential
                              public service. An emergency includes but is not
                              limited to natural disasters, epidemics, riots,
                              equipment failures, or such other reason as may
                              be determined by the legislative body.
                              Includes, but is not limited to, the following
                              services: medical diagnosis or treatment;
                              veterinary; psychological or emotional diagnosis,
                              testing, analysis, counseling or treatment;
                              auditing; banking; insurance; bonding; risk
                              management; engineering; architectural; legal;
                              public surveying and statistical analysis;
                              hazardous substance consulting and disposal;
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES:        construction management; tax consulting;
                              financial investment; appraisal; title research;
                              geology consulting; hydrology; history; technical
                              writing; seismic consulting; impresarios,
                              producers, directors, music conductors,
                              choreographers, authors, artists, and other
                              artistic services; and other consulting services
                              which require a high level of training, skill and
                              special knowledge not common among lay people.
                              The construction of a street, road, curb and
                              gutter, sidewalk, power line or electrical
                              generation or transmission facility; a public
                              park, trail, or other recreational facility; a
PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT:         pipeline, culvert, dam, canal, or other system or
                              facility for water, sewage, stormwater, or flood
                              control; or any other public infrastructure,
                              system, or improvement constructed, owned,
                              operated, or maintained by the City.
                              The Purchasing Agent of the City, designated
PURCHASING AGENT:             pursuant to section
                              1-10-4.
                              Any City property, which is obsolete, unused, not
SURPLUS PROPERTY:             needed for a public purpose, or ineffective for
                              current use. (Ord. 22-17, 10-4-2022)
 
1-10-4: PURCHASING POWER AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Office Of Purchasing Agent: There is hereby created for the City the
Office of City Purchasing Agent (the "Purchasing Agent"). The Purchasing Agent
shall be the City Recorder.
   B.   Duties Of Purchasing Agent: The Purchasing Agent shall perform all
duties and shall have the powers and duties prescribed by and subject to this
chapter, including the duty to purchase or contract for all goods and services
needed by the City.
   C.   Unlawful Purchases: Except as otherwise set forth herein or in the
Fillmore City Purchasing Policy, it shall be unlawful for any officer or
employee of the City to order or purchase any goods or make any contract within
the purview of this chapter, other than through the Purchasing Agent.
   D.   Other Powers: In addition to any other powers and duties conferred by
this chapter, the Purchasing Agent shall:
      1.   Minimize expenditures and act to procure for the City the highest
quality in goods and services at the least expense to the city.
      2.   Encourage competition and endeavor to obtain as full and open
competition as possible on all purchases and sales.
      3.   Implement all rules and regulations authorized by this chapter and
any others necessary to its operation.
      4.   Prescribe and maintain such forms as are reasonably necessary.
      5.   Make bulk purchases when possible to take advantage of bulk purchase
discounts.
      6.   Determine and obtain all State and Federal tax exemptions to which
the city is entitled.
      7.   Supervise budget and secure maximum accounting efficiency.
      8.   Keep records of all required documentation regarding purchases and
sales.
   E.   Authority To Disqualify Bidders: With the approval of the City Council,
the Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to declare as irresponsible
bidders, those who default on their quotations, and to disqualify them from
receiving any business from the City for a period of time to be determined by
the Purchasing Agent and the City Council. (Ord. 22-17, 10-4-2022)
1-10-5: AUTHORIZATION FOR CITY PURCHASES:
   A.   Purchases of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or less may be
authorized on the signature of the Purchasing Agent alone.
   B.   Purchases greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) and less than
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) require the signature of the Purchasing Agent
and the Mayor or council member in charge of the requesting department.
   C.   Purchases of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or more require the
signatures of the Purchasing Agent and the Mayor as well as approval of the
City Council. (Ord. 22-17, 10-4-2022)
1-10-6: GENERAL PURCHASING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Purchases of goods or services of an estimated cost of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) or less may be made in the open market without
advertisement, without complying with formal purchase procedures, and without a
written agreement except as provided in this section. Purchases under this
section may be made after soliciting bids by at least one of the following
methods: direct response to prospective vendors, telephone, or by public notice
posted at the City Office. Sufficient effort should be made on all purchases,
regardless of cost, to determine the best value before any purchase is
initiated. A written agreement is required for goods or services if the
purchases require customization, have unique design criteria, or special terms.
   B.   Purchases of goods or services of an estimated cost greater than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) but less than forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00)
may be made by procuring written price quotes, without advertisement, without
complying with formal purchase procedures, and without a written agreement
except as provided in this section. A written agreement is only required for
goods or services if the goods require customization, have unique design
criteria, or special terms.
   C.   Purchases of goods or services of an estimated cost of forty thousand
dollars ($40,000.00) or more are subject to the formal purchase procedure and
shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. A written agreement is
required for goods or services if the goods require customization, have unique
design criteria, or special terms.
   D.   Minimum Number Of Bids: Whenever possible, all purchases shall be based
on at least two (2) bids. This does not include exempted purchases under
section 1-10-11. (Ord. 22-17, 10-4-2022)
1-10-7: FORMAL PURCHASE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Invitation For Bids ("IFB"):
      1.   This process shall be used when the nature of the work to be
performed or the product to be purchased is known and can be adequately and
accurately described in the bid documents. Such services and goods, except as
otherwise set forth herein or in the Fillmore City Purchasing Policy, when the
estimated cost thereof shall totals forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00) or
more, shall be purchased by formal written contract from the lowest,
responsive, responsible bidder after invitation for bids has been made.
      2.   Required Documentation: All IFBs shall have the following minimum
documentation:
         a.   Notice inviting bids; and
         b.   Instructions to bidders.
      3.   Notice Inviting Bids: At a minimum, the notice inviting bids shall
include a general description of the goods or services being solicited in
sufficient detail as to enable a reasonable bidder to formulate a bid; the
location where interested bidders may secure bid documents; the deadline and
location for bids to be submitted; and the time and location for opening bids.
      4.   Instructions To Bidders: At a minimum, when reasonably necessary
considering the types of goods or services being solicited, the instructions to
bidders should include the following:
         a.   Bonding and insurance requirements;
         b.   The process bidders shall use to ask questions during the
proposal process;
         c.   Site visits;
         d.   Necessary licensure requirements;
         e.   Due dates and location for submitting bids;
         f.   Page limits and format of the bid;
         g.   Delivery terms and/or completion deadlines;
         h.   Review of this chapter 1-10, including the local bidder
preference requirements; and
         i.   The City's right to waive certain matters and/or reject any and
all bids.
   B.   Request For Proposal ("RFP"):
      1.   This process shall only be used when the Purchasing Agent determines
that this process is more advantageous to the City, the use of the sealed bid
procedure is impractical, or the nature of the work to be performed or the
product to be purchased is either unknown or cannot be adequately and
accurately described. Such goods and services, except as otherwise set forth
herein or in the Fillmore City Purchasing Policy, when the estimated cost
totals forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00) or more, shall be purchased by
formal written contract from the highest-ranking proposal after request for
proposals has been made. The City may use this process notwithstanding the
estimated cost being less than forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00).
      2.   Required Documentation: All RFPs shall have the following minimum
documentation:
         a.   Notice inviting proposals; and
         b.   Instructions to responders.
      3.   Notice Inviting Proposals: At a minimum the notice inviting
proposals shall include: a general description of the goods or services being
solicited, including a description of the solicited goods or services in enough
detail that a reasonable responder can formulate a proposal; the location where
interested responders may secure RFP documents; and the deadline and location
for proposals to be submitted
      4.   Instructions To Responders: At a minimum, when reasonably necessary
considering the types of goods or services being solicited, the instructions to
responders should include the following:
         a.   Bonding and insurance requirements;
         b.   The process responders shall use to ask questions during the
proposal process;
         c.   Site visits;
         d.   Necessary licensure requirements;
         e.   Due dates and location for submitting proposals;
         f.   Page limits and format of the bid;
         g.   The criteria the City will use in evaluating proposals; and
         h.   The City's right to waive certain matters and/or reject any and
all bids.
   C.   Notice Publication Requirements:
      1.   An IFB or RFP, with an estimated cost or value of forty thousand
dollars ($40,000.00) or more, shall be published for at least ten (10) days
prior to the closing date on the Fillmore City website and on the Utah Public
Notice website. The Agent shall also advertise all pending IFBs or RFPs by a
notice posted at the City office. An IFB or RFP may also be advertised in a
newspaper of general circulation in Fillmore City and in trade publications or
on trade specific websites when appropriate in order to adequately promote the
IFB or RFP.
      2.   The notice required herein shall include the information under B3 or
C3, respectively.
   D.   Opening Procedures:
      1.   Sealed Bids; Identification: Sealed bids or proposals shall be
submitted to the Purchasing Agent or its designee, as required by the
instructions, and shall be identified as a bid or proposal on the outside of
the envelope.
      2.   Opening: Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated
in the public notices.
      3.   Public Inspection Of Tabulation: A tabulation of all bids received
shall be available for public inspection.
   E.   Rejection Of Bids: The City Council shall have the authority to reject
any bid or proposal, parts of any or all bids or proposals, or all bids or
proposals for any one or more goods or services included in the invitation or
request upon a determination that awarding the bid or proposal would not be in
the best interest of the City. Such reasons may include: the bids or proposals
exceed the budget for the project or activity or the bid fails to comply with
all of the requirements of the bidding process.
   F.   Surety: When deemed necessary to protect the best interests of the
City, bid deposits shall be prescribed in the public notices inviting bids.
Unsuccessful bidders shall be entitled to return of surety. A successful bidder
shall forfeit any surety required by the Purchasing Agent on failure of the
bidder to enter a contract within ten (10) days after the award.
   G.   Award To Lowest Responsive Responsible Bidder: Upon City Council
approval, the Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to award contracts
within the scope of this chapter to the lowest responsive responsible bidder.
In determining "lowest responsive responsible bidder", in addition to price,
the Purchasing Agent shall consider:
      1.   The quality of the goods or services to the particular use required;
      2.   The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the goods or service required;
      3.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience, and
efficiency of the bidder;
      4.   The quality of the bidder's performance on previous orders or
contracts for the City or others;
      5.   The sufficiency of the bidder's financial resources and the effect
thereof on his ability to perform the contract or provide the goods or
services;
      6.   Litigation by or against the bidder, either pending or threatened,
where claim is made that the bidder provided or furnished materially defective
workmanship or materials to the City, or failed to substantially comply with
bid specifications or contract terms and conditions;
      7.   Any previous or existing noncompliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances of the City relating directly or indirectly to the subject of the
contract;
      8.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service,
where such maintenance and service is essential;
      9.   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the goods
promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
      10.   Whether the bidder is a local bidder, using the preference and
following the procedure set forth in section
1-10-10.
   H.   Award To Other Than Lowest Bidder: If a low bidder is not awarded the
bid, he/she shall have the right to request and receive a statement of the
reasons why the bid was not accepted.
   I.   Tie Bids: Tie bids shall be handled in one of the following ways:
      1.   Local Vendors: If all bids received are for the same total amount or
unit price, quality and service being equal, and one of the bidders is eligible
for the local bidder preference, the contract shall be awarded to the local
bidder;
      2.   Outside Vendors: If there is no local vendor or there is a tie
between local vendors who are both eligible for the local bidder preference,
the Purchasing Agent shall award the contract in one of the two (2) following
manners:
         a.   To the low bidder after sending back for reconsideration and
revision specified line items to be rebid, in a process the same or similar to
that outlined in subsection A; or
         b.   By having the tie bidders draw lots in public. (Ord. 22-17, 10-4-
2022)
1-10-8: DEPARTMENT PURCHASE REQUESTS:
   A.   Purchase requests are to be made by department heads to the Purchasing
Agent.
   B.   Requisition And Estimates: All departments of the City shall file with
the Purchasing Agent detailed requisitions or estimates of their requirements
for goods and services in such manner, at such times, and for such future
periods as the Purchasing Agent shall prescribe.
   C.   Unforeseen Requirements: A department shall not be prevented from
filing, in the same manner, with the Purchasing Agent at any time a requisition
or estimate for any goods and services, the need for which was not foreseen
when the detailed estimates were filed.
   D.   Revisory Power In Agent: The Purchasing Agent shall examine each
requisition or estimate and shall have the authority to revise it as to
quantity, quality or estimated cost; but revision as to quality shall be in
accordance with the standards and specifications established pursuant to this
chapter prior to making revisions. The Purchasing Agent shall confer with the
requisition maker. (Ord. 22-17, 10-4-2022)
1-10-9: BUILDING IMPROVEMENT PROJECT, PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT, AND CLASS C ROADS:
   A.   Building Improvement Project Or Public Work Project: Any expenditure of
the City involving building improvements or public works projects shall comply
with applicable provisions set forth at Utah Code Annotated sections 11-39-101
et seq., as amended.
   B.   Class C Roads: Any expenditure of the city involving the construction,
maintenance or improvement project of a Class B or C road or work excluded
under Utah Code Annotated section 11-39-104, as amended, shall comply with
applicable provisions of the State Transportation Code, including, but not
limited to Utah Code Annotated sections 72-6-108 and 72-6-109, as amended.
   C.   Change Orders: The city council member assigned to a department, under
which a project is bid or proposed, has discretion and is authorized to approve
extra work or change orders on City construction projects in an amount not to
exceed the approved budget for the project, if such change is in the best
interests of the City and such change is based on an unforeseeable
circumstance. Notice of such provision may be included in the IFB or RFP. (Ord.
22-17, 10-4-2022)
1-10-10: LOCAL BIDDER PREFERENCE:
   A.   Findings And Policy: Unless otherwise prohibited by federal law or by
the terms of a federal grant or loan, a local bidder shall receive a preference
on the terms and conditions set forth in this section due to the economic
multiplier effect of dollars being spent in the local economy and a tax base
increase, thus benefitting the residents and businesses of the City and the
surrounding area.
   B.   Local Bidder Defined: For purposes of this section, a local bidder
means the contractor or supplier submitting the bid and providing any required
performance, payment, and other bond, that has a current Fillmore City business
license and its principal place of business located within the boundaries of
Fillmore City. If no bidders qualify within Fillmore City, the same preference
and procedures shall be extended to contractors or suppliers within Millard
County.
   C.   Affidavit Required: A local bidder may take advantage of the local
bidder preference by submitting with their bid an affidavit, signed before a
notary swearing that they wish to take advantage of the local bidder preference
and will comply with the terms of this section and any successor or replacement
sections of this Code.
   D.   Match: A local bidder taking advantage of the local bidder preference
shall, if their bid is within five percent (5%) of the lowest responsive
responsible bidder's bid received for the work requested or the goods to be
furnished, be qualified to be the lowest responsible bidder, provided they
match the bid that would otherwise qualify a bidder as the lowest responsible
bidder.
   E.   Award To Other Bidder: Notwithstanding a local bidder being willing to
match the low bid price as set forth above, the contract may be awarded to
another bidder based on subsection
1-10-7G1 - G9 of this chapter.
   F.   Local Pricing And Purchasing: A local bidder shall price goods locally
and purchase competitively priced goods from local suppliers.
   G.   Hiring: To the greatest extent possible, a local bidder shall hire its
labor force from within Millard County and submit supporting documentation to
show its use of Millard County residents in its labor force. (Ord. 22-17, 10-4-
2022)
1-10-11: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Auctions And Similar Sales: The City may make exceptions required under
this chapter if it is determined that a good can be purchased at any public
auction, closeout sale, bankruptcy sale, estate sale, or other similar sale,
and such purchase at any such sale will be made at a cost below the market cost
in the community, a contract or contracts may be let, or the purchase made,
without complying with the competitive bidding requirements of this article,
after City Council approval during a public meeting where a maximum amount will
be determined by the City Council.
   B.   Cooperative Purchases (Utah State Contract): The City may make
exceptions to the procedures required under this chapter if utilizing
cooperative purchasing contracts, including but not limited to those contracts
administered by the Utah Division of Purchasing.
   C.   Emergency Purchases: If the City Council is unable to meet and formally
approve the suspension of competitive bidding requirements, such requirements
may be suspended upon personal verbal approval of a majority of the council
members after explanation of the circumstances, subject to formal ratification
at the first public City Council meeting after authorization of the
expenditures. Emergency procurement shall be limited to only those goods or
services necessary to meet the emergency. If the situation allows, the
Purchasing Agent shall attempt to achieve as much competition in the emergency
procurement process as reasonably practical.
   D.   Federal Or State Funds: When procurement involves the expenditure of
federal or state assistance funds, the City shall make exceptions to the
procedures required under this chapter to the extent necessary to comply with
applicable federal and state law and regulations related to the use of those
funds.
   E.   Grants, Gifts, And Bequests: The City may make exceptions to the
procedures required under this chapter to the extent necessary to comply with
the terms and conditions of any grant, gift, or request, that are otherwise
consistent with the law.
   F.   Previously Bid: The City may make exceptions to the procedures required
under this chapter, if the good or service was previously bid and one of the
two following situations occurred: (1) The prior bid included a renewal clause,
or (2) The prior bid was solicited within one year.
   G.   Professional Services: The City may make exceptions to the procedures
required under this chapter if such contract is for professional services.
   H.   Projects Performed By City Employees: The City may make exceptions to
the procedures required under this chapter if such projects are routinely
performed by City employees, that are otherwise consistent with the law.
   I.   Routine Expenses And Payroll Payments: The City may make exceptions to
the procedures required under this chapter as stated in the Fillmore City
Purchasing Policy.
   J.   Sole Source Provider Purchases: The City may make exceptions to the
procedures required under this chapter if the procurement of goods, services or
construction items are only reasonably available from a single provider. The
Purchasing Agent shall find in writing that there is only one source for the
good or service. (Ord. 22-17, 10-4-2022)
1-10-12: PROHIBITION AGAINST SUBDIVISIONS:
Prohibition Against Subdivision: No contract or purchase shall be subdivided to
avoid the requirements of this section. (Ord. 22-17, 10-4-2022)
1-10-13: PROHIBITION OF INTEREST:
   A.   Specified; Waiver: Any purchase order or contract within the purview of
this chapter in which the Purchasing Agent, or any officer or employee of the
City, is financially interested, directly or indirectly, shall be void, except
that before the execution of a purchase order or contract, the Council shall
have the authority to waive compliance with this section when it finds such
action to be in the best interests of the City and if the officer or employee
has fully disclosed his/her interest in any transaction over five hundred
dollars ($500.00) prior to the award of the purchase order or contract.
   B.   Petition For Consideration: Any officer or employee of the City may
petition the City Council to authorize the Purchasing Agent to consider them to
compete with other vendors for orders from the City of five hundred dollars
($500.00) or less without appearing before the Council each time.
   C.   Awards, Gifts, Rebates: The Purchasing Agent and every officer and
employee of the City are expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or
indirectly, from any person, company, firm or corporation to which any purchase
order or contract is, or might be, awarded, or any rebate, gift or money,
except where given for the use and benefit of the City. (Ord. 22-17, 10-4-2022)
1-10-14: PROTESTS:
The City adopts and incorporates by reference in this Code, the Utah State
Procurement Code, Utah Code Annotated section 63G-6a-1601 et seq., or its
successor section, in its entirety as this section of this Code, with the only
change being the Protest Officer for the City shall be the Mayor. (Ord. 22-17,
10-4-2022)
1-10-15: DISPOSAL AND SALE OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Means Of Disposal: Subject to requirements listed herein regarding
significant parcels of real property, the City Council may dispose of, or
control the disposition of, any City real property, or any legal or equitable
interest in such property, the disposition of which is determined to be in the
public interest and in accordance with good property management. The
disposition of property, or any interest therein, may be by public or private
sale, exchange, exchange and sale, option to purchase, lease, lease with an
option to purchase, public auction, public advertisement for sealed bids, or
any other lawful manner or means. The disposition of property shall not be for
less than adequate consideration except for property which is determined to lie
within the boundaries of a street or highway, for properties which are conveyed
or traded to another government entity, or for small parcels of property
unusable by the City. Such consideration may be other than monetary.
   B.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings set forth in this subsection:
 
            Posting notice of the proposed disposition in at least three (3) public places
REASONABLE  within the City, publishing notice of the proposed disposition on the Utah State
NOTICE:     Public Notice website and publishing notice of the proposed disposition on the
            City website and Facebook page.
            1.   Any parcel of real property having an estimated value, as determined by the
SIGNIFICANT City Council, of more than thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00).
PARCEL OF   2.   Significant parcel of real property shall not include the sale, exchange,
REAL        exchange and sale, lease, option to purchase, or lease with an option to purchase
PROPERTY:   of any lot(s) in the Fillmore City Industrial Park, nor the sale, exchange,
            exchange and sale, lease, option to purchase, lease with an option to purchase or
            transfer of property to another governmental entity.
 
   C.   Notice Required: If the property to be sold by the City is a
"significant parcel of real property", as defined in this section, then the
City shall provide "reasonable notice", as defined above, of the proposed
disposition, at least fourteen (14) days before City action on the proposed
disposition, to provide the opportunity for public comment.
   D.   Public Comment: After the fourteen (14) day period, the City Recorder
shall forward copies of any public comment received to the City Council.
Thereafter, the City Council may determine not to dispose of the real property,
may direct the Mayor to proceed with the disposition, or impose such additional
terms and conditions as the City Council may adopt in regards to the
disposition. (Ord. 22-17, 10-4-2022)
CHAPTER 11
RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Records Access And Management Act Adopted By Reference
1-11-1: RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah Records Access and Management Act, Utah Code Annotated
title 63G, chapter 2, as amended, are hereby adopted by the City. Any and all
violations thereof shall be considered Class B misdemeanor violations of this
section and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this title. Fees for records
requests shall be according to the City fee policy. (2019 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Library Advisory Board Created
2-1-2: Terms Of Board Members
2-1-3: Organization; Officers
2-1-4: Duties And Functions
2-1-5: Rules And Regulations
2-1-6: Library Purchases
2-1-1: LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created a Library Advisory Board for the City. The Library
Advisory Board shall consist of the Council member assigned over the library
and not more than nine (9) members to be appointed by the Mayor, with the
advise and consent of the City Council. (Ord. 99-12, 9-21-1999)
2-1-2: TERMS OF BOARD MEMBERS:
   A.   Specified: The term of a Library Advisory Board member shall be three
(3) years, staggered so that three (3) terms expire each year.
   B.   Commencement Of Term: Terms for the Library Advisory Board members
shall commence July 1 of each year.
   C.   Removal: Not withstanding the provisions of this section, the Mayor,
with the consent of the City Council, may remove members of the Library
Advisory Board before the expiration of any term.
   D.   Vacancy: Any vacancy in the Library Advisory Board that occurs as a
result of the resignation or removal of a Library Advisory Board member shall
be filled by appointment by the Mayor, with the consent of the City Council. A
person filling that vacancy will fill the vacancy until the term expires.
   E.   Number Of Terms: Library Advisory Board members shall not serve more
than two (2) full terms in succession. For purposes of this section, any
Library Advisory Board member who fills the unexpired term of another shall not
count the time spent filling the unexpired term as part of the board members'
two (2) term service.
   F.   Reappointment Required: Notwithstanding the provision of this section,
all Library Advisory Board members must be reappointed at the end of the first
term of service to be eligible to serve a second term. (Ord. 99-12, 9-21-1999)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION; OFFICERS:
In July of each year, the Library Advisory Board shall elect a Chairperson and
such other officers as the board deems necessary. The Chairperson shall serve
for a term of one year. Nothing in this section shall prevent a Library
Advisory Board member from serving multiple terms as Chairperson of the Library
Advisory Board. (Ord. 99-12, 9-21-1999)
2-1-4: DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS:
   A.   Funds: The Library Advisory Board may, with the approval of the City
Council, raise funds and appropriate the expenditure of those funds for the
special programs of the library. The board may recommend policies for the
library operation and, in general, carry out the spirit and intent of the
provisions of this section.
   B.   Library Director; Other Personnel: The Library Advisory Board may, if
requested, recommend to the Mayor a competent person to serve as Library
Director, to have immediate charge of the library, with such duties as the
Mayor and City Personnel Officer shall determine. The Library Director shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, and
function under the supervision of the City Personnel Officer. The Library
Director shall act as the nonvoting executive officer for the Library Advisory
Board, and shall act under the direction of the board in accomplishing the
objectives and special programs for the library. Other library personnel as
needed shall be appointed by the Mayor, with advice and consent of the City
Council. (Ord. 99-12, 9-21-1999)
2-1-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Library Advisory Board may recommend to the City Council any reasonable
rules and regulations governing the use of the library facilities. (Ord. 99-12,
9-21-1999)
2-1-6: LIBRARY PURCHASES:
The Library Advisory Board shall make every effort to ensure the purchase of
books and other materials that are consistent with the wishes of the community
in regard to quality and good taste. The Library Advisory Board shall conduct
formal and informal surveys of the opinion of the people in the community
concerning standards of quality and good taste to be used in selecting books
and other materials for the library. The library shall provide for a wide
variety of tastes and interests. (Ord. 99-12, 9-21-1999)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Business Defined
3-1-2: Business License Required
3-1-3: Business License To Convicted Felons
3-1-4: Classification Of Businesses
3-1-5: Fee For License
3-1-6: Transferability
3-1-7: Investigation Of Business Records
3-1-8: Display Of Business License
3-1-9: Revocation Of License
3-1-10: Violation Declared Nuisance
3-1-11: Penalty
3-1-1: BUSINESS DEFINED:
Business shall mean any marketing activity conducted for the sale of goods or
services for a profit. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-1-2: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Business License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in business within the City without first obtaining a license for doing
so, and it shall be unlawful to continue in business without maintaining a
valid business license. It shall also be unlawful to continue in business once
a license for such business has been suspended or revoked.
   B.   Application: Application for a business license shall be made to the
City Recorder. An applicant is any person applying for any license provided in
this title. If the person is a partnership or corporation, then each partner,
member, officer or director is considered an applicant and must qualify
accordingly. Applicants shall present to the City Recorder the following:
      1.   The name under which the business is to be conducted;
      2.   The name of the applicant:
         a.   If a corporation is the applicant, the names and addresses of the
corporation's president and secretary must be supplied;
         b.   If the applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of all
partners must be supplied;
      3.   Address of the business to be conducted;
      4.   The nature of the business;
      5.   The estimated number of persons to be employed;
      6.   Information required for the City to make the determinations under
section
3-1-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 12-05, 12-18-2012)
3-1-3: BUSINESS LICENSE TO CONVICTED FELONS:
   A.   Legislative Purpose: The City Council hereby declares that it possesses
a duty to protect the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of
the City. It also declares that it holds a duty to encourage, protect and
foster an individual's right to free enterprise and business within the
Municipal boundaries of the City. The City Council further finds that these two
(2) duties conflict when balancing the need to protect its residents and
allowing persons convicted of crimes involving dishonesty or convicted of
crimes involving abuse, injury or harm to a person to own or operate a business
within the City. Criminal conviction shall mean the final entry of conviction,
whether by plea of no contest, guilty or entry of a judicial or jury finding of
guilt which has not been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas
corpus. A criminal conviction means the offense of which the person was
convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion
of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed under a plea in
abeyance or diversion agreement.
   B.   Scope: The City Council acknowledges that a person convicted of
dishonesty or of a crime injuring or harming another has the right, after
satisfying the convictions or judgments against him or her, to conduct his or
her life with the understanding and belief that his or her debt has been paid.
However, the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the City
demand a balance between a person's right to do business when convicted of
crimes involving dishonesty or crimes involving abuse, injury or harm to a
person and the safety of City residents.
   C.   Regulation: Therefore, it shall be unlawful for a person convicted of a
felony less than ten (10) years prior to the date of application for a business
license to obtain a business license in the City. (Ord. 12-05, 12-18-2012)
3-1-4: CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES:
   A.   Businesses within the City limits shall be classified by the average
number of employees of the business.
   B.   Businesses shall be classified by business classifications A through E.
   C.   The following represents the classifications for business using the
average number of employees:
 
0 to 3 Class A
4      Class B
5 to 6 Class C
7 to 8 Class D
Over 8 Class E
 
   (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-1-5: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Due Date: All license fees for existing businesses shall be paid on or
before December 31 of each calendar year. License fees shall be the same for
new businesses, regardless of the date during that calendar year the license is
obtained.
   B.   Amount Set By Policy: Business license fees shall be set through policy
and may be amended from time to time by the City Council.
   C.   Additional Fees: In addition to the business license fee required for
any business, specific types of businesses as set forth in this title shall be
imposed additional fees to cover costs of additional regulation of those
businesses. All additional license fees shall be set through policy by the City
Council.
   D.   Exemptions: Businesses owned or primarily operated by physically or
mentally handicapped individuals are hereby exempted from all the fees
associated with business licensing, except any fee imposed pursuant to
subsection C of this section. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
   E.   Late Fees: Any business renewing a business license after December 31,
shall be assessed a late fee that shall be set through policy and may be
amended from time to time by the City Council. (Ord. 10-04, 8-17-2010)
3-1-6: TRANSFERABILITY:
   A.   Sale Of Business: Business licenses obtained under this chapter may be
transferred to a new business owner if the business is sold and the name,
location and purpose of the business remain unchanged. (Ord. 10-04, 8-17-2010)
   B.   Notice To City; Fee: If a business is sold or if the same owner moves
to a different location, notice must be given to the City within ten (10) days
of such sale or move. A license transfer fee shall be imposed by policy. (Ord.
02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-1-7: INVESTIGATION OF BUSINESS RECORDS:
The City Recorder is hereby authorized to inspect the records of any business
licensed by the City for the purpose of determining whether information
supplied on business license applications is true. The City Recorder may only
inspect the records of a business to determine truth of the information
supplied on business license applications when good cause is shown to believe
that information was provided falsely. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-1-8: DISPLAY OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
   A.   Required: All business licensees of the City shall keep the license
received from the City in a conspicuous location in the business.
   B.   No Fixed Place Of Business: If the business has no fixed place of
business within the City, the licensee or agent of the licensee carrying on
business must carry the license on his or her person while doing business
within the City. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-1-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The City Council may revoke any license granted under this title if the
licensee violates any provision of this title or for such other cause as is
justified under law. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-1-10: VIOLATION DECLARED NUISANCE:
Any violation of this title is hereby declared to be a nuisance. In addition to
any other relief provided by this title, the City may apply to a court of
competent jurisdiction for an injunction to prohibit the continuation of any
violation of this title. Such application for relief may include seeking a
temporary restraining order, temporary injunction or permanent injunction.
(Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-1-11: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any of the provisions of this
title shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be
subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during on or which a violation
occurs or continues. (Ord. 06-05, 4-4-2006; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Scope And Applicability
3-2-2: Application For License
3-2-3: Classifications Of Licenses
3-2-3-1: Class A Beer License
3-2-3-2: Class B Alcoholic Beverage License
3-2-3-3: Class C Alcoholic Beverage License
3-2-3-4: Class D Beer License
3-2-3-5: Seasonal Beer License
3-2-4: Change In Ownership; Failure To Notify
3-2-5: Location Limitations Of Certain Licenses
3-2-6: No Vested Right; Reapplication Required
3-2-1: SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Applicability: This chapter applies to all businesses that are subject
to State regulation pursuant to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, Utah Code
Annotated title 32B.
   B.   Compliance Required: No business that is regulated under the Alcoholic
Beverage Control Act shall receive a license from the City unless it is in full
compliance with the regulations of Utah Code Annotated title 32B.
   C.   Definition of Alcoholic Beverage: “Alcoholic Beverage” means beer or
liquor.
   D.   Incorporation Of Statute: All portions of the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act relevant to the City are hereby incorporated into this section as
part of this Code.
   E.   Violator Subject To Revocation: Any business which violates the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 32 or the regulations of the City,
shall be subject to having its license revoked. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002; Ord. 24-
24, 12-3-2024)
3-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Required; Fee: Business owners seeking to sell alcoholic beverages in
retail establishments shall apply for an alcoholic beverage or beer license
under this section. License fees for alcoholic beverage or beer licenses shall
be set through policy by the City Council. Alcoholic beverages or beer licenses
shall be classified into separate classifications set forth under section 3-2-
3 of this chapter. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002; Ord. 24-24, 12-3-2024)
   B.   State License Required: Applications for alcoholic beverage or beer
licenses must be accompanied by proof of State licensing. (Ord. 10-04, 8-17-
2010)
   C.   Prohibited Applicants: The City may not grant a retail alcoholic
beverage or beer license to a person or to a business whose proprietor has been
convicted of:
      1.   A felony under any Federal or State law;
      2.   Any violation of any Federal or State law or local ordinance
concerning the sale, manufacture, distribution, warehousing, adulteration or
transportation of alcoholic beverages; or
      3.   Any crime involving moral turpitude.
   D.   Partnership, Corporation: In the case of a partnership or corporation,
the requirements under subsection C of this section apply if any partner,
managing agent or officer, director or stockholder who holds at least twenty
percent (20%) of the total issued and outstanding stock of an applicant
corporation has been convicted of any offenses as provided in subsection C of
this section. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-2-3: CLASSIFICATIONS OF LICENSES:
3-2-3-1: CLASS A BEER LICENSE:
The Class A beer license shall grant to the holder thereof the right to sell
beer in original containers with a duration of the license so long as the
holder of the license complies with applicable ordinances and State Statute.
(Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-2-3-2: CLASS B ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSE:
   A.   On Premises Consumption: The holder of a Class B alcoholic beverage
license shall be authorized to sell alcoholic beverages at retail in the
original containers for consumption on the premises. Class B alcoholic beverage
licenses shall only be issued to restaurants holding a qualified business
license within the City. In addition, only bona fide restaurants shall have the
right to apply for a Class B alcoholic beverage license.
   B.   Records Required: All Class B alcoholic beverage licenses shall
maintain a record, which details the gross amounts of alcoholic beverages sold,
gross amounts of food served, and any other items sold for consumption on or
off the premises for each semiannual period of each year. Such records shall be
made available for inspection or audit by the City at any time following the
close of the semiannual period, and for eighteen (18) months thereafter.
Failure to properly maintain such records of inspection and audit shall be
cause for termination of the Class B alcoholic beverage license.
   C.   Excessive Alcoholic Beverage Sales: If an audit or inspection of such
records indicates that the sales of alcoholic beverages on the licensed
premises are in excess of forty percent (40%) of the gross dollar of business
for any semiannual period, the Class B license shall be immediately suspended
and shall not be reinstated until the licensee is able to prove to the
satisfaction of the City Council that in the future the sale of alcoholic
beverages on the licensed premises shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the
gross dollar volume of the business. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002; Amd. Ord. 24-24,
12-3-2024)
3-2-3-3: CLASS C ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSE:
A Class C alcoholic beverage license shall authorize the holder thereof to sell
alcoholic beverages under any circumstances allowed under a Class A beer
license and a Class B alcoholic beverage license. In addition, a Class C
alcoholic beverage license holder shall be authorized to sell alcoholic
beverages on tap for consumption on the premises. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002; Ord.
24-24, 12-3-2024)
3-2-3-4: CLASS D BEER LICENSE:
   A.   Publicly Owned Recreational Facilities: The holder of a Class D beer
license is hereby authorized to sell beer in original containers for
consumption on publicly owned recreational facilities.
   B.   Written Permission Required: The City will not issue a Class D beer
license unless the person seeking the license has first obtained a concession
contract or written permission from the governing body of the recreation
facility.
   C.   Validity: Class D beer licenses shall be valid for a period of one (1)
year or for the term of the concession contract, whichever term is shortest.
(Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-2-3-5: SEASONAL BEER LICENSE:
The seasonal license shall authorize the holder thereof to sell beer in its
original containers for a period not to exceed one month. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-
2002)
3-2-4: CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP; FAILURE TO NOTIFY:
If any business regulated under this chapter does not immediately notify the
City of any change in ownership of the beer or alcohol retailer, or in the case
of a Utah corporate owner of any change in the officers or directors, the Mayor
may suspend or revoke that license. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-2-5: LOCATION LIMITATIONS OF CERTAIN LICENSES:
   A.   Number Within Linear Block: It shall be unlawful to have more than two
(2) businesses with a Class B or Class C alcoholic beverage license, or any
combination thereof, located on any linear block. A linear block is defined as
both sides of a street between intersecting major streets.
   B.   Frontage State Highway 99: It shall be unlawful for any holder of Class
B or C alcoholic beverage license to be on any frontage other than the frontage
for State Highway 99. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002; amd. Ord. 02-14, 11-19-2002; Ord.
24- 24, 12-3-2024)
3-2-6: NO VESTED RIGHT; REAPPLICATION REQUIRED:
The holder of an alcoholic beverage or beer license has the right to hold that
license only for the duration of the license or until it is determined that the
holder of the license has violated a relevant portion of this Code or State
Statute, at which point the City Council may revoke his or her license. All
persons seeking a license to sell alcoholic beverages must reapply for a
license at the end of each applicable licensing period. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002;
amd. Ord. 24-24, 12-3-2024)
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Penalty
3-3-1: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (1995 Code § 18-3-
101; amd. 2019 Code)
ARTICLE A. PROPERTY TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Assessment And Collection Of Property Tax
3-3A-1: ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF PROPERTY TAX:
All property within the corporate limits of the City shall be assessed and
taxed for Municipal purposes and said assessment and collection of taxes,
including the City levy, shall conform to the laws of the State. (1995 Code §
18-1-101)
ARTICLE B. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Retail Sales Tax
3-3B-2: Excise Tax
3-3B-3: State Statute Provisions Applicable
3-3B-4: Exclusions
3-3B-1: RETAIL SALES TAX:
   A.   Levied; Rate: From and after January 1, 1990, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the Municipality at the rate of one
percent (1%).
   B.   Retail Sales: For the purpose of this article, all retail sales shall
be presumed to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out of State destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out of State destination. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed
by and adopted by the State Tax Commission.
   C.   Public Utilities: Public utilities, as defined by Utah Code Annotated
title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within any
county or municipality where public utilities services are rendered, but the
place of sale or the Sales Tax revenue arising from such service allocable to
the City shall be as determined by the State Tax Commission pursuant to an
appropriate formula and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by it. (1995 Code § 18-2-101)
3-3B-2: EXCISE TAX:
An Excise Tax is imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in this
Municipality of tangible personal property from any retailer on or after
January 1, 1990, at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales price of the
property. (1995 Code § 18-2-102)
3-3B-3: STATE STATUTE PROVISIONS APPLICABLE:
   A.   Sales And Use Tax Act: Except as hereinafter provided, and except
insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax
Act, all of the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Act, Utah Code Annotated
title 59, chapter 12, as amended, and in force and effect on or after January
1, 1990, insofar as they relate to Sales Taxes, are made a part of this article
as though fully set forth herein.
   B.   Substitution Of Municipality: Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah
Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, the State is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of this Municipality shall be substituted therefor.
Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name
of the Municipality for the word "State" when that word is used as part of the
title of the State Tax Commission, or of the Constitution of the State, nor
shall the name of the Municipality be substituted for that of the State in any
section when the result of that substitution would require action to be taken
by or against the Municipality or any agency thereof, rather than by or against
the State Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this article.
   C.   Annual License: If an annual license has been issued to a retailer
under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be
required by reason of this section. (1995 Code § 18-2-103)
3-3B-4: EXCLUSIONS:
There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by which the
tax is measured:
   A.   The amount of any Sales or Use Tax imposed by the State upon a retailer
or consumer;
   B.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a Sales or Use Tax
has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality or
any county in the State, under the Sales or Use Tax Ordinance enacted by that
county or municipality in accordance with Sales and Use Tax Act. (1995 Code §
18-2-103)
ARTICLE C. MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Definitions
3-3C-2: Tax Levied
3-3C-3: Exemptions From Taxation
3-3C-4: No Effect Upon Existing Franchise Agreements; Credit For Franchise Fees
3-3C-5: Tax Collection Contract With State
3-3C-6: State Statute Provisions Applicable
3-3C-7: Additional License Or Reporting Not Required
3-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject to
the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax.
CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE: A. A fee:
      1.   Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
      2.   That is consideration for franchise agreements; or
   B.   1. A fee similar to subsection A of this definition; or
      2.   Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
DELIVERED VALUE: A. The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for
sale or use in Fillmore City and includes:
      1.   The value of the energy itself; and
      2.   Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, service
charges or other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in usable
form to each class of customer in the Municipality.
   B.   "Delivered value" does not include the amount of a tax paid under part
1 or part 2 of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12.
ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimus amount of taxable energy if such persons are excluded by
rule promulgated by the State Tax Commission.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract or agreement
granting a franchise.
FRANCHISE TAX: A. A Franchise Tax;
   B.   A tax similar to a Franchise Tax; or
   C.   Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, syndicate, this State,
any county, city, municipality, district, or other local governmental entity of
the State, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
SALE: Any transfer of title, delivery and consumption, exchange or barter,
conditional or otherwise, in any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration.
It includes:
   A.   Installment and credit sales;
   B.   Any closed transaction constituting a sale;
   C.   Any transaction under which right to acquire, use or consume taxable
energy is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable
if an outright sale were made.
STORAGE: Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in Fillmore City for any
purpose, except sale, in the regular course of business.
TAXABLE ENERGY: Gas and electricity.
USE: A. The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy.
   B.   Does not include the sale, display, demonstration or trial of the
taxable energy in the regular course of business and held for resale. (Ord. 99-
07, 3-16-1999, eff. 7-1-1999)
3-3C-2: TAX LEVIED:
There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this article, a tax on
every sale or use of taxable energy made within the City equally six percent
(6%) of the delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This tax
shall be known as the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax.
   A.   Calculation: The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the
taxable energy to the consumer.
   B.   Tax Additional: The tax shall be in addition to any Sales or Use Tax on
taxable energy imposed by the City authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 2, the Local Sales and Use Tax Act. (Ord. 99-07, 3-16-1999,
eff. 7-1-1999)
3-3C-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAXATION:
No exemptions are granted from the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax, except
as expressly provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305. (Ord. 99-07, 3-
16-1999, eff. 7-1-1999; amd. 2019 Code)
3-3C-4: NO EFFECT UPON EXISTING FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS; CREDIT FOR FRANCHISE
FEES:
   A.   Franchise Agreements: This article shall not alter any existing
franchise agreements between the City and energy suppliers.
   B.   Credit: There is a credit against the tax due from any consumer in the
amount of a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      1.   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the City
pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on July 1, 1999;
      2.   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charged; and
      3.   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise. (Ord. 99-07, 3-16-
1999, eff. 7-1-1999)
3-3C-5: TAX COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH STATE:
   A.   Required; Authority Of Mayor: On or before the effective date hereof,
the City shall contract with the State Tax Commission to perform all functions
incident to the administration and collection of the Municipal Energy Sales and
Use Tax, in accordance with this article. The Mayor is hereby authorized to
enter into agreements or supplementary agreements with the State Tax Commission
that may be necessary to the continued administration and operation of the
Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Ordinance enacted by this article. The City
may collect the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax under the conditions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-1-305(3) and 307(3).
   B.   Monthly Payments By Supplier: An energy supplier shall pay the
Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax revenues collected from consumers directly
to the City monthly if:
      1.   The City is the energy supplier; or
      2.   The energy supplier estimates that the Municipal Energy Sales and
Use Tax collected annually from its Utah consumers equals one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) or more; and the energy supplier collects the Municipal Energy
Sales and Use Tax.
   C.   Deduction Of Franchise Fees: An energy supplier paying the Municipal
Energy Sales and Use Tax directly to the City may deduct any contractual
franchise fees collected by the energy supplier qualifying as a credit and
remit the net tax less any amount the energy supplier retains as authorized by
Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-307(4). (Ord. 99-07, 3-16-1999, eff. 7-1-1999)
3-3C-6: STATE STATUTE PROVISIONS APPLICABLE:
   A.   Specified: Except as herein provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 1,
part 3, the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act, as well as this article,
all of the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as
amended, and in force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they
relate to Sales and Use Taxes, and excepting for the amount of the Sales and
Use Taxes levied therein, are hereby adopted and made a part of this article as
if fully set forth herein.
   B.   Substitution Of Terms: Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code
Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended, the State of Utah is named
or referred to as the "taxing agency", the name of the City shall be
substituted, insofar as it is necessary for the purposes of that part, as well
as Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 1, part 3, as amended. Nothing in this
subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name the City for the
word "State" when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax
Commission, or of the Constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of the City be
substituted for that of the State in any section when the result of such a
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the City or any
agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article.
   C.   Amendments: Any amendments made to Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, as amended, which would be applicable to the City for the
purposes of carrying out this article, are hereby incorporated herein by
reference and shall be effective upon the date that they are effective as a
State Statute. (Ord. 99-07, 3-16-1999, eff. 7-1-1999)
3-3C-7: ADDITIONAL LICENSE OR REPORTING NOT REQUIRED:
No additional license to collect or report the Municipal Energy Sales and Use
Tax levied by this article is required, provided the energy supplier collecting
the tax has a license issued under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106. (Ord.
99-07, 3-16-1999, eff. 7-1-1999)
ARTICLE D. TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
SECTION:
3-3D-1: Title
3-3D-2: Purpose
3-3D-3: Tax Levied
3-3D-4: Determination Of Gross Revenue For Tax Levied
3-3D-5: Tax Collection Contract With State
3-3D-6: State Statute Provisions Applicable
3-3D-7: Effective Date
3-3D-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the FILLMORE CITY TRANSIENT ROOM TAX. (Ord. 10-
03, 7-20-2010)
3-3D-2: PURPOSE:
The provisions of this article shall be interpreted in order to accomplish the
following purposes:
   A.   To adopt a one percent (1%) Transient Room Tax that complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter
12, part 3A, as amended;
   B.   To adopt a Transient Room Tax Ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 3A, as
amended; and
   C.   To adopt a Transient Room Tax Ordinance that may provide funds for City
General Fund purposes. (Ord. 10-03, 7-20-2010)
3-3D-3: TAX LEVIED:
There is hereby levied on all persons, companies, corporations or other like
and similar persons, groups or organizations doing business in the City as
motor courts, motels, hotels, inns, trailer courts or like and similar public
accommodations, a tax equal to one percent (1%) of the gross revenue derived
from the rent for each and every occupancy of a suite, room or rooms, trailer
space or like accommodations and services ("accommodations"), that are
regularly rented for less than thirty (30) days. (Ord. 10-03, 7-20-2010)
3-3D-4: DETERMINATION OF GROSS REVENUE FOR TAX LEVIED:
For purposes of this article, gross revenue shall be computed upon the base
room rental rate. There shall be excluded from the gross revenue, by which this
tax is measured:
   A.   The amount of any Sales or Use Tax imposed by the State or by any other
governmental agency upon a retailer or consumer;
   B.   The amount of any Transient Room Tax levied under authority of Utah
Code Annotated title 17, chapter 31, as amended, or its successor;
   C.   Receipts from the sale or service charge for any food, beverage or room
service charges in conjunction with the accommodations, not included in the
base room rate; and
   D.   Charges made for supplying telephone service, gas or electrical energy
service, not included in the base room rate. (Ord. 10-03, 7-20-2010)
3-3D-5: TAX COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH STATE:
The City elects to contract with the State Tax Commission to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of this chapter. (Ord.
10-03, 7-20-2010)
3-3D-6: STATE STATUTE PROVISIONS APPLICABLE:
   A.   Specified: All applicable provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 3A, as amended, are hereby incorporated herein and made a part
of this article, including applicable provisions referenced in Utah Code
Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 3A, as amended, necessary for the
administration, collection and enforcement of the tax.
   B.   Substitution Of Terms: Wherever, in the statutes adopted by reference
in subsection A of this section, the State of Utah is named or referred to as
the "taxing agency", the name of the City shall be substituted therefor.
Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name
of the City for the word "State" when that word is used as part of the title of
the State Tax Commission, or of the Constitution of the State, nor shall the
name of the City be substituted for that of the State in any section when the
result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the
City or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission
in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article which the City has contracted to have the State Tax Commission perform.
(Ord. 10-03, 7-20-2010)
3-3D-7: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This tax shall be levied beginning the earlier of January 1, 2011 or the first
day of any calendar quarter after a ninety (90) day period beginning on the
date the State Tax Commission received notice pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-355, that the City has enacted this article. (Ord. 10-03, 7-20-
2010)
CHAPTER 4
TEMPORARY BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Defined
3-4-2: Application For Permit
3-4-3: Fee For Permit
3-4-4: Operation Throughout Calendar Year
3-4-5: Investigation
3-4-6: Nontransferable
3-4-1: DEFINED:
A temporary business shall mean the sale of goods or services sold by a
business being operated in the City for less than forty eight (48) hours,
except as provided in section
3-4-4 of this chapter, or operating out of a vehicle, truck, trailer or other
mobile unit. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-4-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
An application for permit to run a temporary business under this chapter shall
be made at the City office. Such application shall be sworn to or filed with
the City at least three (3) weeks prior to the time in which the permit applied
for shall become effective. The application shall contain the following
information:
   A.   Personal Information: The name, address or headquarters of the person
applying for the permit;
   B.   Officers, Managers: If the applicant is not an individual, the names
and addresses of the applicant's principal officers and managers;
   C.   Person In Charge: The name and address of the person or persons who
will be in direct charge of conducting the temporary business;
   D.   Time Of Operation: The time within which the temporary business will be
operated and the location of the temporary business in the City;
   E.   Property Owner Approval: Any application for a temporary permit must
also be signed by the party on whose property the temporary business shall be
located. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-4-3: FEE FOR PERMIT:
Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall pay to the City the appropriate
fee, which shall be set through policy. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002; amd. 2019 Code)
3-4-4: OPERATION THROUGHOUT CALENDAR YEAR:
An applicant for a temporary business may secure a permit, which will allow him
or her to operate the temporary business off and on through one calendar year.
The fee for the yearlong temporary permit shall be set through policy. (Ord.
02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-4-5: INVESTIGATION:
The City Recorder shall examine or cause to be examined each application filed
under this chapter for a permit and shall make or cause to be made such further
investigations of the applicant as is deemed necessary. The permit will be
issued when the City Recorder determines the following facts:
   A.   Statements True: All the statements made in the application are true;
   B.   Fraudulent Transactions: The applicant has not engaged in any
fraudulent transactions or enterprise;
   C.   Zoning Violation: Nothing in this proposal will violate any provision
of the Zoning Ordinance of the City;
   D.   City Council Approval: The application has been approved by the City
Council. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-4-6: NONTRANSFERABLE:
Any permit issued under this chapter is nontransferable. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
CHAPTER 5
FOOD AND BEVERAGE BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Notification To Board Of Health
3-5-2: Compliance With Regulations
3-5-3: Revocation For Violation
3-5-1: NOTIFICATION TO BOARD OF HEALTH:
Any person, firm, or corporation in the business of preparing, distributing or
selling of food or nonalcoholic beverages shall, before receiving a business
license, provide proof to the City Recorder that the proposed business owner
notified the Central Utah Board of Health of its intentions to operate a
business dealing with food or nonalcoholic beverages. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-5-2: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
Any food or beverage business operator, as defined in section
3-5-1 of this chapter, shall obey all regulations set forth by the Central Utah
Board of Health and be liable for disobeying any of those regulations. (Ord.
02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-5-3: REVOCATION FOR VIOLATION:
Any food or beverage business operator, as defined in section
3-5-1 of this chapter, may have his or her license revoked by the City or the
Central Utah Board of Health for violation of this title or the Central Utah
Board of Health's regulations, or for any other reason justified by law. (Ord.
02-02, 2-5-2002)
CHAPTER 6
DANCES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Application
3-6-2: Application To Operate As Business
3-6-1: APPLICATION:
Applications to conduct a public dance shall be made on forms provided by the
City Recorder, shall be filed in the Office of the City Recorder and
accompanied by an application fee set by policy and shall include:
   A.   Personal Information: The name, residence and business address of the
manager or person in charge;
   B.   Location; Size; Capacity: The address and the particular room or rooms
for which the permit is required, the square foot area thereof to be used for
dancing, and the seating capacity;
   C.   Date: The date or dates upon which the dance will be conducted, which
shall not be less than fifteen (15) days after the application is filed;
   D.   Attendance: The approximate attendance expected;
   E.   Time: The times at which the dance will begin and end;
   F.   Other Entertainment: A statement in detail of any other entertainment
to be provided. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-6-2: APPLICATION TO OPERATE AS BUSINESS:
Applications to conduct public dances as a business or as an incident to a
restaurant, dance hall or other business, except as a dancing school, shall be
made on forms provided by the City Recorder, shall be filed in the Office of
the City Recorder and shall include:
   A.   Personal Information: The name, residence and business address of the
manager or person in charge;
   B.   Business Information: The address, the exact nature of the business,
the name under which it is to be operated and the hours of operation;
   C.   Size; Capacity: The square foot area of the room or rooms to be used
for dining, for dancing, for entertainment, and the seating capacity of each
such room;
   D.   Prior Revocation Or Suspension: Whether or not the applicant or anyone
having a beneficial interest in the permit, directly or indirectly, has had a
permit for the same or a similar business suspended or revoked anywhere and if
so, the circumstances thereof. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
CHAPTER 7
EXHIBITIONS AND CARNIVALS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: License Required
3-7-3: Conditions And Requirements
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
CARNIVAL: Shall mean and include amusement activities, rides, merry-go-rounds,
booths for the conduct of games of skill, food dispensing facilities and
sideshows. A carnival shall not include gambling devices, games of chance,
lotteries, punchboards, or other activities in violation of City ordinances.
EXHIBITIONS: Shall be held to mean and include circuses, menageries and other
similar amusement enterprises, which are open to the public and for admission
to which a fee is charged. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate within the City any exhibitions or
carnivals which are open to the public without first securing a license. (Ord.
02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-7-3: CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to other requirements set forth herein, the applicant shall furnish
suitable evidence of his or her intention and ability to comply with the
following conditions:
   A.   Maintenance Of Premises: The operator and sponsor of the carnival or
exhibition shall each be wholly responsible for maintaining order, and for
keeping the site clean, free of trash, papers and other debris. Trash
containers in adequate number shall be placed in convenient locations for the
use of the public.
   B.   Ride Inspections: No ride shall be placed in operation for public use
until the same has been inspected for mechanical, structural, electrical and
other hazards by the building inspector and such other officers or employees of
the City having jurisdiction. Adequate safeguards shall be placed to protect
both operators and the general public from inadvertently coming in contact with
moving parts, belts, motor gears, electrical switches and other possible or
potential hazards.
   C.   Insurance: No license shall be issued for conducting an exhibition or
carnival until the applicant therefor has placed on file with the City Recorder
a certificate or certificates of insurance indicating that there is in effect
public liability of insurance covering any damages arising out of the use and
operation of any and all devices and facilities operated in connection with
such carnival or exhibition. Such insurance shall be the minimum amount of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for each person, and three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for each incident. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
CHAPTER 8
TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-8-1: Tobacco Specialty Businesses Prohibited
3-8-1: TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESSES PROHIBITED:
Any retail specialty business, as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 10-8-
41.6, is prohibited within the City and no business license shall be issued for
such business. (Ord. 14-01, 6-17-2014)
CHAPTER 9
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATIONS AND SALES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Purpose
3-9-2: Definitions
3-9-3: License Required
3-9-4: Application For License
3-9-5: Review And Approval Procedures
3-9-6: Written Disclosures
3-9-7: Form Of License And Identification Badge
3-9-8: Maintenance Of Registry
3-9-9: Nontransferability Of License
3-9-10: Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited
3-9-11: "No Solicitation" Notice
3-9-12: Duties Of Solicitors
3-9-13: Time Of Day Restrictions
3-9-14: Buyer's Right To Cancel
3-9-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Residents of the City have an inalienable interest in their personal
safety, well being and privacy in their residences, as well as their ability to
provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief, political
or charitable activities and goods and services lawfully in commerce. The City
has a substantial interest protecting the well being, tranquility, personal
safety and privacy of its citizens, which includes the ability to protect
citizens from unwanted intrusions upon residential property. The City also has
a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud or otherwise unfair
consumer sales practices, as well as criminal activity.
   B.   There must be a balance between these substantial interests of the City
and its citizens, and the effect of the regulations in this chapter on the
rights of those who are regulated. Based on the collective experiences of City
officials derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and
property from criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens
regarding door to door solicitation, the experience of its law enforcement
officers and those affected by door to door canvassing and solicitation, as
well as judicial decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional
protections afforded and denied persons seeking to engage in door to door
solicitation, the City Council adopts this chapter to promote the City's
substantial interests in:
      1.   Respecting citizen's decisions regarding privacy in their
residences;
      2.   Protecting persons from criminal conduct;
      3.   Providing equal opportunity to advocate for and against religious
belief, political position or charitable activities; and
      4.   Permitting truthful and nonmisleading door to door solicitation
regarding lawful goods or services in intrastate or interstate commerce.
   C.   The City finds that the procedures, rules and regulations set forth in
this chapter are narrowly tailored to preserve and protect the City interests
referred to herein, while at the same time balancing the rights of those
regulated. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
3-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply for the purposes of this chapter:
BCI OR BACKGROUND CHECK: An original or copy, dated no more than ninety (90)
days prior to the date of the application, of either:
   A.   A Utah Department of Public Safety Bureau of Criminal Identification
verified criminal history report personal to the applicant; or
   B.   Verification by the Utah Department of Public Safety Bureau of Criminal
Identification that no criminal history rising to the level of a disqualifying
status exists for the applicant.
COMPETENT INDIVIDUAL: A person claiming or appearing to be at least eighteen
(18) years of age and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage
in rational thought, conversation and conduct.
COMPLETED APPLICATION: A fully completed application form, a BCI background
check, two (2) copies of the original identification relied on by the applicant
to establish proof of identity, and the tendering of fees required by this
chapter. Such fees shall be as set forth in the Fillmore City Fee Policy.
CRIMINALLY CONVICTED: The final entry of a conviction, whether by a plea of no
contest, guilty, entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt, which has not
been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The criminal
conviction is that offense of which the applicant or registered solicitor was
convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion
of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed under a plea in
abeyance or diversion agreement.
DISQUALIFYING STATUS: Any activity requiring the denial or revocation of a
license by the Fillmore City Recorder or City Council, as is appropriate. Such
activity includes the following:
   A.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of:
      1.   Felony homicide;
      2.   Physically abusing, sexually abusing or exploiting a minor;
      3.   The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
      4.   Sexual assault of any kind;
   B.   Criminal charges currently pending against the applicant or registered
solicitor for:
      1.   Felony homicide;
      2.   Physically abusing, sexually abusing or exploiting a minor;
      3.   The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
      4.   Sexual assault of any kind;
   C.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a felony within the last ten (10) years;
   D.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been incarcerated in a
Federal or State prison for any reason within the past five (5) years;
   E.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a misdemeanor within the past five (5) years involving a crime of:
      1.   Moral turpitude; or
      2.   Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
   F.   A final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant or
registered solicitor within the last five (5) years indicating that:
      1.   The applicant or registered solicitor had either engaged in fraud or
intentional misrepresentation; or
      2.   That a debt of the applicant or registered solicitor was
nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC section 523(a)(2), (a)(4),
(a)(6) or (a)(19);
   G.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently on parole or
probation to any court, penal institution or governmental entity for any felony
or for any misdemeanor involving a crime of:
      1.   Moral turpitude; or
      2.   Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
   H.   The applicant is currently under house arrest or subject to a tracking
device;
   I.   The applicant or registered solicitor has an outstanding arrest warrant
from any jurisdiction;
   J.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently subject to a
protective order based on physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction; or
   K.   The applicant fails to provide the information required in this chapter
in the application submitted to the City.
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION: The practice of engaging in or attempting to engage
in conversation with any person at a residence, whether or not that person is a
competent individual, while making or seeking to make or facilitate a home
solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and/or services.
FEES: The cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for processing
the application and issuing the license and/or identification badge.
FINAL CIVIL JUDGMENT: A civil judgment that would be recognized under State law
as a judgment to which collateral estoppel would apply.
GOODS: One or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise, perishables
of any kind, subscriptions or manufactured products offered, provided or sold.
HOME SOLICITATION SALES: To make or attempt to make a sale of goods or services
by a solicitor at a residence by means of door to door solicitation, regardless
of:
   A.   The means of payment or consideration used for the purchase;
   B.   The time of delivery of the goods or services; or
   C.   The previous or present classification of the solicitor as a solicitor,
peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant or similar designation.
MORAL TURPITUDE: Act or behavior that gravely violates moral sentiment or
accepted moral standards of the community.
NO SOLICITATION SIGN: A reasonably visible and legible sign that states "No
Soliciting", "No Solicitors", "No Salespersons", "No Trespassing", or words of
similar import.
POLITICAL POSITION: Any actually held belief, or information for, against or in
conjunction with, any political, social, environmental or humanitarian belief
or practice.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has been issued a current solicitor's
license by the City.
REGISTRATION: The process used by the business license official to accept a
completed application and determine whether or not a license will be granted,
denied or revoked.
RESIDENCE: Any living unit contained within any building or structure that is
occupied by any person as a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of the
City, together with the lot or other real property on which the living unit is
located. This does not include the sidewalk, public street or public rights-of-
way.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON OR ENTITY: That person or entity responsible to provide the
following to an applicant, registered solicitor, and the competent individual
in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or attempted to be
made by means of a home solicitation sale:
   A.   Maintaining a State Sales Tax number, a temporary Sales Tax number,
computing the Sales Taxes owing from any sale of goods or services, paying the
Sales Taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;
   B.   Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire to
cancel the sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law; and
   C.   Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those
persons who timely rescind any sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights
or law.
SALE OF GOODS OR SERVICES: The conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the
competent individual in a residence regarding a particular good or service that
entitles the consumer to rescind the same within three (3) days under any
applicable Federal, State or local law.
SERVICES: Those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided or sold
to a competent individual of a residence.
SOLICITING OR SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: Any of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought.
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase
insurance, subscriptions to publications or publications.
   C.   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or
services.
   D.   Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of
soliciting, such as hawking or peddling.
   E.   To make or attempt to make a door to door solicitation.
SOLICITOR OR SOLICITORS: Any person engaged in door to door solicitation.
SUBSTANTIATED REPORT: An oral, written or electronic report:
   A.   That is submitted to and documented by the City;
   B.   By any of the following:
      1.   A competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement or
other City employees with publicly available identification of their name,
address and any other reliable means of contact;
      2.   City law enforcement (Millard County Sheriff or his deputies) or the
business license official or designee; or
      3.   Any other regularly established law enforcement agency at any level
of government;
   C.   That provides any of the following information regarding a registered
solicitor:
      1.   Documented verification of a previously undisclosed disqualifying
status of a registered solicitor;
      2.   Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a
disqualifying status which has not yet been determined to be a disqualifying
status;
      3.   Documented, eyewitness accounts that the registered solicitor has
engaged in repeated patterns of behavior that demonstrates failure by the
registered solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this chapter; or
      4.   Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered solicitor
creates exigent circumstances that threaten the health, safety or welfare of
any individuals or entities within the City. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
3-9-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to make or
attempt to make a home solicitation sale or door to door solicitation within
the City without first obtaining the license required by this chapter.
   B.   Duties And Prohibitions: Any person making door to door contact with
persons within the City, whether or not a license is required, must meet the
duties and prohibitions outlined in sections
3-9-11 through
3-9-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
3-9-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for a solicitor's license shall be made in writing upon the
forms provided by the City. In addition to the information required by chapter
1 of this title, an application for a solicitor's license shall also show:
   A.   Proof Of Identity: An in person verification by the business license
official or designee of the applicant's true identity by use of any of the
following which bear a photograph of said applicant:
      1.   A valid driver's license issued by any state;
      2.   A valid passport issued by the United States;
      3.   A valid identification card issued by any state; or
      4.   A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States
military.
Upon verification of identity, the original identification submitted to
establish proof of identity shall be returned to the applicant.
   B.   Proof Of Registration With Department Of Commerce: The applicant shall
provide proof of registration with the Utah State Department of Commerce.
   C.   Temporary Sales Tax Number: The applicant shall provide the temporary
Sales Tax number for which he or she will be soliciting.
   D.   Marketing Information:
      1.   The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any
commonly known, registered or trademarked names; and
      2.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits,
registrations or other qualifications required by Federal or State law to
promote, provide or render advice regarding the offered goods or services.
   E.   BCI Background Check: The applicant shall provide an original or a copy
of a BCI background check.
   F.   Responses To Questions Determining Disqualifying Status: The applicant
shall be required to answer questions on the application form to determine
whether the applicant meets one or more of the requirements for disqualifying
status.
   G.   Fee: Applicant shall pay such fees as determined applicable by the
City, which shall not exceed the reasonable cost of processing the application
and issuing the license and/or identification badge.
   H.   Execution Of Application: The applicant shall execute the application
form, stating upon oath or affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that based on
the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the information provided is
complete, truthful and accurate. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
3-9-5: REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
The required information shall be provided to the City Recorder by the
applicant for review and approval or denial. As in chapter 1 of this title, the
City Council may revoke a license, provided the City Council receives
information showing that a registered solicitor meets the required criteria for
disqualifying status. If a license is approved, the license issued will be
valid for term set forth on the license and badge. The term may be either short
term or for a longer term as selected by the applicant from the choices of
license terms within the City Fee Policy. No license shall be valid for more
than one year. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
3-9-6: WRITTEN DISCLOSURES:
The application form for a solicitor's license shall be accompanied by written
disclosures notifying the applicant of the following:
   A.   Verification Of Submitted Information: The applicant's submission of
the application authorizes, but does not require, the City to verify all
information submitted with the completed application;
   B.   Available Sources On Applicant: The City may consult any publicly
available sources for information on the applicant, including, but not limited
to, databases for any outstanding warrants, protective orders or civil
judgments;
   C.   Proof Of Identity: Establishing proof of identity is required before
registration is allowed;
   D.   Fee; Completed Application: Identification of the fee amount that must
be submitted by applicant with a completed application;
   E.   BCI Background Check:
      1.   The applicant must submit a BCI background check with a completed
application;
      2.   To the extent permitted by State and/or Federal law, the applicant's
BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not
available for public inspection;
   F.   Copies Maintained: The City will maintain copies of the applicant's
application form, proof of identity and identification badge. These copies will
become public records available for inspection on demand at the City offices
whether or not a license is granted, denied or revoked;
   G.   Disqualifying Status, Denial, Revocation: The criteria for
disqualifying status, denial or revocation of a license under the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
3-9-7: FORM OF LICENSE AND IDENTIFICATION BADGE:
   A.   License Form: Should the City Recorder determine that the applicant is
entitled to a license, the City Recorder shall issue a license to the
applicant. The license shall list the name of the registered solicitor and the
responsible person or entity, if any, and the date on which the license
expires. The license shall be dated and signed by the business license
official. The license shall be carried by the registered solicitor at all times
while soliciting in the City.
   B.   Identification Badge: For each solicitor's license issued, the City
shall also issue each registered solicitor an identification badge that shall
be worn prominently on his or her person while soliciting in the City. The
identification badge shall bear the name of the City and shall contain:
      1.   The name of the registered solicitor;
      2.   The address and phone number of the registered solicitor, or the
name, address and phone number of the responsible person or entity;
      3.   A recent photograph of the registered solicitor; and
      4.   The date on which the license expires. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
3-9-8: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The City Recorder shall maintain and make available for public inspection a
copy or record of every completed application received and the license or
written denial issued by the City. The applicant's BCI background check shall
remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for public
inspection. The City Recorder may furnish to the County Sheriff or to the City
Council a listing of all applicants, those denied or revoked, and those issued
a license. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
3-9-9: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A solicitor's license shall be issued only in the name of the applicant and
shall list the responsible party or entity, if any. The license shall be
nontransferable. A registered solicitor desiring to facilitate or attempt to
facilitate home solicitation sales with different: a) goods or services; or b)
responsible person or entity, from those designated in the originally submitted
completed application, shall submit a written change request to the business
license official. An amended license, based on the new information, shall be
issued for the balance of time remaining on the registered solicitor's previous
license before the amendment was filed. Before the amended license is given to
the registered solicitor, the registered solicitor shall obtain a revised
identification badge from the City, after payment of the fee for the amended
license and identification badge. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
3-9-10: DECEPTIVE SOLICITING PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   False Statements: No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially
false or fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
   B.   Disclosures Required: A solicitor shall immediately disclose the
following to the consumer during face to face solicitation:
      1.   The name of the solicitor;
      2.   The name and address of the entity with whom the solicitor is
associated; and
      3.   The purpose of the solicitor's contact with the person and/or
competent individual.
This requirement may be satisfied through the use of the identification badge
and an informational flier.
   C.   Correct Name: No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias, or
any name other than his or her true and correct name.
   D.   City Endorsement: No solicitor shall represent directly or by
implication that the granting of a solicitor's license implies any endorsement
by the City of the solicitor's goods or services or of the individual
solicitor. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
3-9-11: "NO SOLICITATION" NOTICE:
   A.   Permitted: Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to
refuse solicitors by displaying a "no solicitation" sign which shall be posted
on or near the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to
the sidewalk leading to the residence.
   B.   Scope Of Signage: The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed
to constitute notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the residence does
not desire to receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
   C.   Responsibility Of Solicitor: It shall be the responsibility of the
solicitor to check each residence for the presence of any such notice.
   D.   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply also to
solicitors who are exempt from registration pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
3-9-12: DUTIES OF SOLICITORS:
   A.   Check For Signage: Every person soliciting or making any door to door
contact shall check each residence for any "no soliciting" sign or placard, or
any other notice or sign notifying a solicitor not to solicit on the premises,
such as, but not limited to, "no solicitation" signs. If such sign or placard
is posted, such solicitor shall desist from any efforts to solicit at the
property, residence or dwelling and shall immediately depart from such
property. Possession of a solicitor's license does not in any way relieve any
solicitor of this duty.
   B.   Prohibited Contact: It is a violation of this chapter for any person
soliciting or making any other door to door contact to ring the doorbell, or in
any other manner attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence
that bears a "no solicitation" sign or similar sign or placard for the purpose
of engaging in or attempting to engage in a home solicitation sale, door to
door soliciting, soliciting or making any other door to door contact.
   C.   Deceptive Practices: It is a violation of this chapter for any
solicitor through ruse, deception or fraudulent concealment of a purpose to
solicit, to take action calculated to secure an audience with an occupant at a
residence.
   D.   Request To Depart: Any solicitor who is at any time asked by an owner,
tenant or lawful occupant of private property to leave shall immediately and
peacefully depart.
   E.   Physical Contact: The solicitor shall not intentionally or recklessly
make any physical contact with, or touch another person without the person's
consent.
   F.   Entrance To Residence: The solicitor shall not follow a person into a
residence without their explicit consent.
   G.   Repeated Soliciting: The solicitor shall not continue repeated
soliciting after a person and/or competent individual has communicated clearly
and unequivocally their lack of interest in the subject, goods or services of
the solicitor.
   H.   Obscene Language: The solicitor shall not use obscene language or
gestures. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
3-9-13: TIME OF DAY RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to solicit at a
residence before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
Mountain time, unless the solicitor has express prior permission from the
resident to do so. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
3-9-14: BUYER'S RIGHT TO CANCEL:
In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to
provide goods or services without delay in an emergency, the seller or
solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain buyer's signature to a written
statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel within the third
business day after signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of "buyer's
right to cancel" shall be in the form required by Utah Code Annotated section
70C-5-103, or a current version thereof, or any State or Federal law modifying
or amending such provision. (Ord. 13-02, 4-2-2013)
CHAPTER 10
TATTOO OR BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: License Required
3-10-3: Health And Sanitary Requirements
3-10-4: Care Of Instruments
3-10-5: Records
3-10-6: Parental Consent For Minors
3-10-7: Inspections
3-10-8: Certificate Of Inspection
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
 
BODY PIERCING: The practice or service of piercing or puncturing a part of the body, excluding
               the ear, for the purpose of adorning the body with jewelry or any ornamentation.
               The single term “certificate of inspection” shall mean written approval from the
CERTIFICATE OF Health Officer or his authorized representative that said tattooing
INSPECTION:    establishment has been inspected and meets all of the terms of this chapter
               relating to physical facilities, equipment and layout for operation of such
               business.
CITY TATTOO    The inspector, appointed by the City, that shall have charge over inspecting
INSPECTOR:     tattoo establishments to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
HEALTH         The single term shall mean the City Health Officer from the Central Utah
OFFICER:       Department of Health.
               The single term “operator” shall mean any individual, firm, company, corporation
OPERATOR:      or association that owns or operates an establishment where tattooing is
               performed and any individual who performs or practices the art of tattooing on
               the person of another.
TATTOO,        Refer to any method of placing designs, letters, scrolls, figures, symbols or
TATTOOED,      any other marks upon or under the skin with ink or any other substance resulting
TATTOOING:     in the coloration of the skin by the aid of needles or any other instruments
               designed to touch or puncture the skin.
TATTOO OR BODY Any business that is engaged primarily in the practice of tattooing or body
PIERCING       piercing. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -2024)
ESTABLISHMENT:
 
3-10-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating a
tattoo or body piercing establishment without first obtaining a license to
engage in such business in accordance with the provisions hereof. (Ord. 02-02,
2-5-2002; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -2024)
3-10-3: HEALTH AND SANITARY REQUIREMENTS:
Each person who operates a tattoo or body piercing establishment shall comply
with the following requirements:
   A.   Area: The room in which tattoo or body piercing is done shall have an
area of not less than one hundred (100) square feet. If the tattooing use is
only for permanent facial cosmetics, as defined in title 10, chapter 2 of this
Code (definition of personal services), the square footage requirement shall be
reduced to a minimum of fifty six (56) square feet. Other than the difference
in required square feet, all other provisions in this chapter related to tattoo
or body piercing establishments shall apply both to all tattooing and body
piercing services, including permanent facial cosmetics done in commercial
beauty parlors or hair salons. The walls, floors and ceiling shall have an
impervious, smooth and washable surface. (Ord. 10-02, 3-16-2010)
   B.   Lavatory: A toilet shall be located in the establishment and shall be
accessible at all times that the tattoo or body piercing establishment is open
for business. The lavatory shall be supplied with hot and cold running water,
soap and sanitary towels.
   C.   Tables, Equipment: All tables and other equipment shall be constructed
of easily cleanable material, shall be painted or finished in a light color,
with a smooth washable finish, and shall be separated from waiting customers or
observers by a panel at least six feet (6') or by a door.
   D.   Sanitation: The entire premises and equipment shall be maintained in a
clean, sanitary condition and in good repair.
   E.   Handwashing: The operator shall wash his hands thoroughly with soap and
water before starting to tattoo; the hands shall be dried with individual,
single use towels.
   F.   Unhealthy Skin Conditions: No tattooing shall be done on any skin
surface that has a rash, pimples, boils and infections, or manifests any
evidence of unhealthy conditions.
   G.   Use Of Chemicals: No skin area shall be penetrated, abraded or treated
with chemicals for the purpose of removing, camouflaging or altering any
blemish, birthmark, scar or tattoo.
   H.   Razors: Safety razors with a new, single service blade for each
customer or patron or a straight edge razor may be used and shall be thoroughly
cleaned and sterilized before use on each customer or patron.
   I.   Clean Tattoo or Piercing Area: The area to be tattooed shall first be
thoroughly washed for a period of two (2) minutes with warm water to which has
been added an antiseptic liquid soap. A sterile single use sponge shall be used
to scrub the area. After shaving and before tattooing is begun, a solution of
seventy percent (70%) alcohol shall be applied to the area with a single use
sponge used and applied with a sterile instrument.
   J.   Petroleum Jelly: Only petroleum jelly in collapsible metal or plastic
tubes, or its equivalent as approved by the Health Officer, shall be used on
the area to be tattooed and it shall be applied with sterile gauze.
   K.   Styptic Pencils: The use of styptic pencils, alum blocks or other solid
styptic to check the flow of blood is prohibited.
   L.   Persons With Jaundice Or Hepatitis: Inquiry shall be made, and anyone
giving a history of recent jaundice or hepatitis may not be tattooed or
pierced.
   M.   Infections: No person, customer or patron having any skin infection or
other disease of the skin or any communicable disease shall be tattooed or
pierced. All infections resulting from the practice of tattooing which become
known to the operator shall promptly be reported to the Health Officer by the
person owning or operating the tattoo or body piercing establishment, and the
infected client shall be referred to a physician.
   N.   Tattoo Procedure; Dye And Ink: Single service or individual containers
of dye or ink shall be used for each patron and the container therefor shall be
discarded immediately after completing work on the patron, and any dye in which
the needles were dipped shall not be used on another person. Excess dye or ink
shall be removed from the skin with an individual sterile sponge or a
disposable paper tissue, which shall be used only on one person and then
immediately discarded. After completing work on any person, the tattooed area
shall be washed with sterile gauze saturated with an antiseptic soap solution
approved by the Health Officer. The tattooed area shall be allowed to dry and
petroleum jelly from a collapsible or plastic tube shall be applied, using
sterile gauze. A sterile gauze dressing shall then be fastened to the tattooed
area with adhesive. All pigments, dyes, colors, etc., used in tattooing shall
be sterile and free from bacteria, virus particles and noxious agents and
substances, and the pigments, dyes and colors used from stock solutions for
each customer or patron shall be placed in a single service receptacle and such
receptacle and remaining solution shall be discarded after use on each customer
or patron.
   O.   Piercing Procedure: Single use or sterile equipment and jewelry shall
be used and health department procedures followed.
   P.   Bandages, Surgical Dressings, and Equipment: All bandages, surgical
dressings, and equipment used in connection with the tattooing or piercing of a
person shall be sterile. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -2024)
3-10-4: CARE OF INSTRUMENTS:
   A.   Storing Of Instruments: All clean and ready to use needles and
instruments shall be kept in a closed glass or metal case or storage cabinet
while not in use. Such cabinet shall be maintained in a sanitary manner at all
times.
   B.   Sterilizing Of Instruments: A steam sterilizer (autoclave) shall be
provided for sterilizing all needles and similar instruments before use on any
customer, person or patron. (Alternate sterilizing procedures may only be used
when specifically approved by the Health Officer.) Sterilization of equipment
will be accomplished by exposure to live steam for at least thirty (30) minutes
at a minimum pressure of fifteen (15) pounds per square inch, temperature of
two hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (240°F) or one hundred sixteen degrees
Celsius (116°C).
   C.   Use Of Instruments: The needles and instruments required to be
sterilized shall be so used, handled and temporarily placed during tattooing or
piercing so that they will not be contaminated. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002; amd.
Ord. 24-05, - -2024)
3-10-5: RECORDS:
Permanent records for each patron or customer shall be maintained by the
licensee or operator of the establishment. Before the tattooing or body
piercing operation begins, the patron or customer shall be required personally
to enter, on a record form provided for such establishments, the date, his or
her name, address, age, serial number if a member of the armed forces, and his
or her signature. Such records shall be maintained in the tattoo or body
piercing establishment and shall be available for examination by the Health
Officer. Records shall be retained by the operator or licensee for a period of
not less than two (2) years. In the event of a change of ownership or closing
of the business, all such records shall be made available to the Health
Officer. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -2024)
3-10-6: PARENTAL CONSENT FOR MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any tattoo or body piercing establishment to perform
any kind of tattooing or piercing service on a person under the age of eighteen
(18), unless consent is given by his or her parent or guardian. “Parental
consent” means the presence of a parent or legal guardian during the
performance of tattooing or body piercing upon the minor after the parent or
legal guardian provided:
   A.   Proof Of Identity: Reasonable proof of personal identity and familial
relationship; and
   B.   Written Permission: Written permission signed by the parent or legal
guardian authorizing the performance of tattooing or piercing, upon the minor.
(Ord. 13-01, 4-16-2013; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -2024)
3-10-7: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Authority: The Health Officer may conduct periodic inspections of any
tattoo or body piercing establishment for the purpose of determining whether or
not the establishment and the persons performing the art of tattooing therein
are in compliance with all applicable health provisions contained within this
chapter and other pertinent ordinances. It shall be unlawful for any person or
operator of a tattoo or body piercing establishment willfully to prevent or
restrain the Health Officer from entering any licensed establishment where
tattooing is being performed for the purpose of inspecting said premises, after
proper identification is presented to the operator.
   B.   Inspector: The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council,
may appoint a City tattoo or body piercing inspector. The City tattoo or body
piercing inspector shall have charge of determining whether or not any tattoo
or body piercing establishment and the person performing the art of tattoo or
body piercing therein are in compliance with all applicable nonhealth
provisions of this and other pertinent ordinances. It shall be unlawful for any
person or operator of a tattoo or body piercing establishment wilfully to
prevent or restrain the tattoo or body piercing inspector from entering any
licensed establishment where tattooing is being performed for the purpose of
inspecting the premises, after proper identification is presented to the
operator. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -2024)
3-10-8: CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION:
An applicant for a license to operate a tattoo or body piercing establishment
shall first obtain a certificate of inspection from the Health Officer,
indicating the establishment has been inspected and is in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -2024)
CHAPTER 11
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-11-1: Title
3-11-2: Purpose
3-11-3: Applicability
3-11-4: Definitions
3-11-5: Obscenity
3-11-6: Zoning
3-11-7: Business License Required
3-11-8: Business Categories
3-11-9: Employee Licensing
3-11-10: Exemptions From License Requirements
3-11-11: Legitimate Artistic Modeling
3-11-12: Application For License; Disclosures
3-11-13: Fee For License
3-11-14: Submission Of Application To Reviewing Agencies
3-11-15: Issuance Of License
3-11-16: Bond Required
3-11-17: Term Of License; Proration Of License Fee
3-11-18: Changes In Information
3-11-19: Nontransferable
3-11-20: Location And Name
3-11-21: Display Of License
3-11-22: License In Advertising
3-11-23: Prohibited Acts And Activities
3-11-24: Outcall Services; Operation Requirements
3-11-25: Adult Business And Seminude Entertainment Business; Interior Design
3-11-26: Dancer Activities
3-11-27: Patron Activities
3-11-28: Obscene Conduct
3-11-29: Defenses To Prosecution
3-11-30: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-11-31: Appeal
3-11-32: Injunction
3-11-33: No Vested Rights
3-11-34: Penalty
3-11-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS AND SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 02-
02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose and object of this chapter to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations governing the time, place and manner of operations of
sexually oriented businesses and their employees in the City. This chapter
shall be construed to protect the governmental interests recognized by this
chapter in a manner consistent with constitutional protections provided by the
United States and Utah Constitutions. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter imposes regulatory standards and license requirements on certain
business activities, which are characterized as "sexually oriented businesses"
and certain employees of those businesses characterized as "sexually oriented
business employees". (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following shall mean:
ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial establishment which:
   A.   Holds itself out to be such a business;
   B.   Excludes minors from more than fifteen percent (15%) of the retail
floor or shelf space of the premises; or
   C.   As one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or rent, for any form
of consideration, any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals, photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video
reproductions, slides or other printed or visual representations, the central
theme of which depicts or describes specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, the depiction or description of which is regulated or
prohibited by this chapter, or offers for sale or rent any instruments, devices
or paraphernalia which are designated for use in connection with such sexual
activities, except for legitimate medically recognized contraceptives.
ADULT BUSINESS: An adult motion picture theater, adult bookstore, adult video
store or adult theater.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment which:
   A.   Holds itself out as such business;
   B.   Excludes minors from the showing of two (2) consecutive exhibitions
(repeated showing of any single presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
   C.   As its principal business, shows, for any form of consideration, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions
which are primarily characterized by the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which:
   A.   Holds itself out as such a business;
   B.   Excludes minors from the showing of two (2) consecutive exhibitions
(repeated performances of the same presentation shall not be considered a
consecutive exhibition); or
   C.   As its principal business, features persons who appear in live
performance in a state of seminudity.
BUSINESS LICENSE AUTHORITY: Fillmore City's Business License Officer or
designee.
EMPLOY: Hiring an individual to work for pecuniary or any other form of
compensation whether such person is hired on the payroll of the employer, as an
independent contractor, as an agent or in any other form of employment
relationship.
ESCORT: Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, dates, socializes, visits,
consorts with or accompanies or offers to date, consort, socialize, visit or
accompany another or others to or about social affairs, entertainment or places
of amusement or within any place of public or private resort or any business or
commercial establishment or any private quarters. "Escort" shall not be
construed to include persons who provide business or personal services, such as
licensed private nurses, aides for the elderly or handicapped, social
secretaries or similar service personnel:
   A.   Whose relationship with their patron is characterized by a bona fide
contractual relationship having a duration of more than twelve (12) hours; or
   B.   Who provide a service not principally characterized as dating or
socializing. "Escort" shall also not be construed to include persons providing
services such as singing telegrams, birthday greetings or similar activities
characterized by appearances in a public place, contracted for by a party other
than the person for whom the service is being performed and of duration of not
longer than one hour.
ESCORT SERVICE: An individual or entity that, for pecuniary compensation,
furnishes or offers to furnish escorts, or provides or offers to introduce
patrons to escorts.
ESCORT SERVICE RUNNER: Any third person, not an escort, who, for pecuniary
compensation, acts in the capacity of an agent or broker for an escort service,
escort or patron by contacting or meeting with escort services, escorts or
patrons at any location within Fillmore City, whether or not said third person
is employed by such escort service, escort, patron, or by another business or
is an independent contractor or self-employed.
NUDE OR STATE OF NUDITY: The state of dress in which the areola of the female
breast, or male or female genitals, pubic region or anus are covered by less
than the covering required in the definition of seminude.
OUTCALL SERVICES: Services of a type performed by a sexually oriented business
employee outside of the premises of the licensed sexually oriented businesses
physical facilities, including, but not limited to, escorts, models, dancers
and other similar employees. Escort services and escort service runners shall
be considered "outcall services" for the purposes of this chapter.
PATRON: Any person who contracts with or employs any escort services or escort,
or the customer of any business licensed pursuant to this chapter.
PECUNIARY COMPENSATION: Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire,
profit, reward or any other form of consideration.
PERSON: Any person, unincorporated association, corporation, partnership or
other legal entity.
SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCY: Any person, agency, firm, corporation, partnership or
any other entity or individual which furnishes, books or otherwise engages or
offers to furnish, book or otherwise engage the service of a professional
dancer licensed pursuant to this chapter for performance or appearance at a
seminude entertainment business or adult theater.
SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: A business where employees perform or appear
in the presence of patrons of the business in a state of seminudity. A business
shall also be presumed to be a "seminude entertainment business" if the
business holds itself out as such a business.
SEMINUDE OR STATE OF SEMINUDITY: A state of dress in which opaque clothing
covers no more than the areola of the female breast and the male or female
genitals, pubic region and anus with a covering no narrower than four inches
(4") wide in the front and five inches (5") wide in the back, which shall not
taper to less than one inch (1") wide at the narrowest point.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Outcall services, adult businesses, seminude
entertainment businesses and seminude dancing agencies, as defined in this
section.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES: Those employees who work for sexually
oriented businesses in activities which relate in any way to the sexually
oriented portion of the business. This includes all managers, dancers, escorts,
models and other similar employees of the sexually oriented businesses, whether
hired as employees, agents or as independent contractors. "Sexually oriented
business employees" shall not include individuals whose work is unrelated to
the sexually oriented portion of the business, such as, janitors, bookkeepers,
cooks, serving persons, bartenders and similar employees, except where they may
be managers or supervisors of the business. All persons making outcall meetings
under this chapter, including escorts, models, dancers, guards, escort service
runners, drivers, chauffeurs and other similar employees shall be considered
"sexually oriented business employees".
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: The human male or female pubic area and anus with
less than a full opaque covering, and the human female breast below the top of
the areola, with less than full opaque covering.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A. Acts of:
      1.   Masturbation;
      2.   Human sexual intercourse;
      3.   Fellatio;
      4.   Cunnilingus;
      5.   Bestiality;
      6.   Pederasty;
      7.   Buggery; or
      8.   Anal copulation between a human male and another human male, human
female or beast.
   B.   Manipulating, caressing or fondling the human genitals, the human pubic
area, the human anus, or the human female breast with the intent to excite or
arouse the actors or any other person.
   C.   Flagellation or torture by or upon a person for purposes of sexual
gratification or pleasure of the actors or other persons, or the condition of
being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained for purposes of sexual
gratification or pleasure of the actors or other persons. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-
2002)
3-11-5: OBSCENITY:
Nothing herein shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or display of any
matter which is contrary to the provisions of this chapter, or other applicable
Federal or State laws prohibiting obscenity or lewdness. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-6: ZONING:
Sexually oriented businesses licensed pursuant to this chapter shall only be
allowed in areas zoned for such use. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-7: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
It will be unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business
without first obtaining a sexually oriented business license. The business
license shall specify the type of business for which it is obtained. (Ord. 02-
02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-8: BUSINESS CATEGORIES:
   A.   Specified: The categories of sexually oriented businesses are:
      1.   Outcall services;
      2.   Adult business;
      3.   Seminude entertainment businesses;
      4.   Seminude dancing agency.
   B.   Number Permitted: No business may be listed for more than one category
of sexually oriented business, except that a business may be licensed both for
outcall services and as a seminude dancing agency. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-9: EMPLOYEE LICENSING:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to employ or for any
individual to be employed by a sexually oriented business in the capacity of a
sexually oriented business employee, as defined in section
3-11-4 of this chapter, unless that employee first obtains a sexually oriented
business employee license. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-10: EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
The licensing provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any licensed sex
therapist, licensed physician, licensed nurse, licensed psychologist or
licensed educator acting within the scope of his or her profession or
employment. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-11: LEGITIMATE ARTISTIC MODELING:
   A.   Nude Appearance Requires Contract: The City does not intend to
unreasonably or improperly prohibit legitimate modeling which may occur in a
state of nudity for purposes protected by the First Amendment or similar State
protections. The City does intend to prohibit prostitution and related offenses
occurring under the guise of nude modeling. Notwithstanding the provisions of
subsection 3-11-23I of this chapter, a licensed outcall employee may appear in
a state of nudity before a customer or patron, provided a written contract for
such appearance was entered into between the customer or patron and the
employee and signed by both the customer or patron and the employee at least
twenty four (24) hours before the nude appearance. All of the other applicable
provisions of this chapter shall still apply to such nude appearance.
   B.   License Not Required; Prohibited Activities: In the event of a contract
for nude modeling signed more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of the
modeling or appearance, the individual to appear nude shall not be required to
obtain a license pursuant to this chapter. During any such unlicensed nude
appearance, it shall be unlawful to:
      1.   Appear nude or seminude in the presence of persons under the age of
eighteen (18);
      2.   Allow or agree to allow any physical contact between the contracting
party or any third party and the individual appearing nude;
      3.   Commit prostitution, solicitation of prostitution, solicitation of a
minor or activities harmful to a minor;
      4.   Perform or participate in any specified sexual activity; or
      5.   Allow or agree to allow the contracting party or any other person to
masturbate in the presence of the individual appearing nude. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-
2002)
3-11-12: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; DISCLOSURES:
   A.   Information Required: Before any applicant may be licensed to operate a
sexually oriented business or as a sexually oriented business employee pursuant
to this chapter, the applicant shall submit, on a form to be provided by the
City, along with all appropriate attachments, all of the following information:
      1.   The correct legal name of the applicant;
      2.   Any other names or aliases used by the applicant;
      3.   The applicant's age, date and place of birth;
      4.   The applicant's height;
      5.   The applicant's weight;
      6.   The applicant's hair color;
      7.   The applicant's eye color;
      8.   The applicant's present business address and telephone number;
      9.   The applicant's present residence address and telephone number;
      10.   The applicant's Utah driver's license or identification number;
      11.   The applicant's social security number;
      12.   Acceptable written proof that any individual is at least eighteen
(18) years of age or, in the case of employees to be employed in businesses
where a different age is required, proof of the required age;
      13.   Two (2) color photographs of the applicant clearly showing the
individual's face and the applicant's fingerprints on a form provided by a
local law enforcement agency. For applicants not residing in the City, the
fingerprints shall be on a form provided by a law enforcement agency located in
the jurisdiction where the applicant resides. Fees for the photographs and
fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant directly to the issuing agency;
      14.   For any individual required to obtain a sexually oriented business
employee license to perform outcall services or as a seminude entertainer, a
certificate from the County Health Department, or other health agency or
personnel designated by the City, stating that the individual has, within
thirty (30) days immediately preceding the date of the application, been
examined and found to be free of any contagious or communicable disease;
      15.   A statement of the business, occupation and employment history of
the applicant for three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the filing
of the application;
      16.   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five (5) year period immediately preceding the date of the
filing of the application, including whether such applicant ever had a license,
permit or authorization to do business denied, revoked or suspended, or has had
any professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked or suspended
in the City, or any other jurisdiction. In the event of any such denial,
revocation or suspension, state the date, the name of issuing or denying
jurisdiction and state in full the reasons for the denial, revocation or
suspension. A copy of any order or denial, revocation or suspension shall be
attached to the statement;
      17.   A statement detailing all criminal convictions or pleas of nolo
contendere, except those which have been expunged and minor traffic offenses
(any traffic offense designated as a felony shall not be construed as a minor
traffic offense), and the disposition of all such arrests occurring within the
five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the application. The statement
shall include the date, place and nature of each conviction or plea of nolo
contendere and the sentence imposed for each such conviction or plea of nolo
contendere. The statement shall also identify the convicting jurisdiction and
the sentencing court and provide the case numbers or docket numbers for each
such incident. Application for a sexually oriented business or employee license
shall constitute a waiver of disclosure of any criminal conviction or plea of
nolo contendere for the purposes of any proceeding involving the business or
employee license;
      18.   A description of the services to be provided by the business, with
sufficient detail to allow reviewing authorities to determine what business
will be transacted on the premises, together with a schedule of usual fees for
services to be charged by the licensee and any rules, regulations or employment
guidelines under or by which the business intends to operate. This description
shall also include:
         a.   The hours that the business or service will be open to the public
and the methods of promoting the health and safety of employees and patrons and
preventing them from engaging in illegal activity;
         b.   The methods of supervision preventing the employees from engaging
in acts of prostitution or other related criminal activities;
         c.   The methods of supervising employees and patrons to prevent
employees and patrons from charging or receiving fees for services or acts
prohibited by this chapter or other statutes or ordinances; and
         d.   The methods of screening employees and customers in order to
promote the health and safety of employees and customers and prevent the
transmission of disease, and prevent the commission of acts of prostitution or
other criminal activity.
      19.   For adult businesses and seminude entertainment businesses, a
diagram drawn to scale of the business premises. The diagram need not be a
professional engineer's or architect's rendering; however, the diagram must
show marked internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures and ratings for
illumination capacity. The design and construction shall conform to the
following:
         a.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms;
         b.   For businesses which exclude minors from the entire premises, all
windows, doors and other apertures to the premises shall be darkened or
otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from seeing the
inside of the premises. Businesses which exclude minors from less than all of
the premises shall be designed and constructed so that minors may not see into
the area from which they are excluded; and
         c.   For seminude entertainment businesses and adult theaters, a solid
physical barrier at least three feet (3') high and six inches (6") wide shall
separate all performing areas from areas where customers and patrons are
permitted.
   B.   Premises Owner: In the event the applicant is not the owner of record
of the real property upon which the proposed business is to be located, the
application must be accompanied by a notarized statement from the legal or
equitable owner of the possessory interest in the property specifically
acknowledging the type of business for which the applicant seeks a license for
the property. In addition to furnishing such notarized statement, the applicant
shall furnish the name, address and phone number of the owner of record of the
property, as well as the copy of the lease or rental agreement pertaining to
the premises in which the business is to be located.
   C.   Nonindividual Entities:
      1.   If the applicant is a corporation, partnership, limited partnership,
limited liability company, limited liability partnership or any other
nonindividual legal entity, the information required for individual applicants
shall be submitted for each officer, trustee and director of the applicant
entity and for any partner, member or shareholder holding more than ten percent
(10%) of the stock of the applicant entity. Any individual or legal entity
doing business under an assumed name shall provide the required information for
the principal operating under the assumed name.
      2.   All corporate and other nonindividual entity applicants shall
identify each individual authorized to sign the checks for the entity. (Ord.
02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-13: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Specified: Each applicant for a sexually oriented business license or a
sexually oriented business employee license shall submit with the application
an application and licensing fee pursuant to the schedule established by
resolution of the City Council. The application and licensing fee may include:
      1.   An annual business license fee;
      2.   A one time, nonrefundable investigation fee; and
      3.   An annual sexually oriented business employee license fee.
   B.   Fee Not Prorated: The application and licensing fee shall not be
prorated to reflect any portion of the license year but shall be paid in full
without regard to the date of application. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-14: SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION TO REVIEWING AGENCIES:
Upon receipt of an application for a sexually oriented business license, the
business license authority shall distribute copies of the application and all
relevant attached materials to the local or regional Health Department, the
Fire Department or the County Fire District, the local law enforcement agency,
the building official, the zoning official and the Planning Commission for
their review and approval. Each such agency or department shall limit its
review of the application to those matters under its jurisdiction. (Ord. 02-02,
2-5-2002)
3-11-15: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Findings Prohibiting Issuance: The business license authority shall
approve the issuance of a license to an applicant within thirty (30) days after
the receipt of an application, unless one or more of the following is found:
      1.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age, or any higher age
if the license sought so requires;
      2.   The applicant is overdue in payment to the City of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed upon the applicant
in relation to a sexually oriented business;
      3.   The applicant has failed to answer or has falsely answered a
material question or request for information;
      4.   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of
this chapter within two (2) years immediately preceding the application;
      5.   The business premises does not conform to the standards set forth in
subsection 3-11-12A19 of this chapter;
      6.   The proposed business premises has not received the approval of the
reviewing agencies and departments enumerated in section
3-11-14 of this chapter;
      7.   The license fees required by this chapter or by other ordinances
have not been paid;
      8.   The applicant has been convicted or pled nolo contendere to a crime
involving prostitution; exploitation of prostitution; aggravated promotion of
prostitution; aggravated exploitation of prostitution; solicitation of sex
acts; sex acts for hire; compelling prostitution; aiding prostitution; sale,
distribution or display of material harmful to minors; sexual performance by
minors; possession of child pornography; public lewdness; indecent exposure;
any crime involving sexual abuse or exploitation of a child; sexual assault or
aggravated sexual assault; rape; forcible sodomy; forcible sexual abuse;
incest; harboring a runaway child; criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation
to commit any of the foregoing offenses or offenses involving similar elements
from any jurisdiction regardless of the exact title of the offense; for which:
a) less than two (2) years have elapsed from the date of conviction if the
conviction is for a misdemeanor offense; or b) less than five (5) years have
elapsed from the date of conviction if the conviction is for a felony offense;
      9.   The applicant is otherwise in violation of this chapter.
   B.   Extension Of Review Time: If any agency or department enumerated in
section
3-11-14 of this chapter cannot complete its review of the proposed business
premises within the thirty (30) day period, the agency or department may obtain
from the business license authority an extension of time for their review of no
more than fifteen (15) days. The total time within which the City must approve
or deny a license shall not exceed forty five (45) days from the receipt of the
application.
   C.   Complete Application: Upon receipt of an application, all departments
required to review the application shall determine within seven (7) days
whether or not the application contains all of the information necessary for
processing. Incomplete applications shall immediately be returned to the
applicant with a specification of the items, which are incomplete.
   D.   Commencement Of Time: The time for processing applications specified in
this section shall begin to run from the receipt of a complete application.
   E.   Issue Pending Completion Of Review: In the event that a license for a
sexually oriented business or sexually oriented business employee has not been
disapproved within thirty (30) days (or 45 if an extension has been granted)
the business license authority shall issue the license pending completion of
City's review.
   F.   Revocation: Any license issued pursuant to subsection E of this section
may be revoked by the City pursuant to the revocation procedures set forth in
sections
3-11-30 and
3-11-31 of this chapter if, upon completion of a full review, the business
license authority determines that the license should have been denied. (Ord.
02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-16: BOND REQUIRED:
Each applicant for a sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented
business employee license shall post with the business license authority a cash
or corporate surety bond payable to the City in the amount of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00). In the event that funds are drawn against the cash or
surety bond to pay such fines, the bond shall be replenished to two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00) within fifteen (15) days of the date of notice of any draw
against it. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-17: TERM OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF LICENSE FEE:
Sexually oriented business licenses and sexually oriented business employee
licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid from the date of
issuance through January 1 of the following year and may be renewed each year
by paying the required annual license fees. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-18: CHANGES IN INFORMATION:
Any change in the information required to be submitted under this chapter for a
sexually oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee
license shall be provided, in writing, to the business license authority within
fourteen (14) days of such change. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-19: NONTRANSFERABLE:
Sexually oriented business licenses granted under this chapter shall not be
transferable. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-20: LOCATION AND NAME:
   A.   Location: It is unlawful to conduct business under a license issued
pursuant to this chapter at any location other than the licensed premises. Any
location to which telephone calls are automatically forwarded by said business
shall require a separate license.
   B.   Business Name: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do
business under any name other than the business name specified in the
application. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-21: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
All sexually oriented businesses licensed pursuant to this chapter shall
display the license granted pursuant to this chapter in a prominent location
within the business premises. All individuals licensed pursuant to this chapter
shall carry their sexually oriented business employee license on their persons
at all times while engaged in licensed activities within the corporate
boundaries of the City. If the individual is nude or seminude, such license
shall be visibly displayed in the same room in which the employee is
performing. It is unlawful to fail to show the appropriate licenses while
engaged in licensed activities within the corporate boundaries of the City when
requested to do so by any law enforcement officer or other City official. (Ord.
02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-22: LICENSE IN ADVERTISING:
All sexually oriented businesses advertisements shall state that the sexually
oriented business or sexually oriented business employee is licensed by the
City and shall include the license number. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-23: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
It shall be unlawful for any sexually oriented business or sexually oriented
business employee to:
   A.   Minors:
      1.   Allow persons under the age of eighteen (18) years on the licensed
premises of any sexually oriented business, except that in adult businesses
which exclude minors from less than all of the business premises, minors shall
not be permitted in excluded areas;
      2.   Conduct any outcall business with persons under the age of eighteen
(18) years;
   B.   Alcohol: Allow or agree to allow any alcohol to be stored, used or
consumed on or in the licensed premises;
   C.   Door Locked: Allow the outside door of the premises to be locked while
any customer is in the licensed premises;
   D.   Gambling: Allow or agree to allow gambling to take place in the
licensed premises;
   E.   Touching: Allow or agree to allow any touching of a patron or customer
by a sexually oriented business employee;
   F.   Controlled Substances:
      1.   Allow or agree to allow any illegal possession, use, sale, or
distribution of a controlled substance on the licensed premises;
      2.   Allow or agree to allow any sexually oriented business employee to
possess, use, sell or distribute controlled substances while engaged in
activities of the business;
   G.   Prostitution: Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution,
solicitation of prostitution, solicitation of a minor or activities harmful to
a minor;
   H.   Specified Sexual Activity: Engage in any specified sexual activity
while performing or working as a sexually oriented business employee, in the
business premises, or in the presence of a business customer or patron;
   I.   Nudity: Appear in a state of nudity in the presence of any customer or
patron or allow any licensed employee or any other person to appear in a state
of nudity in the presence of any customer or patron, except that outcall
service employees in compliance with the contract provisions contained in
section
3-11-11 of this chapter may appear nude, subject to the limitations of that
section;
   J.   Masturbation: Allow or agree to allow a patron or customer to
masturbate in the presence of a sexually oriented business employee or on the
premises of a sexually oriented business; or
   K.   Preventing Access By Official: Prevent a peace officer or other City
official from accessing the premises of any sexually oriented business. (Ord.
02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-24: OUTCALL SERVICES; OPERATION REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any sexually oriented business or sexually oriented
business employee providing outcall services in the City to comply with the
following requirements:
   A.   Contract: All businesses licensed to provide outcall services shall
provide to each patron a written contract in receipt of pecuniary compensation
for services. The contract shall clearly state the type of services to be
performed, the length of time services shall be performed, the total amount
such services shall cost the patron, and any special terms or conditions
relating to the services to be performed. The contract need not include the
name of the patron. The licensee shall keep and maintain a copy of each written
contract entered into pursuant to this section for a period of not less than
one year from the date of service. The contracts shall be numbered and entered
into a register listing the contract number, date, names of all employees
involved in the contract and pecuniary compensation paid.
   B.   Office, Telephone: All outcall services shall maintain an open office
and telephone at which the licensee or licensee's designated agent may be
personally contacted during all hours outcall employees are working. The
address and phone number of the licensed location shall appear and be included
in all patron contracts and published advertisements.
   C.   Prohibited Advertising: Outcall services shall not advertise in such a
manner that would lead a reasonably prudent person to conclude that specified
sexual activities may be performed by the outcall employee.
   D.   Physical Facilities Prohibited: Outcall services shall not provide
rooms, booths or other physical facilities for use by customers, nor shall
customers be permitted to enter the premises of an outcall service. (Ord. 02-
02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-25: ADULT BUSINESS AND SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS; INTERIOR DESIGN:
It is unlawful for any business licensed as a seminude entertainment business
or an adult business to:
   A.   Prohibited Items: Permit a bed, sofa, mattress or similar item in any
room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open
to the public or in any office or other room to which patrons are not admitted,
except that in an adult theater such items may be on the stage as part of a
performance;
   B.   Locked Doors: Allow any outside door, restroom door or a door to any
room used for the sexually oriented business, except for a door to an office
which is off limits to patrons, to be locked or lockable from the inside;
   C.   Barrier Required: Provide any room in which the employee or employees
and the patron or patrons are alone together without a separation by a solid
physical barrier at least three feet (3') high and six inches (6") wide. The
patron or patrons shall remain on one side of the barrier and the employee or
employees shall remain on the other side of the barrier. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-26: DANCER ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any professional dancer, model or performer, while
performing in or for any seminude entertainment business or adult theater to:
   A.   Physical Contact: Have any manner of physical contact with any other
person;
   B.   Throwing: Throw any object or clothing from the performance area;
   C.   Accepting From Patron: Accept any money or any other object directly
from a patron;
   D.   Touching: Allow any other person to touch the performer or to place any
money or object on the performer or within the costume or person of the
performer; or
   E.   Nudity: Place anything within the performer's costume or to adjust or
move the performer's costume while performing so as to render the performer in
a state of nudity. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-27: PATRON ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any patron of any sexually oriented business to touch in any
manner any performer; to place any money or object on or within the costume or
person of any performer; or to give or offer to give to any such performer any
drinks, money or object while such performer is performing; except that money
may be placed on the stage to be picked up by the performer by hand only. (Ord.
02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-28: OBSCENE CONDUCT:
It is unlawful for any owner, operator, manager or lessee, or any agent,
partner, associate or employee of such owner, operator, manager or lessee, of
any place of business, which is licensed and regulated by the City, to allow an
entertainer, employee, patron or any other person to appear in or on said place
of business in a state of nudity or in indecent attire or lewd dress, or to
make any obscene exposure of his or her person, except as permitted under this
chapter. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-29: DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION:
It is a defense to prosecution for a violation under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   A.   By a proprietary school licensed by the State of Utah or a public
college, junior college or university; or
   B.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a public college,
junior college or university. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-30: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Conditions: The City may issue a notice suspending or revoking a
sexually oriented business or a sexually oriented business employee license, or
any agent, principal or employee if the licensee has:
      1.   Violated this chapter;
      2.   Refused to allow any inspection of the premises of the sexually
oriented business specifically authorized by this chapter, or by any other
statute or ordinance;
      3.   Failed to replenish the cost bond as provided in section
3-11-16 of this chapter;
      4.   Given materially false or misleading information in obtaining the
license;
      5.   Knowingly operated the sexually oriented business or worked under
the employee license during the period when the business licensee or employee's
license was suspended;
      6.   Committed or solicited an offense in or on the licensed premises, or
allowed or agreed to allow an outcall employee to solicit or commit, on or off
the premises, an offense which would be grounds for denial of a license for
which a conviction has been obtained;
      7.   Been delinquent in payment to the City for ad valorem taxes or Sales
Taxes related to the sexually oriented business.
   B.   When Effective: Suspension or revocation shall take effect within ten
(10) days of the issuance of notice unless an appeal is filed as provided in
this chapter.
   C.   Effect Of Revocation: The revocation of any sexually oriented business
license or sexually oriented business employee license shall continue for one
year from its effective date and the licensee shall not be issued another
sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business employee
license within that time. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-31: APPEAL:
   A.   Authorized: If the license is denied or approved with qualifications,
or if a notice of suspension, revocation or citation of a civil fine is
imposed, the applicant or licensee may file an appeal with the business license
authority.
   B.   Time Limit For Filing; Hearing Scheduled: All appeals must be filed
within ten (10) days of the date of service of the notice of any denial,
qualified approval, suspension, revocation or civil fine. Upon receiving the
notice of such appeal, the business licensing authority shall schedule a
hearing before an Appeals Board appointed by the Mayor for that purpose within
twenty (20) days of the date of the appeal unless such time shall be extended
for good cause.
   C.   Public Hearing: The Appeals Board shall hold a public hearing on the
record and take such facts and evidence as is necessary to determine whether
the denial, qualified approval, suspension, revocation or civil fine was proper
under the law.
   D.   Burden Of Proof: The burden of proof shall be on the City.
   E.   Findings, Conclusions: After the hearing, the Appeals Board shall have
seven (7) working days, unless extended by the mayor for good cause, in which
to render findings of fact, conclusions of law, and recommend a ruling to the
Mayor.
   F.   Objections: Either party may object to the recommendation of the
Appeals Board by filing the party's objection and reasons, in writing, to the
Mayor within seven (7) days following submission of the recommendation. In the
event the Appeals Board recommends upholding a suspension or revocation, the
license shall be immediately suspended and shall remain suspended until any
subsequent appeal is decided. If no objections are received within the seven
(7) days, the Mayor may immediately adopt the recommendation of the Appeals
Board.
   G.   Consideration By Mayor: If objections are received, the Mayor shall
have ten (10) working days to consider such objections before issuing the
Mayor's final decision. The Mayor may, in his or her discretion, take
additional evidence or require written memoranda on issues of fact or law. The
standard by which the Mayor shall review the decision of the Appeals Board is
whether substantial evidence exists in the record to support the Appeals
Board's recommendation. In the event the Mayor determines there is not
substantial evidence to support the Appeals Board recommendation, the Appeals
Board recommendation shall be vacated.
   H.   Judicial Review: An applicant aggrieved by the Mayor's final decision
shall be entitled to judicial review pursuant to rule 65B, Utah Rules of Civil
Procedure, or any other applicable statute or rule providing for such review.
(Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-32: INJUNCTION:
Any entity or individual who operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business without a valid license, or who employs, or is employed as an
employee of a sexually oriented business without a valid license, or who
operates such a business or functions as such an employee in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, is subject to a suit for injunction and any other
remedy available at law or in equity in addition to the civil and criminal
penalties imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-33: NO VESTED RIGHTS:
It is hereby declared that none of the provisions contained in this chapter
shall vest any rights in any person, unincorporated association, corporation,
partnership or other legal entity, and may be amended by the City Council at
any time. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-11-34: PENALTY:
   A.   Strict Liability; Criminal Prosecution: Any violation of this chapter
shall constitute a strict liability offense and shall be subject to criminal
prosecution by the City. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense.
   B.   Civil Penalties: In addition to criminal prosecution, the license
authority may require violators of this chapter to pay a civil penalty in the
amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Such fines shall be deducted from the
bond posted pursuant to section
3-11-16 of this chapter unless paid within ten (10) days of notice of the fine
or the final determination after any appeal. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
   C.   Class B Penalty: Any violation of this chapter not otherwise classified
herein or elsewhere in this Code shall be a Class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002;
amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 12
PAWNBROKERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definitions
3-12-2: Records Maintained
3-12-3: Duty To Retain Goods
3-12-4: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
PAWNBROKER: Anyone who as a regular course of business loans money on the
deposit of personal property, or who deal in the purchase, exchange or
possession of personal property on the condition of reselling the personal
property back to the pledger or depositor, or who loans or advances money on
personal property by taking such property into his or her possession as
security, and who sells the unredeemed pledges, together with such new
merchandise as will facilitate the sell of the same.
SECONDHAND DEALER: Any person who in the regular course of business purchases,
trades, exchanges or sells any secondhand merchandise for value. (Ord. 02-02,
2-5-2002)
3-12-2: RECORDS MAINTAINED:
Pawnbrokers and dealers in secondhand goods shall keep records containing a
description of all articles received by them; the amounts paid therefor or
thereon, a description of the person from whom received, together with his name
and address and the date of the transaction. Such records shall at all
reasonable times be accessible to any peace officer who demands an inspection
thereof, and any further information regarding such transaction that he may
require shall be given by pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers to the best of
their ability. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-12-3: DUTY TO RETAIN GOODS:
   A.   Requirement: All goods received for sell, trade or pawn by a pawnbroker
or secondhand dealer of goods shall be retained by the pawnbroker or dealer in
secondhand goods for a time period not less than thirty (30) days from the date
of receiving such items unless expressly permitted to do so by an authorized
peace officer prior to the expiration of the thirty (30) day period.
   B.   Exception: Requirements shall not apply to pawn items redeemed by the
person identified on the pawn records as the original pledge or depositor of
the item. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002)
3-12-4: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The City Council may revoke any license granted under this chapter if the
licensee violates any provision of this title or for such other cause as is
justified under law. (Ord. 02-02, 2-5-2002; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 13
DAYCARE CENTERS
SECTION:
3-13-1: Licenses Required
3-13-2: Ownership
3-13-3: ADA Compliant
3-13-4: Zoning
3-13-1: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   City License: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a daycare
center within the City without first obtaining a City business license to
engage in such business in accordance with the provisions of chapter 1 of this
title.
   B.   State License: City business license is required prior to obtaining
State license; however, application for State license must be pending State
approval.
   C.   Requirements: Items required with application for City license:
      1.   A completed fire self-inspection.
      2.   Copy of food handlers permit issued by the State.
      3.   Kitchen inspection by the Health Department.
      4.   Copies of State license application and all required documentation
submitted with State application.
      5.   Copies of BCI reports clearing all employees. (2019 Code)
3-13-2: OWNERSHIP:
If the daycare is owned and/or will be titled under a nonprofit group, the
names of all directors or heads of the center must be provided to the City.
(2019 Code)
3-13-3: ADA COMPLIANT:
Building must be ADA compliant if this is a new use of the building or if the
use of the building changes. (2019 Code)
3-13-4: ZONING:
Daycare must be an allowed use in the zone in which the building is located. If
daycare is a conditional use in the zone, a conditional use permit must be
approved by the Planning Commission and attached to application. Conditional
use permits must be reviewed annually by the Planning Commission. (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 14
SHORT-TERM RENTAL BUSINESS LICENSING
SECTION:
3-14-1: Title
3-14-2: Purpose
3-14-3: Definition
3-14-4: Business License Required
3-14-5: Business License Application And Procedure
3-14-6: License Fee
3-14-7: Restrictions
3-14-8: Effect Of License Issuance
3-14-9: License Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation
3-14-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the SHORT-TERM RENTAL
BUSINESS LICENSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021)
3-14-2: PURPOSE:
Residential Short-Term Rentals are to be compatible with and not adversely
impact surrounding residential uses. As an example, the use of a Short-Term
Rental as an event center is not compatible with surrounding residential uses.
(Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021)
3-14-3: DEFINITION:
The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
 
                   The use of property located in the following zoning
                   districts: Agriculture, Rural Residential, Residential 2,
                   General Commercial, Highway Commercial, and Office
                   Residential; by a person or entity; for occupancy, rent or
                   lease; for the purpose of receiving compensation, money,
SHORT-TERM RENTAL: rent, or other bargained consideration; for less than thirty
                   (30) consecutive days. Any rental that is leased out
                   consecutively to the same tenant thirty (30) days or more
                   will not constitute a residential Short-Term Rental. Short-
                   Term Rentals do not include other lodging facilities, such
                   as bed and breakfast facilities. (Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021)
 
3-14-4: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to keep, conduct, operate, or maintain a Short-
Term Rental within the City without a Residential Short-Term Rental Business
License. A person who owns multiple Short-Term Rentals is not required to
obtain more than one business license for the operation and maintenance of
those rentals, but is required to update the license to reflect any changes in
operation of business. (Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021)
3-14-5: BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   License Application. An application for a Residential Short-Term Rental
Business License shall conform to all applicable requirements of Sections
3-1-1 et seq. In order to qualify for a residential Short-Term Rental license,
an application must meet all requirements outlined in Section
3-1-2 which shall include but not be limited to the following:
      1.   The name under which the business is to be conducted and the name of
the applicant;
      2.   The address of each building containing a residential Short-Term
Rental;
      3.   The nature of the business;
      4.   Proof of liability insurance for the residential Short-Term Rental;
      5.   Proof of adequate parking as required by each zone;
      6.   Lodging sales tax identification number and the signature of the
owner of the Short-Term Rental certifying that the owner of the Short-Term
Rental shall collect and remit on a timely basis transient lodging taxes;
      7.   The number of bedrooms in each residential Short-Term Rental;
      8.   A submitted diagram identifying the number of available parking
stalls;
      9.   A designation of a local property representative, with their name,
address and telephone number, who shall be available for the purpose of:
         a.   Responding within twenty-four (24) hours to complaints regarding
the condition, operation, or conduct of occupants of the Short-Term Rental;
         b.   Taking remedial action to resolve such complaints; and
      10.   A certification from the owner applicant that:
         a.   The property owner or a local property representative will be
available twenty-four (24) hours per day, seven days per week, for the purpose
of responding within twenty-four (24) hours to complaints regarding the
condition, operation or conduct of occupants of the Short-Term Rental and that
remedial action will be taken to resolve such complaints;
         b.   The property contains an adequate amount of off-street parking;
         c.   The use and occupancy of the residential Short-Term Rental
conforms to applicable local, state, and federal laws including all applicable
building codes and safety standards;
         d.   The applicant understands that a renter may not use a Short-Term
Rental for a purpose not incidental to a normal residential use. At no time may
the tenants of a Short-Term Rental violate state and municipal law concerning
nuisances, noise, and/or disturbing the peace;
         e.   The applicant understands that the applicant is assuming
responsibility for all guests' activities; and that violations may result in
fines to owner and/or guests; and/or license denial, suspension, or revocation;
         f.   The applicant will use best efforts to ensure that the occupants
and/or guests of the residential Short-Term Rental do not create unreasonable
noise or disturbances, engage in disorderly conduct, or violate any provision
of City ordinance or state law, including but not limited to noise, disorderly
conduct, the illegal consumption of alcohol, or the use of illegal drugs;
         g.   There is no HOA and/or CC&Rs that restrict the owner from using
the residence as a Short-Term Rental;
         h.   Each bedroom and corridor leading to a bedroom contain a smoke
detector; and
         i.   Each floor contains a working carbon monoxide detector.
   B.   License Procedure. Notice by the applicant shall be given to all owners
of record of property zoned residential or used for a residential purpose
within a 300-foot radius from the boundary of the proposed residential Short-
Term Rental. Said notice shall be sent by mail or hand-delivered to the
property owners in accordance with the most current records in the office of
the Millard County Recorder. Proof of mailing and/or a certificate documenting
hand delivery to property owners as required herein shall be delivered to the
City. Such notice shall include the local property representative's contact
information.
   C.   Inspection. Prior to licensure, the City shall conduct an onsite
inspection to verify information in application.
   D.   Safety. The City acknowledges that the State of Utah restricts the City
from requiring the alteration of existing residences to meet current building
code and safety standards; however, the City strongly recommends that each room
contain adequate ingress and egress, and that each floor contains a minimum 2A:
10BC fire extinguisher. The City requires that:
      1.   Each bedroom and corridor leading to a bedroom contains a smoke
detector; and
      2.   That each floor contains a working carbon monoxide detector. (Ord.
21-20, 1-4-2021)
3-14-6: LICENSE FEE:
Fees for a Short-Term Rental Business License shall be imposed as described in
Section
3-1-5. (Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021)
3-14-7: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Restrictions on Use.
      1.   A renter may not use a Short-Term Rental for a purpose not
incidental to a normal residential use. At no time may the tenants of a Short-
Term Rental violate state and municipal law concerning nuisances, noise, and/or
disturbing the peace.
      2.   Maximum occupancy of a residential Short-Term Rental shall be no
more than two (2) guests per bedroom plus four (4) guests per home.
   B.   Signage. No outdoor advertising signs related to the rental dwelling
shall be allowed on the site. (Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021)
3-14-8: EFFECT OF LICENSE ISSUANCE:
Issuance of a Residential Short-Term Rental Business License shall not have the
effect of changing the legal status of a rental dwelling, including, but not
limited to:
   A.   Legalizing an illegally created dwelling unit, use, or other
circumstances, or
   B.   Recognizing a nonconforming use, structure, or other nonconformity.
(Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021)
3-14-9: LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION:
The City may deny, suspend, or revoke a Residential Short-Term Rental Business
License for any of the following reasons:
   A.   The licensee does not meet the qualifications for a license as provided
under this Chapter.
   B.   For nonpayment of all required fees for the Residential Short-Term
Rental Business License, including late fees and inspections, when applicable.
   C.   The licensee gave false or incomplete information on the licensee's
application.
   D.   The licensee has allowed or intends to allow the licensed premises to
be occupied or operated in a manner contrary to the conditions set forth in the
license, application, and this Chapter.
   E.   Failure to provide the contact information, failure to keep the contact
information current, and failure to respond within twenty-four (24) hours to
complaints.
   F.   Owner will use best efforts to ensure that the occupants and/or guests
of the residential Short-Term Rental do not create unreasonable noise or
disturbances, engage in disorderly conduct, or violate any provisions of the
City's ordinances or State law, including but not limited to noise, disorderly
conduct, the illegal consumption of alcohol, or the use of illegal drugs. (Ord.
21-20, 1-4-2021)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, ENVIRONMENT AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE, GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Definitions
4-1-2: Interlocal Agreement Adopted
4-1-3: Authority For Collection
4-1-4: Fees
4-1-5: Billing
4-1-6: Construction Of Collection Vehicles
4-1-7: Removal Required
4-1-8: Disposal By Occupant
4-1-9: Prohibited Acts And Activities
4-1-10: Private Dumps, Landfills
4-1-11: Penalty
4-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms have the following meanings throughout this chapter:
ASHES: Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings.
COMMERCIAL GARBAGE: Shall refer to "garbage", as defined in this section,
produced in commercial establishments, public or quasi-public institutions or
establishments, including restaurants, hotels, motels, schools and similar
establishments.
CONTAINERS: All garbage or rubbish, either commercial or residential, shall be
placed in metal or otherwise sufficient containers which have a cover equipped
with handles so that they may be lifted and carried by one person.
GARBAGE: Every refuse accumulation of animals, fruit or vegetable matter,
liquid or otherwise, that attends the preparation, use, cooking, dealing in, or
storing of meat, fish, fruit or vegetable.
RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE: Shall refer to "garbage", as defined in this section,
produced in places of private residence and dining halls not open to the
public.
RUBBISH: Waste material and refuse of every character collected or accumulated
within the City, except garbage, and shall include by way of enumeration, but
not by way of limitation, grass, leaves, sticks, tree branches, stone,
concrete, old boards, broken glass, used furniture or household appliances, tin
cans and newspapers. (1995 Code § 19-1-103)
4-1-2: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT ADOPTED:
The Interlocal Agreement for the disposal of solid waste entered into between
the City and the County is hereby incorporated as part of this chapter. A copy
of the Interlocal Agreement shall be on file in the City office. (1995 Code §
19-1-101)
4-1-3: AUTHORITY FOR COLLECTION:
The City shall have charge over the collection of garbage and rubbish in the
City. The City will not collect ashes. The City shall have authority to collect
garbage using its own employees, or it may contract with private individuals to
perform the service for the City. A collection shall be made from all premises
at least once each week; provided, that the material is properly stored for
collection in a container complying with the provisions of this chapter. (1995
Code § 19-2-106)
4-1-4: FEES:
The City is hereby authorized to charge garbage collection fees. The City
Council shall establish fees for residential and commercial garbage collection.
Nothing in this section shall limit the City Council from creating fees of
differing scales which are based on quantities of garbage or rubbish collected.
All fees shall be set and amended from time to time through policy or
resolution. (1995 Code § 19-2-107)
4-1-5: BILLING:
   A.   Authorized: Bills for the collection of garbage or rubbish shall be
sent out at such times as may be directed by the City Council. Unless otherwise
stated by the City Council, bills for the collection of garbage or rubbish
shall be sent at the same time as City utility bills.
   B.   Failure To Pay: When an occupant of any premises fails to pay the fee
for removal of garbage or rubbish, the City shall notify the occupants of this
fact and shall refuse further collection until the required fee is paid.
   C.   Removal By City; Lien: If any occupant continues to fail to pay his or
her bill for garbage collection or if garbage or rubbish are collecting on the
occupant's premises in such a manner so as to constitute a health hazard, the
City may remove all garbage or rubbish from the occupant's premises and place a
lien on the premises to guarantee payment. (1995 Code § 19-2-109)
4-1-6: CONSTRUCTION OF COLLECTION VEHICLES:
   A.   Spillage Upon Public Ways: All vehicles used in the removal, collection
or transportation of garbage or rubbish, as defined in section
4-1-1 of this chapter, shall be constructed in such a manner that will prevent
any portion of the garbage or rubbish from leaking, spilling, falling or
blowing out of the vehicle, or onto any public highway, street or other public
or private place. Such vehicle being drawn or driven over the public ways or
streets shall not be loaded above a point that will result in any portion of
the contents being spilled therefrom.
   B.   Maintenance: All such vehicles shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times, and shall at all times be subject to inspection by a
duly authorized officer of the City. If in his or her judgment a vehicle is
found to be defective or unfit for use, the City is hereby empowered to prevent
the use of the vehicle until it is put in proper condition to comply with the
terms of this section. (1995 Code § 19-2-108)
4-1-7: REMOVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Occupant Duty To Remove: It shall be the duty of every occupant of a
premises within the City to remove or have removed the contents of all trash
receptacles on a regular basis and in such a manner that the trash receptacles
will not constitute a health hazard for the residents of the City.
   B.   Container Removal: It shall be unlawful to leave any containers for
solid waste disposed on the City streets for more than a reasonable time after
the waste has been collected. (1995 Code § 19-2-110; amd. 2019 Code)
4-1-8: DISPOSAL BY OCCUPANT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or otherwise prohibit an
occupant of a premises from disposing of his or her own garbage or rubbish as
long as he or she disposes of it in an authorized landfill or other disposal
location of the City. (1995 Code § 19-2-114)
4-1-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Depositing On Streets: It shall be unlawful to deposit or permit to
fall from any vehicle any garbage, rubbish or ashes on any public street or
alley in the City; provided, that this subsection shall not be construed to
prohibit placing garbage or rubbish in a container complying with the
provisions of this chapter preparatory to having such material collected and
disposed in the manner provided herein. (1995 Code § 19-2-101)
   B.   Uncovered Garbage: It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain
anywhere in the City any garbage or other materials subject to decay, other
than leaves or grass, excepting in a tightly covered container, as defined in
section
4-1-1 of this chapter. (1995 Code § 19-2-102)
   C.   Wind Blown Rubbish: It shall be unlawful to cause or permit to
accumulate any rubbish or such material that can be blown away by the wind
anywhere in the City except in a covered container. (1995 Code § 19-2-103)
   D.   Dumping Without Consent: It shall be unlawful to dump or place any
garbage, rubbish or ashes on any premises in the City without the consent of
the owner of such premises. (1995 Code § 19-2-104)
   E.   Unlawful Dumping: It shall be unlawful to dispose of any garbage,
rubbish or ashes anywhere in the City excepting in a disposal device approved
of by the City. (1995 Code § 19-2-105)
   F.   Dead Animals: It shall be unlawful to place any dead animal, or part
thereof, in a container for collection. (1995 Code § 19-2-111)
   G.   Scavenging: It shall be unlawful for any person to scavenge any solid
waste within the boundaries of the City. (1995 Code § 19-2-112)
   H.   Hazardous Waste: No person shall place any hazardous waste in any
container for collection, transportation or disposal within the City. (1995
Code § 19-2-113)
4-1-10: PRIVATE DUMPS, LANDFILLS:
   A.   Prohibition: The City Council hereby declares that it finds that the
disposal of solid waste material is a legitimate function of the City's
governmental functions. It further finds that for the health and safety of its
residents, solid waste disposal be reserved as a public function. Therefore, it
shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate or establish
any private landfill or other garbage or rubbish dump.
   B.   Exception: Nothing in this section shall limit any private person, firm
or corporation from operating or establishing a private garbage or rubbish
collection service:
      1.   So long as all garbage or other rubbish collected within the City
limits is disposed of in landfills or other dumps belonging to the City or the
County pursuant to the Interlocal Agreement entered into between the City and
the County; and
      2.   The rubbish collection services comply with all applicable City
ordinances. (1995 Code § 19-1-102)
4-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter
4 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1995 Code § 19-2-115; amd. 2019
Code)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Nuisance Defined
4-2-2: Public Nuisance Defined
4-2-3: Lewd Houses
4-2-4: Abatement Of Nuisance
4-2-5: Public Nuisance Abatement
4-2-6: Injunction For Public Nuisance
4-2-7: Penalty
4-2-1: NUISANCE DEFINED:
   A.   Nuisances as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 78B-6-1101:
Anything which is injurious to health, indecent, offensive to the senses, or an
obstruction of the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
   B.   Nuisance as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 76-10-801: Any item,
thing, manner or condition whatsoever that is dangerous to human life or health
or renders soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome.
   C.   A nuisance is any item, thing, manner or condition whatsoever that is
maintained, stored or caused to remain on any property within the City that is
deleterious to surroundings; any noxious weed, garbage, refuse or unsightly or
deleterious objects or structures that may constitute either a hazard to
health, a present danger to the citizens of the City, a potential source of
contagious disease, a source of contamination or pollution of water, air or
property, a danger to health or safety, a harborage for rats or other rodents
or carriers of disease, or a fire hazard. This includes, but is not limited to,
an excess of trash, household furniture, appliances, scrap materials and
inoperable vehicles of any kind. (Ord. 09-04, 11-17-2009)
4-2-2: PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED:
A public nuisance is a crime against the order and economy of the City, and
consists of unlawfully doing any act or omitting to perform any duty which act
or omission:
   A.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
three (3) or more persons;
   B.   Offends public decency;
   C.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any lake, stream, canal or basin, or any public park
square, street or highway;
   D.   Meets the definition of nuisance as set forth in Utah Code Annotated
section 76-10-803; or
   E.   In any way renders three (3) or more persons insecure in life or the
use and enjoyment of their property. (Ord. 09-04, 11-17-2009)
4-2-3: LEWD HOUSES:
Whomever shall erect, establish, maintain, use, own or lease a building,
structure or place, for the purpose of lewdness, assignation or prostitution,
is guilty of nuisance, and such building, structure or place, and the ground
itself, in which or upon which such lewdness, assignation or prostitution is
conducted, permitted or carried on, and the furniture, fixtures and the
contents thereof, are declared a nuisance, and shall be enjoined and abated.
(1995 Code § 10-7-408)
4-2-4: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Scope: The Planning and Zoning Administrator will review all complaints
for violation of this chapter. If, after investigation, the Planning and Zoning
Administrator determines that a nuisance exists, he or she will bring the
matter to the attention of the Mayor or City Council, as directed by the Mayor,
within thirty (30) days.
   B.   Notice Of Violation: As directed by the Mayor, a notice of violation
will be mailed to the responsible person by first class U.S. postage and
certified mail. The notice of violation shall include:
      1.   The specific code in violation;
      2.   The penalty imposed if the violation is not corrected or abated,
which penalty may be imposed for each day the violation is caused to remain;
      3.   A time frame in which the violation must be corrected, not to exceed
thirty (30) days;
      4.   The signature of the Mayor, City Attorney or Planning and Zoning
Administrator, as directed by the Mayor.
   C.   Photographs: The Planning and Zoning Administrator or City staff shall
also cause photographs to be taken of the violation, documenting the violation
and the date thereof.
   D.   Failure To Correct: If the violation is not corrected in the time frame
as outlined in the notice of violation, the Mayor shall be informed regarding
the citizen's failure to comply. The Mayor may then instruct the Planning and
Zoning Administrator to bring the enforcement of the matter to the attention of
law enforcement. (Ord. 09-04, 11-17-2009)
4-2-5: PUBLIC NUISANCE ABATEMENT:
The City Attorney, upon direction of the City Council, or the City Attorney
without direction, is empowered to institute an action in the name of the City
to abate a public nuisance. (1995 Code § 10-7-406)
4-2-6: INJUNCTION FOR PUBLIC NUISANCE:
If the existence of a public nuisance, as defined in section
4-2-2 of this chapter, is admitted or established, either in a civil or
criminal proceeding, the City shall seek a judgment, which shall:
   A.   Permanently join each defendant and any other person from further
maintaining the nuisance of the place complained of and each defendant from
maintaining such nuisance elsewhere;
   B.   Direct the person enjoined to surrender to the authorized peace officer
of the City any material in his possession, which is subject to the injunction,
and the peace officer shall destroy this material. (1995 Code § 10-7-407)
4-2-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Nuisance: Any person, whether as owner, agent or occupant, who creates,
aids in creating, or contributes to a nuisance or who supports, continues or
retains a nuisance, is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. Such person will be referred to in
this chapter as the "responsible person". (Ord. 09-04, 11-17-2009; amd. 2019
Code)
   B.   Public Nuisance: Every person who maintains or commits any public
nuisance, or who wilfully omits to perform any legal duty relating to the
removal of a public nuisance, is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (1995 Code § 10-7-405;
amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Permits
4-3-2: Open Burning Periods
4-3-3: Regulations And Requirements
4-3-1: PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: Permits for open burning shall be issued by the Fire
Chief. Open burning shall be limited to vegetation that is incident to yard
clean up activities.
   B.   Written Permit; Signatures Required: Open burning shall be by written
permit, signed by the Fire Chief or his representative, and countersigned by
the person or property owner conducting the burn. (Ord. 99-01, 2-2-1999)
4-3-2: OPEN BURNING PERIODS:
Open burning periods shall be March 30 through May 30, and September 15 through
October 30. Upon the determination of the Fire Chief that hazardous conditions
exist, open burning may be banned upon order of the Fire Chief. (Ord. 99-01, 2-
2-1999)
4-3-3: REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
Open burning requirements shall be as follows:
   A.   Permission To Burn: Permission to burn can be given to property owners
for open burning of clippings, bushes, plants, prunings, tree limbs and the
like, incident to property clean up. No other material shall be permitted to be
burned.
   B.   Burn Piles: The size of burn piles shall be no greater than six feet
(6') in diameter and no more than four feet (4') high. Tree limbs and tree
stumps shall be cut into sections no larger than two feet (2') in diameter and
six feet (6') in length.
   C.   Location: Open burning shall be not less than fifty feet (50') from any
structure, or if contained in an approved waste burner, not less than fifteen
feet (15') from combustibles.
   D.   Attendance: The fire shall be constantly attended by a competent person
until extinguished with a hose connected to a water supply or other fire
extinguishing equipment capable of containing a fire.
   E.   Discontinuance: A cease burn order shall be issued by the Fire Chief at
any time smoke emissions become offensive to occupants of surrounding property.
Open burning, which the Fire Chief determines constitutes a hazardous
condition, shall be discontinued immediately upon order of the Fire Chief.
   F.   Atmosphere: Open burning shall be allowed only when atmospheric
conditions are favorable. Open burning is prohibited during windy conditions.
   G.   Hours Of Burn: Open burning shall be allowed during daylight hours
only. Burns should begin during the early morning hours. All fires shall be
completely extinguished before dusk.
   H.   Notification: Permittee shall notify the County Sheriff's Office prior
to commencing the burn. (Ord. 99-01, 2-2-1999)
CHAPTER 4
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
SECTION:
4-4-1: Short Title And Purpose
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Protection Zones Established
4-4-4: Permitted Uses
4-4-5: Prohibited Uses
4-4-6: Administration
4-4-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter shall be known as the DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION
ORDINANCE.
   B.   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the provision of a safe and
sanitary drinking water supply for the City by the establishment of drinking
water source protection zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells which are
the supply sources for the City water system and by the designation and
regulation of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such
zones. (Ord. 97-154, 3-18-1997)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
DESIGN STANDARD: A control which is implemented by a potential contamination
source to prevent discharges to the groundwater. Spill protection is an example
of a design standard.
LAND MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES: Zoning and nonzoning controls which include, but
are not limited to, the following: Zoning and Subdivision Ordinances, site plan
reviews, design and operating standards, source prohibitions, purchase of
property and development rights, public education programs, groundwater
monitoring, household hazardous waste collection programs, water conservation
programs, memoranda of understanding, written contracts and agreements, and so
forth.
PESTICIDE PARAMETER GROUP: Means the following substances: 2,4,5-TP; 2,4-D;
Alachlor; Aldicarb sulfone; Aldicarb sulfoxide; Aldicarb; Atrazine; Benzo
(a)pyrene; Carbofuran; Chlordane; Dalapon; Di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate; Di(2-
ethylhexyl)adipate; Dinoseb; Endrin; Heptachlor; Heptachlor epoxide;
Hexachlorobenzene; Hexachlorocyclopentadiene; Lindane; Methoxychlor; Oxamyl
(Vydate); Pentachlorophenol; Picloram; Polychlorinated biphenyls; Simazine;
Toxaphene.
POLLUTION SOURCE: Point source discharges of contaminants to groundwater or
potential discharges of the liquid forms of "extremely hazardous substances"
which are stored in containers in excess of "applicable, threshold planning
quantities" as specified in SARA Title III. Examples of possible pollution
sources include, but are not limited to, the following: storage facilities that
store the liquid forms of extremely hazardous substances, septic tanks,
drainfields, Class V underground injection wells, landfills, open dumps, land
filling of sludge and septage, manure piles, salt piles, pit privies, and
animal feeding operations with more than ten (10) animal units. The following
clarify the definition of pollution source:
   A.   Animal Feeding Operation: A lot or facility where the following
conditions are met: Animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12) month
period, and crops, vegetation forage growth or post-harvest residues are not
sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
Two (2) or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are considered
to be a single feeding operation if they adjoin each other, if they use a
common area, or if they use a common system for the disposal of wastes.
   B.   Animal Unit: A unit of measurement for any animal feeding operation
calculated by adding the following numbers: the number of slaughter and feeder
cattle multiplied by 1.0, plus the number of mature dairy cattle multiplied by
1.4, plus the number of swine weighing over fifty five (55) pounds multiplied
by 0.4, plus the number of sheep multiplied by 0.1, plus the number of horses
multiplied by 2.0.
   C.   Extremely Hazardous Substances: Those substances which are identified
in the Sec. 302(EHS) column of the "Title III List of Lists - Consolidated List
of Chemicals Subject to Reporting Under SARA Title III" (EPA 560/4-91-011).
POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE: Any facility or site which employs an activity
or procedure which may potentially contaminate groundwater. A pollution source
is also a potential contamination source.
REGULATORY AGENCY: Any governmental agency with jurisdiction over hazardous
waste, as defined herein.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
SEPTIC TANK-DRAIN FIELD SYSTEMS: A system which is comprised of a septic tank
and a drain field, which accepts domestic wastewater from buildings or
facilities for subsurface treatment and disposal. By their design, septic tank-
drain field system discharges cannot be controlled with design standards.
VOLATILE ORGANIC CHEMICAL (VOC) PARAMETER GROUP: Means the following
substances: 1,1-Dichloroethylene; 1,1,1-Trichloroethane; 1,1,2-Trichloroethane;
1,2-Dichloropropane; 1,2-Dichloroethane; 1,2 P-Trichlorobenzene; Benzene;
Carbon tetrachloride; cis-1,2-Dichloroethylene; Dichloromethane; Ethylbenzene;
Monochlorobenzene; o-Dichlorobenzene; para-Dichlorobenzene; Styrene;
Tetrachloroethylene; Toluene; trans-1, 2-Dichloroethylene; Trichloroethylene;
Vinyl chloride; Xylenes (total).
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments. (Ord. 97-154, 3-18-1997)
4-4-3: PROTECTION ZONES ESTABLISHED:
There are hereby established use districts to be known as Zones one, two, three
and four of the drinking water source protection area, identified and described
as follows:
   A.   Zone one is the area within a one hundred foot (100') radius from the
wellhead.
   B.   Zone two is the area within a two hundred fifty (250) day groundwater
time of travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies
water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is
closer.
   C.   Zone three (waiver criteria zone) is the area within a three (3) year
groundwater time of travel to the wellhead or margin of the collection area,
the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water to the groundwater source,
or the groundwater divide, whichever is closer.
   D.   Zone four is the area within a fifteen (15) year groundwater time of
travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water to
the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is closer. (Ord.
97-154, 3-18-1997)
4-4-4: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted within drinking water source protection
zones:
   A.   Any use permitted within existing Agricultural, Single- Family
Residential, Multi-Family Residential and Commercial Districts, so long as uses
conform to the rules and regulations of the regulatory agencies.
   B.   Any other open land use where any building located on the property is
incidental and accessory to the primary open land use. (Ord. 97-154, 3-18-1997)
4-4-5: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within
drinking water source protection zones, whether or not such use or condition
may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under section
4-4-4 of this chapter:
   A.   Zone One: The location of any pollution source, as defined in section
4-4-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Zone Two: The location of a pollution source, unless its contaminated
discharges can be controlled with design standards.
   C.   Zone Three: The application of any substance from the pesticide
parameter group or the application of any substance from the volatile organic
chemical (VOC) parameter group, unless it can be controlled through land
management strategies. The location of a potential contamination source, unless
it can be controlled through land management strategies.
   D.   Zone Four: The location of a potential contamination source, unless it
can be controlled through land management strategies. (Ord. 97-154, 3-18-1997)
4-4-6: ADMINISTRATION:
The policies and procedures for administration of any source protection zone
established under this chapter, including, without limitation, those applicable
to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same
as provided in the existing Zoning Ordinance for the City, as the same is
presently enacted or may from time to time be amended. (Ord. 97-154, 3-18-1997)
CHAPTER 5
SMOKING IN POSTED AREAS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Purpose
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: Signage Required
4-5-4: Smoking Prohibited
4-5-5: Penalty
4-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
public by prohibiting smoking in certain areas of City owned and operated parks
and recreational facilities. (Ord. 16-02, 3-15-2016)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter and unless defined in other sections, the terms
and phrases set out below shall have the following meanings:
PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES: Parks, playgrounds, athletic fields, water
related recreational areas and skate parks.
SMOKING: Means and includes possessing, carrying or holding a lighted pipe,
cigar, cigarette of any kind, e-cigarette, or any other lighted smoke or vapor
producing smoking equipment, or the lighting or emitting or exhaling or smoking
of a pipe, cigar or cigarette of any kind, e-cigarette or any other lighted
smoking equipment or the use of any type of equipment producing e-cigarette
vapors. (Ord. 16-02, 3-15-2016)
4-5-3: SIGNAGE REQUIRED:
"No smoking" signs or the international "no smoking" symbol (consisting of a
pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a
red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted in the area in a
City owned and operated park and recreational facility where smoking is
prohibited. (Ord. 16-02, 3-15-2016)
4-5-4: SMOKING PROHIBITED:
Smoking is prohibited at any area of City owned or operated park and
recreational facility, where signs are posted showing smoking is prohibited.
(Ord. 16-02, 3-15-2016)
4-5-5: PENALTY:
Violators will be asked to cease smoking in the prohibited area. If a violator
refuses to cease smoking or begins smoking again in the prohibited area, they
may be expelled entirely from the City owned park and/or recreational facility
in which the violation occurred. City employees and police officers have the
authority to enforce this chapter. In addition, police officers shall also have
the authority to seize, confiscate and impound any substance, or other article
used or possessed in violation of this chapter in the case of a violator who
refuses to cease smoking or begins smoking again in a prohibited area. (Ord.
16-02, 3-15-2016)
CHAPTER 6
ABATEMENT OF WEEDS, GARBAGE, REFUSE, AND UNSIGHTLY OBJECTS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Purpose
4-6-2: Unlawful Items
4-6-3: Inspector
4-6-4: Inspection Of Premises; Action By Inspector
4-6-5: Number Of Notices Per Season; Proof Of Service
4-6-6: Failure To Comply
4-6-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Article to establish a means whereby this City may
remove or abate, or cause the removal or abatement of, injurious and noxious
weeds, and of garbage, refuse, public nuisances and/or unsightly or deleterious
objects or structures pursuant to the powers granted to it by Utah Code
Annotated title 10, chapter 11, as amended, and pursuant to its general power
to abate nuisances. If any provision of this article fails to meet a
requirement of Utah Code Ann. §§10-11-1 thru 10-11-4, then the requirement set
forth in Utah Code shall be followed. (Ord. 21-14, 9-7-2021)
4-6-2: UNLAWFUL ITEMS:
It shall be unlawful to maintain, store or allow to remain on any property
within Fillmore City, injurious or noxious weeds, garbage, refuse, public
nuisances and/or unsightly or deleterious objects and structures when they
create a fire hazard, a health hazard or danger, a safety hazard, a source of
contamination or pollution of water, air or property, a breeding place or
habitation for insects or rodents or other forms of life deleterious to human
habitation or are unsightly or deleterious to their surroundings. More than
three (3) wrecked, junked, partially dismantled, inoperative or abandoned
vehicles on private property within the City, unless removed from public view
behind an opaque screen or fence, are unlawful items within this Section. This
Section however, does not include commercial uses for which impound yards and
repair shops are lawfully established. (Ord. 21-14, 9-7-2021)
4-6-3: INSPECTOR:
The office of municipal inspector ("inspector") is hereby created for the
purpose of administering the provisions of this Article and the powers
delegated to this City by said statutes, subject to such control and review as
the City Council may from time to time direct. The Mayor shall appoint an
employee or other person to act as municipal inspector with the approval of the
City Council. The Mayor with the approval of the City Council may appoint such
assistant inspectors whose power and duties shall be the same as those of the
inspector, unless otherwise so specified by the resolution appointing them.
(Ord. 21-14, 9-7-2021)
4-6-4: INSPECTION OF PREMISES; ACTION BY INSPECTOR:
The inspector is hereby authorized and directed to inspect and examine real
property situated within the City for the purpose of determining whether or not
it contains injurious or noxious weeds, garbage, refuse, public nuisances and/
or unsightly or deleterious objects or structures, and for the purpose of
determining whether or not the existence of said weeds or objects creates a
fire hazard or constitutes a source of contamination or other danger to health
and safety, or otherwise creates public nuisances, as above declared. The
inspector in conjunction with or in addition to the duties in this Article
shall meet the requirements of Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-11-2 and 3. If the
inspector concludes that such conditions exist in whole or part, the inspector
shall:
   A.   Ascertain Information:
      1.   Ascertain the names of the owners and/or occupants. The property
owner is the primary partly responsible for the maintenance of such land. The
non-owner occupant of property is secondarily responsible in the event the
property owner cannot be located after a reasonable search, or is unavailable
due to death, disappearance or similar circumstances. As such, the non-owner
occupant of properly will receive notice pursuant to subsection B. of this
section in the event the property owner cannot be located or is otherwise
unavailable.
      2.   Document and describe the premises where such objects and conditions
exist.
   B.   Service Of Notice: Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant
of such land, either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid,
addressed to the owner and/or occupant at their respective last known mailing
addresses, as disclosed by the records of the County Recorder, or as otherwise
ascertained, requiring such owner or occupant, or both as the case may be, to
eradicate or destroy and remove the same within such time as the inspector may
designate, which shall not be less than two weeks from the date of service of
such notice. The notice shall be served under penalty of perjury. (Ord. 21-14,
9-7-2021)
4-6-5: NUMBER OF NOTICES PER SEASON; PROOF OF SERVICE:
One notice, served in person or by mail, shall be deemed sufficient on any lot
or parcel of property for the entire season of weed growth during that year.
(Ord. 21- 14, 9-7-2021)
4-6-6: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A.   Authority To Abate: If any owner or occupant of land described in such
notice or decision shall fail or neglect to conform to the requirements thereof
relating to the eradication or destruction or removal of such weeds, garbage,
refuse, public nuisances and/or unsightly or deleterious objects or structures,
the inspector shall employ all necessary assistance to cause such materials to
be removed or destroyed at the expense of the City.
   B.   Itemized Statement: The inspector shall prepare an itemized statement
of all expenses incurred in the removal and destruction of said materials,
including administrative expenses, and shall mail a copy thereof to the owner
or occupant, or both, demanding payment within thirty (30) days of the date of
mailing. Said notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by certified mail
addressed to the property owner's last known address according to the records
of the Millard County Recorder.
      1.   Said statement shall include the address of the City Treasurer as
the place to make payment.
      2.   The statement shall also notify the property owner that failure to
pay the expenses may result in a lien on the property in accordance with Utah
Code Ann. § 10-11-4.
      3.   The statement shall also notify the property owner that the property
owner may file a written objection to all or part of the statement within 20
days after the day of the statement post-mark.
   C.   Failure To Make Payment: In the event the owner or occupant fails to
make payment of the amount set forth in said statement to the City Treasurer
within said thirty (30) days and fails to file a written objection within the
time limit set forth above, the City either may cause suit to be brought in an
appropriate court of law or may refer the matter to the County Treasurer as
provided in subsection (5) of this Section and Utah Code Ann. §10-11-4.
   D.   The City may file notice of a lien with the Millard County Recorder
indicating the City intends to certify the unpaid costs and expenses with the
Millard County Treasurer in accordance with Utah Code Ann. §§10-11-3 & 4.
   E.   Collection:
      1.   Lawsuit: In the event collection of expenses of destruction and
removal are pursued through the courts, the City shall sue for and receive
judgment for all of said expenses of destruction and removal, including
administrative costs, together with reasonable attorney fees, interest and
court costs and shall execute upon said judgment in the manner provided by law.
      2.   Taxes: In the event that the City elects to refer the expenses of
destruction or removal to the County Treasurer for inclusion in the tax notice
of the property owner in accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Ann. §
section 10-11-4, as amended, the recalcitrant owner shall be subject to such
powers as are thereby granted.
   F.   If the property owner files a timely objection to the statement, the
City shall:
      1.   Hold a public hearing in accordance with Title 52, Chapter 4 of Utah
Code Ann. (The Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.)
      2.   The City Council shall conduct the hearing and at said hearing shall
determine the actual cost of abatement, if any.
      3.   The city shall mail or deliver notice of the hearing date and time
to the property owner.
      4.   The property owner shall pay any actual cost due after the decision
of the City council to the City Treasurer within 30 days after the hearing is
held.
      5.   If the property owner fails to pay within 30 days after the hearing,
the City may pursue collection as set forth in (5) "collection" above. (Ord.
21-14, 9-7-2021)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT AND FIRE SAFETY
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Created
5-1-2: Fire Chief
5-1-3: Membership
5-1-4: Command At Fires
5-1-5: Duties Of Department And Members
5-1-6: Records Maintained
5-1-7: Fire Related Crimes
5-1-8: Services Outside City
5-1-9: Enforcement; Penalty
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created and established a voluntary Fire Department, consisting
of a Chief, and such other members as may from time to time be provided for by
the bylaws of the Fire Department. Except as provided in this chapter, the Fire
Chief and members shall be appointed in the manner provided by the bylaws of
the Fire Department. The department shall be part of the County Fire District,
but shall remain accountable to the City Council. The City Council shall have
authority to override the department's bylaws and remove the Fire Chief by two-
thirds (2/3) majority of the City Council. (1995 Code § 3-1-101)
5-1-2: FIRE CHIEF:
The Fire Chief shall have the control of the Fire Department and all fire
equipment belonging to the City. Whenever any fire equipment needs repairing,
the Fire Chief shall cause the repair to be done without delay. (1995 Code § 3-
1-102)
5-1-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The Fire Department shall have power to fix its number of members. (1995 Code §
3-1-104)
5-1-4: COMMAND AT FIRES:
In case of fire, the Fire Chief and his or her assistants shall rank in the
order named and the officer of the highest rank at the fire shall take command
of the Fire Department, and direct the management thereof for the suppression
of the fire, in the best manner possible; and when it may be necessary for the
protection of other property and to prevent the spread of the fire, the officer
in command may cause buildings to be removed, torn down or destroyed in the
best manner possible. (1995 Code § 3-1-103)
5-1-5: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT AND MEMBERS:
The Fire Department and all its members shall hold the duty of extinguishing
all accidental or destructive fires and to prevent the occurrence or spread of
such fires. The Fire Department shall also use its emergency equipment in any
other manner approved of by the City Council. (1995 Code § 3-1-106)
5-1-6: RECORDS MAINTAINED:
The Fire Chief shall keep or cause to be kept a record of all meetings of the
department and the attendance of the members, a record of all fires, and file
with the City Recorder a full report of such records and attendance and fires.
(1995 Code § 3-1-105)
5-1-7: FIRE RELATED CRIMES:
   A.   False Alarms: It shall be unlawful to give or cause to be given false
alarms for fires or other emergencies involving the Fire Department. This
includes, but is not limited to, using the fire siren, ringing bells,
discharging fire warning systems, and any other means of intentionally creating
a false alarm to summon the Fire Department or warn the public. (1995 Code § 3-
1-201)
   B.   Interfering With Fire Equipment: It shall be unlawful to wilfully
injure or deface any fire equipment of the City. This shall include the wilful
driving of a vehicle over any fire hose of the City. (1995 Code § 3-1-202)
   C.   Obstruction Of Fire Safety: It shall be unlawful to wilfully interfere
with or obstruct the Fire Department's performance of its duties, either during
a fire or during a fire drill. (1995 Code § 3-1-203)
   D.   Intentionally Or Negligently Cause Fires: It shall be unlawful to
wilfully ignite or cause to be ignited any trees, shrubs, cultivated crops,
fences, buildings or other property on any land not his own, or to throw away
any burning object on any land which will carry fire. (1995 Code § 3-1-204)
   E.   Following Fire Vehicle: It shall be unlawful to intentionally follow or
otherwise pursue any fire truck or other emergency vehicle that is being used
to put out fires or any other type of emergency. (1995 Code § 3-1-205)
5-1-8: SERVICES OUTSIDE CITY:
Members of the Fire Department may go outside the corporate limits of the City
for the purpose of rendering aid to other Fire Departments or of extinguishing
fires or rendering aid in the case of accidents; provided, that the Fire
Department shall not render such service outside the corporate limits except
upon the order of either the Fire Chief or the Mayor. (1995 Code § 3-1-107)
5-1-9: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
It shall be the duty of all officers of the Fire Department to see that the
provisions of this chapter are enforced and to arrest any person who shall be
found violating any provision of this chapter, or who shall hinder, resist or
refuse to obey any such officer in the discharge of his duty. Violations of
this chapter shall be a Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (1995 Code § 3-1-108; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Department Created
5-2-2: Administration
5-2-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created the Department of Emergency Preparedness. This
department shall serve the purpose of aiding the residents of the City in
emergency preparedness by providing education and any other programs deemed
appropriate by the City Council. (1995 Code § 3-3-101)
5-2-2: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, shall
appoint a Department Administrator.
   B.   The Department Administrator may be appointed to serve, either in a
voluntary capacity, or may be compensated at a rate determined by the City
Council. The Department Administrator shall carry out the acts requested by the
City Council with relation to emergency preparedness. (Ord. 98-01, 1-20-1998)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Animal Control Officer
5-3-3: Dog Licensing
5-3-4: Kennels
5-3-5: Animal Care And Control
5-3-6: Communicable Diseases
5-3-7: Vicious Dogs
5-3-8: Hybrid Animals
5-3-9: Financial Responsibility For Damages
5-3-10: Impoundment
5-3-11: Public Nuisances
5-3-12: Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ANIMAL AT    Any animal, whether licensed or unlicensed, off the premises of the owner
LARGE:       and not under the control of the owner, a member of the owner's immediate
             family or his agent either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
ANIMAL       The officer appointed by the City Council to enforce the provisions in this
CONTROL      chapter.
OFFICER:
             Any bite, attempted bite or similar fierce behavior by an animal which
ATTACK:      places a person or another animal in danger of immediate physical harm.
             Actual physical contact is not required to constitute an attack.
BITE:        An actual puncture, tear or abrasion of the skin, inflicted by the teeth of
             an animal.
             Any animal which:
             A. Has demonstrated aggression or hostility toward a human without
             provocation or has a known propensity to show aggression or hostility toward
             humans; or
             B. Has attacked, inflicted injury, assaulted, or bitten without provocation
DANGEROUS    any domestic animal or fowl, protected wildlife, or animal owned or kept
ANIMAL:      with a legal permit on public or private property on two (2) or more
             occasions or on the first bite causes serious bodily injury or death.
             Serious bodily injury is defined as an injury that involves a substantial
             risk of death, unconsciousness, extreme physical suffering, obvious
             disfigurement, or prolonged loss or impairment of the function of a limb or
             organ.
DOG:         Any male or female dog of any age.
             Animals accustomed to living in or about the habitation of man, including,
DOMESTIC     but not limited to, cats, dogs, ferrets and livestock. Domestic animals,
ANIMALS:     however, shall not include reptiles or animals which require a permit from
             the Utah Department of Wildlife Resources in order to own or keep.
ENCLOSURE:   Any structure that prevents an animal from escaping its primary confines.
FIERCE:      Violent, hostile or aggressive temperament.
             An animal, however tame or docile, that is the offspring of a breeding
HYBRID:      between a domestic animal and a wild animal, a domestic animal and a hybrid,
             or two (2) hybrid animals.
IMPOUNDMENT  Having been received into custody of the City pound or into the custody of
OR           any authorized or representatives of the City.
IMPOUNDED:
NONFARM      All animals except horses, cattle, sheep, swine, goats, rabbits and fowl.
ANIMALS:
             An animal that:
             A. Frequently runs at large;
             B. Damages, soils or defecates on private property other than property
             possessed or controlled by the animal owner or on public walks and
NUISANCE:    recreation areas, unless such waste is immediately removed and properly
             disposed of by the animal owner or handler;
             C. Causes unsanitary or dangerous conditions;
             D. Causes a disturbance by excessive barking or other noisemaking; or
             E. Chases vehicles or interferes with persons or other domestic animals on
             public property.
             When applied to the proprietorship of a dog, shall mean any person or
OWNER:       persons, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or harboring a
             dog.
             Any deliberate act by a person toward a dog or any other animal done with
             the intent to tease, torment, abuse, assault or otherwise cause a reaction
PROVOKE:     by the dog or other animal; provided, however, that any act by a person done
             with the intent to discourage or prevent a dog from attacking or molesting
             shall not be considered provocation.
             Any animal under the physical control of its owner or the owner's agent
             having charge, care, custody or control of the animal, by the means of a
RESTRAINT:   leash, tether or other physical control device or enclosure. Animals upon
             real property of their owner, or upon the real property of another (with
             prior permission of the property owner) and under direct adult supervision,
             shall be considered under restraint.
UNLICENSED   A dog for which the license for the current year has not been paid, or to
DOG:         which the tag which is required under this chapter is not attached.
             Any animal which:
             A. Has attacked, inflicted injury, assaulted, or bitten a human without
             provocation or has a know propensity to attack, inflict injury, assault, or
VICIOUS      bite a human; or
ANIMAL:      B. Is trained or used to fight or to attack humans.
             Whether an animal has been properly licensed under the provisions of this
             chapter shall have no relevance to the determination of whether an animal is
             a “dangerous animal” or a "vicious animal", as defined herein.
             Any animal of a species that in its natural life is usually untamed and
WILD ANIMAL: undomesticated, including hybrids, and animals which, as a result of their
             natural or wild condition, cannot be vaccinated for rabies.
WITHOUT      An animal was not teased, tormented or abused; or the animal was not
PROVOCATION: protecting its owner or owner's property from criminal activity by a
             perpetrator of a crime.
             To harass or intimidate by barking or baring of teeth, growling, shaking or
             tearing with the teeth; or approaching any person or domestic animal in an
WORRY:       aggressive behavior which would cause a reasonable person to feel they were
             in danger of immediate physical attack. (Ord. 19-01, 1-3-2019; amd. Ord. 19-
             05, 6-18-2019; Ord. 21-10, 6-15-2021)
 
5-3-2: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   Authority And Duty: The position of animal control officer is hereby
created. The animal control officer of the City and other persons designated by
the City Council shall have authority and responsibility to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. This authority includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Carry out and enforce the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Take into possession and impound all dogs running at large and
dispose of the same as hereinafter provided;
      3.   Enforce the licensing and control of all dogs within the City as
hereinafter provided;
      4.   Provide for a good and sufficient pound in which all animals duly
committed to the animal control officer's charge or otherwise impounded by him/
her shall be maintained;
      5.   Issue citations for violations of this chapter and to swear out
complaints for such violations when necessary;
      6.   Enter privately owned land to investigate reports of violations of
this chapter;
      7.   Enter privately owned land to take possession of any animal that
enters such land during hot pursuit;
      8.   Impound and destroy animals in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter;
      9.   Destroy animals, upon request of the animal's owner, in a humane
manner.
   B.   Fees For Services: The animal control officer shall charge, and the
owners of animals taken into his/her possession for impound, disposal or other
services shall pay such fees and charges for services performed by the pound or
animal control officer as the City Council shall establish from time to time by
resolution.
   C.   Interference With Officer Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to interfere, hinder or obstruct, in any manner, the animal control
officer or any of his/her authorized representatives from discharging his or
her duties as herein prescribed. (Ord. 19-01, 1-3-2019)
5-3-3: DOG LICENSING:
   A.   License Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or otherwise harbor a dog
within the City limits which has attained the age of six (6) months, unless
until such dog has been properly licensed according to the provisions set forth
in this chapter. Persons who acquire dogs who are over six (6) months of age
shall have ten (10) calendar days from the date of acquisition to acquire the
appropriate license. Persons who move to the City shall have ten (10) calendar
days from the date of arrival to license any dog that is over the age of six
(6) months.
      2.   Applications for registration and licensing shall be made to the
City staff or such other person as the City Council may authorize.
      3.   At the time an application is made for such license, the owner shall
provide the City his/her name and address, and the breed and color of each dog
owned or kept by him/her.
      4.   A dog that has been deemed vicious shall not be licensed in the
City. A dog licensed in the City that is determined to be a vicious dog shall
have its license revoked.
   B.   Fee; Renewal; Penalties:
      1.   The City Council shall have the power to set and change through
policy or resolution fee schedules for dog licensing, including delinquency or
penalty fees. No license shall be issued by the City until the appropriate
license fee is paid. The licenses shall be purchased at the City office.
      2.   All dog licenses shall expire on June 30 of each calendar year
without regard to when the license was purchased, unless renewed prior to that
date.
      3.   If a dog license is not renewed by June 30 of each year, the owner
of the dog shall have until August 31 of the current calendar year in which to
pay the renewal fee plus penalties. Otherwise, the dog shall be considered
unlicensed and the dog and owner shall be in violation of this chapter and
subject to the penalties set forth herein.
      4.   Dogs that are properly certified as guide dogs shall be licensed and
registered as other dogs hereinabove provided; except that the person who owns
or keeps such dog shall not be required to pay any fee therefor.
   C.   Tag And Collar: Upon payment of the license fee, the City shall issue
to the owner a payment receipt and a metallic tag for each dog so licensed. The
tag shall be changed every year and shall have stamped thereon the year for
which it was issued and the number corresponding with the number on the
receipt. Every dog owner shall affix each dog with a collar or harness to which
the current year's license is attached. In the event a dog tag is lost or
destroyed, a duplicate will be issued by the City upon presentation of a
receipt showing the payment of the license fee for the current year and the
payment set by resolution or policy for such duplicate tag.
   D.   Nontransferable: Dog license tags are nontransferable from one dog to
another, and no refunds shall be made on any dog license fee because of death
of the dog or the owner leaving the City before expiration of the license
period. (Ord. 19-01, 1-3-2019)
5-3-4: KENNELS:
   A.   Kennel Defined: As used in this chapter, "kennel" shall mean a premises
where more than four (4) dogs are housed or boarded.
   B.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to operate or maintain a kennel
without first obtaining a permit from the City.
   C.   Requirements: In order to obtain a kennel permit, the applicant for the
permit must demonstrate that the proposed kennel meets the following
requirements:
      1.   Enclosures must be provided which shall allow adequate protection
against the weather.
      2.   Floors of buildings, runs and walls shall be of an appropriate
material as required by the specific breed of dog and also to permit proper
cleaning and disinfecting.
      3.   Adequate ventilation shall be maintained and an appropriate
temperature provided as required by the specific breed of dog housed therein.
      4.   Each animal shall have sufficient space to stand up, lie down and
turn around without touching the sides or tops of cages.
      5.   Runs shall provide an adequate exercise area and protection from the
weather.
      6.   All animal quarters and runs are to be kept clean, dry and in
sanitary condition.
      7.   The food shall be free of contamination, palatable and of sufficient
nutritive value as to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and
size of the animal.
      8.   Fresh water is to be available at all times. Water vessels shall be
mounted or secured in a manner that prevents tipping and shall be of the
removable type.
      9.   The proposed kennel must be one hundred fifty feet (150') from any
neighboring house and fifty feet (50') from any road.
   D.   Fee: The annual fee for a kennel permit shall be set forth in the City
Fee Policy.
   E.   Revocation: The City may revoke any kennel permit if the permit holder
is convicted of disturbing the peace or creating a public nuisance under this
chapter.
   F.   Kennel Inspections: The animal control officer or other authorized
person may enter any kennel to ensure compliance with this section. (Ord. 19-
01, 1-3-2019)
5-3-5: ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL:
   A.   Conditions Of Ownership: It shall be unlawful to harbor or otherwise
keep any animal in the City unless the owner or other keeper of any animal
complies with the provisions of this chapter.
      1.   Animals shall be humanely treated at all times.
      2.   Animal premises shall be kept sanitary and shall not constitute a
fly breeding reservoir or source of offensive odors.
      3.   Animals and/or animal premises shall not be permitted to disturb the
peace or constitute a public nuisance or hazard.
   B.   Applicability To Nonresidents: Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to affect persons not residing in the City, except that animals
belonging to nonresidents may not run loose within the City. (Ord. 19-01, 1-3-
2019)
   C.   Rabies Vaccination For Dogs:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to suffer, allow or
permit such dog to be or go upon any sidewalk, street, alley, public place or
public square within the City without first having had such dog vaccinated
every three (3) years against rabies, as provided in subsection C2 of this
section.
      2.   Every owner of any dog over the age of six (6) months within the
City shall have the dog vaccinated against rabies by a duly licensed
veterinarian; shall secure from the veterinarian a certificate thereof; and
shall attach to the collar or harness, which such person is hereby required to
place upon the dog, a tag showing that such dog has been so vaccinated. (Ord.
19-05, 6-18-2019)
   D.   Restraint Of Animal By Owner: Persons owning or otherwise keeping any
dog or other nonfarm animal shall at all times keep such animal on a leash or
within an enclosed area on the animal owner's property or the property of
another with permission of the owner thereof. Any animal set forth in this
subsection that is allowed to run at large shall be dealt with in accordance to
the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Dogs Prohibited In Certain Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any
person owning or otherwise keeping a dog to permit such dog to enter any public
facility. Dogs trained for the specific purpose of assisting the disadvantaged
or disabled are an exception to this subsection. Police and other service dogs
are also an exception to this subsection.
   F.   Disturbing The Peace Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to own or otherwise keep an animal in such a
manner that the peace and quiet of the public is unreasonably disturbed. In
addition to the provisions of section
5-3-12 of this chapter, a written complaint signed by three (3) persons who
have separate residences which expresses that an animal disturbs the peace and
quiet of such persons shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
subsection F; provided, however, that nothing contained in this subsection F
shall be construed to apply to reasonable noises emanating from legally
operated dog and cat hospitals, humane societies, pound facilities and farm or
agricultural operations.
      2.   The destruction of property by an animal other than property that
which belongs to the owner of the animal shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this subsection F.
   G.   Female Dogs In Season: Persons who own or otherwise keep a female dog
shall securely confine such dog within an enclosure in a manner that will
prevent the attraction of male dogs to the immediate vicinity while such dog is
in season; provided, however, that nothing in this subsection shall apply to
owners or keepers of dogs who intend to have a female dog bred while she is in
season.
   H.   Abandoning Animals: It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of an
animal to abandon such animal.
   I.   Removal And Disposition Of Dead Animals: It shall be unlawful for the
owner of any animal or fowl that dies or is killed within the City to fail to
remove or bury the carcass of such animal within ten (10) hours after its
death. No horse, cow, ox or other large animal shall be buried within the City
limits, but shall be disposed of properly at the designated City facility.
   J.   Rendering Assistance To Animals: Any person who, as the operator of a
motor vehicle, strikes a domestic animal, shall stop and render such assistance
as may be reasonably possible, and shall immediately report such injury or
death to the animal's owner; in the event the owner cannot be located, such
operator shall at once report the accident to the appropriate law enforcement
agency or the City office, or to the animal control officer.
   K.   Emergency Proclamation: The Mayor, upon reasonable apprehension of
danger from mad or rabid dogs, may issue a proclamation forbidding dogs of
every description from running at large, and after such proclamation has been
issued for twenty four (24) hours, any dog found running at large in the City,
not secured and muffled, may be immediately destroyed or caused to be destroyed
by the animal control officer.
   L.   Liability For At Large Animals: It is unlawful for the owner or person
having charge, care, custody or control of any animal to allow such animal to
be at large at any time within the corporate limits of the City. The owner or
custodian of any such animal which is at large shall be strictly liable for a
violation of this subsection, regardless of the precautions taken to prevent
the escape of the animal and regardless of the lack of knowledge of the offense
at the time it occurs, and will be charged an impound and care fee. (Ord. 19-
01, 1-3-2019)
   M.   Dogs Chasing Persons Or Animals: Dog owners and/or a person in charge
of a dog are in violation of this subsection if the dog they own or are in
charge of chases or worries any person, domestic animal, any species of hoofed
protected wildlife or any domestic fowl. (Ord. 19-05, 6-18-2019)
   N.   Keeping Wild Animals And Reptiles: It shall be unlawful to own or
otherwise keep animals or reptiles for which a permit is required by the Utah
Department of Wildlife Resources, unless the owner or keeper of such animal or
reptile first obtains a permit from the Utah Department of Wildlife Resources.
It shall be unlawful to own or otherwise keep a vicious wild animal within the
City limits.
   O.   Animal Waste: The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the
removal of any excreta deposited by his or her animals on public walks,
streets, recreation areas or private property belonging to another. (Ord. 19-
01, 1-3-2019)
5-3-6: COMMUNICABLE DISEASES:
   A.   Harboring Diseased Animals Prohibited; Disposal: No person shall
knowingly harbor or keep any animal afflicted with mange, ringworm, distemper
or any other contagious disease, unless such animal is, in the judgment of the
animal control officer or licensed veterinarian, being given adequate treatment
for such diseases. The animal control officer or licensed veterinarian may take
immediate possession of any such animal not being so treated and immediately
dispose of the animal, unless the owner forthwith places such animal under the
control and treatment of a licensed veterinarian.
   B.   Animal Bites; Reporting Required: All persons over the age of eighteen
(18) years who have knowledge, directly or indirectly, of a person being bitten
by a dog, cat, skunk, fox, bat, coyote, bobcat or other animal known to
constitute a serious threat of rabies shall notify the City office or the
animal control officer or County Sheriff as soon as is reasonably possible
after learning of the bite. The City office or animal control officer shall
likewise be notified of any person or animal bitten by a rabid or suspected
rabid animal.
   C.   Rabid Animals:
      1.   Any person who observes or who has knowledge of an animal which
shows symptoms of rabies, or which acts in a manner which would lead to a
reasonable suspicion that it may have rabies, shall notify the City office or
the animal control officer.
      2.   Any dog or other animal of a species subject to rabies which is
known to have bitten or injured any person so as to cause an abrasion of the
skin shall be placed in confinement under observation of a veterinary hospital
or the City pound and shall not be killed or released until at least ten (10)
days after the biting or injury has occurred in order to determine whether or
not the animal has rabies.
      3.   Any biting or rabid animal may be destroyed humanely after the ten
(10) day isolation period as set forth in subsection C2 of this section after
verification from a veterinarian that the animal is rabid.
      4.   Any animal that presents an immediate threat to persons or property
may be destroyed in a humane manner notwithstanding the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 19-01, 1-3-2019)
5-3-7: VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Defined: A dangerous dog is a dog which meets the definition of
dangerous animal as defined in section
5-3-1 of this chapter. A vicious dog is a dog which meets the definition of a
vicious animal, as defined in section
5-3-1 of this chapter.
   B.   Findings And Policy: The City Council finds that dogs occasionally
escape from the yard or building in which they are kept, by slipping under a
fence, jumping over a fence, slipping out through a door or gate temporarily
unlatched or open, breaking a leash or chain, or pulling up the anchor or the
chain or leash. It is the policy of the City that others should not have to
assume the risk of a dangerous or vicious dog having an opportunity to attack,
inflict injury, assault, bite or kill. The City Council finds there is a
difference between a dangerous dog and a vicious dog. The City Council further
finds that the benefits to a dog owner in owning a dangerous dog or vicious dog
do not outweigh the risks to the general public. As such, owners of a dog
classified as dangerous must comply with strict ownership requirements, or such
dog is prohibited from remaining in the City, and owners of a dog classified as
vicious must destroy the vicious dog in a humane manner or permanently remove
the vicious dog from the City limits.
   C.   Keeping a Dangerous Dog Requirements:
      1.   If the animal control officer finds a dog's behavior to constitute
that of a dangerous animal, such dog shall be so classified, and the owner of
the dog shall receive written notification of the classification.
      2.   Within two (2) weeks of notification of the dog's classification as
a dangerous animal, the owner will be required to sign an acknowledgment of the
classification and of the requirements of owning a dangerous animal.
      3.   Owning or caring for a dangerous animal.
         a.   A dangerous animal must be securely confined indoors or in a
securely enclosed and locked structure, suitable to prevent the animal from
coming into contact with a human being, other than the owner, or any other
animal, and designed to prevent the animal from escaping.
         b.   The owner shall prominently display a sign on the owner's
property at all entry points warning that there is a dangerous animal on the
property.
         c.   A dangerous animal may be off the owner's property or out of its
enclosure if it is restrained by a substantial chain or leash not exceeding six
feet (6') in length and under the control of a competent adult over the age of
eighteen (18) years.
         d.   An owner will be required to provide proof of liability insurance
with a minimum coverage of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). Such
insurance must be maintained and proof provided to the city upon request.
         e.   The owner of a dangerous animal shall immediately notify the
office of animal services when a dangerous animal is loose or unconfined; has
bitten a human being or attacked another animal; was sold, given away, or died;
or has been moved to another address. Prior to a dangerous animal being
transferred to a new owner or address, the owner shall notify the animal
control officer of the new or updated contact information. Each new owner is to
be given notice of the animal's classification as dangerous and, if said owner
resides within the city, shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
         f.   The animal control officer shall have the authority to make
whatever inspections are deemed necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions recited herein.
         g.   If this section is followed without issue for twelve (12) months,
an owner may petition for the removal of the classification of dangerous
animal. Following removal of the classification of dangerous animal, if the
animal is classified as dangerous again, the animal may be removed from city
limits indefinitely.
         h.   If unable to comply with the requirements of this section, the
owner of a dangerous animal shall have the option to destroy the dangerous
animal in a humane manner or permanently remove the dangerous animal from the
City limits.
      4.   A citation may be issued to the owner of any dangerous dog found in
violation of this section.
   D.   Keeping Vicious Dog Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to own or otherwise keep a vicious dog. Dogs
held in violation of this section shall be deemed a public nuisance, and their
continued possession or ownership shall be unlawful. The animal control officer
shall impound any such dog that the animal control officer determines, after
investigation, to be a vicious dog.
      2.   The animal control officer shall notify the owner of any dog
impounded as a vicious dog. Three (3) days after notification of the owner (or
10 days after notification of the owner if a dog has bitten and needs to be
quarantined), the dog shall be destroyed in a humane manner, unless the
determination that the dog is vicious is appealed to court or unless the dog is
permanently removed from the City limits. Upon court determination that a dog
is vicious, the dog shall be destroyed in a humane manner or permanently
removed from the City limits. The dog owner shall pay all impound fees,
including care and feeding, for the period during which the dog is impounded.
To be permanently removed from City limits rather than be destroyed, the dog
owner shall submit a written statement verifying the dog will be removed from
City limits. Any dog that has been permanently removed from the City limits as
a vicious dog and is then picked up by the animal control officer shall be
destroyed in a humane manner.
      3.   Any unlicensed dog that has been kept within the City limits and has
been classified as vicious shall not be licensed.
   E.   Exemptions:
      1.   Nothing in this section shall prevent the reasonable keeping of a
guard dog or dogs for security. Guard dogs shall be kept in such a manner that
they cannot come into contact with other persons or animals that are legally
upon the premises where a guard dog is maintained. The property shall be posted
with a sign clearly visible stating that a guard dog is on the premises. Guard
dogs kept in violation of this subsection C shall be subject to the
determination that they are vicious dogs.
      2.   A dog that bites a person who is attempting a criminal act shall not
be a vicious dog.
      3.   A dog that bites or attacks on either private or public property
because the dog is provoked in some manner or is protecting its owner from harm
shall not be a vicious dog.
      4.   Trained police dogs shall not be considered vicious dogs. (Ord. 19-
01, 1-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-10, 6-15-2021)
5-3-8: HYBRID ANIMALS:
   A.   Policy Declaration: Domestic dogs crossbred with wild animals are
considered by the State to be wild animals. The State has taken the stance that
there is no known effective rabies vaccine for wild animals, and although a
hybrid dog may have received a canine rabies vaccine, it is still considered to
be nonvaccinated. It is also a fact that the inbred vicious nature of wild
animals may be inherited by hybrid dogs.
   B.   Legislative Intent: This section is intended to utilize the authority
and powers of the City in order to secure the citizens of this City the
protection of their health, safety and welfare. The unique history, nature and
characteristics of the wild animal hybrid dog have been determined to make it a
vicious wild animal.
   C.   Hybrid Animals Prohibited: All hybrids are hereby declared vicious
animals, unless approval for them to be held and owned by a person is obtained
under subsection 5-3-5N of this chapter. No vicious animal shall be licensed or
kept within the City limits. (Ord. 19-01, 1-3-2019)
5-3-9: FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGES:
   A.   Policy Declaration: The City finds that the health, welfare and safety
of its citizens are paramount. If a dog escapes and causes damage to persons or
property within the City, the dog owner and/or person in charge of the dog at
the time the damage is caused shall be responsible for the damage caused by the
dog 1 .
   B.   Dog Owner To Take Financial Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a
dog owner to fail to take financial responsibility for damages caused by their
dog. In addition, from the time of such failure, the dog owner shall have all
dog licenses which he has obtained revoked and may not own a dog within the
City for a period of five (5) years. Failure to take financial responsibility
means not making payments as required by a written agreement or failure to pay
court determined civil damages or court imposed restitution within one year of
the entry of judgment imposing the damages or ordering restitution. (Ord. 19-
01, 1-3-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 18-1-1.
5-3-10: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Duty To Impound: The animal control officer, law enforcement official,
or other designated official may apprehend any animal found running at large
and to impound such animal in the City pound or other suitable place. The
animal control officer or other designated official, upon receiving any dog,
shall make a complete registry, entering the breed, color and sex of such dog
and whether licensed. If licensed, he/she shall enter the name and address of
the owner and number of the license.
   B.   Interference With Impounding Prohibited: In addition to subsection 5-3-
2C of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay,
interfere with or obstruct the animal control officer or any of his/her
assistants while engaging in capturing, securing or taking to the dog pound any
dog or dogs required to be impounded, or to break open or in any manner
directly or indirectly aid or abet the breaking open any dog pound or vehicle
used for collecting or conveying dogs to the dog pound.
   C.   Record Of Impounded Animals: The City shall designate an official who
shall keep a record of any impounded animal, the date of receipt of such
animal, the date and manner of its disposal and if redeemed, reclaimed or
purchased, the name and address of such person, the amounts of all fees
received or collected for or because of the impounding, reclaiming or
purchasing thereof, together with the number of any tag and the date of any tag
exhibited or issued upon the redemption or sale of such animal.
   D.   Redemption Of Impounded Animals: Any animal impounded as a licensed or
unlicensed dog may be redeemed and taken from such pound by the owner, the
owner's agent or any other authorized person, upon exhibiting to the person
having charge of said pound, a receipt as provided in section
5-3-3 of this chapter, showing that the license imposed by this chapter has
been paid for such dog and upon paying the person in charge of the pound an
impounding fee as set by the City Fee Policy for each and every day such dog
shall have been impounded or such other amounts as may be set by resolution or
policy of the City Council. All impounded animals not redeemed within five (5)
days may be euthanized.
   E.   Relinquishing Lost Or Stray Dogs:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to harbor or otherwise keep any lost or stray
dog licensed to another and kept without owner's knowledge for more than one
business day without notifying the City animal control officer. A dog shall be
deemed stray if it is not wearing a City license.
      2.   Upon notification or receipt of a lost dog bearing a current year's
license tag, the animal control officer or other authorized person, shall
within two (2) business days contact, by telephone or first class mail, the
owner of record, at the address indicated on the license form.
      3.   After notification as set forth in subsection E2 of this section,
the owner of an impounded dog shall have five (5) business days to collect the
animal and pay all applicable fees for housing and caring for the animal. After
the five (5) day period has expired, if no one has claimed it, the dog may be
returned to the person who found it if that person desires, or adopted by
another person without charge after licensing. Otherwise the animal shall be
destroyed in a humane manner.
   F.   Impound Fees: The owner of any impounded animal must pay, before the
animal is released, all applicable impound fees. All impound fees shall be set
by the City Council through the City Fee Policy. (Ord. 19-01, 1-3-2019)
5-3-11: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   Declaration Of Public Nuisance: Any animal that violates the provisions
of this chapter, or meets the definition of nuisance, as defined in section
5-3-1 of this chapter, shall be declared a public nuisance. Any owner whose
animal is declared a public nuisance may be cited and the animal may be
impounded. If the owner does not correct the violation within five (5) business
days of impoundment, the animal may be humanely destroyed. (Ord. 19-01, 1-3-
2019)
   B.   Warning Notice: Before issuing a citation, the animal control officer
or other authorized person shall issue a warning notice, describing the alleged
offense, the location, the ordinance or code section involved, and a statement
of what must be done to correct the violation. The notice shall state the date
by which such correction must be completed. Such date shall give five (5)
calendar days from the date of the notice; provided, that a shorter time shall
be specified if there is substantial immediate danger to persons or property. A
longer time than five (5) days shall be stated if there would be practical
physical difficulties in completing the correction within five (5) days and
there is no emergency. (Ord. 19-01, 1-3-2019; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Validity: Failure of the City to issue a warning as described in
subsection B of this section, shall not affect the validity of any prosecution
for an offense committed under this chapter.
   D.   Citation: If the condition has not been corrected within the time
specified in the warning notice, the animal control officer or other authorized
person shall issue a citation for the violation and impound the animal. The
citation shall state a date and time for a court appearance, and shall state
that the person accused may avoid the court hearing by correcting the violation
before the time of the hearing and by paying all impound fees in lieu of a fine
set by the court. (Ord. 19-01, 1-3-2019)
5-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class
C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this
Code. (Ord. 19-01, 1-3-2019; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 4
CRIMES AND OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-4-1: Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-4-2: Discharging Guns, Air Guns Or Other Weapons
5-4-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah Criminal Code, Utah Code Annotated title
76, as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction, Class C misdemeanor
or Class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the City. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation
shall be subject to the penalties provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code.
(2019 Code)
5-4-2: DISCHARGING GUNS, AIR GUNS OR OTHER WEAPONS:
   A.   Prohibition: Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful
for any person to discharge any gun, air gun, propellant type gun (including,
but not limited to, dart guns, etc.) or other dangerous weapons within the
incorporated limits of the City, or upon any City owned property.
   B.   Exceptions: Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, BB guns and
paintball guns may be used on private property within the City as follows:
      1.   By an adult property owner on his/her private property;
      2.   By a minor when accompanied by an adult property owner on his/her
private property;
      3.   By an adult tenant on the premises he/she is renting and with
written consent of the private property owner;
      4.   By a minor when accompanied by an adult tenant on the premises the
adult tenant is renting and with the written consent of the private property
owner.
   C.   City Owned Property:
      1.   Notwithstanding subsection A of this section and subject to the age
limits set forth in subsection B of this section, a person may discharge a
paintball gun on City owned property, provided such City owned property is
identified by the City Council and permission is first given by the City
Council.
      2.   In conjunction with subsection C1 of this section, the City shall
provide, upon request, information as to the locations where a paintball gun
may be properly discharged on City owned property. (Ord. 02-08, 7-16-2002)
   D.   Penalty: A violation of this section is a Class B misdemeanor, subject
to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 02-08, 7-16-
2002; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 5
COST RECOVERY FOR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Recovery Of Expenses
5-5-3: Cost Recovery Procedures
5-5-4: Action To Recover Costs
5-5-5: Expenses Of Other Responding Entities
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the following meaning:
EXPENSES: All costs incurred for the response, containment and/or removal and
disposal of hazardous materials on initial remedial action. It includes, but is
not necessarily limited to, the actual labor costs of government and other
personnel, including workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead and any costs of equipment, equipment operation,
materials, disposal and any contract labor or materials.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY: A sudden and unexpected release of any substance
that, because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics, presents a direct and immediate threat to public
safety or the environment and requires immediate action to mitigate the threat.
(Ord. 05-10, 8-2-2005)
5-5-2: RECOVERY OF EXPENSES:
   A.   Authorized: Those persons or entities whose negligent or intentional
actions cause or create, in whole or in part, a hazardous materials emergency
within the boundaries of the City is liable to the City for all costs and
expenses incurred in or arising from response to such hazardous materials
emergency by the City and any agency or cooperative entity. The City may
recover all such costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees,
litigation expenses and court costs incurred in, related to, or arising out of,
all cost recovery efforts and enforcement of the terms of this chapter.
   B.   Rate: All costs and expenses shall be billed the current rate
recommended by resolution of the Executive Committee of the Interlocal
Agreement for Cooperative Hazardous Materials Protection and Services, or at
the rate determined by the City Council or the City Fire Department, with the
consent of the City Council, on a case by case basis.
   C.   Payment No Admission Of Liability: The payment of expenses under this
section does not constitute an admission of liability or negligence in any
legal action for damages. (Ord. 05-10, 8-2-2005)
5-5-3: COST RECOVERY PROCEDURES:
   A.   Investigation Of Responsible Person: The City shall investigate and
determine the person or entity responsible for causing or creating the
hazardous materials emergency and shall notify the responsible party in writing
of said determination of responsibility and the amount of costs and expenses
incurred by the City in responding to the hazardous materials emergency.
   B.   Notice; Appeal: The notice shall specify that the party determined to
be responsible for causing or creating the hazardous materials emergency has
the right to appeal the decision determining responsibility to the City Council
and shall specify a deadline for filing the notice of appeal and the person or
office in which it must be filed. The deadline for filing the notice of appeal
shall not be less than fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice.
   C.   Hearing On Appeal: In the event a notice of appeal is filed, the
hearing before the City Council shall be an informal public hearing, and the
parties shall not be required to adhere to the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure or
Utah Rules of Evidence. The appealing party and the City shall each be entitled
to present evidence and argument in support of their respective positions, in
accordance with procedures established at the hearing by the City Council.
   D.   Decision Final: The decision of the City Council shall be final. (Ord.
05-10, 8-2-2005)
5-5-4: ACTION TO RECOVER COSTS:
In the event the responsible party fails or refuses to pay all of the costs and
expenses determined by the City related to or arising out of the City's
response to the hazardous materials emergency within thirty (30) days after
assessment, or after the City Council's decision on an appeal, the City may
initiate a legal action to recover such costs, including reasonable attorney
fees and costs. (Ord. 05-10, 8-2-2005)
5-5-5: EXPENSES OF OTHER RESPONDING ENTITIES:
   A.   Recovery Of Costs And Expenses By City: In the event that personnel and
equipment from other political subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities
shall respond to assist with the hazardous materials emergency, then the City
may seek to recover costs and expenses incurred by such other political
subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities as part of the City's recovery
efforts.
   B.   Reimbursement: Upon recovery of costs and expenses from the responsible
party, the City is authorized, if sufficient funds are available, to reimburse
such other political subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities for their
actual costs incurred in responding to the hazardous materials emergency. (Ord.
05-10, 8-2-2005)
CHAPTER 6
CURFEW FOR MINORS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Authorized Adult Defined
5-6-2: Hours Regulated
5-6-3: Exceptions
5-6-4: Penalty
5-6-1: AUTHORIZED ADULT DEFINED:
"Authorized adult" shall mean any person over twenty one (21) years of age
authorized by a minor's parent, guardian or other legal representative, to
accompany said minor on public property after curfew. (Ord. 05-02, 2-15-2005)
5-6-2: HOURS REGULATED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any minor seventeen (17) years of age and
under to be upon any sidewalk, street, alley or other public place in the City
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
of the following day, of any day of the week Sunday through Thursday, unless
such person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other authorized adult, as
defined in section
5-6-1 of this chapter, or whose employment makes it necessary to be upon the
streets during the night hours otherwise prohibited under this subsection.
   B.   On Friday and Saturday of any week, it shall be unlawful for any minor
seventeen (17) years of age and under to be upon any sidewalk, street, alley or
public place in the City between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., unless such person is accompanied by a parent,
guardian or other authorized adult, or whose employment makes it necessary to
be upon the streets during the hours otherwise prohibited under this
subsection. (Ord. 05-02, 2-15-2005)
5-6-3: EXCEPTIONS:
Exceptions to curfew may be granted on a case by case basis by the City Council
for special events. (1995 Code § 10-6-106)
5-6-4: PENALTY:
It shall be a Class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in title 1,
chapter 4 of this Code, to violate any provision of this chapter. (1995 Code §
10-6-106; amd. 2019 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Traffic Code Adopted By Reference
6-1-3: Obedience Required
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following terms are used in this title, they shall have the
following meanings:
ALLEY: A public way within a block generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels, either of which is more than fifteen inches (15")
in diameter.
CROSSWALK: That portion of the roadway included between the sidewalk lines and
street intersections.
CURB: The lateral boundary of the roadway, whether such curb is marked by
curbing construction or not so marked.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department,
ambulances, vehicles carrying a State, County or City officer or employee in
response to an emergency call, and emergency vehicles of public service
corporations on an emergency call.
PARK: To stand a vehicle whether occupied or not for a period of time greater
than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading and unloading.
TRICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride
having three (3) wheels, either of which is more than fifteen inches (15") in
diameter.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moving by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1995 Code § 9-1-101)
6-1-2: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah Traffic Code, Utah Code Annotated title 41,
as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction, Class C misdemeanor or
Class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the City. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation
shall be subject to the penalties provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code.
(1995 Code § 9-2-101; amd. 2019 Code)
6-1-3: OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Authorized Law Enforcement: Members of the authorized law enforcement
agency are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in accordance with the
provisions of this title, or in emergencies as public safety or convenience may
require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order, signal or direction of a member of that office. Except
in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by law
to direct or attempt to direct traffic. (1995 Code § 9-2-102)
   B.   Fire Officials: The Fire Department officer in command, or any
firefighter designated by him, may exercise the powers and authority of a
member of the Sheriff's Office in directing traffic at the scene of any fire or
where the Fire Department has responded to an emergency call for so long as
Fire Department equipment is on the scene in the absence or in assisting the
Sheriff's Office. (1995 Code § 9-2-103)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Prohibited Parking
6-2-2: Alley Parking
6-2-3: Privately Owned Parking Areas Serving Commercial Establishments
6-2-1: PROHIBITED PARKING:
   A.   Posted Restrictions: It shall be unlawful for any person, except
physicians on emergency calls or designated emergency vehicles, when properly
posted, to park any motor vehicle on any street in violation of the posted
restrictions.
   B.   Business Areas: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon the
private parking areas of business owners other than during normal business
hours without the business owner's permission. (1995 Code § 9-3-101)
   C.   Commercial Zone On Main Street: It shall be unlawful to park any
vehicle overnight on Main Street in a Commercial Zone unless the adjoining
property is used for residential purposes or is regularly used in the normal
course of business for overnight guests. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
   D.   Main Street Parking:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park on Main Street in the areas and for the
times designated in the City Streets Policy. (Ord. 14-04, 11-4-2014)
      2.   It shall be unlawful to park on Main Street or other designated
parade route in the areas and for the times designated in the City Parade
Policy. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
6-2-2: ALLEY PARKING:
No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave less than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway
available for the free movement of vehicular traffic. (1995 Code § 9-3-102)
6-2-3: PRIVATELY OWNED PARKING AREAS SERVING COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
    AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL: Shall include, but not be limited to, owners,
managers, lessors, lessees, employees and those people lawfully on the premises
by invitation or permission of such authorized personnel.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: All signs, signals, markings and devices
placed or erected by authority of, or at the request of, a public body or
official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding
traffic.
   B.   Agreement To Allow Enforcement Of Parking Regulations On Private
Property: Those businesses who have agreed to allow enforcement of parking
regulations on private property have executed an agreement with the City,
giving its consent to such enforcement. A copy of each such agreement is on
file in the City office.
   C.   Unauthorized Parking On Certain Privately Owned Parking Lots:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, except authorized personnel, to
stop, stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or unoccupied, after business
hours, on the parking lots of those businesses who have entered into an
agreement with the City, or who may hereafter enter into an agreement with the
City, for the regulation of such parking on privately owned lots serving
Commercial Districts. (Ord. 98-06, 10-20-1998)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle
any place where official traffic control devices prohibit stopping, standing or
parking on private property. (Ord. 98-06, 10-20-1998; amd. 2019 Code)
   D.   Property Owner Responsible To Post Signs:
      1.   The City may require each property owner, whose business
establishment is subject to this section, to post a sign, approved by the City,
prohibiting the stopping, standing or parking of any unauthorized vehicles on
business premises, after business hours.
      2.   Subsection D1 of this section is directive and is not mandatory.
Nothing shall prohibit law enforcement agencies from enforcing the provisions
of this section relating to those business establishments who have entered into
an agreement with the City, pursuant to subsection B of this section; nor shall
the requirement of posting said sign be deemed an element of an offense under
subsection C1 of this section. (Ord. 98-06, 10-20-1998)
   E.   Penalty: Violation of this section shall be an infraction, punishable
as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 98-06, 10-20-1998; amd.
2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Vehicles Operated On Public Land
6-3-3: Age Limitations
6-3-4: Protective Headgear Requirements; Owner Duty; Penalty For Violation
6-3-5: Use Of Privately Owned Lands Without Permission; Tampering With Signs Or
Fencing
6-3-6: Vehicles Operated On Designated Lands
6-3-7: Speed And Other Regulations
6-3-8: Penalty For Violation
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The City hereby adopts the definitions set forth in Utah Code Annotated section
41-22-2, Off Highway Vehicles, and any successor statute and amendments thereto
and hereby incorporates same as part of this chapter. (Ord. 19-03, 2-19-2019)
6-3-2: VEHICLES OPERATED ON PUBLIC LAND:
Currently registered off highway vehicles may be operated on all City land,
streets, highways and trails, and the same are hereby designated as open to
such off highway vehicles use. It is unlawful to operate an off highway vehicle
along, across or within the boundaries of an interstate freeway, as defined by
State law. (Ord. 19-03, 2-19-2019)
6-3-3: AGE LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Under Eight Years: A person under eight (8) years of age may not
operate, and an owner may not give another person who is under eight (8) years
of age permission to operate an off highway vehicle on any public land, trail,
street or highway of this City.
   B.   Eight Years And Older: A person who is eight (8) years of age or older,
but under sixteen (16) years of age, may not operate and an owner may not give
that person permission to operate an off highway vehicle on any public land,
trail, street or highway of this City unless the person:
      1.   Has in the person's possession the appropriate safety certificate
issued by the State Division of Parks and Recreation; and, if under eighteen
(18) years of age, is under the direct supervision of a person who is at least
eighteen (18) years; or
      2.   Has in the person's immediate possession a valid motor vehicle
operator's license, as provided by State law.
For purposes of this subsection, the term "direct supervision" means oversight
at a distance: a) of not more than three hundred feet (300'); and b) within
which: 1) visual contact is maintained; and 2) advice and assistance can be
given and received.
   C.   Penalty:
      1.   Any person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of an
infraction and shall be fined not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
offense.
      2.   It is a defense to a charge under this section, if the person
charged: a) produces in court a license or an appropriate safety certificate
that was valid at the time of the citation or arrest, and issued to the person
operating the off highway vehicle; and b) can show that the direct supervision
requirement under subsection B of this section was not violated at the time of
citation or arrest.
   D.   Exception: The requirements of this section do not apply to an operator
of an off highway implement of husbandry (Ord. 19-03, 2-19-2019)
6-3-4: PROTECTIVE HEADGEAR REQUIREMENTS; OWNER DUTY; PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   Headgear: A person under the age of eighteen (18) may not operate or
ride on all-terrain type I vehicles, snowmobiles or motorcycles on public land
unless the person is wearing a property fitted and fastened, United States
Department of Transportation safety rated protective headgear designed for
motorized vehicle use.
   B.   Owner Duty: The owner of an off highway vehicle or any other person may
not give permission for a person who is under eighteen (18) years of age to
operate or ride on an off highway vehicle in violation of this section.
   C.   Exemptions: An operator and passengers of off highway implements of
husbandry operated in the manner prescribed by State law are exempt from the
requirements of this section.
   D.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty
of an infraction and shall be fined not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) per
offense. (Ord. 19-03, 2-19-2019)
6-3-5: USE OF PRIVATELY OWNED LANDS WITHOUT PERMISSION; TAMPERING WITH SIGNS OR
FENCING:
   A.   Privately Owned Land:
      1.   A person may not operate or accompany a person operating an off
highway vehicle upon privately owned land of any other person, firm or
corporation without permission from the owner or person in charge.
      2.   A person operating or accompanying a person operating an off highway
vehicle may not refuse to immediately leave private land upon request of the
owner or person in charge of such land.
      3.   Subsections A1 and A2 of this section do not apply to prescriptive
easements on privately owned land.
      4.   A person who violates subsection A1 of this section is guilty of an
infraction.
      5.   A person who violates subsection A2 of this section is guilty of a
Class C misdemeanor.
      6.   As part of any sentence for a conviction of a violation of
subsection A1 or A2 of this section, the court may:
         a.   Impose a fine of not more than one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00);
         b.   Require the person to pay restitution not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for any damage caused by the unlawful motor vehicle travel;
and
         c.   Require the person to perform community service in the form of
repairing any damage caused by the unlawful motor vehicle travel.
   B.   Obstructions: A person operating or accompanying a person operating an
off highway vehicle may not obstruct an entrance or exit to private property
without the owner's permission.
   C.   Destruction Of Signs, Fencing: A person may not:
      1.   Tear down, mutilate or destroy any sign, signboards or other notice
which regulates trespassing for purposes of operating an off highway vehicle on
land; or
      2.   Tear down, deface or destroy any fence or other enclosure or any
gate or bars belonging to the fence or enclosure.
   D.   Violation:
      1.   A violation of subsection B of this section is an infraction;
      2.   A violation of subsection C of this section is a Class C
misdemeanor. (Ord. 19-03, 2-19-2019)
6-3-6: VEHICLES OPERATED ON DESIGNATED LANDS:
No liability may be imposed on the City relating to the designation or
maintenance of any land, trail, street or highway open for off highway vehicle
use. (Ord. 19-03, 2-19-2019)
6-3-7: SPEED AND OTHER REGULATIONS:
Off highway vehicles shall be operated at all times in accordance with all
applicable State laws and regulations and City ordinances. Any person operating
an off highway vehicle is subject to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated
title 41, chapter 6, Traffic Code, unless specifically excluded. (Ord. 19-03,
2-19-2019)
6-3-8: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Unless another penalty is specifically provided for in this chapter, or
elsewhere in the laws of this State, any person who violates any provision of
this chapter, upon conviction, is guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty
as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 19-03, 2-19-2019; amd.
2019 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Supervision Of Streets
7-1-2: Applicability
7-1-3: Construction Or Repair Of Public Ways
7-1-4: Encroachments
7-1-5: Encroachments Over Public Sidewalks
7-1-6: Street And Sidewalk Standards
7-1-7: Street Numbering
7-1-8: Private Use, Displays And Signs
7-1-9: Obstructions
7-1-10: Erection Of Poles And Wires Require Permit
7-1-11: Littering
7-1-12: Playing Games
7-1-13: Trees And Shrubs
7-1-14: Burning Of Leaves Or Rubbish
7-1-15: Snow Removal
7-1-16: Nuisances
7-1-17: Conflicting Provisions
7-1-18: Penalty
7-1-1: SUPERVISION OF STREETS:
   A.   Public Works Department: There is hereby created the Department of
Public Works to maintain all public works of the City and all other City
property as set forth in this title. The Public Works Department shall have a
Public Works Superintendent, who shall take charge of the operation and
maintenance of all of the City public works and other property as set forth in
this title.
   B.   Public Works Superintendent: The Public Works Superintendent shall be a
full time employee of the City and shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
advice and consent of the City Council. All maintenance and repair of public
streets, sidewalks and other public ways shall be under the supervision of the
Public Works Superintendent. He or she shall be charged with the enforcement of
all ordinance provisions relating to such public places (except Traffic
Ordinances) and he or she is hereby authorized to enforce such ordinance
provisions. The Public Works Superintendent shall have charge and care of all
tools, equipment and materials of the City used for City purposes. (1995 Code §
3-8-101; amd. Ord. 06-06, 4-4-2006; 2019 Code)
7-1-2: APPLICABILITY:
Any City property not already covered in this title shall be cared for under
the direction of the Public Works Superintendent. All City ordinances
regulating public buildings shall also regulate buildings of the City. Any
ordinances that regulate vacant land in the City shall also govern all vacant
City property. (1995 Code § 5-5-101)
7-1-3: CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR OF PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement
on any public street, sidewalk or other public way, or to repair or alter the
same, without first having secured a permit therefor. Application for such
permit shall be made to the City Recorder, and shall state the location of the
intended pavement or repair, the extent thereof, and the person or firm who is
to do the actual construction work. No permits shall be issued except where the
work will conform to the ordinances of the City.
   B.   Public Safety:
      1.   Any person, firm or corporation laying or repairing any pavement on
a street, sidewalk or other public place, or making excavation of the same,
shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent the injury of any person or
vehicle by reason of the work. Such barricades shall be protected by a light at
nighttime. Any defect in the recessed pavement shall be barricaded to prevent
injury. Any person, firm or corporation properly maintaining any open
excavation while the same remains open shall guard the same with proper
barricades and lights.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to disturb any barricade of lights lawfully
placed to protect or mark any new pavement or new excavation or opening on any
public street, sidewalk or other public way.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly and intentionally and
without legal cause to remove flashing lights or lanterns from the construction
area.
   C.   Conformance With Specifications: All street and sidewalk pavement shall
be made in conformity with specifications laid down or approved by the City
Council.
   D.   Injury Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any
vehicle around and upon, or injure any newly laid street or sidewalk while the
same is guarded by warning sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any soft
or newly laid pavement. (1995 Code § 5-1-102)
7-1-4: ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or
structure, except as defined in section
7-1-5 of this chapter, which encroaches on any public road, street, street
right-of-way, alley or other public property. (Ord. 11-04, 5-17-2011)
   B.   Personal Property: It shall be unlawful to park or place personal
property, which includes, but is not limited to, RV trailers, utility trailers,
unlicensed vehicles, livestock trailers, livestock feed or firewood for storage
purposes upon any public road, street, street right-of-way or alley for more
than seventy two (72) hours after receiving notice; provided, in the event of
snowstorms, which require snow plows to clear the public streets, such property
shall be removed immediately without notice. For all other types of
emergencies, the City shall dispense with the seventy two (72) hour notice
requirement and provide the best notice practicable to require owners or
renters to remove such personal property. Personal property in violation of
this subsection may be impounded and removed by the City. The cost of
impoundment and removal shall be charged to the owner or person who claims the
impounded property. (Ord. 06-02, 3-7-2006)
   C.   Commercial Diesel Trucks In Residential Areas: It shall be unlawful to
park any commercial diesel truck, which requires the continual or intermittent
operation of any motors, including refrigeration units, in residential areas.
Temporary parking of commercial diesel trucks with no motors running may be
allowed on street right-of-way (not pavement) in residential areas if it does
not obstruct a motorists’ view of an intersection. (1995 Code § 5-1-403; amd.
Ord. 11-04, 5-17-2011)
   D.   Heavy Equipment Requires Permit: It shall be unlawful to encroach upon
any City sidewalk or utility with heavy equipment during construction projects
without first obtaining an encroachment permit from the City. (Ord. 06-02, 3-7-
2006)
7-1-5: ENCROACHMENTS OVER PUBLIC SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Definitions:
    AWNING: A shade structure for which the primary purpose is shelter from the
elements, signage, or an architectural feature that is constructed of canvas,
metal or nylon materials. Excluded materials include, but are not limited to,
plastic and vinyl. Awnings shall not extend more than five feet (5') from the
front of the building over public property.
   ENCROACHMENT: Any structure in the General Commercial District considered to
be permanent in nature, including, but not limited to, wheelchair accessible
ramps, attached signs and flower boxes, and shall not extend more than four
feet (4') from the front of the building over public property.
   STOREFRONT EXPANSION AREA: An area that shall not extend more than four feet
(4') from the front of the building over public property in the General
Commercial District, which may be used by a business to add visual design
elements to increase the charm, character and attractiveness of the storefront
and improve economic viability.
   B.   Authorization Required: It shall be unlawful to place or cause to be
placed any encroachment, as defined in subsection A of this section, on or
above public sidewalks without authorization from the City and in accordance
with this section.
   C.   Permitting Process: Encroachments may be granted, or denied by the City
Council upon completion of the permitting process as required by the City
Encroachment Policy.
   D.   Requirements:
      1.   Encroachments that extend into the airspace over public property
must be placed at least seven feet (7') above the public sidewalk.
      2.   Permanent encroachments shall be designed in a manner that enhances
the aesthetic atmosphere of the General Commercial District. Construction
specifications and suggested design criteria shall be included in the City
Encroachment Policy.
      3.   Permanent encroachments may be located on or above public property
and sidewalks or in storefront expansion areas if attached securely and do not
obstruct the travel area for pedestrians or pose a threat to their health,
safety and welfare.
   E.   Exclusions: Sandstone benches, trash receptacles and light pole banners
placed by the City are excluded from the provisions of this section. (Ord. 11-
04, 5-17-2011; amd. 2019 Code)
7-1-6: STREET AND SIDEWALK STANDARDS:
   A.   Grades: All street paving in the City, except construction of a
temporary nature, shall be constructed to grades as adopted by the City Council
and specified in title 10, article 18A, "Design Standards For Construction And
Development", of this Code.
   B.   Street Classification: Streets shall be classified as arterial/major,
subcollector/minor and collector streets, as designated in the City Public
Works Policy for Streets and Roads and as adopted in the Streets Master Plan on
September 17, 1985.
   C.   Width And Construction Standards: All street construction shall conform
to the standards set forth in the City Public Works Policy for Streets and
Roads. Not all platted streets within the City are uniform and consistent,
therefore the City retains the right to bring them into conformity. An
exception may be made to the street widths and construction standards, in that
all existing streets shall be maintained to their current layout.
   D.   Sidewalk Construction: All sidewalk construction in the City shall:
      1.   Conform to the standards set forth in title 10 of this Code.
Sidewalks shall be installed in each zone based on the specific criteria as
detailed in title 10 of this Code.
      2.   The construction of sidewalks in the City shall be in conformance
with the City sidewalk construction standards as included in the City Sidewalks
Policy. (Ord. 06-06, 4-4-2006)
7-1-7: STREET NUMBERING:
   A.   Uniform Numbering System Established: There is hereby established a
uniform system for numbering buildings and lots fronting all streets and public
ways in the City. All houses and buildings shall be numbered by the City or its
designee, in accordance with the provisions of this section. (1995 Code § 5-1-
301)
   B.   Baseline For Dividing City And Assigning Numbers:
      1.   Specified: The following shall constitute the baseline for dividing
the City:
         a.   Center Street shall constitute the baseline which shall divide
the City into northern and southern parts. Hereafter, all streets north of this
baseline and running in easterly- westerly directions shall be considered
"north" streets, and all streets south of this baseline running easterly-
westerly direction shall be considered "south" streets.
         b.   Main Street shall be considered the baseline which divides the
City into east and west parts. Hereafter, streets east of this baseline that
run northerly-southerly directions shall be considered "east" streets, and
likewise streets west of and running northerly-southerly directions shall be
considered "west" streets.
         c.   A block interval system of six hundred sixty feet (660') shall be
used.
      2.   Numbering: The number of buildings and lots on such streets shall
begin at the baseline. All buildings and lots on the right side going away from
the baseline of Center and Main Streets shall bear even numbers. Likewise, all
buildings and lots on the left side going away from the baseline of Center and
Main Streets shall bear odd numbers.
         a.   Each building or lot on the right side of the street from the
baseline point of Main and Center Streets and going away from that point shall
be numbered an even number between 2 and 100, and shall carry an address
indicating its easterly, westerly, northerly or southerly location.
         b.   Each building or lot on the left side of the street from the
point of Main and Center Streets and going away from that point shall be
numbered with an odd number between 1 and 99, and shall carry an address
indicating its easterly, westerly, northerly or southerly location.
         c.   All multiple-family dwellings having one front entrance shall be
assigned only one number, and separate apartments in the building shall carry
letter or number designations in addition to the number assigned to the main
entrance of the building.
         d.   Any duplex houses having two (2) entrances shall have a separate
number for each entrance.
         e.   All buildings facing streets not extending through to the
baseline shall be assigned the same relative numbers as if the street had
extended to the baseline. (1995 Code § 5-1-302)
   C.   Number Assignment To Be On Buildings:
      1.   Required: The owner, occupant or agent shall place or cause to be
placed the assigned permanent number upon each house or building controlled by
him or her within thirty (30) days after the assignment.
      2.   Size, Material: The number shall not be less than three inches (3")
in height and shall be made of a durable, visible material.
      3.   Placement: The numbers shall be conspicuously placed so that the
number can be seen plainly from the street. (1995 Code § 5-1-303)
   D.   Naming And Renaming Of Streets:
      1.   Subdivisions: Subdivision plats must show the proposed names, if
any, of all streets and receive the approval of the Planning Commission or the
City Council before streets are officially named.
      2.   Existing Or New Streets: The Mayor and City Council, by resolution,
may change, rename or name an existing or newly established street within the
limits of the City upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission, or any
other City designee. (1995 Code § 5-1-304)
7-1-8: PRIVATE USE, DISPLAYS AND SIGNS:
   A.   Permission Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to use any street, sidewalk, or other public place as space for the
display of goods or merchandise for sale without permission from the City
Council; or to write, make or place any sign or advertisement on any such
street or sidewalk without permission from the City Council.
   B.   Distance To Intersection: It shall be unlawful to place any approved
display or sign on City property, including A-frame type signs, within ten feet
(10') of an intersection.
   C.   Pedestrian Traffic On Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful for any approved
private use on City property to obstruct the flow of pedestrian traffic and
must provide a minimum of five feet (5') of unobstructed sidewalk from the
gutter if fronting Main Street and at least four feet (4') of unobstructed
sidewalk on all other sidewalks. (Ord. 11-04, 5-17-2011)
7-1-9: OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to cause, create or maintain any
obstruction of any street, sidewalk or other public place, except where it may
be specified by ordinance or by the Public Works Superintendent. Any person,
firm or corporation seeking permission to obstruct any street for any purpose
shall obtain a permit from the Public Works Superintendent authorizing
obstruction of the streets. (1995 Code § 5-1-103)
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Chairs may be lawfully set up on Main Street along the Fourth of
July parade route at the times and places set forth in the City Streets Policy.
(Ord. 14-04, 11-4-2014)
      2.   Chairs may be lawfully set up on Main Street or other designated
parade routes for the Fourth of July parade route at the times and places set
forth in the City Parade Policy. (Ord. 17-02, 3-16-2017)
7-1-10: ERECTION OF POLES AND WIRES REQUIRE PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or maintain any poles or wires
over any public place, street, alley or other public way without first having
secured permission from the City Council. (1995 Code § 5-1-405)
7-1-11: LITTERING:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street or any
sidewalk any material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any
waste material, or any glass, or other articles which do injury to any person,
animal or property.
   B.   Exception For Delivery: Merchandise or other articles may be deposited
on sidewalks preparatory to delivery; provided, that the usable width of the
sidewalk is not thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'); and provided, that
no such article shall remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour,
unless permission is granted by the City Council. (1995 Code § 5-1-401)
7-1-12: PLAYING GAMES:
It shall be unlawful to play any game upon any street, alley or sidewalk, or
other public place, where such games cause unnecessary noise or interference
with traffic or pedestrians. (1995 Code § 5-1-406)
7-1-13: TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Planting: It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or any bush in any
public street or other public place without having first secured permission
from the City Council. (1995 Code § 5-1-407)
   B.   Removal Or Cutting: It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree
or shrub in any public place without having first secured permission from the
City Council.
   C.   Injury: It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub growing in any
public place.
   D.   Attachments:
      1.   Sign, Advertisement, Notice: It shall be unlawful to attach any
sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or shrub or any such public place.
(1995 Code § 5-1-408)
      2.   Wires, Ropes: It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or rope on any
tree or shrub on any public street, or other public place, without the
permission of the City Council. (1995 Code § 5-1-409)
   E.   Impeding Limbs Removed: Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk,
street or other public place in the City in such a way as to impede with
traffic or travel, or within ten feet (10') of a street, or seven feet (7') of
a sidewalk level, shall be trimmed by the owner of the premises abutting or of
the premises on which the tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall
cease. Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or across
any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which
the tree grows or stands. The Public Works Superintendent may trim any tree or
shrub or may remove any tree or shrub or branch thereof so that the obstruction
or danger to traffic or passage shall be done away with. (1995 Code § 5-1-408)
7-1-14: BURNING OF LEAVES OR RUBBISH:
It shall be unlawful to burn any leaves, paper, rubbish or other substances
upon any of the public streets, sidewalks or public ways in the City. (1995
Code § 5-1-410)
7-1-15: SNOW REMOVAL:
   A.   Generally. All occupants of property, whether owner or lessor or agent,
owes a duty to remove snow, sleet or ice from any sidewalk from his or her
property within a reasonable amount of time and in a manner so as not to
interfere with City snow removal or City property.
   B.   Manner of Snow Removal. It shall be unlawful for any person to push,
pile, or place snow or ice so that it unreasonably obstructs or blocks
driveways, streets, intersections or otherwise blocks the visibility of, or
creates a dangerous condition for, motor vehicles or pedestrians. It shall be
unlawful for any person to push, pile, or place snow or ice in such a manner
that it impedes access to a fire hydrant, storm drain, driveway, or lane of
travel. Snow and ice in parking lots should be contained on site and not be
placed in the street. (1995 Code § 5-1-411; amd. Ord. 23-04, 2-21-2023)
7-1-16: NUISANCES:
   A.   Declaration Of Public Nuisance: Items or materials which are on public
property and because of their condition or location cause harm or prejudice to
another, or which obstruct, impair or destroy the reasonable and peaceful
public use of the property, are hereby declared to be public nuisances. This
declaration of public nuisances is in addition to those set forth in title 4,
chapter 2 of this Code. (1995 Code § 5-1-412; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Personal Property Items; Exception: Items of personal property that are
caused to be parked, stored or left to encroach upon any City sidewalk or
street right-of-way, except that licensed and operable vehicles are allowed in
accordance with section
7-1-4 of this chapter, are considered a nuisance. (Ord. 09-04, 11-17-2009)
   C.   Abatement: Any item or material found to be a nuisance from the
provisions of this section may be abated by removing or impounding the same, or
by any other appropriate means. The cost of such abatement shall be borne by
the person or party responsible for causing the nuisance.
   D.   Notice: Before an officer or employee of the City may abate the
nuisance, the City shall provide notice that after seven (7) days the City will
remove the nuisance and charge the owner thereof for the reasonable cost of
removal. The owner shall then have the seven (7) day period from the notice
period to begin to remove the nuisance with no consequences to him or her.
After the seven (7) day period has expired, the City shall remove the nuisances
and charge the owner thereof the reasonable costs of removal and for any
storage or disposal fees that may apply. (1995 Code § 5-1-412)
   E.   Severability: If any section, paragraph, clause, or provision of this
title shall be held invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or
unenforceability thereof shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of
this title or any provision adopted thereby. (1995 Code § 5-1-414)
7-1-17: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
All ordinances, resolutions, orders or other actions of the City Council that
conflict with the provisions of this title are, to the extent of such conflict,
deemed to be amended by this title to conform with the provisions hereof. (1995
Code § 5-1-415)
7-1-18: PENALTY:
Except as may be provided elsewhere in this title, any person who violates or
permits violation of any provision of this title shall be guilty of Class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code.
(Ord. 09-04, 11-17-2009; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CEMETERY
SECTION:
7-2-1: Ownership And Name
7-2-2: Cemetery Sexton
7-2-3: Authority Of City Council
7-2-4: Definitions
7-2-5: Applicability
7-2-6: Care And Liability
7-2-7: Sale Of Burial Rights
7-2-8: Fees
7-2-9: Permission To Bury
7-2-10: Burials To Be In Cemetery
7-2-11: Vaults And Caskets Required
7-2-12: Markers
7-2-13: Restrictions On Resale
7-2-14: Prohibited Interments
7-2-15: Disinterments
7-2-16: Burial Of Indigents
7-2-17: Registration Of Burials And Disinterments
7-2-18: Perpetual Care
7-2-19: Injury To Cemetery Property
7-2-20: Theft Of Property
7-2-21: Traffic Regulations
7-2-22: Animals
7-2-23: Private Additions To Cemetery Grounds
7-2-24: Bench Placement
7-2-1: OWNERSHIP AND NAME:
The burial ground is owned by the City and shall be known by the name Fillmore
City Cemetery. (1995 Code § 5-3-202)
7-2-2: CEMETERY SEXTON:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the Office of
Cemetery Sexton. The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council,
shall appoint the Cemetery Sexton. (1995 Code § 5-3-101)
   B.   Duties: The Sexton shall:
      1.   Enforce the provisions of this chapter and all policies governing
the cemetery;
      2.   Supervise the operation of the cemetery;
      3.   Maintain the cemetery grounds; and
      4.   Perform such other duties as directed by the Mayor or Public Works
Director.
   C.   Job Description: The complete duties and responsibilities of the
Cemetery Sexton shall be outlined in a written job description that may be
amended from time to time. (1995 Code § 5-3-102)
7-2-3: AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL:
The City Council shall have authority to set rules and regulations regarding
cemetery fees and other details regarding cemetery maintenance and operations
through the City Cemetery Policy, which may be amended as necessary by the City
Council for the efficient and safe operation and maintenance of the cemetery.
(Ord. 99-04, 2-2-1999; amd. 2019 Code)
7-2-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words or phrases shall have the
following meanings:
LOT: Shall include the partial lots or single graves in the cemetery.
LOT OWNER, PURCHASER OR GRAVE OWNER: Refers to the owner of burial rights, not
real estate. These terms shall mean the owner or purchaser of burial privileges
or the collateral right of use of any burial lot evidenced by a deed or burial
right for a described lot, or by proved and recognized descent or devise from
the original owner. (1995 Code § 5-3-201)
7-2-5: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Scope: All cemeteries owned or maintained by the City shall be subject
to the provisions of this chapter. (1995 Code § 5-3-203)
   B.   Grave Lots Subject To City Regulations: Every lot or single grave is
subject to all rules and regulations that the City Council may adopt through
ordinance or policy and may be amended as necessary for the protection of the
cemetery, lot owners and the remains of the dead. (Ord. 99-04, 2-2-1999; amd.
2019 Code)
7-2-6: CARE AND LIABILITY:
The City reserves the right to enter upon any lot and to perform all work
necessary for the care and upkeep of all lots and graves. The City shall not be
liable for any damage to personal property or loss. (1995 Code § 5-3-208)
7-2-7: SALE OF BURIAL RIGHTS:
   A.   Authorized; Collection Of Perpetual Care Fees: The City Recorder is
hereby empowered to sell burial rights and collect perpetual care fees in the
Fillmore City Cemetery and the proceeds of the sale receipted by the City
Treasurer.
   B.   Regulations Of Sales: The City Council is hereby empowered to regulate,
by resolution and policy, the selling price, number of burial rights to be
sold, and the amount to be paid for each right. The City Recorder shall deliver
to each purchaser a certificate for each lot or partial lot for which burial
rights were purchased, with a description thereof by lot, block and graves, and
stating the price paid.
   C.   Certificates; Nontaxable Personal Property: Cemetery certificates shall
be issued and signed by the City Recorder. Burial rights in the Fillmore City
Cemetery are not taxable personal property.
   D.   Number Purchased: The number of graves that may be purchased by any one
individual may be regulated by the City Council through resolution or policy.
(1995 Code § 5-3-219; amd. Ord. 12-01, 2-21-2012)
7-2-8: FEES:
   A.   All fees pertaining to the Fillmore City Cemetery shall be set by the
City Council through resolution or policy, and may be amended as deemed
necessary by the City Council. (1995 Code § 5-3-221)
   B.   The purchase price for burial rights to graves in the Fillmore City
Cemetery is a one time perpetual care fee for cemetery maintenance. The
purchase price may be fixed by the City Council through resolution or policy
and may be amended as deemed necessary by the City Council. (1995 Code § 5-3-
220)
7-2-9: PERMISSION TO BURY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to bury or disinter the body of a deceased
person in the Fillmore City Cemetery without first obtaining, as herein
provided, a certificate of purchase for the burial right for the grave, or to
file with the City Recorder a written consent from the owner thereof granting
permission to use the grave. (1995 Code § 5-3-210)
7-2-10: BURIALS TO BE IN CEMETERY:
It shall be unlawful to bury the body of any person within the limits of the
City, except in public or private cemeteries. (1995 Code § 5-3-217)
7-2-11: VAULTS AND CASKETS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be buried in a cemetery of the City
without a casket and vault made of concrete, steel, wood or brick that covers
the casket on all six (6) sides. (1995 Code § 5-3-206)
7-2-12: MARKERS:
   A.   City To Inform Of Requirement: The City shall inform the owner of any
lot or relatives of deceased persons buried in any lot of the requirement to
place or cause to be placed a suitable marker with the name of the deceased
plainly inscribed thereon upon the grave of every person interred therein
within six (6) months of such interment. (Ord. 03-04, 4-15-2003)
   B.   Placement Of Markers:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or place or cause to be
placed any grave marker in the cemetery without a permit. Placement of the
marker shall be done under the direction of the Cemetery Sexton. The marker
shall be set on a concrete foundation with a mow strip on each side of the
marker as specified in City policy.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to place more than one marker per grave, except
in the case where cremated remains of one individual only are allowed to be
placed on top of an existing burial. In this incidence only, an additional flat
monument marker shall be allowed to be placed on the grave to mark the location
of the cremated remains. If this second flat marker is allowed under these
conditions only, the owner of the monument agrees to waive all responsibility
of the City for damage that may occur in the future to the flat monument placed
as a second marker on a grave site. All monument markers shall be set under the
direction of the Cemetery Sexton. The length of all headstones or markers, to
include the cement surrounding the monument, shall not exceed three feet eight
inches (3'8") for a single, or six feet (6') for a double. (Ord. 08-05, 1-6-
2009)
7-2-13: RESTRICTIONS ON RESALE:
It shall be unlawful to resell any grave rights in the Fillmore City Cemetery
to any entity other than to the City. The City shall buy back any unwanted,
unused grave rights at the original purchase price. (1995 Code § 5-3-218)
7-2-14: PROHIBITED INTERMENTS:
It shall be unlawful:
   A.   Human Remains: To inter anything other than the remains of human bodies
in City cemeteries; and
   B.   Location: To inter a human body in a location that is not a legal
cemetery, whether a private cemetery or a cemetery of the City. (1995 Code § 5-
3-205)
7-2-15: DISINTERMENTS:
   A.   Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person to disinter any body
buried in the Fillmore City Cemetery, or in any other cemetery within the
limits of the City, except in accordance with the laws of the State and under
the direction of the Cemetery Sexton, with prior approval of the Mayor, or
order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The Cemetery Sexton shall not order
any grave opened unless: (Ord. 03-04, 4-15-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
      1.   A permit from the City-County Health Officer has been issued;
      2.   A written order from the owner of the lot authorizing such removal
has been filed with the City. All such removals shall be recorded in a book
kept for that purpose;
      3.   All applicable fees must be paid and permits obtained prior to the
exhumation. (Ord. 03-04, 4-15-2003)
   B.   Contagious Disease: It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the
body of a person whose death was caused by a contagious disease unless two (2)
years have passed since the burial. This subsection shall not apply to bodies
buried in hermetically sealed coffins. (1995 Code § 5-3-211)
7-2-16: BURIAL OF INDIGENTS:
The City Council may designate a portion of the cemetery to the burial of
indigents. The Mayor shall have authority to determine indigence for purposes
of burial in the Fillmore City Cemetery. The Mayor shall have the duty to
disclose to the City Council all deceased persons declared indigent for
purposes of this section. (1995 Code § 5-3-222)
7-2-17: REGISTRATION OF BURIALS AND DISINTERMENTS:
The City Recorder shall be the registrar of burials for all cemeteries in the
City. All burials or disinterments shall be registered with the City Recorder.
Such registration shall contain:
   A.   Name of the deceased;
   B.   Date and location of birth, if known;
   C.   Date and location of death;
   D.   Cause of death;
   E.   Date of burial;
   F.   Name of the cemetery with the initial letter of the plat as well as the
number of the block, lot and grave; and
   G.   If disinterred, the place of destination if transferred beyond the
limits of Fillmore City Cemetery. (1995 Code § 5-3-213)
7-2-18: PERPETUAL CARE:
   A.   Perpetual Care Fund Created: There is hereby created a Perpetual Care
Fund for the care of the City cemetery pursuant to the laws of the State. (1995
Code § 5-3-301)
   B.   Perpetual Care Monies:
      1.   All funds received from the sale of burial rights and perpetual care
services shall be deposited in a special Perpetual Care Fund and properly
invested in accordance with the laws of the State.
      2.   Interest generated from the Perpetual Care Fund may be used to pay
for the upkeep and development of the Fillmore City Cemetery. The principal
balance of the fund may not be expended for any purpose.
      3.   The City Treasurer shall keep, or cause to be kept, an accurate
record of the Perpetual Care Trust Fund account. (1995 Code § 5-3-302)
   C.   Investment Income: Income from investments held in the Perpetual Care
Fund may be credited to the Cemetery Maintenance Fund or credited back to the
Investment Fund. (1995 Code § 5-3-303)
   D.   Perpetual Care Services: The City shall provide the following services
as its perpetual care:
      1.   Mowing of all lots and graves at reasonable intervals;
      2.   Resodding, seeding and filling in sunken graves;
      3.   Sodding of the surface of the graves to lot level;
      4.   Removing dead flowers and trimming trees and shrubbery when
necessary;
      5.   Raking and cleaning the lots and straightening of tilting stones or
markers (this does not include repairing damaged stones, markers or memorials
not damaged by the City); and
      6.   Any other maintenance deemed necessary by the City Council. (1995
Code § 5-3-304)
7-2-19: INJURY TO CEMETERY PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, break or otherwise
damage any headstones, tombstones, monuments, trees, shrubs, flowers or any
other property situated in the cemetery. (1995 Code § 5-3-103)
7-2-20: THEFT OF PROPERTY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to remove, or cause to be removed, any flowers,
shrubs, trees or any other property from the gravesite of another.
   B.   Violators of this section shall be punished in conformity with the Utah
Code Annotated sections that pertain to theft of property. (1995 Code § 5-3-
204; amd. 2019 Code)
7-2-21: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
The provisions of the City Traffic Ordinances relative to the operation of
vehicles and conduct of pedestrians shall be in effect in the City cemetery,
except as otherwise modified by this chapter, or by policy and may be amended
as necessary. Speed limit shall be ten (10) miles per hour. (Ord. 99-04, 2-2-
1999)
7-2-22: ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any dog or other animal, except service dogs, to enter
upon cemetery property. (Ord. 12-01, 2-21-2012)
7-2-23: PRIVATE ADDITIONS TO CEMETERY GROUNDS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any fence,
corner, post, coping, hedge or boundary of any kind upon any lot or lots,
street, alley or walk in the cemetery or grade the ground or land thereof. The
Cemetery Sexton shall, whenever required, furnish the true lines or any lots
according to official survey, and shall prevent and prohibit any boundary
marking by private individuals of lots.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to plant any shrubs,
trees, lawns, etc., or place any unauthorized monuments or markers upon any lot
or lots in the cemetery. (1995 Code § 5-3-214)
7-2-24: BENCH PLACEMENT:
Placement of private benches in the Fillmore City Cemetery shall be regulated
through resolutions or policies adopted and/or amended by the City Council.
(Ord. 12-01, 2-21-2012)
CHAPTER 3
PARKS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Purpose And Applicability
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Prohibited Acts And Activities Generally
7-3-4: Vehicle Operation And Parking; Bicycles
7-3-5: Firearms And Weapons
7-3-6: Explosives And Fireworks
7-3-7: Advertising And Public Assemblies
7-3-8: Sales Of Merchandise
7-3-9: Alcoholic Beverages And Controlled Dangerous Substances
7-3-10: Conduct Of Persons
7-3-11: Curfew
7-3-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to provide rules and regulations for the
use of and conduct in the parks and recreation areas of the City.
   B.   This chapter shall apply in all parks and recreation areas under the
jurisdiction of the City, unless expressly exempted. No provision in this
chapter shall make unlawful any action necessarily performed by any officer or
employee of the City in the line of duty or work as such in a proper and
necessary execution of the terms of any agreement with the City. (1995 Code §
5-2-101)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ANIMALS: Includes cats, dogs, horses, any fowl or birds, and any living
creatures within the jurisdiction of the park or recreation area.
PARK ATTENDANT: Any person employed by the City as a park attendant to perform
duties or tasks within the park area.
PATH: Any foot path, walk or any path maintained for pedestrians.
PEDESTRIAN: A person afoot.
PERSON: A person includes any natural person, corporation, company,
association, firm or partnership.
SOLICITING: A person selling goods or services by sample or taking orders for
future delivery with or without accepting advance payment for the goods shall
be deemed soliciting. Also, persons seeking any form of contributions shall be
soliciting. (1995 Code § 5-2-102)
7-3-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES GENERALLY:
It shall be unlawful for any person in a public park or recreation area to:
   A.   Injury To Structures Or Equipment: Mark, deface, disfigure, injure,
tamper with, or displace or move any buildings, bridges, tables, benches,
fireplaces, railing, pavings or paving materials, or water lines or other
public utilities, or parts thereof, signs, notices, placards, whether temporary
or permanent, monuments, stakes, posts, or other boundary markers, or other
structures or equipment, facilities or park property, whatsoever real or
personal;
   B.   Maintain Restroom Areas: Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and
washrooms in a neat and sanitary condition. No person over the age of six (6)
years shall use the restrooms designated for the opposite sex;
   C.   Excavate Or Remove Materials: Dig or remove any soil, rock, sand,
stones, trees, shrubs or plants, or other wood or materials, or make any
excavation by tool, equipment, blasting or other means;
   D.   Construction: Construct or erect any building or structure of whatever
kind, whether permanent or temporary, or run or string any public service
utility into, upon or across such lands, except with special permission from
the City Council;
   E.   Plantings: Damage, cut, carve, mark, transplant or remove any plant, or
injure the bark or pick flowers or seeds of any tree or plant, dig in or
otherwise disturb grass areas, or in any other way injure the beauty or
usefulness of any area;
   F.   Misuse Of Property: Climb any tree or walk, climb, stand or sit upon
monuments, vases, planters, fountains, railings, fences, or upon any other
property not designated or customarily used for such purpose;
   G.   Polluting Water: Throw, discharge or otherwise place or cause to be
placed in the waters of any fountains, streams or other body of water in or
adjacent to any park, any substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid, which
will or may result in the pollution of water;
   H.   Littering: Leave any rubbish, refuse, garbage or other materials,
except for refuse and rubbish that is deposited in receptacles as provided.
Where receptacles are not provided, such rubbish or waste shall be carried away
from the park by the person responsible for its presence, and properly disposed
of elsewhere;
   I.   Animals At Large: Cause or permit to run loose any animal; and
   J.   Disturb Wildlife: Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, pursue,
chase or tease any wildlife, reptile or bird. (1995 Code § 5-2-103)
7-3-4: VEHICLE OPERATION AND PARKING; BICYCLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person in a public park or recreation area to:
   A.   Driving: Drive any vehicle on any area except the paved park roads or
parking areas, or such areas as may on occasion be suitably designated as
temporary areas;
   B.   Parking: Park a vehicle anywhere except on a permanent or temporary
parking area;
   C.   Leave During Hours Of Closure; Snowstorms: Leave a vehicle standing or
parked in established parking areas or elsewhere in the park and recreation
areas during hours when the park or recreation area is closed. During a
snowstorm and for three (3) days thereafter, established parking areas and
parks and recreation areas may be utilized for parking, but not by trailers of
any kind;
   D.   Bicycle Riding: Ride a bicycle without reasonable regard to the safety
of others. (1995 Code § 5-2-104)
7-3-5: FIREARMS AND WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to bring into or have in his possession in
any park or recreation area:
   A.   Any pistol or revolver, or objects upon which loaded or blank
cartridges may be used. Official starters, at authorized City events, are
excepted from this restriction;
   B.   Any burglar tools;
   C.   Any rifle, shotgun, air gun, spring gun, sling shot, bow or other
weapon in which the propelling force is gun powder, a spring or air. (1995 Code
§ 5-2-105)
7-3-6: EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession or set off any
fireworks, except under the permission and supervision of the City. (1995 Code
§ 5-2-106)
7-3-7: ADVERTISING AND PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES:
No person shall post, paint, affix, distribute, deliver, place, cast or leave
about any bill, billboard, placard, ticket, handbill, circular or
advertisement. No person shall do any of the following without a permit from
the City:
   A.   Operate for any advertising purpose any musical instrument, soundtrack
or drum;
   B.   Hold public assemblages;
   C.   Conduct exhibitions. (1995 Code § 5-2-107)
7-3-8: SALES OF MERCHANDISE:
No person shall offer for sale any article in any park or recreation area
without permission from the City. (1995 Code § 5-2-108)
7-3-9: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES AND CONTROLLED DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES:
While in a park or recreation area, all persons shall conduct themselves in a
proper and orderly manner and in particular, no person shall bring alcoholic
beverages or controlled dangerous substances, drink or use the same at any
time, nor shall any person be under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
controlled dangerous substance in a park or recreation area. (1995 Code § 5-2-
109)
7-3-10: CONDUCT OF PERSONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person in a park or recreation area to:
   A.   Camping: Camp or stay overnight;
   B.   Disorderly Conduct: Engage in threatening, abusive, insulting or
indecent language, or engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to
breach the public peace;
   C.   Disturbing Persons: Disturb or interfere unreasonably with any person
or party occupying any area or participating in any lawful activity in the park
or recreation period. (1995 Code § 5-2-110)
7-3-11: CURFEW:
   A.   Authorized Adult Defined: "Authorized adult" shall mean any person over
twenty one (21) years authorized by a minor's parent, guardian or other legal
representative to accompany said minor on public property after curfew.
   B.   Time Designated: City parks and properties, including the Statehouse
Park grounds, the American Legion grounds, the City building grounds, the
Wildlife Park, Fillmore City Cemetery, and the North Park shall be closed at
the below listed times to juvenile pedestrians (walk through traffic) for any
minor seventeen (17) years of age and under, unless accompanied by a parent,
guardian or other "authorized adult", as defined in subsection A of this
section:
Sunday - Thursday 11:00 P.M.
Friday - Saturday 12:00 midnight
   (Ord. 05-03, 2-15-2005)
   C.   Exceptions: Exceptions to the curfew may be granted on a case by case
basis by the City Council for special events. (Ord. 03-02, 3-18-2003)
   D.   Penalty: It shall be a Class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code, to violate any provisions of this
section. (Ord. 03-02, 3-18-2003; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 4
AIRPORT
SECTION:
7-4-1: Airport Regulations
7-4-1: AIRPORT REGULATIONS:
The City Council shall adopt rules and regulations through an airport policy,
which shall govern the use of the City Airport. The airport policy shall be on
file in the City office. (1995 Code § 5-4-101)
CHAPTER 5
ROAD EXTENSION COST RECOVERY POLICY
SECTION:
7-5-1: Policy For Recovery
7-5-2: Appeal To City Council
7-5-3: Term Of Recovery Period
7-5-4: Nonapplicable To New Subdivisions
7-5-5: City Exempt From Policy
7-5-1: POLICY FOR RECOVERY:
   A.   Specified: Any person who builds a road in the City shall pay all the
costs associated with the construction of the road. A developer who extends a
road beyond what a developer has already constructed, should pay a recovery fee
of the costs the said developer paid in costs for the road they constructed.
When a person recovers said costs from the next subsequent developer who
extends the road, said person shall be deemed compensated in full and no longer
eligible to recover additional costs. Recovery cost reimbursement shall cease
once recovery costs reach a minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   Illustration: By way of illustration:
      1.   Developer A builds a road extension and pays ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) for the cost of constructing the road. Developer B extends the
road four hundred feet (400') from the original point of extension, attributing
forty percent (40%) of the road to developer B (1,000 times 40 percent equals
400 feet). Developer A is entitled to fifty percent (50%) of the cost value
from developer B's extension ($10,000.00 times 40 percent equals $4,000.00).
Developer A may continue to recoup from subsequent developers up to fifty
percent (50%) of the costs expended to extend the road. Developer A shall then
be considered fully compensated and become ineligible to recover any additional
costs.
      2.   Developer C extends a section of road from the original road.
Developer B shall be entitled to recovery from developer C and/or subsequent
developers two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), which is fifty
percent (50%) of the cost developer B paid to developer A ($5,000.00).
Developer B shall then be considered fully compensated and become ineligible to
recover any additional costs.
      3.   Developer B extends the road further, beyond developer A's original
road constructed. Developer A shall be entitled to recover fifty percent (50%)
of his/her total extension costs ($5,000.00) from developer B. Developer B
shall be entitled to recover fifty percent (50%) from developer C and/or
subsequent customers ($2,500.00) of the costs developer B paid to developer A
and in addition thereto, developer B shall be entitled to recover fifty percent
(50%) of the costs from developers who connect to developer B's additional road
extension. Developer B shall then be considered fully compensated and become
ineligible to recover any additional costs.
      4.   This pattern continues until the cost recovery any additional costs.
(Ord. 18-02, 5-15-2018)
7-5-2: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
If situations arise that make it difficult or inequitable to apply the cost
recovery formula set forth above, the City Council will determine the amount
allowed, on a case by case basis, to the person or entity entitled to cost
recovery. Such a determination shall be made only after such person or entity
appeals to the City Council for consideration of such cost recovery. The City
Council's decision shall be final. (Ord. 18-02, 5-15-2018)
7-5-3: TERM OF RECOVERY PERIOD:
The cost recovery period shall be limited to ten (10) years from the date of
the original section of road construction and ten (10) years from the date of
the first road extension to said original road construction. (Ord. 18-02, 5-15-
2018)
7-5-4: NONAPPLICABLE TO NEW SUBDIVISIONS:
The cost recovery policy set forth in this chapter shall not apply to new
subdivisions as the owners or developers of such subdivisions can pass such
costs on to buyers of subdivided lots. (Ord. 18-02, 5-15-2018)
7-5-5: CITY EXEMPT FROM POLICY:
The City shall be exempt from this policy and may extend roadways for any
purpose at any time without repayment of extension costs. (Ord. 18-02, 5-15-
2018)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
UTILITY SERVICES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Application For Utility Service
8-1-2: Discontinuance For Nonpayment
8-1-3: Limitations On Discontinuance
8-1-4: Conflicts
8-1-5: Publication Of Related Actions; Severability
8-1-1: APPLICATION FOR UTILITY SERVICE:
Before furnishing water or providing sewer service or electrical service to a
property, the property owner, or an owner's authorized agent, shall submit a
written application to the City, signed by the owner or authorized agent,
agreeing to pay for all water furnished or sewer service or electrical service
provided to the property, whether occupied by a tenant or other occupant. (Ord.
05-01, 1-11-2005)
8-1-2: DISCONTINUANCE FOR NONPAYMENT:
If an owner fails to pay for water furnished or sewer services or electrical
services provided to the owner's property, the City will discontinue furnishing
such water, sewer or electrical services to the property, until all amounts for
such water, sewer and electrical services provided, are paid in full, subject
to section
8-1-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 05-01, 1-11-2005)
8-1-3: LIMITATIONS ON DISCONTINUANCE:
   A.   Transfer Of Ownership: The City may not use an owner's failure to pay
for water furnished or sewer service or electrical service provided to the
owner's property as a basis for not furnishing water or provide sewer or
electrical service to the property after ownership of the property is
transferred to a subsequent owner.
   B.   Nonliability Of New Owner: The City may not require an owner to pay the
water that was furnished or sewer service or electrical service that was
provided to the property before the ownership. (Ord. 05-01, 1-11-2005)
8-1-4: CONFLICTS:
All ordinances, resolutions, orders or other actions of the City Council in
conflict with the provisions of this title are, to the extent of such conflict,
deemed to be amended by this title to conform with the provisions of this
title. (1995 Code § 3-4-302)
8-1-5: PUBLICATION OF RELATED ACTIONS; SEVERABILITY:
Any actions taken by the City Council that relates to this title shall be
recorded with this title. Actions that shall be published with this title
include, but are not limited to, resolutions, policies or franchise agreements.
(1995 Code § 3-4-303)
The provisions of this title are severable, and the invalidity of any phrase,
clause, section, or part of this title shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness or the remainder of the title. (1995 Code § 3-4-301)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT AND SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Organization Of Department
8-2-2: Scope Of System
8-2-3: Ownership Of System
8-2-4: Contract For Management
8-2-5: Service Limits
8-2-6: Application For Service
8-2-7: Deposit Required
8-2-8: Rates And Penalty Fees
8-2-9: Meters
8-2-10: Easements
8-2-11: Wiring
8-2-12: Tampering With System
8-2-13: Penalty
8-2-1: ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Created; Department Head: There is hereby created the Department of
Electricity. The department shall consist of a department head, who shall be a
member of the City Council, and such other persons as shall be appointed to
serve in the department from time to time. (1995 Code § 3-4-101)
   B.   Appointment Of Officers And Employees: All other officers and employees
in the department shall be appointed by the Mayor, upon the recommendation of
the department head and Personnel Officer, with the advice and consent of the
City Council. (1995 Code § 3-4-102)
   C.   Objectives Of Department: The Department of Electricity is created with
the express objective of providing electricity and electrical services to the
residents of the City and whosoever else the City Council deems appropriate.
(1995 Code § 3-4-103)
8-2-2: SCOPE OF SYSTEM:
   A.   Maintenance: The City Electric System shall be maintained so that the
system may meet both present electrical need and future electrical need of the
residents of the City.
   B.   Electrical Code Compliance: The City Electric System shall be
constructed and maintained in accordance with the most recent edition of the
National Electrical Code.
   C.   Obstruction Of Easements: Construction over or under any City utility
line is prohibited. Utility easements shall remain free of obstruction for
system maintenance and repairs.
   D.   Costs Of Maintenance; Upgrades And Extensions: Normal costs of
electrical system maintenance shall be paid from revenues received from
electrical services and not from taxation of City residents. If a user of the
City electricity requests an upgrade or extension of the system which is not
part of normal maintenance, the cost of such upgrade or extension shall be
borne by the user. (1995 Code § 3-4-201)
   E.   Customer new construction or changes to existing electric systems where
they interconnect to the City distribution system shall meet the standards of
meters, installation and service as set forth in Fillmore City Electric
Policies. (1995 Code § 3-4-207; amd. Ord. 17-01, 3-21-2017)
   F.   All ordinances, resolutions, orders, or other actions of the Fillmore
City Council in conflict with the provisions of this section are, to the extent
of such conflict deemed to be amended by this section to conform with the
provisions of this section. (1995 Code § 3-4-302)
8-2-3: OWNERSHIP OF SYSTEM:
All property used to carry out the objectives stated in subsection 8-2-1C of
this chapter, including, but not limited to, all electrical meters located on
properties served by the Department of Electricity, is the property of the
City. (1995 Code § 3-4-202)
8-2-4: CONTRACT FOR MANAGEMENT:
The City Council shall have authority to contract with a private entity for the
management of the City Electrical System. (1995 Code § 3-4-213)
8-2-5: SERVICE LIMITS:
The City Electrical System shall operate within the City boundaries. The City
may construct electric infrastructure outside City boundaries in certain
circumstances in order to further the City Electrical System; however, the City
will not allow connections to the Fillmore City Electrical System outside of
its City boundaries. (1995 Code § 3-4-203; amd. Ord. 23-01, 2-7-2023)
8-2-6: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
Persons desiring service from the City electric distribution system must apply
for such service to the City. Requirements for the application shall be adopted
by the City Council through either policy or resolution. (1995 Code § 3-4-205)
8-2-7: DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
With each application, there shall be a deposit in an amount determined by the
City Council. The City Council shall adopt deposit requirements and procedures
through either policy or resolution. (1995 Code § 3-4-206)
8-2-8: RATES AND PENALTY FEES:
   A.   Billing: Bills for electric service shall be sent at such times as the
City Council designates. The City Council shall adopt procedures concerning
billing through either policy or resolution. (1995 Code § 3-4-210)
   B.   Rate Schedule; Penalty: The City Council shall have the power to
establish electrical rates. The City Council shall adopt rates in the form of
policy or resolution, and such rates shall be included in the fee and rate
schedule. All accounts shall be assessed a penalty of five percent (5%) on the
unpaid balance after the fifteenth of each month. Should the fifteenth fall on
a weekend or City observed holiday, the penalty deadline shall be extended to
the next business day. (Ord. 06-04, 4-4-2006)
8-2-9: METERS:
   A.   Required: All premises served by the City electric distribution system
shall be equipped with an accurate meter, and paid for and installed according
to City Electric Policies. All charges shall be on the appropriate electric
rate.
   B.   Access: All utility meters shall be outside and accessible to
authorized representatives of the City.
   C.   Renewal Power Interconnections: Renewal power interconnections to the
City system shall be as required in the City Electric Policies.
   D.   Customer new construction or changes to existing electric systems where
they interconnect to the City distribution system shall meet the standards of
meters, installation and service as set forth in Fillmore City Electric
Policies. (1995 Code § 3-4-207; amd. Ord. 17-01, 3-21-2017)
8-2-10: EASEMENTS:
Construction over or under any City utility line is prohibited. Utility
easements must remain free of obstruction for system maintenance. The City
Council may authorize relocation of existing utilities and utility easements,
but it shall be the policy of the City that the City not bear such relocation
costs unless such relocation benefits the City as a whole. (Ord. 01-04, 6-5-
2001)
8-2-11: WIRING:
Electrical current shall not be turned on into any new wiring installed after
January 21, 1992 unless:
   A.   The wiring fully complies with the provisions of the most recent
edition of the National Electrical Code; and
   B.   The City building inspector has certified, in writing, that the wiring
complies with the provisions of the most recent edition of the National
Electrical Code. (1995 Code § 3-4-209)
8-2-12: TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful to tamper, modify, injure or change any part of the City
electric distribution system, or any meter thereon, without authority from the
City Council. A license from the State or the City for electrical contracting
shall be deemed sufficient authority from the City. (1995 Code § 3-4-211)
8-2-13: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter
4 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1995 Code § 3-4-212; amd.
2019 Code)
ARTICLE A. ELECTRIC UTILITY COST RECOVERY POLICY
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Policy For Recovery
8-2A-2: Appeal To City Council
8-2A-3: Term Of Recovery Period
8-2A-4: Nonapplicable To New Subdivisions
8-2A-5: City Exempt From Policy
8-2A-6: Penalty
8-2A-1: POLICY FOR RECOVERY:
   A.   Specified: Subject to section
8-2A-2 of this article, any person who requests and is qualified to receive
electric service from the City shall pay all the costs associated with
extending the electrical system to the customer's premises; provided, said
person and each customer who connects to the extended electrical system
thereafter, shall be entitled to a recovery of fifty percent (50%) of the costs
he/she pays for connecting to said electrical system from the next subsequent
customer who connects thereon. When a person recovers said costs from the next
subsequent customer who connects to the system, said person shall be deemed
compensated in full and no longer eligible to recover additional costs. Subject
to section
8-2A-3 of this article, recovery cost reimbursement shall cease once recovery
costs reach a minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   Illustration: By way of illustration:
      1.   Customer A requests and pays ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for a
one thousand foot (1,000') utility line extension. Customer B hooks up to the
line four hundred feet (400') from the original point of extension, attributing
forty percent (40%) of the line to customer B (1,000 times 40 percent equals
400 feet). Customer A is entitled to fifty percent (50%) of the cost value from
customer B's hookup ($10,000.00 times 40 percent equals $4,000.00). Customer A
may continue to recoup from subsequent customers up to fifty percent (50%) of
the costs expended to extend the line. Customer A shall then be considered
fully compensated and become ineligible to recover any additional costs.
      2.   Customer C is given a connection to the original line extension.
Customer B shall be entitled to recovery from customer C and/or subsequent
customers two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), which is fifty percent
(50%) of the cost customer B paid to customer A ($5,000.00). Customer B shall
then be considered fully compensated and become ineligible to recover any
additional costs.
      3.   Customer B requests and pays for an additional line extension,
beyond customer A's original line extension. Customer A shall be entitled to
recover fifty percent (50%) of his/her total extension costs ($5,000.00) from
customer B. Customer B shall be entitled to recover fifty percent (50%) from
customer C and/or subsequent customers ($2,500.00) of the costs customer B paid
to customer A and in addition thereto, customer B shall be entitled to recover
fifty percent (50%) of the costs from customers who connect to customer B's
additional line extension. Customer B shall then be considered fully
compensated and become ineligible to recover any additional costs.
      4.   This pattern continues until the cost recovery is less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-2A-2: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
If situations arise that make it difficult or inequitable to apply the cost
recovery formula set forth in section
8-2A-1 of this article, the City Council will determine the amount allowed, on
a case by case basis, to the person or entity entitled to cost recovery. Such a
determination shall be made only after such person or entity appeals to the
City Council for consideration of such cost recovery. The City Council's
decision shall be final. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-2A-3: TERM OF RECOVERY PERIOD:
The cost recovery period shall be limited to ten (10) years from the date of
the first service connection on the original line extension and ten (10) years
from the date of the first service connection on any extension to said original
line extension. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-2A-4: NONAPPLICABLE TO NEW SUBDIVISIONS:
The cost recovery policy set forth in this article shall not apply to new
subdivisions, as the owners or developers of such subdivisions can pass such
costs on to buyers of subdivided lots. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-2A-5: CITY EXEMPT FROM POLICY:
The City shall be exempt from this policy and may connect to any electric
system for any purpose at any time without repayment of extension costs. (Ord.
05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-2A-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this article shall
be guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter
4 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (2019 Code)
CHAPTER 3
WATER DEPARTMENT AND SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Organization Of Department
8-3-2: Water System Defined
8-3-3: Water Connections
8-3-4: Rates And Penalty Fees
8-3-5: Meters
8-3-6: Line Construction
8-3-7: Plumbing Service
8-3-8: Resale Of Water
8-3-9: Easements
8-3-10: Reduction In Water Usage
8-3-11: Tampering With System
8-3-12: Unlawful Connections
8-3-13: Penalty
8-3-14: Water Shutoff Authorized When
8-3-1: ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Water Department Created: There is hereby created the Department of
Water. The department shall consist of a department head, who shall be a member
of the City Council, and such other persons as shall be appointed to serve in
the department from time to time. (1995 Code § 3-5-101)
   B.   Water Superintendent:
      1.   The Mayor shall appoint, with the advice and consent of the City
Council, a person to supervise the City's water system. He or she shall be
known as the Water Superintendent.
      2.   The Water Superintendent shall have charge of all waters and water
sources, water tanks, water mains, fire hydrants, and all equipment pertaining
to the water system.
      3.   He or she shall supervise the laying of water mains and putting in
all service pipes, and shall regulate the supply or water in the City.
      4.   He or she shall also perform such other duties as may be required by
ordinance or by the direction of the Mayor or City Council. (1995 Code § 3-5-
202)
   C.   Appointment Of Officers And Employees: All other officers and employees
in the department shall be appointed by the Mayor, upon the recommendation of
the department head and Personnel Officer, with the advice and consent of the
City Council. (1995 Code § 3-5-102)
   D.   Objectives Of Department: The Department of Water is created with the
express objective of providing culinary water and water service to the
residents of the City and whosoever else the City Council deems appropriate.
(1995 Code § 3-5-103)
8-3-2: WATER SYSTEM DEFINED:
The water system consisting of water rights, tanks, pipelines, fire hydrants,
water meters and all other equipment used with water management, transportation
or consumption owned and maintained by the City is hereby designated as part of
the City Water System. (1995 Code § 3-5-201)
8-3-3: WATER CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Connection Requires Authority: The water from the City water supply
shall not be turned on for service into any premises by any person but the
Water Superintendent or some person authorized by him to perform this service.
(1995 Code § 3-5-203)
   B.   Application; Agreement: Application to have water turned on shall be
made to the City Treasurer, or other City officer or employee, and shall
contain an agreement for the applicant to abide by and accept all provisions of
this chapter and conditions governing the use of the City water supply. (1995
Code § 3-5-203; amd. 2019 Code)
   C.   Special Permission For Additional Users: It shall be unlawful for two
(2) or more families or service users to be supplied from the same service
pipe, connection or water meter unless special permission for such usage has
been granted by the City Council and the premises served is owned by the same
owner. (1995 Code § 3-5-203)
   D.   Service Pipe Defined: Service pipe shall mean any pipe smaller than a
four inch (4") pipe.
   E.   Inadequate Lines: New development in areas with an existing service
line which is four inches (4") or smaller and which the City Water
Superintendent deems inadequate to service the new development, shall be
required to extend a main line at the expense of the developer. Size of main
line to be determined by the City Water Superintendent to provide adequate fire
protection. Main line pipe shall be six inches (6") or larger. (Ord. 99-03, 2-
2-1999)
8-3-4: RATES AND PENALTY FEES:
   A.   Rate Schedule: The City Council shall have the power to establish water
rates. The City Council shall adopt rates in the form of policy or resolution
and such rates shall be included in the fee and rate schedule.
   B.   Collection; Penalty: Policies and procedures of the City for collecting
payment of water bills shall be included in the City Utility Policy as adopted
or amended by the City Council. All accounts shall be assessed a penalty of
five percent (5%) of the unpaid balance after the fifteenth of each month.
Should the fifteenth fall on a weekend or City observed holiday, the penalty
deadline shall be extended to the next business day. (Ord. 06-04, 4-4-2006)
8-3-5: METERS:
   A.   Required: All premises using City water supply must be equipped with an
adequate water meter furnished by the City, but paid for by the consumer;
provided, that such water service may be supplied by the City at a flat rate of
charge until such meter may be installed.
   B.   Location; Access: The meter shall be installed in a location that will
provide easy access to the City.
   C.   Readings: The Public Works Superintendent shall read or cause to be
read all water meters used in the City on a bi-monthly basis and bill the water
user in monthly installments. (1995 Code § 3-5-401)
8-3-6: LINE CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Installation:
      1.   All service pipes from the mains to the premises served shall be
installed by the owner of the property to be served or the applicant for the
service. Such installation shall be under the inspection of the Water
Superintendent.
      2.   All extension of the water main line shall be made at the expense of
the person or other entity desiring to extend the main line, except that no
main line may be extended without the permission of the City Council.
         a.   Any person or other entity who connects to a water main line
which was extended at the expense of a private property owner shall be liable
to the person or other entity that bore the original expense of extending the
main line.
         b.   Fillmore City shall make all reasonable attempts including
placing a lien on the property of the person who connects to the main line
extended by the original private property owner.
   B.   Service Limits: The City's Culinary Water System shall operate within
the City boundaries. The City may construct culinary water infrastructure
outside City boundaries in certain circumstances in order to further the City's
Culinary Water System; however, the City will not allow connections to the
City's Culinary Water System outside of City boundaries.
   C.   Specifications: No service shall be installed unless it conforms to
specifications drawn up by the City Council and approved thereby.
   D.   Maintenance: All repairs for service pipes and plumbing systems of the
building shall be made by and at the expense of the owners of the premises
served. The City may, in case of emergency, repair any service pipes and if
this is done, the cost of such repairs shall be repaid to the City by the owner
of the premises served.
   E.   Excavations: Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the
same shall remain in compliance with the ordinance provisions relating to
making excavations in the streets; provided, that it shall be unlawful to place
any service pipe in the same excavation with, or directly over, any drain pipe
or sewer pipe.
   F.   Shutoff Boxes: Shutoff boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every
service pipe and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line
where this is practicable. Such boxes shall be so located so that they are
easily accessible and shall be protected from frost. (1995 Code §§ 3-5-301
through 3-5-306; amd. 2019 Code; Ord. 23-01, 2-7-2023)
8-3-7: PLUMBING SERVICE:
No water shall be turned on temporarily for service in premises in which the
plumbing does not comply with the ordinances of the City; provided, that water
may be turned on temporarily for construction work in an unfinished building,
subject to the provisions of this chapter. (1995 Code § 3-5-204)
8-3-8: RESALE OF WATER:
No water shall be resold or distributed by the recipient thereof from the City
water supply to any premises other than that for which application has been
made and the meter installed, except in case of emergency. (1995 Code § 3-5-
205)
8-3-9: EASEMENTS:
Construction over or under any City utility line is prohibited. Utility
easements must remain free of obstruction for system maintenance. The City
Council may authorize relocation of existing utilities and utility easements,
but it shall be the policy of the City that the City not bear such relocation
costs unless such relocation benefits the City as a whole. (Ord. 01-04, 6-5-
2001)
8-3-10: REDUCTION IN WATER USAGE:
   A.   Authority: The Mayor is hereby empowered pursuant to title 1, chapter 6
of this Code to ration water when in his or her judgment such need exists.
   B.   Water Usage Reduction: In the event it becomes necessary to reduce
water usage in the City due to water scarcity, drought or other unforeseen
conditions, the Mayor is hereby directed to reduce water usage in the following
order:
      1.   Outdoor Water Usage: The Mayor may proclaim the number of hours of
water usage and/or the time of outdoor water usage, up to and including no
outdoor water usage.
      2.   Large Water Users: Water users who use in excess of fifteen thousand
(15,000) gallons per month, shall be required to reduce usage to the number of
gallons proclaimed by the Mayor.
      3.   City Property: The Mayor may proclaim the number of hours of water
usage or the time for water usage for City property, up to and including no
water usage.
   C.   Prioritization Of Categories: The City Council may, by separate policy
or regulation, prioritize under each category set forth under subsection B of
this section, a reduction of the types of water uses and if pertinent, the
location of water use.
   D.   Exigent Circumstances: Notwithstanding subsection B of this section,
the Mayor may direct a reduction in water use other than as set forth in this
section if in his/her judgment a different priority schedule is warranted under
the circumstances.
   E.   Additional Remedies: In addition to and apart from any criminal
proceeding initiated hereunder, the Mayor is hereby authorized to take any
enforcement measures he/she deems necessary to protect the City water supply,
including, but not limited to, refusing water service to any person or entity
who fails to comply with any water reduction schedule mandated by the Mayor or
City Council. The City may also pursue any other remedy available at law or in
equity. In furtherance thereof, the City Council may adopt rules or policies,
from time to time, governing the procedure to be used by the City in pursuing
such remedies. (Ord. 02-15, 8-20-2002)
   F.   Penalty: Any violations of this section shall be a Class B misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 02-15,
8-20-2002; amd. 2019 Code)
8-3-11: TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the City to tamper with,
alter or injure any part of the City waterworks or supply system, or any meter.
(1995 Code § 3-5-206)
8-3-12: UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS:
Any person, firm or corporation shall not make any connection to the City
waterworks system without the permission of the City. (1995 Code § 3-5-403)
8-3-13: PENALTY:
   A.   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted as prohibiting institution
of criminal charges against any person stealing water from the City by
bypassing a meter, tampering with a meter or by any other means.
   B.   Any person found violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class C misdemeanor upon conviction of a first offense. A second
conviction under this chapter shall be a Class B misdemeanor. A third
conviction under this section shall be a Class “A” Misdemeanor. A fourth
conviction under this section shall be a third degree felony. (1995 Code § 3-5-
404; amd. 2019 Code)
8-3-14: WATER SHUTOFF AUTHORIZED WHEN:
Fillmore City reserves the right at any time, without notice, to shut off the
water from its mains for the purpose of making repairs or extensions, or for
other purposes, and no claim shall be made against the city, by reason of any
breakage whatsoever, or for any damage that may result from shutting off the
water for repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or other connections,
or for any other reason whatsoever. (Ord. 14-16, 5-7-2024)
ARTICLE A. BACKFLOW AND CROSS CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Title
8-3A-2: Purpose
8-3A-3: Definitions
8-3A-4: City Responsibility
8-3A-5: Consumer Responsibility
8-3A-6: Building Inspector Responsibility
8-3A-7: Certified Backflow Technicians, Surveyors And Repair Persons
Responsibility
8-3A-8: Pollution Control Requirements
8-3A-9: Discontinuance Of Service
8-3A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the CROSS CONNECTIONS ORDINANCE OF FILLMORE
CITY. (1995 Code § 3-5-501)
8-3A-2: PURPOSE:
The purposes of this article are to:
   A.   Protect the safe drinking water supply of the City from the possibility
of contamination or pollution by adopting codes, health regulations, OSHA and
other applicable industry standards for water system safety within the water
system. Compliance with these minimum Safety Codes will be considered
reasonable vigilance for prevention of contaminants or pollutants which could
backflow into the public drinking water systems; and
   B.   Promote reasonable elimination or control of cross connections in the
plumbing fixtures and industrial and local Plumbing Codes, health regulations,
OSHA and other applicable industry standards to assure water system safety; and
   C.   Provide for the administration of a continuing program of backflow
prevention which will systematically and effectively prevent the contamination
or pollution of all drinking water systems. (1995 Code § 3-5-502)
8-3A-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY: Accepted by the Utah Department of Health, Bureau
of Drinking Water and Sanitation, as meeting an applicable specification or as
suitable for the proposed use.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the purveyor's public water supply will be considered as an auxiliary
water supply. These auxiliary waters may include water from another purveyor's
public potable water supply or any natural sources, such as a well, spring,
river, stream, harbor, etc., or "used waters" or "industrial fluids". These
waters may be contaminated or polluted, or they may be objectionable and
constitute an unacceptable water source over which the water purveyor does not
have authority for sanitary control.
BACK PRESSURE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances under
pressure into the feeding distribution pipes of a potable water supply system
from any source, other than the intended source.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances
under pressure into the feeding distribution pipes of a potable water supply
system.
BACKFLOW: The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: An assembly or means designed to prevent
backflow. Specifications for backflow prevention assemblies are contained
within the Utah Plumbing Code, and the Cross Connection Control Program for
Utah.
CONTAMINATION: A degradation of the quality of the potable water supply by
sewage, industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or fixtures
which may allow nonpotable water or industrial fluids or other materials of
questionable quality to come in contact with potable water inside a
distribution system. This would include any temporary connections, such as
swing connections, removable sections, four way plug valves, spools, dummy
sections of pipe, swivel or change over devices or sliding multiport tubes or
other plumbing arrangements.
CROSS CONNECTION CONTAINMENT: The installation of an approved backflow assembly
at the water service connection to any customer's premises where it is
physically and economically infeasible to find and permanently eliminate or
control all actual or potential cross connections within the customer's water
system, or it shall mean the installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly on the service line leading to and supplying a portion of a customer's
water system where there are actual or potential cross connections which cannot
be effectively eliminated or controlled at the point of the cross connection
(isolation).
CROSS CONNECTION, CONTROLLED: A connection between a potable water system and a
nonpotable water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly properly
installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the protection
commensurate with the degree of hazard.
WATER PURVEYOR: Fillmore City and the Water Superintendent are vested with the
authority and responsibility for the implementation of an effective cross
connection control program and for the enforcement of the provisions of this
article. (1995 Code § 3-5-508; amd. 2019 Code)
8-3A-4: CITY RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   System Protection: The City shall be responsible for the protection of
the drinking water distribution system from foreseeable conditions leading to
possible contamination or pollution of the drinking water system due to the
backflow of contaminants or pollutants into drinking water supply.
   B.   Surveys Or Inspections: Drinking water system surveys or inspections of
the consumer's water distribution system shall be conducted or caused to be
conducted by individuals deemed qualified by and representing the City. Survey
records shall indicate compliance with the aforementioned health and safety
standard. All such records will be maintained by the City.
   C.   Notice Of Survey Requirement: The City shall notify in writing all
consumers of the need for the periodic system survey to ensure compliance with
existing applicable minimum health and safety standards.
   D.   Type Of Assembly: Selection of an approved backflow prevention assembly
for containment control required at the service entrance shall be determined
from the results of the system survey. (1995 Code § 3-5-503)
8-3A-5: CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Compliance: It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to comply
with this article as a term and condition of supply and consumer's acceptance
of service is admittance of his or her awareness.
   B.   Device Or Assembly: It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to
purchase, install, test and maintain any backflow prevention device or assembly
required to comply with this article. (1995 Code § 3-5-504)
8-3A-6: BUILDING INSPECTOR RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Begins At Point Of Service: The building inspector's responsibility to
enforce the applicable sections of the Plumbing Code begins at the point of
service (downstream or consumer side of the meter) and continues throughout the
developed length of the consumer's water system.
   B.   Plan Review: The building inspector will review all plans to ensure
that unprotected cross connections are not an integral part of the consumer's
water system. If a cross connection cannot be eliminated, it must be protected
by the installation of an air gap or an approved backflow prevention device or
assembly, in accordance with the Utah Plumbing Code.
   C.   Approved Assembly: Water vacating the drinking water supply must do so
via approved air gap or approved mechanical backflow prevention assembly,
properly installed and in accordance with the Utah Plumbing Code. (1995 Code §
3-5-505)
8-3A-7: CERTIFIED BACKFLOW TECHNICIANS, SURVEYORS AND REPAIR PERSONS
RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Specified: Whether employed by the consumer or a utility to test,
repair or maintain backflow prevention assemblies, the certified backflow
technicians, surveyors or repair persons will have the following
responsibilities:
      1.   Ensuring acceptance testing equipment and procedures are used for
testing, repairing or overhauling backflow prevention assemblies.
      2.   Make reports of such testing and/or repair to the consumer, water
purveyor, and the Bureau of Drinking Water and Sanitation on forms approved for
such use by the Bureau of Drinking Water and Sanitation, and within the time
frame prescribed by the Bureau of Drinking Water and Sanitation.
      3.   The report shall include the list of materials or replacement parts
used.
      4.   Ensuring replacement parts are equal in quality to the parts
originally supplied by the manufacturer of the assembly being repaired.
      5.   Not changing the design, material or operational characteristics of
the assembly during testing, repair or maintenance. (1995 Code § 3-5-506)
   B.   Commercial Assembly: In the case of a consumer requiring a commercially
available technician, any certified technician is authorized to make the test
and report of results of that test to the consumer, water purveyor and the
Bureau of Drinking Water and Sanitation. If such a commercially test assembly
is in need of repair, a licensed plumber shall make the actual repair. (1995
Code § 3-5-506; amd. 2019 Code)
8-3A-8: POLLUTION CONTROL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Policy: No water service connection to any premises shall be installed
or maintained by the public water purveyor unless the water supply is protected
as required by State laws, regulations, codes, other State requirements, and
this article. Services of water to a consumer found to be in violation of this
article shall be discontinued by the water purveyor after due process of
written notification of violation and an appropriate time suspense for
voluntary compliance if: (1995 Code § 3-5-507; amd. 2019 Code)
      1.   A backflow prevention assembly required by this article for control
of backflow and cross connections is not installed, tested and maintained; or
      2.   If it is found that a backflow prevention assembly has been removed
or by passed; or
      3.   If an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises; or
      4.   If the periodic system survey has not been conducted.
   B.   Inspections: The customer's system shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the water purveyor to
determine whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violation of this article, exist and to audit the results of the
required survey. (1995 Code § 3-5-507)
   C.   Assembly Required: Whenever the public water purveyor deems a service
connection's water usage contributes a sufficient hazard to the water supply,
an approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on the service line
of the identified consumer's water system, at or near the property line, or
immediately inside the building being serviced as requested by the water
purveyor; but, in all cases, before the first branch line leading off the
service line. (1995 Code § 3-5-507; amd. 2019 Code)
   D.   Type Of Assembly: The type of protective assembly required shall depend
upon the degree of hazard which exists at the point of cross connection
(whether direct or indirect), applicable to local and State requirements or
resulting from the required survey.
   E.   Presently Installed Assemblies: All presently installed backflow
prevention assemblies which do not meet the requirements of this section but
were approved assemblies for the purposes described herein at the time of
installation and which have been properly maintained, shall, except for the
inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirements of
these rules so long as the water purveyor is assured that they will
satisfactorily protect the public water system. Whenever more than minimum
maintenance or when the water purveyor finds that the operation or maintenance
of this assembly constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by
an approved backflow prevention assembly meeting the local and State
requirements.
   F.   Surveys Or Inspections: It shall be the responsibility of the consumer
at any premises where backflow prevention assemblies are installed to have
certified surveys or inspections and operational tests made at least once per
year at the consumer's expense. In those instances where the public water
purveyor deems the hazard to be great, he may require certified surveys and
inspections and tests at a more frequent interval. It shall be the duty of the
public water purveyor to see that these tests are made according to the
standards set forth by the State Department of Health, Bureau of Drinking Water
and Sanitation.
   G.   Time Of Testing: All backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested
within ten (10) working days of initial installation.
   H.   Safety Hazards: No backflow prevention assembly shall be installed so
as to create a safety hazard. Example: Installed over an electrical panel,
steam pipes, boilers, pits or above ceiling level. (1995 Code § 3-5-507)
8-3A-9: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
If violations of this article exist, or if there has not been any corrective
action taken by the consumer within ten (10) days of the written notification
of deficiencies noted within the survey, then the public water purveyor shall
deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by providing a physical
break in the service line until the customer has corrected the conditions in
conformance with the State and City Statutes relating to the regulations
adopted pursuant hereto. (1995 Code § 3-5-509)
ARTICLE B. WATER UTILITY COST RECOVERY POLICY
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Policy For Recovery
8-3B-2: Appeal To City Council
8-3B-3: Term Of Recovery Period
8-3B-4: Nonapplicable To New Subdivisions
8-3B-5: City Exempt From Policy
8-3B-6: Penalty
8-3B-1: POLICY FOR RECOVERY:
   A.   Specified: Subject to section
8-3B-2 of this article, any person who requests and is qualified to receive
water service from the City shall pay all the costs associated with extending
the water system to the customer's premises; provided, said person and each
customer who connects to the extended water system thereafter, shall be
entitled to a recovery of fifty percent (50%) of the costs he/she pays for
connecting to said water system from the next subsequent customer who connects
thereon. When a person recovers said costs from the next subsequent customer
who connects to the system, said person shall be deemed compensated in full and
no longer eligible to recover additional costs. Subject to section
8-3B-3 of this article, recovery costs reimbursement shall cease once recovery
costs reach a minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   Illustration: By way of illustration, see section 8-2A-1B of this
title, the Electric Utility Cost Recovery Policy. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-3B-2: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
If situations arise that make it difficult or inequitable to apply the cost
recovery formula set forth in this article, the City Council will determine the
amount allowed, on a case by case basis, to the person or entity entitled to
cost recovery. Such a determination shall be made only after such person or
entity appeals to the City Council for consideration of such cost recovery. The
City Council's decision shall be final. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-3B-3: TERM OF RECOVERY PERIOD:
The cost recovery period shall be limited to ten (10) years from the date of
the first service connection on the original line extension and ten (10) years
from the date of the first service connection on any extensions to said
original line extension. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-3B-4: NONAPPLICABLE TO NEW SUBDIVISIONS:
The cost recovery policy set forth in this article shall not apply to new
subdivisions as the owners or developers of such subdivisions can pass such
costs on to buyers of subdivided lots. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-3B-5: CITY EXEMPT FROM POLICY:
The City shall be exempt from this policy and may connect to any water system
for any purpose at any time without repayment of extension costs. (Ord. 05-11,
10-18-2005)
8-3B-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this section shall
be guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter
4 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005;
amd. 2019 Code)
ARTICLE C. CONVEYANCE OF ADEQUATE WATER FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
8-3C-1: Title
8-3C-2: Purpose
8-3C-3: Timing
8-3C-4: Amount Or Quantity Required
8-3C-5: Fee
8-3C-6: Quality Of Water Resource
8-3C-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the CONVEYANCE OF WATER FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT
ORDINANCE OF FILLMORE CITY. (Ord. 24-19, 8-6-2024)
8-3C-2: PURPOSE:
The purposes of this article are as follows:
A.   The City's primary purpose for establishing this article is to acquire
municipal water rights and resources to serve its future population with
culinary water.
B.   In consideration of the current City water rights and resources,
anticipated growth and expansion of service area, pending studies, and
considering the reasonable future requirements of the City, the City finds that
new development and annexed property must provide the City with sufficient
municipal water rights to satisfy all future anticipated culinary uses.
C.   The City Council shall determine the sufficient acre feet for each single-
family residence, multi-family, industrial or commercial installation based on
anticipated water use, in a quality, quantity and priority as advised and
considering the requirements of the Utah Division of Drinking Water and the
Utah Division of Water Rights. (Ord. 24-19, 8-6-2024)
8-3C-3: TIMING:
A.   New Development: Prior to final approval of a plat map, if required, or
prior to issuance of a building permit, when no plat map is required, all new
development must convey water right(s) to the City in an amount sufficient to
meet anticipated demand for the proposed use(s) or pay a fee in lieu of
conveying water as provided herein. No plat will be recorded, no building
permit will be approved, and no certificate of occupancy will be issued until
the City accepts or receives such contribution or payment as provided herein.
B.   Annexation: Prior to final approval of any annexation, including the
approval of an annexation ordinance, the petitioner of such annexation petition
must convey to the City by warranty deed all water right(s) required herein.
The details regarding the transfer of water will be included within an
annexation agreement between the petitioner and the City and shall be recorded
at the office of the Millard County Recorder.
C.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this code, no additional water will be
required for any existing dwelling or structure within the City as of the date
of approval of this article. This includes constructed dwellings or structures
and valid, approved building permits for dwellings or structures. (Ord. 24-19,
8-6-2024)
8-3C-4: AMOUNT OR QUANTITY REQUIRED:
A.   The amount (number of acre-feet) of water required to be conveyed to the
City shall be the amount considered sufficient to meet the water use
requirements of the proposed use, to be determined in accordance with the
following table:
 
                      Based on Equivalent
Use                   Residential Connections Acre-Feet Required per ERC
                      (ERC)
                                              The average annual ERC use as
Residential Uses      1.00 per dwelling unit  established in the current
                                              Division Of Drinking Water for
                                              Fillmore City1
Non-residential Uses  An amount sufficient to meet the projected needs of the
(including, but not   proposed development based on an evaluation of demand
limited to Industrial characteristics for similar uses as determined by the
and Commercial Uses)  City’s engineering department
 
Subject to change to follow the average annual ERC use as established in the
current Division of Drinking Water for Fillmore City.
B.   Unless otherwise mitigated, the priority date of any contributed water
right(s) relied upon to meet these ordinances must have sufficient seniority to
be deemed a reliable source of water in perpetuity without risk of a priority
call.
C.   Subsequent to a determination of water requirement, if the use of an
existing development is modified and results in an increased use of water,
additional water right(s) sufficient to meet the projected needs of the
modified use shall be required to be conveyed to the City before a building
permit is issued. If a building permit is not required for the expanded use of
water, the owner of the land shall provide additional water right(s) to the
City to meet the expanded use within thirty (30) days of the expanded use.
D.   Any person or entity desiring to extend the water system of the City to a
project or development, including extensions for annexations, shall submit a
description of the project, engineered drawings and projections for the
development and culinary water use. For an annexation petition, this
information will provide a basis for an annexation agreement between the
developer and the City.
1.   Currently 0.90 per ERC for combined indoor/outdoor use for a single family
home, but subject to change in accordance with the average annual ERC use as
established in the current Division of Drinking Water for Fillmore City.
(Ord. 24-19, 8-6-2024)
8-3C-5: FEE:
For all developments within City limits, a developer shall pay a fee of three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per equivalent residential connection ("ERC") in
lieu of conveying water for all developments. If the demand for a development
exceeds one hundred fifty (150) ERCs, the developer is not eligible to pay a
fee and must convey water right(s) as provided herein. (Ord. 24-19, 8-6-2024)
8-3C-6: QUALITY OF WATER RESOURCE:
Water right(s) conveyed to the City in satisfaction of this article shall meet
the following requirements:
A.   The City shall have opportunity to review such water right(s) and any
document deemed relevant to the City's review in order to indicate its
willingness to accept the water right(s).
B.   The water right(s) shall have a priority date with sufficient seniority to
be deemed a reliable source of water in perpetuity without risk of a priority
call as determined by the City.
C.   Any applicant for annexation must have complied with any water provisions
in the Annexation Agreement entered for said purpose.
D.   The executed warranty deed of the water right(s) and the executed
Annexation Agreement must be duly recorded with the Millard County Recorder's
Office.
E.   The water right(s) must be approved without appeal or reconsideration from
the Utah Division of Water Rights for diversion of the water for year-round
municipal purposes from the City's sources and beneficial use within the City's
service area.
F.   If a former well(s) is required to be abandoned, the applicant or
developer must abandon the well and provide evidence of that act to the Utah
Division of Water Rights before acceptance of water right(s) by the City. (Ord.
24-19, 8-6-2024)
CHAPTER 4
SEWER DEPARTMENT AND SYSTEM REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Organization Of Department
8-4-2: Sewer Policy
8-4-3: Connection Required; Exception
8-4-4: Rates And Penalty Fees
8-4-5: Easements
8-4-6: Pipes In Good Repair
8-4-7: Quality Of Service Pipe
8-4-8: Maintenance And Access
8-4-9: Harmful Substances
8-4-1: ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Sewer Department Created: There is hereby created the City Sewer
Department. The department shall consist of a department head, who shall be a
member of the City Council. The Sewer Department shall be maintained and
supervised by the Sewer Superintendent. The Sewer Superintendent shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council. He or
she shall have charge of all sewer operations, including sewer installations,
repairs and other sewer maintenance. He or she shall also have charge over all
City property that pertains to the sewer system. (1995 Code § 3-6-101)
   B.   Appointment Of Officers And Employees: All other officers and employees
in the department shall be appointed by the Mayor, upon the recommendation of
the department head and Personnel Officer, with the advice and consent of the
City Council. (1995 Code § 3-6-102)
   C.   Objectives Of Department: The Department of Sewer is created with the
express objective of providing sewer service to the residents of the City and
whosoever else the City Council deems appropriate. (1995 Code § 3-6-103)
8-4-2: SEWER POLICY:
Rules and regulations governing application to use the sewer system, connection
fees and other related rules and regulations shall be set forth by policy
through the City Sewer Policy, a copy of which shall be on file in the City
office. (1995 Code § 3-6-202; amd. 2019 Code)
8-4-3: CONNECTION REQUIRED; EXCEPTION:
All structures in the City that are plumbed with toilets or other water
facilities shall be connected to the City sewer system unless the structure is
further than three hundred feet (300') from a main sewer line. Structures which
are more than three hundred feet (300') from a main sewer line shall be
connected to an alternate method of sewage disposal. Any alternate disposal
method must be approved by the Sewer Superintendent in the same manner as he or
she approves connections to the main sewer line. (1995 Code § 3-6-201)
8-4-4: RATES AND PENALTY FEES:
The City Council shall have the power to establish sewer rates. The City
Council shall adopt rates in the form of policy or resolution and such rates
shall be included in the fee and rate schedule. All accounts shall be assessed
a penalty of five percent (5%) of the unpaid balance after the fifteenth of
each month. Should the fifteenth fall on a weekend or City observed holiday,
the penalty deadline shall be extended to the next business day. (Ord. 06-04,
4-4-2006)
8-4-5: EASEMENTS:
Construction over or under any City utility line is prohibited. Utility
easements must remain free of obstruction for system maintenance and repairs.
The City Council may authorize relocation of existing utilities and utility
easements, but it shall be the policy of the City that the City not bear such
relocation costs unless such relocation benefits the City as a whole. (Ord. 01-
04, 6-5-2001)
8-4-6: PIPES IN GOOD REPAIR:
All users of the sewer service shall keep their service pipes, connections and
other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at their own expense.
No person, except under the direction of the Sewer Superintendent, shall be
allowed to dig into the streets for the purpose of removing or repairing any
sewer service pipe or main. (1995 Code § 3-6-204)
8-4-7: QUALITY OF SERVICE PIPE:
All service and other pipes used in conjunction with the sewer services of the
City shall be of such material, quality and specifications as the City Council
may from time to time by resolution provide. It shall be installed at such
distances belowground as may be specified by regulations relating to the Sewer
Department. All work, alterations or extensions affecting sewer pipes shall be
subject to the approval of the Sewer Superintendent, and no connections with
sewer mains shall be made without first obtaining a permit therefor from the
City Recorder. (1995 Code § 3-6-205; amd. 2019 Code)
8-4-8: MAINTENANCE AND ACCESS:
The Sewer Superintendent and his or her agents shall at all ordinary hours have
free access upon reasonable notice to places supplied with sewer service from
the Municipal system for the purpose of examining the apparatus, ascertaining
the service being used, and the matter of its use. (1995 Code § 3-6-206)
8-4-9: HARMFUL SUBSTANCES:
It shall be unlawful to permit or cause the flow of any of the following
substances into the sewer system of the City:
   A.   Any blood, grease, fatty material or garbage.
   B.   Any stone dust, sand, dirt, gravel, sawdust, metal fillings, broken
glass or any material which may cause or create an obstruction in the sewer.
   C.   Gasoline, benzene, fuel oil or any petroleum products or volatile
liquids.
   D.   Milk or any milk waste products in quantities in excess of ten (10)
gallons during a twenty four (24) hour period.
   E.   Rainwater, surface water, acids, alkalis, lye or other injurious
liquids. (1995 Code § 3-6-203; amd. Ord. 98-04, 5-19-1998)
ARTICLE A. SEWER UTILITY COST RECOVERY POLICY
SECTION:
8-4A-1: Policy For Recovery
8-4A-2: Appeal To City Council
8-4A-3: Term Of Recovery Period
8-4A-4: Nonapplicable To New Subdivisions
8-4A-5: City Exempt From Policy
8-4A-6: Penalty
8-4A-1: POLICY FOR RECOVERY:
   A.   Specified: Subject to section
8-4A-2 of this article, any person who requests and is qualified to receive
sewer service from the City shall pay all the costs associated with extending
the sewer system to the customer's premises; provided, said person and each
customer who connects to the extended sewer system thereafter, shall be
entitled to a recovery of fifty percent (50%) of the costs he/she pays for
connecting to said sewer system from the next subsequent customer who connects
thereon. When a person recovers said costs from the next subsequent customer
who connects to the system, said person shall be deemed compensated in full and
no longer eligible to recover additional costs. Subject to section
8-4A-3 of this article, recovery cost reimbursement shall cease once recovery
costs reach a minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   Illustration: By way of illustration, see section 8-2A-1B of this
title, Electric Utility Cost Recovery Policy. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-4A-2: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
If situations arise that make it difficult or inequitable to apply the cost
recovery formula set forth in this article, the City Council will determine the
amount allowed, on a case by case basis, to the person or entity entitled to
cost recovery. Such a determination shall be made only after such person or
entity appeals to the City Council for consideration of such cost recovery. The
City Council's decision shall be final. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-4A-3: TERM OF RECOVERY PERIOD:
The cost recovery period shall be limited to ten (10) years from the date of
the first service connection on the original line extension and ten (10) years
from the date of the first service connection on any extensions to said
original line extension. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-4A-4: NONAPPLICABLE TO NEW SUBDIVISIONS:
The cost recovery policy set forth in this article shall not apply to new
subdivisions as the owners or developers of such subdivisions can pass such
costs on to buyers of subdivided lots. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-4A-5: CITY EXEMPT FROM POLICY:
The City shall be exempt from this policy and may connect to any sewer system
for any purpose at any time without repayment of extension costs. (Ord. 05-11,
10-18-2005)
8-4A-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this article shall
be guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter
4 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005;
amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRICAL DEPARTMENT AND SYSTEM REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. ELECTRIC UTILITY COST RECOVERY POLICY
SECTION:
8-2A-1: Policy For Recovery
8-2A-2: Appeal To City Council
8-2A-3: Term Of Recovery Period
8-2A-4: Nonapplicable To New Subdivisions
8-2A-5: City Exempt From Policy
8-2A-6: Penalty
8-2A-1: POLICY FOR RECOVERY:
   A.   Specified: Subject to section
8-2A-2 of this article, any person who requests and is qualified to receive
electric service from the City shall pay all the costs associated with
extending the electrical system to the customer's premises; provided, said
person and each customer who connects to the extended electrical system
thereafter, shall be entitled to a recovery of fifty percent (50%) of the costs
he/she pays for connecting to said electrical system from the next subsequent
customer who connects thereon. When a person recovers said costs from the next
subsequent customer who connects to the system, said person shall be deemed
compensated in full and no longer eligible to recover additional costs. Subject
to section
8-2A-3 of this article, recovery cost reimbursement shall cease once recovery
costs reach a minimum of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   Illustration: By way of illustration:
      1.   Customer A requests and pays ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for a
one thousand foot (1,000') utility line extension. Customer B hooks up to the
line four hundred feet (400') from the original point of extension, attributing
forty percent (40%) of the line to customer B (1,000 times 40 percent equals
400 feet). Customer A is entitled to fifty percent (50%) of the cost value from
customer B's hookup ($10,000.00 times 40 percent equals $4,000.00). Customer A
may continue to recoup from subsequent customers up to fifty percent (50%) of
the costs expended to extend the line. Customer A shall then be considered
fully compensated and become ineligible to recover any additional costs.
      2.   Customer C is given a connection to the original line extension.
Customer B shall be entitled to recovery from customer C and/or subsequent
customers two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00), which is fifty percent
(50%) of the cost customer B paid to customer A ($5,000.00). Customer B shall
then be considered fully compensated and become ineligible to recover any
additional costs.
      3.   Customer B requests and pays for an additional line extension,
beyond customer A's original line extension. Customer A shall be entitled to
recover fifty percent (50%) of his/her total extension costs ($5,000.00) from
customer B. Customer B shall be entitled to recover fifty percent (50%) from
customer C and/or subsequent customers ($2,500.00) of the costs customer B paid
to customer A and in addition thereto, customer B shall be entitled to recover
fifty percent (50%) of the costs from customers who connect to customer B's
additional line extension. Customer B shall then be considered fully
compensated and become ineligible to recover any additional costs.
      4.   This pattern continues until the cost recovery is less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-2A-2: APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL:
If situations arise that make it difficult or inequitable to apply the cost
recovery formula set forth in section
8-2A-1 of this article, the City Council will determine the amount allowed, on
a case by case basis, to the person or entity entitled to cost recovery. Such a
determination shall be made only after such person or entity appeals to the
City Council for consideration of such cost recovery. The City Council's
decision shall be final. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-2A-3: TERM OF RECOVERY PERIOD:
The cost recovery period shall be limited to ten (10) years from the date of
the first service connection on the original line extension and ten (10) years
from the date of the first service connection on any extension to said original
line extension. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-2A-4: NONAPPLICABLE TO NEW SUBDIVISIONS:
The cost recovery policy set forth in this article shall not apply to new
subdivisions, as the owners or developers of such subdivisions can pass such
costs on to buyers of subdivided lots. (Ord. 05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-2A-5: CITY EXEMPT FROM POLICY:
The City shall be exempt from this policy and may connect to any electric
system for any purpose at any time without repayment of extension costs. (Ord.
05-11, 10-18-2005)
8-2A-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this article shall
be guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter
4 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (2019 Code)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Subsequent Updates Adopted
9-1-3: Availability For Public Inspection
9-1-4: City Ordinance Prevails
9-1-5: Permits And Inspections
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   International Building Code: The regulations contained in the most
recent edition of the International Building Code, as printed under authority
of the International Conference of Building Officials in book form, are hereby
adopted as the regulations governing the construction of buildings and other
structures in the City; and it shall be unlawful to erect or construct any
building or structure in the City in violation of, or without complying with,
the appropriate provisions of such regulations. (1995 Code § 17-2-101)
   B.   International Mechanical Code: The regulations contained in the most
recent edition of the International Mechanical Code, as printed under authority
of the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials in book
form and approved by the Utah Department of Health, are hereby adopted as the
regulations governing the design, installation, maintenance or repair of
heating, cooling, refrigeration or other ventilation systems; and it shall be
unlawful to design, install, maintain or repair such a system in the City in
violation of, or without complying with, the appropriate provisions of such
regulations. (1995 Code § 17-2-102)
   C.   National Electrical Code: The regulations contained in the most recent
edition of the National Electrical Code, as printed under authority of the
National Electrical Contractors Association in book form, are hereby adopted as
the regulations governing any interior or exterior electrical wiring, or any
electrical construction, electrical installation or alteration of any
electrical wiring; and it shall be unlawful to perform any interior or exterior
electrical wiring, or any electrical construction, electrical installation or
alteration of any electrical wiring in the City in violation of, or without
complying with, the appropriate provisions of such regulations. (1995 Code §
17-2-103)
   D.   International Plumbing Code: The regulations contained in the most
recent edition of the International Plumbing Code and the International Private
Sewage Disposal Code, as adopted by the State, are hereby adopted as the
regulations governing any plumbing connected or to be connected to any pipe or
pipes in the City, or to any private plumbing or any sewer system of the City;
and it shall be unlawful to repair or install any plumbing connected or to be
connected to any pipe or pipes in the City, or to any private plumbing or any
sewer system of the City in violation of, or without complying with, the
appropriate provisions of such regulations. (Ord. 99-13, 10-5-1999; amd. 2019
Code)
   E.   International Fire Code: The regulations contained in the most recent
edition of the International Fire Code, as printed under authority of the
International Conference of Building Officials and Western Fire Chiefs
Association in book form, are hereby adopted as the regulations governing fire
prevention in the City; and it shall be unlawful to construct, install,
maintain or repair anything in the City in violation of, or without complying
with, the appropriate provisions of such regulations. (1995 Code § 17-2-105)
   F.   Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings Code: The regulations contained in the
most recent edition of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous
Buildings are hereby adopted as the regulations affording reasonable procedures
for the classification and abatement of dangerous buildings. (Ord. 99-14, 12-
21-1999; amd. 2019 Code)
   G.   National Electrical Safety Code: The regulations contained in the most
recent edition of the National Electrical Safety Code are hereby adopted. (Ord.
01-03, 4-17-2001; amd. 2019 Code)
   H.   International Energy Conservation Code: The regulations contained in
the most recent edition of the International Energy Conservation Code are
hereby adopted. (1995 Code § 17-2-108; amd. 2019 Code)
9-1-2: SUBSEQUENT UPDATES ADOPTED:
All subsequent updates to all Code books adopted in this chapter are hereby
adopted. (1995 Code § 17-2-110)
9-1-3: AVAILABILITY FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION:
At least one hard copy and an electronic copy of all adopted codes shall be
available for public inspection at the office of the building inspector. A link
to the electronic copies shall be available to the public from the City
website. (1995 Code § 17-2-109)
9-1-4: CITY ORDINANCE PREVAILS:
This chapter shall supersede any contradiction between this chapter and any
national or International Code adopted herein. (Ord. 01-03, 4-17-2001)
9-1-5: PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Permits Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to construct or alter any building or structure
in the City, excepting fences, where the affect of such construction or
alteration is to enlarge the capacity or affect the bearing walls of any
building, or the roof thereof, without having first secured a permit therefor.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to do any interior or exterior electrical
wiring, or any electrical construction, electrical installation or alteration
of any electrical wiring without first having obtained an electrical
construction permit for the anticipated work from the City Recorder.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to proceed with any plumbing connected or to be
connected to any pipe or pipes in the City, or to any private plumbing or any
sewer system of the City, until a permit has been obtained from the City
Recorder. No permit shall be required for the making of minor repairs. A repair
shall not be deemed minor if a portion or a section of the plumbing or drain
line is cut, removed or replaced in such a way as to alter the basic design or
use of the original system. (1995 Code § 17-1-101)
      4.   It shall be unlawful to encroach upon any City sidewalk or utility
with heavy equipment during construction projects without first obtaining an
encroachment permit from the City. (Ord. 99-08, 4-20-1999)
      5.   Subsections A1, A2, A3 and A4 of this section shall not apply in the
case of an emergency repair. For this subsection, a repair that required
immediate completion in order to avoid substantial injury to persons or
property shall constitute an emergency repair. In such cases, a permit must be
obtained as soon as is reasonably possible. Applicants meeting requirements for
permits under this subsection shall not be penalized under subsection F of this
section. (1995 Code § 17-1-101; amd. 2019 Code)
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Applications for any permit required under subsection A of this
section shall be made to the City Recorder. Applicants shall submit, as part of
the permit applications, plans and specifications showing the work to be done.
The building inspector may, at his or her discretion, request that plans be
submitted in duplicate as a condition for the permit. All work plans shall be
verified by the signature of either the owner of the premises or by the
architect or contractor in charge of the operations.
      2.   Such applications with plans shall be referred to the building
inspector, who shall examine the plans to determine whether the proposed
construction or alteration will comply with the relevant ordinance provisions.
Upon approval, the set of plans shall be returned to the applicant with a
permit. If duplicate plans were submitted, the other shall be retained by the
building inspector. No permit shall be issued until after approval of the
plans. (1995 Code § 17-1-102)
   C.   Unlawful To Vary From Plans: It shall be unlawful to vary materially
from the submitted plans and specifications unless such variations are
submitted in an amended plan to the building inspector and approved by the
building inspector. (1995 Code § 17-1-103)
   D.   Inspections: The building inspector shall make or cause to be made such
inspections as are necessary to ensure the enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter, and to make any tests or examinations of materials or methods to
be used for the purpose of seeing that they comply with the provisions of this
chapter. (1995 Code § 17-1-104)
   E.   Fees: The City Council shall have power to determine and change
building permit fees through policy or resolution. (1995 Code § 17-1-105)
   F.   Failure To Secure Permits Before Commencing Work:
      1.   Any owner, architect, contractor or handyman that commences work
without first securing a permit required under subsection A of this section
shall be guilty of the offense of starting construction without a building
permit. When the building inspector or other authorized person learns of a
violation of subsection A of this section, he or she shall have authority to
require that the work stop immediately and that it not continue until an
authorized person acquires a building permit. The fee for the building permit
obtained after work has commenced shall be double the amount it would have cost
if the applicant had complied with subsection A of this section. (1995 Code §
17-1-106)
      2.   Any work requiring a permit under this section that is completed
before a permit is obtained, the owner, handyman or contractor shall be guilty
of an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this
Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues. (1995 Code § 17-1-106; amd. 2019 Code)
   G.   Variation From Submitted Plan:
      1.   Any owner, architect, contractor or handyman that performs work that
materially varies from the plan submitted as required under subsection B of
this section, or that performs work that does not comply with any relevant
ordinance, shall be guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in
title 1, chapter 4 of this Code, and shall be required to correct the
violation. (1995 Code § 17-1-107; amd. 2019 Code)
      2.   Before issuing a citation for an infraction, the building inspector
or other authorized person shall issue a warning notice, describing the alleged
offense, the location, the ordinance or code section involved, and a statement
of what must be done to correct the violation. The notice shall state the date
by which such correction must be completed. Such date shall give five (5)
calendar days from the date of the notice, provided that a shorter time shall
be specified if there is substantial immediate danger to persons or property. A
longer time than five (5) days shall be stated if there would be practical
physical difficulties in completing the correction within five (5) days and
there is no emergency.
      3.   Failure of the City to issue a warning as described in subsection G2
of this section shall not affect the validity of any prosecution for an
infraction.
      4.   If the condition has not been corrected within the time specified in
the warning notice, the building inspector or other authorized person shall
issue a citation for the infraction. The citation shall state a date and time
for a court appearance, and shall state that the person accused may avoid the
court hearing by paying, before the time of the hearing, the sum of two hundred
dollars ($200.00) in lieu of a fine set by the court. (1995 Code § 17-1-107)
   H.   Interpretation Of Regulations: Wherever in the regulations of this
chapter or in the regulations adopted in this chapter it is provided that
anything must be done to the approval of or subject to the direction of the
building inspector, this shall be construed to give the building inspector only
the discretion of determining whether the rules and standards established by
ordinance have been complied with; and no such provisions shall be construed as
giving the building inspector or any officer discretionary powers as to what
such regulations or standards shall be, or power to require conditions not
prescribed by ordinance or to enforce ordinance provisions in an arbitrary or
discriminatory manner. (1995 Code § 17-1-108)
CHAPTER 2
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING
ARTICLE A. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Title
9-2A-2: Definitions
9-2A-3: Purpose And Scope
9-2A-4: Alternate Materials And Methods Of Construction
9-2A-5: Authority
9-2A-6: Right Of Entry
9-2A-7: Notices And Orders
9-2A-8: Vacating And Closing To Occupancy
9-2A-9: Removal Of Placards And Posted Notices
9-2A-10: Certificate Of Occupancy
9-2A-11: Appeals
9-2A-12: Violation; Penalty
9-2A-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the FILLMORE CITY HOUSING ORDINANCE, and is
referred to herein as "this chapter". (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Construction Of Terms:
      1.   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall be construed as specified in this section. Words used
in the singular include plural, and words in the plural include the singular.
Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine, and words in the
feminine gender include the masculine.
      2.   Whenever the words "apartment house", "building", "dormitory",
"dwelling unit", "habitable room", "hotel", "housing unit" or "structure" are
used in this chapter, such words shall be construed as if followed by the words
"or any portion thereof".
      3.   References to codes, ordinances, chapters, sections or subsections
shall include any successor to such code, ordinance, chapter, section or
subsection.
   B.   Defined Terms:
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING BOARD: The Planning Commission, which has been appointed
by the City Council to conduct administrative appeal.
AGENT: Any person, firm, partnership, association, joint venture, corporation
or other entity who acts for or on behalf of others.
APARTMENT HOUSE: Any building which contains two (2) or more dwelling units
and, for the purpose of this chapter, includes residential condominiums.
APPROVED: As to a given material, mode of construction or repair, piece of
equipment or device means approved by the building official as the result of
investigation and tests conducted by the building official, or by reason of
accepted principles or tests by recognized authorities or technical or
scientific organizations.
ATTIC: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of the top
most floor and the ceiling or roof above.
BASEMENT: Any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a
floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a
basement, unless such floor level qualifies as a first story, as defined
herein.
BATHROOM: A room containing at least one of each of the following fixtures:
lavatory, toilet, and tub or shower.
BEDROOM: Any space designed or used for sleeping.
BUILDING: Any structure which is used, designed or intended to be used for
human habitation or an accessory structure thereto.
BUILDING CLOSURE OR CLOSED TO ENTRY OR CLOSED TO UNAUTHORIZED ENTRY OR BOARDED
BUILDING: A building which is closed to occupancy.
BUILDING ENVELOPE: The space defined by existing floors, walls, ceiling
structures, basement and attic.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The officer or other designated authority charged with the
administration and enforcement of this chapter, or the officer's duly
authorized representative.
CEILING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the finish floor to finish ceiling,
or to the lowest point of the ceiling framing members. Where projections below
the ceiling exist, the height shall be measured from the projection to the
finished floor.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A certificate issued by the building official
authorizing occupancy of building.
COMMON ROOM: A room available for the joint use of occupants of two (2) or more
housing units other than common hallways and exit passages. These shall include
cooking facilities and game rooms.
CONDOMINIUM: Property or portions thereof conforming to the definition set
forth in Utah Code Annotated section 57-8-3, as amended, or its successor.
CONGREGATE HOUSING: Any building which contains facilities for living, sleeping
and sanitation, as required by this chapter, and may include facilities for
eating and cooking, for occupancy by other than a family. A congregate
residence includes an SRO (single room occupancy) convent, a monastery,
dormitory, fraternity, or sorority house. Congregate housing does not include
shelters, jails, hospitals, nursing homes, hotels or lodging houses.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any connection or arrangement, physical or otherwise, between
a potable water supply system and any plumbing fixture, or any tank,
receptacle, equipment or device, through which unclean or polluted water or
other substances may contaminate such potable water supply system.
DWELLING UNIT: Any building which contains living facilities, including
provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, as required by this
chapter, for no more than one family, or a congregate residence for ten (10) or
fewer persons.
EFFICIENCY DWELLING UNIT: A dwelling unit containing only one habitable room.
EXISTING: In existence prior to adoption of this chapter.
EXIT: A continuous and unobstructed means of egress to a public way and
includes any intervening aisles, doorways, gates, corridors, exterior exit
balconies, ramps, stairways, smoke proof enclosures, horizontal exits, exit
passageways, exit courts and yards as these terms are defined in the
International Building Code (IBC).
FAMILY: Any one of the following:
   A.   Up to three (3) unrelated persons;
   B.   Immediate family;
   C.   Any number of persons related by blood or marriage, so long as the
square footage requirements of the Utah State Building Code are met, which are:
Chapter 12, Section 1207. (b). Floor Area. Dwelling units and congregate
residences shall have at least one room which shall have not less than 120
square feet of floor area. Other habitable rooms except kitchens shall have an
area of not less than 70 square feet.
FIRE RESISTANCE OR FIRE RESISTIVE: Construction that resists the spread of
fire, as specified in the International Building Code (IBC).
GARAGE: A building or portion thereof designed, used or intended to be used for
parking or storage of a motor vehicle containing flammable or combustible
liquids or gas in its tank.
HABITABLE ROOM: A room in a building for living, sleeping, eating or cooking,
in accordance with the International Building Code (IBC) and is safe, as
defined therein. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, corridors, storage or
utility space, and similar areas are not habitable rooms.
HAZARD: A condition that exposes any person to the risk of illness, bodily harm
or loss of or damage to possessions.
HEADROOM CLEARANCE: For stairs, means the vertical distance from the leading
edge of each tread to the lowest projection of any construction, piping,
fixture or other object above such tread.
HISTORIC BUILDING: Any building or structure which has been designated for
preservation by the Utah State Historical Society or has been listed on the
National Register of Historical Places or on the Utah State Register of
Historic Places.
HOTEL: Any building containing rooms intended or designed to be used, rented or
hired out to be occupied, or which are occupied for sleeping purposes by guests
on a daily basis.
INFESTATION: The presence of insects, rodents or other pests in or around a
building in numbers that are or may be detrimental to the health, safety or
general welfare of the occupants.
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE (IBC): The edition of the International Building
Code currently adopted by the City.
INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE (IMC): The edition of the International
Mechanical Code currently adopted by the State and City.
INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE (IPC): The edition of the International Plumbing
Code currently adopted by the State and City.
KITCHEN: A space or room used, designed or intended to be used for the
preparation of food, which includes a permanently installed sink, cooking range
with oven and/or microwave oven, and a refrigerator.
LANDLORD: The owner, lessor or sublessor of a residential rental unit. A
managing agent, leasing agent or resident manager is considered a landlord for
purposes of notice and other communication required or allowed under this
chapter.
LICENSING: The authority to conduct business and is administered by the
Fillmore City Recorder.
MONUMENTAL STAIRS: A stairway, exceeding four feet (4') in width, at the main
entrance on the exterior of a building.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT: A residential duplex, triplex, four-plex, etc.,
apartment building or condominium. A multiple-family dwelling unit is one
structure divided, internally sharing a common wall or walls with the adjoining
units and a common roof over the entire structure; each unit has cooking and
sanitary facilities that meet Housing Codes. Each unit shall be occupied by no
more than one "family", as defined in this section.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY STRUCTURE DWELLING UNIT: A residential building containing two
(2) or more dwelling units as defined in "multiple-family dwelling unit" of
this section.
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE (NEC): The edition of the National Electrical Code
currently adopted by the City.
OCCUPANT: A person occupying or having possession of a dwelling unit.
OPENING: An exterior opening capable of being closed to the weather, including
a window, a door, and an openable glazed skylight, which opens upon a yard,
courtyard, street, alley, or recesses from a courtyard.
OWNER: Any person, firm, partnership, association, joint venture or
corporation, who has title or interest in any building, with or without
accompanying actual possession, and including any person who as agent or
executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of an estate has charge, care or
control of any building.
PATTERN OF CIRCULATION: Any area in a room or group of rooms where the occupant
is likely to walk because of the location of doors, fixtures or furniture
placement.
PERSONS: Any individual, firm, corporation, association or partnership and its
agents or assigns.
PLUMBING SYSTEM: Any potable water distribution piping, and any drainage piping
within or below any building, including all plumbing fixtures, traps, vents and
devices appurtenant to such water distribution or drainage piping and including
potable water treating or using equipment, and any lawn sprinkling system.
PREMISES: A lot, plot or parcel of land, including the buildings or structures
thereon.
PUBLIC WAY: Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky which is deeded, dedicated or otherwise
permanently appropriated to the public use and having a clear width of not less
than ten feet (10').
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNIT: A tenant's principal place of residence and includes
the appurtenances, grounds and facilities held out for the use of the
residential tenant generally, and any other area provided to the tenant in a
rental agreement. It does not include facilities contained in a boarding or
rooming house, or similar facility, mobile home lot, or recreational property
rented on an occasional basis.
RISE: The vertical portion of a stair step.
RUN: The horizontal portion of a stair step.
SRO: A single room occupancy dwelling unit within congregate housing with one
combined sleeping and living room, and which may include a kitchen and/or a
separate private bathroom.
SECURED BUILDING: Means a building where all windows and doors are intact and
locked against unauthorized entry.
SMOKE DETECTOR: An approved device which senses visible or invisible particles
of combustion.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above. If the finished floor
level directly above a usable or unused under floor space is more than six feet
(6') above grade, as defined herein, for more than fifty percent (50%) of the
total perimeter, or is more than twelve feet (12') above grade, as defined
herein, at any point, such usable or unused under floor space shall be
considered as a story.
STORY, FIRST: The lowest story in a building which qualifies as a "story", as
defined in this section, except that floor level in a building having only one
floor level shall be classified as a first story, provided such floor level is
not more than four feet (4') below grade, as defined herein, for more than
fifty percent (50%) of the total perimeter, or not more than eight feet (8')
below grade, as defined herein, at any point.
STRUCTURE: Anything that is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts jointed
together.
TENANT: Any person entitled to occupy a residential rental unit to the
exclusion of others.
TOILET ROOM: A room containing a toilet and may contain a sink, but does not
contain a tub or shower.
UL LISTED AND UL LISTING: Terms referring to equipment and materials which are
shown in a list published by Underwriters Laboratories, or other approved
testing and certifying agencies.
UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY: A condition of a premises which has been found by
the building official to be an unsafe structure or because of the degree in
which it is in disrepair or lacks maintenance, fails to meet the sanitation
requirements of the authorized Health Department regulations, contains filth
and contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary facilities or
heating facilities, or other essential equipment, is dangerous to life, health,
property or the safety of occupants.
UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS (UCADB): The edition of
the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings currently adopted by
the City.
UNSAFE STRUCTURES: One in which all or part thereof is found to be dangerous to
life, health, property or the safety of the public or occupants by not
providing minimum safeguards for protection from any danger as required by the
IBC or because such structure contains unsafe equipment or is so damaged,
dilapidated or structurally unsafe that partial or complete collapse is likely.
WASHABLE SURFACE: A surface which is not adversely affected by moisture.
YARD: An open space, other than a courtyard, unoccupied by any structure on the
lot on which a building is situated, unobstructed from the ground to the sky,
except as specifically permitted by the IBC. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995; amd. Ord.
97-156, 8-19-1997; Ord. 05-05, 3-1-2005; 2019 Code)
9-2A-3: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health,
safety and welfare, and promote the prosperity, peace and good order, comfort
and aesthetics of the City and its present and future inhabitants and business,
to protect the tax base, to protect both urban and nonurban development, and to
protect property values with the City. This purpose shall be accomplished by
regulating the maintenance, repair and remodeling of all residential structures
existing as of the date of enactment of this chapter by:
      1.   Establishing minimum housing standards for all buildings or portions
thereof used, or designed or intended to be used, for human habitation;
      2.   Establishing minimum standards for safety from fire and other
hazards;
      3.   Promoting maintenance and improvement of structures by permitting
distinctions in the application of standards based on the year a structure was
built as long as an equivalent level of safety can be achieved;
      4.   Avoiding the closure or abandonment of housing and the displacement
of occupants where such can be done without sacrificing the public health,
safety and welfare;
      5.   Providing for the administrative, enforcement and penalties for this
chapter.
   B.   Scope: The scope of housing standards covered by this chapter includes
all existing and future residential structures, equipment and facilities for
light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation and protection from the
elements, and for safe and sanitary maintenance.
   C.   Application To Remodeling Of Existing Residential Buildings: This
chapter shall apply to remodeling, renovation, moving or repair of all
residential buildings existing as of the date of enactment of this chapter,
regardless of valuation of repairs, remodeling and renovation, unless otherwise
noted in this chapter. All additions to existing buildings shall comply with
the City standards for new construction.
   D.   Dangerous Buildings: Residential buildings which pose such a danger as
to fall within the scope of section 302 of the UCADB shall be governed by the
UCADB and not by this chapter.
   E.   Change Of Use: Any building undergoing a change in use, as defined in
the IBC, shall comply with the provisions of the IBC.
   F.   Permits Required: No building or structure regulated by the IBC shall
be erected, constructed, enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, improved, removed,
converted or demolished unless a separate permit for each building or structure
has first been obtained.
   G.   Exception: The requirements of the IBC notwithstanding, permits are not
required for the following:
      1.   Floor covering installation;
      2.   Painting and attaching wall coverings and similar finish work;
      3.   Replacement of glazing, except where safety glazing is required by
the IBC;
      4.   Patching of wall surfaces;
      5.   Replacement of light fixtures;
      6.   Replacement of electrical wall outlets and switches;
      7.   Replacement of plumbing fixtures as long as main drains and vents
are not disturbed;
      8.   General placements of air heating and cooling systems filters, belts
and motors in these systems;
      9.   Installation of any number of battery operated smoke detectors;
      10.   Replacement of sidewalks or private driveways on private property.
(Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2A-4: ALTERNATE MATERIALS AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to prevent the use of
any material or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this
chapter and the IBC, provided any such alternate has been approved and its use
authorized by the building official in conformance with the IBC, nor is it the
intention of this chapter to exclude any sound method of structural design or
analysis not specifically provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
   B.   Manufactured or modular units imported into the City shall have a HUD
label attached to the exterior certifying compliance with HUD manufacturing
standards. All such units shall be brought to current Electrical, Building,
Plumbing, Mechanical and Energy Efficiency Code standards, and shall be used
for the purpose which the units were originally intended when constructed.
Imported manufactured or modular units shall meet roof pitch, snow load
requirements, and be placed upon a permanent cement or cinder block foundation
with footings that meet the frost depth specifications. (Ord. 97-156, 8-19-
1997; amd. 2019 Code)
9-2A-5: AUTHORITY:
   A.   The building official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all
the provisions of this chapter. For such purposes, the building official shall
authorize inspections by the Fire Department and the Health Department. The
building official shall also authorize law enforcement to issue and deliver
criminal citations as provided by State law. (Ord. 95-145, 10-3-1995)
   B.   The building official shall have the power to render interpretations of
this chapter and to adopt and enforce rules to clarify the application of its
provisions. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2A-6: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   Whenever it becomes necessary to make an inspection to enforce any
provisions of this chapter, or whenever the building official has reasonable
cause to believe there exists in any building or upon any premises a code
violation which makes such building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous,
he/she may singly or with a representative of the Fire Department and/or the
Health Department as deemed appropriate and necessary, and upon obtaining
permission of the owner or other person having charge or control of the
building or premises, or upon obtaining a warrant, enter a residential property
or premises to inspect it or to perform duties imposed by this chapter. If such
building or premises be occupied, he/she shall first present proper credentials
and request entry; and if such building or premises be unoccupied, he/she shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having
charge or control of the building or premises and request entry. If such entry
is refused, the building official shall have recourse to every remedy provided
by law to secure entry. (Ord. 95-145, 10-3-1995)
   B.   If an unoccupied dwelling unit is open and unattended and the owner or
other person having charge or control of the building or premises cannot be
located after reasonable effort, the building official or his/her authorized
representative may, upon obtaining a warrant, enter the building. He/she shall
issue a notice and order that the dwelling unit be immediately secured or
boarded against the entry of unauthorized persons.
   C.   In nonemergencies or when authorization to enter has not previously
been granted by a tenant, the owner shall give the tenant a minimum of twenty
four (24) hours notification of an inspection of the tenant's premises by the
building official. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2A-7: NOTICES AND ORDERS:
   A.   Substandard Buildings: All buildings or portions thereof which are
determined to be substandard, as defined in this chapter, are declared to be
public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or
removal in accordance with the procedures specified in this chapter.
   B.   Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert or
demolish, equip, use, occupy or maintain any building or structure, or cause or
permit the same to be done, in violation of this chapter.
   C.   Issuance:
      1.   Whenever the building official has inspected a building and found it
to be substandard, the building official shall commence action to cause the
repair, rehabilitation, vacation or demolition of the building.
      2.   The building official shall notify the owner or the owner's agent of
the existence of the violations in writing, giving the section number and a
description of each violation.
      3.   This notice shall be informal and shall set a period of not less
than twenty four (24) hours nor more than thirty (30) days in which the
violations are to be corrected, depending upon the urgency of such violations.
A formal notice shall be issued in the following instances:
         a.   When a structure is found unfit for human occupancy or when
violations pose a serious life safety danger to occupants and require
correction; or
         b.   When a building poses an immediate threat to the safety of the
public and must be demolished immediately; or
         c.   When an owner has not complied with an informal notice.
      4.   All notices and orders shall be directed to the owner of record or
authorized or acting manager or agent of any building. The formal notice shall
contain the following:
         a.   The street address or legal description of the parcel upon which
the building is located;
         b.   The action required to be taken by the owner;
         c.   The date or dates by which the work is to be accomplished;
         d.   Actions the building official is empowered to take if the order
is not obeyed in the time allotted; and
         e.   An explanation of the owner's right to appeal.
   D.   Method Of Service Of Formal Notice And Order:
      1.   Service of all formal notices and orders will be made by mailing a
copy of such notice and order by certified mail, return receipt requested.
      2.   A notice shall be posted on the property stating that a formal
notice and order has been issued against the property for which the action is
being taken.
      3.   Formal notices and orders to vacate shall be posted on the property
and on every dwelling unit door affected thereby.
   E.   Extension Of Time To Perform Work: Extensions of time may be granted by
the building official. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2A-8: VACATING AND CLOSING TO OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Authority Of Building Official:
      1.   When a structure is found by the building official to be unsafe to
occupy or unfit for human occupancy or use, he/she may require the building or
portion thereof and/or premises immediately vacated and closed to entry. At the
discretion of the building official, a portion of a vacated building may be
occupied if the occupied portion meets the standards for habitable buildings.
(Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
      2.   Any vacated structure inspected prior to occupancy which is found to
be unsafe may not be occupied, and no utility services may be connected until
the structure meets the standards for habitable buildings.
   B.   Removal Of Fixtures; Exception:
      1.   When the building official orders the termination of the occupancy
of a dwelling unit, the owner shall remove the bathroom and kitchen plumbing
fixtures and all cooking appliances.
      2.   When the kitchen and/or bathroom is incorporated into a unit allowed
by this chapter, the kitchen and/or bathroom fixtures may remain.
   C.   Post Premises: The building official shall post the premises or
structure with a placard bearing the words:
   Fillmore City
   Building Inspection Department
   DO NOT ENTER
   UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
It is a misdemeanor to occupy this building, or to remove or deface this
notice.
                                                     
Date         Building Official
Fillmore City
   D.   Unlawful Occupation: It shall be unlawful for any person to use or
occupy, or cause or permit any person to use or occupy any portion of any
building which portion has been declared unsafe to occupy after the vacation
date until the building official certifies that the conditions described in the
vacation order have been corrected.
   E.   Stay Of Enforcement: The building official may stay enforcement for
buildings that are and remain vacated and secured, provided the lot is kept
free of debris and weeds. Such stay of enforcement may continue so long as the
building remains vacant and secured and does not pose further danger. (Ord. 95-
142, 3-7-1995)
9-2A-9: REMOVAL OF PLACARDS AND POSTED NOTICES:
The removal of placards or posted notice shall be done by the building official
or his/her designated representative. Any other persons who deface or remove a
closure placard shall be subject to penalties provided by this chapter. (Ord.
95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2A-10: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
Following correction of deficiencies and prior to reoccupying of any structure
closed in occupancy, the building official shall issue a certificate of
occupancy. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2A-11: APPEALS:
   A.   Housing Advisory And Appeals Board; Scope Of Authority: The Planning
Commission is hereby appointed as the Housing Advisory and Appeals Board, and
shall have power to:
      1.   Interpret the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error on any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of this chapter;
      3.   Modify the impact of specific provisions of this chapter which
create practical difficulties in their enforcement, so long as the means by
which the mitigation is employed accomplish the purpose of the original
requirement;
      4.   Extend time deadlines provided in this chapter, for good cause;
      5.   Recommend new procedures to the building official and new ordinances
regulating housing to the City Council;
      6.   Conduct abatement hearings.
   B.   Filings Of Appeals:
      1.   All appeals shall be filed within thirty (30) days from the date of
the service of the formal notice and order. The property owner or agent shall
file the appeal with the building official. The appeal shall go before the
Planning Commission.
Exception: Appeals of formal notices and orders to vacate must be filed within
ten (10) days of service of the notice.
      2.   Appeals must be submitted on an appeal form provided by the building
official. The appellant shall state the specific order or action protested and
a statement of the relief sought, along with the reasons why the order or
action should be reversed, modified or otherwise set aside.
      3.   Failure of any person to file an appeal in accordance with the
provisions of this section shall constitute a waiver of his/her right to an
appeal.
   C.   Stay Of Enforcement: The timely filing of an appeal shall stay further
action by the building official to enforce correction of the specific
violations being appealed.
Exception: There shall be no stay of enforcement when the building official
determines that the condition of the premises poses an immediate danger to the
occupants or to public safety. When such cases arise, the building official
shall convene a special Planning Commission hearing as soon as possible, which
shall consider possible ratification, reversal or modification of the building
official's action.
   D.   Procedures For Conduct Of Hearing Appeals:
      1.   Each appeal shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission, no later
than thirty (30) days from the date of filing of a written appeal. At least
four (4) members of the Planning Commission shall inspect the property and
review the notice and determine if it is accurate and attempt to develop, in
consultation with the appellant, possible methods of complying with the code
consistent with the purpose of this chapter.
      2.   The Planning Commission Secretary shall maintain complete and
permanent records of all inspections and decisions. Resolutions of disputed
issues, agreeable to the Planning Commission and the property owner, shall be
presented at the next meeting of the Planning Commission meeting for its
consent or modification.
   E.   Appeal Of Planning Commission Decisions: Any person aggrieved by a
decision of the Planning Commission made under this section may appeal such
decision to the City Council within ten (10) days of the written decision of
the Planning Commission. The City Council may consider testimony from any
interested party, and shall render a written decision within thirty (30) days
of the filing of the appeal to the Council. If the City Council determines that
the decision of the Planning Commission is supported by the evidence and is not
arbitrary or capricious, the City Council shall affirm the decision of the
Planning Commission. An appeal from the decision of the City Council shall be
made to a court of competent jurisdiction no later than thirty (30) days from
the date of issuance of such decision. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2A-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Remedies: If, after any formal notice and order of the Building
Department has become final, the person to whom such orders have directed shall
fail, neglect or refuse to correct such order, the building official may pursue
one or more of the following remedies:
      1.   Cause such person to be prosecuted under subsection B of this
section.
      2.   Institute any appropriate action to abate such public nuisance as
provided by this chapter. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
   B.   Misdemeanor: Failure of any person to comply with the requirements of
this chapter or to comply with any vacation order or any notice and order shall
constitute a Class B misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in
title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995; amd. 2019 Code)
ARTICLE B. MINIMUM HOUSING AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-2B-1: Substandard Buildings
9-2B-2: Exterior Standards
9-2B-3: Environmental Or Sanitary Standards
9-2B-4: Interior Standards
9-2B-5: Exterior And Interior Doors, Trim And Hardware
9-2B-1: SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS:
Any building covered by this chapter shall be deemed substandard if there
exists a condition which places the safety of the occupants or the public at
risk. A building shall be deemed substandard if it does not meet the minimum
housing and maintenance standards of this chapter. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2B-2: EXTERIOR STANDARDS:
   A.   Sidewalks And Driveways: Sidewalks on private property shall be of hard
even surfaces, such as concrete or blacktop and shall be kept in graded even
surfaces. Settlement holes exceeding two inches (2") elevation shall be
repaired.
Exception: Gravel driveways and paths shall be groomed and kept level.
   B.   Chimneys: Loose bricks and cracks in chimneys shall be repaired and
missing chimney caps shall be replaced.
   C.   Structural Repair: All roofs, floors, walls, chimneys, foundations and
other structural components shall be repaired when they no longer retain their
structural integrity.
   D.   Exterior Surfaces: Exposed materials that require weather protection
and exterior surfaces that are deteriorating shall be sealed to the extent
necessary to keep cold, wind, water or dampness from the interior of the
structure.
   E.   Drainage: All surface water shall drain away from the structure.
   F.   Windows And Doors: Windows that are required by this chapter for light
and ventilation are to be glazed with approved glazing as specified in the IBC.
   G.   Rain Gutters And Downspouts: Rain gutters and downspouts, when
provided, shall be kept in good repair and clear of debris. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-
1995)
9-2B-3: ENVIRONMENTAL OR SANITARY STANDARDS:
   A.   Garbage and refuse storage and removal shall meet the requirements of
the City ordinance.
   B.   There shall be no insect or rodent infestation in violation of the City
ordinance. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2B-4: INTERIOR STANDARDS:
   A.   Finishes, Washable Surfaces: In kitchens and bathrooms, floors and
walls adjacent to sinks, lavatories, toilets and tubs shall be finished with a
material that is not adversely affected by moisture.
Exception: In single-family dwellings, carpet may be installed on kitchen and
bathroom floors.
   B.   Floor Coverings: All floor and stair coverings shall be maintained so
that tripping hazards are minimized.
   C.   Wall And Ceiling Coverings: All wall and ceiling coverings shall be
maintained so that they are secure and substantially intact. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-
1995)
9-2B-5: EXTERIOR AND INTERIOR DOORS, TRIM AND HARDWARE:
   A.   Maintenance: All doors, trim and hardware shall be kept in good working
condition. Each dwelling unit shall have approved locks for exterior doors
which are keyed from the exterior and are operable from the interior without
the use of a key or other special equipment or knowledge.
   B.   Hinges: Hinges for out swinging doors shall be equipped with
nonremovable hinge pins or a mechanical interlock to preclude removal of the
door from the exterior by removing the hinge pins. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
ARTICLE C. MINIMUM SPACE AND OCCUPANCY STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-2C-1: Space And Occupancy Standards
9-2C-2: Light And Ventilation
9-2C-3: Fire Safety; Egress
9-2C-1: SPACE AND OCCUPANCY STANDARDS:
   A.   Ceiling And Window Sill Heights:
      1.   Stairs, Interior And Exterior: Existing reconstructed stairways
shall have a headroom clearance height of six feet four inches (6'4").
Exception: There shall be no minimum requirement for stairs to nonhabitable
rooms or areas.
      2.   Habitable Rooms: The minimum height for all habitable rooms shall be
six feet four inches (6'4"). (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
Exception: Projections shall be allowed to six feet zero inches (6'0") when: a)
the projection is not in the pattern of circulation; b) projections are not
greater than twenty percent (20%) of the floor area of the room; c) the window
requirements of this chapter for light and ventilation are met; and d) a one
hundred twenty (120) volt electrical powered smoke detector is installed in
such room, with the exception of a kitchen. Battery operated smoke detectors
are permitted in the existing structures when major wiring has not been
affected. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995; amd. 2019 Code)
      3.   Nonhabitable Rooms: The minimum ceiling height for nonhabitable
rooms shall be six feet four inches (6'4").
Exceptions: Laundry rooms, shops and storage rooms or storage areas shall have
no minimum ceiling height requirement.
The bathroom shall have a minimum ceiling height of six feet zero inches (6'0")
with no projections.
The bathroom ceiling height at the back of a lavatory, toilet or tub without
shower may be sloped to a minimum height of five feet zero inches (5'0") at the
wall when the ceiling height is not less than six feet zero inches (6'0") at a
point two feet zero inches (2'0") from said wall.
      4.   Sloping Ceilings: In any room with a sloping ceiling, at least one-
half (1/2) the floor area shall have a minimum ceiling height as required by
subsection B of this section, or its successor. No portion of the room with a
ceiling height below five feet zero inches (5'0") may be used in the floor area
computation.
      5.   Corridors: A ceiling height of six feet four inches (6'4") shall be
required in corridors, and the minimum width of corridors shall be thirty six
inches (36").
Exception: In dwelling units constructed prior to 1983, a minimum corridor
width of thirty inches (30") shall be permitted.
      6.   New Construction: Additions made to the exterior of an existing
building envelope shall meet the requirements of the IBC. New construction
within the existing building envelope shall meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   B.   Room Size:
      1.   Floor Area And Room Dimensions: Dwelling units and congregate
housing shall have at least one room with not less than one hundred twenty
(120) square feet of floor area. Other habitable rooms except kitchens shall
have an area not less than seventy (70) square feet. Habitable rooms other than
a kitchen shall not be less than seven feet (7') in length or width.
      2.   Sleeping Room Dimensions: Every room used for sleeping shall not
have less than seventy (70) square feet of floor area. Where more than two (2)
persons occupy a room used for sleeping, the required floor area shall be
increased at the rate of fifty (50) square feet for each occupant in excess of
two (2).
      3.   Floor Area Computation: No portion of a room with a ceiling height
below five feet zero inches (5'0") may be used in the floor area computation.
   C.   Efficiency Dwelling Units: An efficiency dwelling unit shall:
      1.   Living Room: Have a living room of not less than one hundred ninety
(190) square feet of floor area. An additional one hundred (100) square feet of
floor area shall be provided for each occupant in excess of two (2).
      2.   Closet: Be provided with a closet.
      3.   Kitchen: Be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking range with oven
and/or microwave oven and refrigeration facilities, each having a clear working
space of not less than thirty inches (30") in front.
      4.   Bathroom: Be provided with a bathroom containing a toilet, lavatory
and bathtub or shower.
   D.   SRO Room Size: An SRO room shall have an area of not less than seventy
(70) square feet. For SRO rooms less than one hundred twenty (120) square feet
serving no more than ten (10) units, with a minimum of one common room per
floor, the common room may be a common kitchen when separate rooms are not
provided with cooking facilities.
   E.   Cook Facilities For Individual Units In Hotels, Motels And Congregate
Housing: As long as such cooking facilities for individual units in hotels,
motels and congregate housing do not encroach into the required floor area,
each individual unit may have cooking and eating facilities, provided all the
following items are supplied:
      1.   Range, Oven: A cooking range with oven and/or microwave oven. Hot
plates, electric fry pans and similar heating units shall not meet this
requirement.
      2.   Sink: An approved sink, with a minimum dimension of twelve inches by
twelve inches by four inches deep (12" x 12" x 4").
      3.   Counter Space: A minimum of four (4) square feet of counter space.
      4.   Refrigerator: A refrigerator.
   F.   Common Kitchens In Congregate Housing: When cooking facilities are not
provided with individual units, congregate housing shall have provided a common
kitchen area which shall contain the following minimum facilities: a sink for
each twenty (20) tenants or portion thereof, a range and oven for each twenty
(20) tenants or portion thereof, and a refrigerator for each ten (10) tenants
or portion thereof. The minimum kitchen area shall be seventy (70) square feet
for the first ten (10) occupants or portion thereof, and an additional thirty
(30) square feet for each additional ten (10) persons or portion thereof.
   G.   Kitchens And Bathrooms In Dwelling Units: Each dwelling unit shall have
a kitchen and bathroom within the dwelling unit. The bathroom shall have a
tight fitting door when the entry to the room is through the kitchen. Every
bathroom shall be provided with a means to ensure privacy.
   H.   Cooking Facilities In Dwelling Units: Each dwelling unit shall have a
kitchen. All cooking appliances shall be maintained in good working condition.
(Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2C-2: LIGHT AND VENTILATION:
   A.   Natural Light:
      1.   Every habitable room shall have at least one window facing directly
to the outdoors to provide natural light. The minimum total window area shall
equal one-twentieth (1/20) or more of the floor area, with a minimum of three
(3) square feet.
      2.   The glazed area of an exterior door may be used for purposes of
computing window size for natural light when an appropriate size window is
installed in the door.
      3.   For the purpose of meeting light or ventilation requirements, as
well as emergency egress, a room may be considered as a portion of an adjoining
room when one-half (1/2) of the area of the common wall is open and
unobstructed and provides an opening of not less than one-tenth (1/10) of the
floor area of the interior room or twenty five (25) square feet, whichever is
greater.
   B.   Ventilation:
      1.   Habitable Rooms:
         a.   Except as provided below, all habitable rooms shall be provided
with natural ventilation by means of openings to the exterior which have the
capability of being closed to the weather. Total openings shall have an area at
least one-twentieth (1/20) of the floor area or three (3) square feet,
whichever is greater.
         b.   Habitable rooms containing a mechanical ventilation system shall
be allowed in lieu of openings for natural ventilation. Such system shall
create a positive pressure in the room and the air intake shall be connected
directly to the outside and be capable of two (2) air exchanges per hour. The
air intake source shall be located at least three feet (3') above any vent
which is within ten feet (10') of the air intake.
         c.   Exterior doors may be used for the purpose of natural
ventilation. When used as such, a screen shall be installed thereon.
      2.   Nonhabitable Rooms:
         a.   Except as provided below, all bathrooms, toilet rooms, laundry
and similar rooms shall be provided with natural ventilation by means of
openings to the exterior which have the capability of being closed to the
weather. Such openings shall have a total area not less than one-twentieth (1/
20) of the floor area of the room, with a minimum of one and one-half (11/2)
square feet.
         b.   Bathrooms and laundry rooms containing a mechanical exhaust
system connected directly to the outside shall be allowed if such system is
capable of providing five (5) air exchanges per hour. The exhaust air shall
discharge at least three feet (3') above or ten feet (10') away from any air
intake source. Toilet room may be ventilated with an approved recirculation fan
or similar device designed to remove odors from the air.
         c.   Mechanical venting of bathrooms into the attic shall be
acceptable as long as provisions of the IBC are met.
         d.   Bathrooms constructed prior to 1970, vented with gravity vent
opening extending to the outside, shall meet the ventilation requirement as
long as the walls, ceiling and floor are not adversely affected by moisture.
(Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2C-3: FIRE SAFETY; EGRESS:
   A.   Fire Safety: All buildings, premises, equipment and apparatus shall be
in a condition such that no hazard of fire exists.
   B.   Exit And Emergency Egress:
      1.   Egress Required: Every dwelling unit or guestroom shall have a safe,
continuous and unobstructed means of egress of a minimum height of six feet
four inches (6'4") and a minimum width of thirty inches (30") directly to the
public way.
      2.   Emergency Egress: Every sleeping room located below the fourth story
shall have at least one openable window or exterior door approved for emergency
egress or rescue. The opening shall have a minimum of three (3) square feet of
openable space or clear opening dimensions of at least eighteen inches (18")
high and twenty four inches (24") wide.
Exception: Either height or width may be reduced to a minimum of fourteen
inches (14") when the corresponding dimension is increased by three inches (3")
for each one inch (1") the first dimension is diminished.
      3.   Window Sill Height: There shall be a maximum window sill height of
forty four inches (44") for at least one window in bedrooms or other rooms used
for sleeping. If the distance from the floor to the window sill is more than
forty four inches (44") for such window, a permanent platform of substantial
construction attached to the floor or wall may be installed to meet the maximum
height requirement. The minimum dimensions of such platform shall be twelve
inches (12") deep and the same width as the openable portion of the window, but
in no case less than twenty four inches (24") in width.
Exception 1: If minimum light and ventilation requirements are met, the
requirement of this subsection B3 shall not apply if there are two (2) approved
exit doors from the room leading to separate exitways.
Exception 2: If minimum light and ventilation requirements are met, there is no
minimum sill height requirement in bedrooms of dwelling units constructed
before 1970, except for bedrooms in basement areas.
      4.   Below Grade Windows: For windows that are below grade, a window well
shall be provided whose length is the width of the window and which extends at
least eighteen inches (18") out from the exterior of the building. When the
distance from the top of the window well to its bottom exceeds forty eight
inches (48"), it shall have a permanently mounted platform or ladder. Grates
are permitted over window wells if hinged to pivot away from the structure and
not weighing over fifteen (15) pounds per section of the grate.
      5.   Additional Devices: Bars, grills, grates or similar devices may be
installed on emergency escape or rescue windows or doors, provided such devices
are equipped with approved release mechanisms which are operable from the
inside without the use of a key or special knowledge or effort.
   C.   Stairs And Handrails: Stairs and handrails shall meet the requirements
of the IBC or its successor with the following modifications:
      1.   Handrail: If there are four (4) or more risers, a handrail shall be
required. Two (2) handrails shall be required when the width of the stairs is
forty eight inches (48") or more, except that no handrail shall be required for
monumental stairs.
      2.   Placement: Handrails shall be placed not less than thirty inches
(30") nor more than thirty eight inches (38") above the outermost edge of the
tread. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
      3.   Prior To 1970: Existing interior stairs and exterior stairs
constructed before 1970 are not required to meet current code minimum width
standards. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995; amd. 2019 Code)
      4.   Rise Required: Existing interior and exterior stairs shall have a
rise of no more than eight inches (8") and a run of not less than nine inches
(9"). Within any flight of stairs, the greatest riser height shall not exceed
the smallest by more than one inch (1"), nor shall the largest tread run exceed
the smallest by more than one inch (1").
Exception 1: Monumental stairs without a handrail shall be restricted to one
inch (1") variation in the rise and run.
Exception 2: On winder, circular or spiral stairs as defined in the IBC, the
width of the tread may be less than six inches (6") on the inside edge, if six
inches (6") is maintained at a distance no less than thirty inches (30") from
the outside edge of the stairs.
Exception 3: There shall be no minimum rise or run requirement nor maximum
variation in the rise and run for stairs leading only to mechanical, storage
and utility rooms, provided the stairs are structurally sound.
      5.   Rebuilding: Stairs in the interior or exterior of an existing
building which are completely rebuilt shall meet the requirement of the IBC.
   D.   Guardrails:
      1.   Required: Guardrails shall be required for all balconies, porches,
patios and open stairs more than thirty inches (30") above or below grade.
Guardrails shall also be required for any grade change more than thirty inches
(30") next to a walking surface. Guardrails shall not be less than forty two
inches (42") in height, except for guardrails serving private dwelling units,
which shall have a minimum height of thirty six inches (36").
Exception 1: Public guardrails may have a minimum height of thirty six inches
(36") if the building was built before 1970.
Exception 2: Guardrails having a height less than thirty six inches (36") shall
be allowed if they were installed as part of the building's original
construction and are not a replacement.
      2.   Open Guardrails: Open guardrails shall have intermediate rails or an
ornamental pattern such that there is no open area in excess of four inches
(4") in diameter. The foregoing notwithstanding, the diameter of such open
space may be nine inches (9") for buildings built before 1985, and six inches
(6") for those built between 1985 and 1991.
   E.   Smoke Detector Requirements:
      1.   Required: Smoke detectors shall be required in all dwelling units.
Such detectors shall be mounted on the ceiling or wall at a point centrally
located in the corridor and all sleeping rooms. In efficiency dwelling units,
hotel sleeping rooms and hotel suites, the detector shall be centrally located
on the ceiling or wall of the main room or hotel sleeping room.
      2.   Upper Level Sleeping Rooms: Where sleeping rooms are on an upper
level, the detector shall be placed at the ceiling or wall directly above the
stairway immediately outside the bedrooms. Wall mounted detectors shall be
mounted as near to the ceiling as possible, but no detector shall be mounted
within twelve inches (12") of any corner formed by the meeting of walls,
ceilings, beams or structure. When activated, the detector shall provide an
alarm in the dwelling unit or guestroom.
      3.   Repairs, Additional Sleeping Rooms Added: When repairs to a
structure are made which exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or when one or
more sleeping rooms are added or created to a structure, smoke detectors shall
be installed in compliance with the IBC.
   F.   Wall And Ceiling Separations: Except as provided below, any wall or
ceiling separating dwelling units shall be maintained in its original condition
with all penetrations sealed or covered with an approved material. Walls and
ceilings separating a garage or carport from a dwelling unit or common area
shall be maintained in their original condition with all penetrations sealed or
covered with an approved material as specified by the IBC.
Exception: When fifty percent (50%) or more of a wall or ceiling is removed for
any reason, the entire wall or ceiling shall be reconstructed to meet the
requirements of the IBC for one hour occupancy separation. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-
1995)
ARTICLE D. PLUMBING, MECHANICAL, AND ELECTRICAL
SECTION:
9-2D-1: Plumbing
9-2D-2: Mechanical Equipment
9-2D-3: Electrical
9-2D-1: PLUMBING:
   A.   Minimum Requirements:
      1.   Unless provided otherwise in this chapter, plumbing, piping and
fixtures shall be in accordance with the code in effect at the time of
installation.
      2.   Plumbing, piping, and fixtures shall not contain leaks and all waste
lines must be connected to an approved sewer system and shall be maintained in
good condition.
      3.   The minimum plumbing fixtures required for congregate housing are a
lavatory, toilet and tub or shower for each ten (10) occupants, or portion
thereof, and a kitchen sink as required in this chapter.
      4.   There shall be cold running water plumbed to each toilet and hot and
cold running water plumbed to each lavatory, tub, shower and kitchen sink.
      5.   The minimum plumbing fixtures for dwelling units are a lavatory,
toilet, tub or shower, and kitchen sink.
      6.   There shall be a space without obstruction from floor to ceiling of
not less than twelve inches (12") in front of all toilets. Toilets shall be
located in a space without obstruction from floor to ceiling of not less than
twenty two inches (22") in width. No encroachments of these dimensions are
permitted.
      7.   Where vents do not exist for plumbing fixtures meeting the
applicable codes in effect at the time of their installation, vents need not be
installed when the plumbing fixture or trap and trap arm is replaced providing
the sewer line is not altered.
      8.   Every motel and hotel that does not provide private toilets,
lavatories, bathtubs or showers shall have on each floor, accessible from a
public hallway, at least one toilet, one lavatory, and one bathtub with shower
or one separate shower for each ten (10) occupants, or portion thereof, an
additional one toilet, one lavatory and one bathtub or shower accessible from a
public hallway shall be provided for each additional ten (10) occupants.
   B.   Water Heaters: Water heaters and boilers shall have an approved
combination temperature and pressure relief valve and relief valve discharge
pipe. All new installations of water heaters and boilers, when located above an
occupied space, shall include a safe pan with a drain piped to an approved
drainage system. Existing water heaters and boilers shall have a temperature
and pressure valve. The valve shall have a discharge pipe which discharges
within six inches (6") of the floor.
Exception: A temperature and pressure relief valve shall be required for water
heaters only when a water heater was designed for such valve.
   C.   Cross Connections: In order to protect against contamination of the
water supply through cross connections, all water inlets for plumbing fixtures
shall be located above the flood level rim of the fixture as defined in the
IPC. Hoses or hand held shower heads shall not be attached in any manner that
would permit water contamination during reverse pressure.
Exception 1: Water supply pipes provided with an approved backflow preventer or
antisiphon device as regulated in the IPC shall be permitted.
Exception 2: Hand held shower heads shall be permitted when provided with a
permanently mounted holder attached to the wall or shower pipe, or when an
antisiphon device is installed.
Exception 3: For dwelling units built before 1970, water faucet outlets below
the overflow rim of the fixture shall be permitted until the faucet is
replaced. A new fixture shall not be installed where it would create a cross
connection.
   D.   Drains:
      1.   Drain traps shall meet standards of the IPC.
Exception: For dwelling units built in 1969 and before, existing traps shall be
allowed as originally designed. If the trap has been modified it shall be
replaced with an approved trap, and a vent shall be added as required by the
IPC.
      2.   All open untrapped sewer lines and unused trapped outlets shall be
capped with an approved cap.
   E.   Fixture Requirements:
      1.   Showers shall be finished to a height of seventy inches (70") above
the fixture drain outlet with nonabsorbent material.
Exception: Freestanding tubs with shower risers may utilize a shower curtain
that totally encloses all sides of the tub.
      2.   Every kitchen sink, lavatory, tub and shower shall be provided with
hot water of at least one hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit (120oF) with cold
water.
      3.   Every kitchen sink, lavatory, tub, shower and toilet shall be
provided with a minimum of fifteen (15) psi of water pressure. (Ord. 95-142, 3-
7-1995)
9-2D-2: MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Mechanical Equipment:
      1.   All mechanical equipment shall be in accordance with the code in
effect at the time of installation.
      2.   All mechanical equipment shall be properly maintained and shall be
operated in a safe manner.
   B.   Heating:
      1.   Heating is to be provided by a permanently installed heating system
capable of heating all habitable rooms and bathrooms to a minimum of sixty
eight degrees Fahrenheit (68oF).
      2.   A return air duct shall not be permitted which serves more than one
dwelling unit.
Exceptions: A common air return shall be permitted if the heating system was
installed prior to 1960. A common air return shall be permitted for equipment
installed after 1959 and before 1969 and for furnace replacements using
existing ducts if a listed smoke detector is installed in the return air vent
which will shut down the furnace fan in the event of fire.
   C.   Fuel Burning Appliances:
      1.   Gas furnaces and water heaters shall not be permitted in bedrooms,
in bathrooms, or in closets with access only from a bedroom or a bathroom.
      2.   Gas shutoff valves are required on all gas appliances. Shutoff
valves shall be installed in accordance with the IMC.
      3.   All fireplaces, wood burning stoves and all other appliances
producing combustible gas byproducts shall be connected to an operating chimney
or approved flue. All flues and vents shall be installed per requirements of
the IMC in effect at the time of installation.
      4.   All fuel burning appliances shall be provided with combustion air
per the requirement of their listing and with the IMC.
      5.   All fuel burning appliances shall be provided with listed clearances
and maintained in good working condition.
      6.   All ventilation fans shall be installed according to their listing
and maintained in good working condition.
      7.   All ducts and vents shall be maintained according to original
installation requirements.
   D.   Asbestos: Asbestos, regardless of the date of installation, shall meet
the requirements of the State of Utah Department of Environmental Quality.
(Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2D-3: ELECTRICAL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements:
      1.   Unless provided otherwise in this chapter, all electrical wiring and
equipment shall be in accordance with the code in effect at the time of
installation.
      2.   All electrical panels, boxes and outlets are to have proper covers.
Every habitable room, including an SRO room, shall contain at least two (2)
electrical receptacles or one receptacle and one electric light fixture. Every
toilet room, bathroom, laundry room, furnace room and public hallway shall
contain at least one electrical light fixture. Electrical equipment shall not
exceed the load capacity of the service, and branch circuits shall be properly
fused.
      3.   Grounding type receptacles shall only be used when connected to a
grounding system. Existing nongrounding type receptacles may be replaced with
grounding type receptacles where protected by a ground fault circuit
interrupter.
   B.   Minimum Service: Existing dwelling units with electrical service less
than sixty (60) amps per dwelling unit which have no special electrical service
loads, such as air conditioners, stoves, heating units and refrigerators, may
continue to be operated without upgrading.
Exceptions: In structures built before 1970, residential units that are
remodeled at a cost exceeding three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per unit
(excluding cabinets, painting and carpet) shall have their electrical systems
upgraded to meet the requirements of the NEC.
   C.   Circuits: Circuits supplying air conditioners, cooking stoves and
heating appliances shall meet the requirements of the NEC.
   D.   Replacement Of Existing Electrical Fixtures: Electrical outlets and
switches may be replaced without upgrading electric wiring which was installed
in accordance with the applicable code at the time of installation.
   E.   New Installations: When new circuits, outlets, switches, wiring and
service panels are being installed, all work shall meet the NEC requirements.
   F.   Lighting: Lighting in common areas of apartment structures, congregate
housing, hotels and motels shall meet the following:
      1.   Aisles, passageways, stairwells, corridors, entryways and recesses
related to and within the building complex shall be illuminated with minimum of
forty watt (40 W) light bulb or equivalent for each two hundred (200) square
feet of floor area; provided, that the spacing between lights shall not be
greater than thirty feet (30').
Exception: Structures containing no more than three (3) dwelling units shall
not be required to provide exit lighting when no lighting outlet has been
previously provided.
      2.   Open parking lots and carports shall be provided with a minimum of
one foot-candle of light on the parking surface during the hours of darkness.
Lighting devices shall be protected by weather resistant covers. (Ord. 95-142,
3-7-1995)
ARTICLE E. RENTAL HOUSING - FIT PREMISES ACT
SECTION:
9-2E-1: Short Title
9-2E-2: Administration And Enforcement
9-2E-3: Duties Of Owners And Renters Generally
9-2E-4: Owner's Duties
9-2E-5: Renter's Duties
9-2E-6: Remedies For Renters
9-2E-1: SHORT TITLE:
This article is known as the RENTAL HOUSING - FIT PREMISES ACT. (Ord. 95-142,
3-7-1995)
9-2E-2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to provide for administration
and enforcement of this article.
   B.   Regulations: Regulations for owners of rental units, including three-
plex, apartment housing, group homes and apartment hotel include:
      1.   A business license or regulatory business license shall be required
of anyone who receives rental income from rental space for living quarters in
the above mentioned properties.
      2.   A certificate of occupancy may be required at the time the business
license is applied for. This certificate shall be issued by the building
inspector after the rental units have been inspected and found to meet the
requirements of this chapter.
      3.   The application for a regulatory business license shall be
accompanied by a special rental inspection fee, if a special inspection is
performed or a certificate of occupancy is issued, as specified by resolution
of the City Council. If an inspection is performed, an inspection fee shall be
required for the inspection of each rental dwelling owned by that owner. This
fee will be in addition to the business license fee.
      4.   If an inspection of a rental dwelling approves the rental dwelling
for purposes of a regulatory business license, the City may not inspect that
rental dwelling during the next thirty six (36) months, unless the City has
reasonable cause to believe that a condition in the rental dwelling is in
violation of an applicable law or ordinance.
      5.   Nothing in this article shall be construed to affect the rights and
duties established under this Rental Housing - Fit Premises Act, or to restrict
the City's ability to enforce its generally applicable Health Ordinances or
Building Codes or other Health and Safety Codes. (Ord. 05-05, 3-1-2005)
9-2E-3: DUTIES OF OWNERS AND RENTERS GENERALLY:
   A.   Fit Premises: Each landlord and his agent renting or leasing a
residential rental unit shall maintain that unit in a condition fit for human
habitation and in accordance with local ordinances and the rules of the Board
of Health having jurisdiction in the area in which the residential rental unit
is located. Each residential rental unit shall have electrical systems,
heating, plumbing, and hot and cold water.
   B.   Tenant Cooperation: Each tenant shall cooperate in maintaining his
residential unit in accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Exceptions: This article does not apply to breakage, malfunctions or
other conditions which do not materially affect the physical health or safety
of the ordinary tenant.
   D.   Agreement Required For Allocation Of Duty: Any duty in this article may
be allocated to a different party by explicit written agreement signed by the
parties. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2E-4: OWNER'S DUTIES:
   A.   Health And Safety Standards: To protect the physical health and safety
of the ordinary tenant, each owner shall:
      1.   Not rent the premises unless they are safe, sanitary and fit for
human occupancy;
      2.   Maintain common areas of the residential rental unit in a sanitary
and safe condition;
      3.   Maintain electrical systems, plumbing, heating, and hot and cold
water;
      4.   Maintain other appliances and facilities as specifically contracted
in the lease agreement; and
      5.   For buildings containing more than two (2) residential rental units,
provide and maintain appropriate receptacles for garbage and other waste and
arrange for its removal, except to the extent that renters and owners otherwise
agree.
   B.   Notice Of Noncompliance: In the event the renter believes the
residential rental unit does not comply with the standards for health and
safety required under this article, the renter shall give written notice of the
noncompliance to the owner. Within a reasonable time after receipt of this
notice, the owner shall commence action to correct the condition of the unit.
   C.   Renter Caused: The owner need not correct or remedy any condition
caused by the renter, the renter's family, or the renter's guests or invitees
by inappropriate use or misuse of the property during the rental term or any
extension of it.
   D.   Refusal To Correct: The owner may refuse to correct the condition of
the residential rental unit and terminate the rental agreement if the unit is
unfit for occupancy.
      1.   If the owner refuses to correct and intends to terminate the rental
agreement, he shall notify the renter in writing within a reasonable time after
receipt of the notice of noncompliance. If the rental agreement is terminated,
the rent paid shall be prorated to the date the agreement is terminated, and
any balance shall be refunded to the renter along with any deposit due. (Ord.
95-142, 3-7-1995)
      2.   If the owner refuses to correct the conditions, and the tenant
vacates the unit, the rental unit may not be inhabited by any other renter
until the deficiencies have been corrected and inspected by the building
official. (Ord. 96-146, 2-6-1996)
   E.   Nonliability: The owner is not liable under this article for claims for
mental suffering or anguish. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2E-5: RENTER'S DUTIES:
   A.   Specified: Each renter shall:
      1.   Comply with the rules of the Board of Health having jurisdiction in
the area in which the residential rental unit is located which materially
affect physical health and safety;
      2.   Maintain the premises occupied in a clean and safe condition and
shall not unreasonably burden any common area;
      3.   Dispose of all garbage and other waste in a clean and safe manner;
      4.   Maintain all plumbing fixtures in as sanitary a condition as the
fixtures permit;
      5.   Use all electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, and other
facilities and appliances in a reasonable manner;
      6.   Occupy the residential rental unit in the manner for which it was
designed, but the renter may not increase the number of occupants above that
specified in the rental agreement without written permission of the owner;
      7.   Be current on all payments required by the rental agreement; and
      8.   Comply with all appropriate requirements of the rental agreement
between the owner and the renter.
   B.   Prohibitions: No renter may:
      1.   Intentionally or negligently destroy, deface, damage, impair or
remove any part of the residential rental unit or knowingly permit any person
to do so;
      2.   Interfere with the peaceful enjoyment of the residential unit of
another renter; or
      3.   Unreasonably deny access to, refuse entry to, or withhold consent to
enter the residential rental unit to the owner, agent or manager for the
purpose of making repairs to the unit. (Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
9-2E-6: REMEDIES FOR RENTERS:
   A.   Compliance: A renter is not entitled to the remedies set forth in this
article unless the renter is in compliance with all provisions of section
9-2E-5 of this article.
   B.   Notice To Repair Or Correct: If a reasonable time has elapsed after the
renter has served written notice on the owner under section
9-2E-4 of this article and the condition described in the notice has not been
corrected, the renter may cause a "notice to repair or correct condition" to be
prepared and served on the owner. This notice shall:
      1.   Recite the previous notice served;
      2.   Recite the number of days that have elapsed since the notice was
served and state that under the circumstances such a period of time constitutes
the reasonable time allowed;
      3.   State the conditions included in the previous notice which have not
been corrected;
      4.   Make demand that the uncorrected conditions be corrected; and
      5.   State that in the event of failure of the owner to commence
reasonable corrective action within three (3) days, the renter will seek
redress in the courts.
   C.   Failure To Comply:
      1.   If the owner has not corrected or due diligence to correct the
conditions following the notice under this section, the renter is entitled to
bring an action in Circuit or District Court.
      2.   The court shall endorse on the summons the number of days within
which the owner is required to appear and defend the action, which shall not be
less than three (3) nor more than twenty (20) days from the date of service.
      3.   Upon a showing of an unjustified refusal to correct or the failure
to use due diligence to correct a condition described in this article, the
renter is entitled to damages and injunctive relief as determined by the court.
(Ord. 95-142, 3-7-1995)
CHAPTER 3
CONDOMINIUMS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Short Title
9-3-2: Purpose
9-3-3: Definitions
9-3-4: Application And Approval
9-3-5: Condominium Conversion
9-3-6: Design And Management Requirements
9-3-7: Enforcement
9-3-8: Penalty
9-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the FILLMORE CITY CONDOMINIUM ORDINANCE. (Ord.
02-04, 3-5-2002)
9-3-2: PURPOSE:
Condominium ownership differs in numerous respects from conventional building
ownership. It is in the interest of the public health, safety and welfare that
condominium projects be reviewed and approved by the City and appropriately
regulated for the protection of the community, displaced tenants and
prospective purchasers of condominium units. The procedures set forth herein
are intended to recognize the unique characteristics of condominiums and
condominium conversions. These procedures are adopted to provide a review
process and a set of standards which will address these unique characteristics
and to reduce any negative impacts upon the community, neighborhood areas, or
prospective owners which may result from the creation of a condominium or from
a condominium conversion. The procedure and requirements of this chapter shall
apply to and govern the construction and conversion of condominium projects
within the City. The provisions of this chapter shall supplement zoning,
health, building or other ordinances which may be applicable to a particular
condominium project, and shall apply to the approval of all condominium
projects involving new construction as well as conversion of existing
structures. (Ord. 02-04, 3-5-2002)
9-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the respective
meanings hereinafter set forth. Whenever any words or phrases used in this
chapter are not defined herein, but are defined in related sections of the Utah
Code Annotated or this Code, such definitions are incorporated herein and shall
apply as though set forth herein in full, unless the context clearly indicates
a contrary intention:
BUILDING: A single structure containing, or intended to contain, individual
condominium units, and comprising all or part of a condominium project.
CITY: Fillmore City.
COMMON AREAS AND COMMON FACILITIES: Unless otherwise provided in the
declaration or lawful amendments thereto, shall mean and include:
   A.   The land included within the condominium project, whether leasehold or
in fee simple;
   B.   The foundations, columns, girders, beams, supports, main walls, roofs,
halls, corridors, lobbies, stairs, stairways, fire escapes, and entrances and
exits of the building or buildings;
   C.   The basements, yard, gardens, parking areas and storage spaces located
on the property upon which the condominium project is situated;
   D.   The premises for lodging of employees of the condominium project, such
as janitors, maintenance personnel or property managers;
   E.   Installations of central services, such as power, light, gas, hot and
cold water, heating, refrigeration, air conditioning and incinerating;
   F.   The elevators, tanks, pumps, motors, fans, compressors, ducts and, in
general, all apparatus and installations existing for common use;
   G.   Such community and commercial facilities as may be provided for in the
declaration; and
   H.   All other parts of the property necessary or convenient to its
existence, maintenance and safety, or normally in common use.
COMMON EXPENSES: Means and includes:
   A.   All sums lawfully assessed against the unit owners;
   B.   Expenses of administration, maintenance, repair or replacement of the
common areas and facilities;
   C.   Expenses agreed upon as common expenses by the homeowners'
associations; and
   D.   Expenses declared common expenses by provisions of this chapter, or by
the condominium project declaration or bylaws, as amended from time to time.
CONDOMINIUM OR CONDOMINIUM UNIT: A single unit in a multi-unit condominium
project, where the single unit is owned separately from the other units in the
condominium project, together with an undivided interest in the common areas
and facilities associated with the condominium project.
CONDOMINIUM PROJECT: A building project or a planned building project
consisting of two (2) or more units, whether situated in existing apartments or
proposed structures, which are separately offered or proposed to be offered for
sale. Condominium project shall also mean the real property upon which the
building project is situated when the context so requires.
CONVERSION: A proposed change in the type of ownership of a parcel or parcels
of land and/or existing structures from single ownership, such as an apartment
house or multi-family dwelling, into a condominium project, with arrangements
involving separate ownership of individual condominium units and joint
collective ownership of common areas or facilities.
DECLARANT: Any person who executes a condominium declaration or on whose behalf
a condominium declaration is executed. From the time of the recordation of any
amendment to the declaration expanding an expandable condominium, all persons
who execute that amendment or on whose behalf that amendment is executed shall
also come within this definition. Any successors of the persons referred to in
this definition who come to stand in the same relation to the condominium
project as their predecessors did shall also come within this definition.
DECLARATION CONTAINING COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS: Relating to the
condominium project which is required under Utah Code Annotated section 57-8-
10, or any subsequent amendment or enactment thereof.
OPEN SPACE: Landscaped areas that are not occupied by buildings, structures,
parking areas, streets or alleys and are devoted to recreation use or
preservation of natural features.
PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association.
PROPERTY: Means and includes the land, whether leasehold or in fee simple, the
building or buildings situated on the land, and all other improvements to the
land, all easements, rights and appurtenances belonging to the land, and all
articles of personal property intended for use in connection therewith.
RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: A plat or plats originating from a survey of the property
and setting forth the locations of existing and proposed buildings and other
structures, units within buildings, open space, parking space, recreational
space, utility and service connections, and any other information needed by the
Planning Commission to evaluate an application for a conditional use permit.
UNIT NUMBER: The number or letter, or a combination of numbers and letters,
designating the unit in the declaration and on the record of survey map.
UNIT OWNER: The person or persons owning a unit in fee simple and an undivided
interest in the fee simple estate of the common areas and facilities in the
percentage specified and established in the declaration. (Ord. 02-04, 3-5-2002)
9-3-4: APPLICATION AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Approval Required: Prior to the construction or conversion of any
building to be used as a condominium, the record of survey map and the
condominium declaration, executed pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 57-8-
10, or any subsequent amendment or enactment thereof, shall be submitted, along
with an application for a conditional use permit, to the Planning Commission
pursuant to the requirements of this chapter and section
10-3-4 of this Code. The Planning Commission shall review the application and
information and shall deny the application or approve the application,
conditioned on the approval of the application by the City Council. If the
Planning Commission denies the application, it shall notify the applicant in
writing within ten (10) days of its decision. If the Planning Commission
approves the application, the application and accompanying information shall be
submitted to the City Council. If the City Council denies the application, it
shall notify the applicant in writing within ten (10) days of its decision. If
the City Council approves the application, it shall notify the applicant in
writing within ten (10) days of its decision. Upon the approval of the City
Council, the applicant may proceed with construction or conversion pursuant to
the requirements and restrictions imposed by this Code and all codes or rules
adopted by this Code.
   B.   Appeals:
      1.   An applicant whose application has been denied by the Planning
Commission may appeal to the City Council by filing with the City Recorder a
notice of appeal in writing within ten (10) days of receipt of notice of the
adverse decision. Such notice of appeal shall set forth in detail the action
appealed and grounds for the appeal.
      2.   The City Recorder shall set the appeal for hearing before the City
Council within forty five (45) days of receipt of the notice of appeal. Written
notice of the date set for hearing the appeal shall be mailed to the appellant
at least ten (10) days before the appeal hearing date. After hearing the
appeal, the City Council may affirm, modify or overrule the Planning
Commission's decision. If the Planning Commission's decision is overruled by
the City Council, the City Council may direct the Planning Commission to grant
the conditional use permit sought by the applicant.
      3.   The appellant may appeal any decision of the City Council by filing
an action in the District Court pursuant to the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.
   C.   Recording Declaration And Record Of Survey Map: Upon approval of the
condominium project by the City Council, and pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
section 57-8-10, or any subsequent amendment or enactment thereof, the
condominium declaration and record of survey map shall be presented by the City
Recorder to the County Recorder for recording on the public records. (Ord. 02-
04, 3-5-2002)
9-3-5: CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION:
   A.   Report Of Property Condition: As an element of any application for a
conditional use permit seeking to convert an existing structure or structures
to a condominium project, the owner/developer shall submit a report of property
condition which is intended to ensure that the declaration appropriately
addresses existing and future conditions related to maintenance, upkeep and
operation. The report of property condition, which may be referred back to the
applicant by the Planning Commission or City Council for additional detail as
is necessary, shall be submitted on a form provided by the City and shall
contain the following information:
      1.   The age of the buildings with copies of original building plans and
a disclosure of whether or not the actual building conforms to the plans;
      2.   Condition of structural elements, including roof, foundations,
walls, mechanical system, electrical system, plumbing system and heating
system;
      3.   A plan showing which parts of the system are maintained in common
and which are maintained by individual units;
      4.   Size of water service lines from meter to main and from main to
buildings;
      5.   Size and location of sewer lateral;
      6.   Capacity of electrical service for each unit measured in amps;
      7.   Condition of paving materials on private streets, if any;
      8.   Condition of paving or surfacing material on driveways, parking
areas, sidewalks, curbs, etc.;
      9.   Detailed plan of parking and traffic circulation;
      10.   Condition of paint (including disclosure of any known lead based
paint) and/or exterior surfaces of all buildings and structures;
      11.   All known conditions constituting defect or deficiencies; and
      12.   All known conditions which may require repair or replacement within
the next succeeding five (5) year period.
   B.   Report Of Building Inspector: At the time of submission of an
application for a conditional use permit seeking to convert existing building
or buildings to a condominium project, the building inspector shall make an
inspection of the proposed condominium project to determine compliance with the
safety provisions and other requirements of the City. The building inspector
shall submit a written report of his findings to the Planning Commission for
its consideration.
   C.   Tenant Notice Of Conversion: Whenever a proposed condominium project
involves the conversion of an existing residential structure which has been
occupied by residential tenants prior to application for conversion, the owner/
developer shall provide notice of the intended conversion to said tenants by
certified mail. This notice requirement shall not apply to nonresidential
structures or to a residential structure that was vacant upon acquisition by
the owner/developer and remained vacant until filing of the application for
conversion. The notice of conversion shall include the following:
      1.   Notice of the owner/developer's plans for the conversion of the
building to a condominium project;
      2.   The estimated dates of termination of occupancy by tenants, which
shall not be less than ninety (90) days from the date of notice, and the
estimated date of the commencement of construction, which shall not be less
than one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of notice;
      3.   A statement informing the tenant that he or she shall be given first
right to purchase their respective unit upon at least as favorable terms and
conditions as the units are offered to the general public; and
      4.   Relocation information for the tenants specifying available
alternative housing relocation resource agencies and organizations, and a plan
of any services to be voluntarily provided by the owner/developer.
   D.   Tenant Notice Verification: Prior to, and as a condition of, issuance
of a conditional use permit by the Planning Commission, the owner/developer
shall submit to the City Recorder a copy of the notice provided to tenants,
together with a list identifying the names and apartments or unit numbers of
each tenant within the proposed condominium project. The notice and list shall
be accompanied by an affidavit certifying that all tenants within the proposed
condominium project have been served, by registered or certified mail, copies
of the notice. (Ord. 02-04, 3-5-2002)
9-3-6: DESIGN AND MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Utilities: Each condominium unit within a condominium development shall
be separately metered for gas, electricity and water, and shall be provided
with readily accessible individual shutoff valves for each utility service, and
safety devices or switches for such services unless the declaration provides
that the homeowners' association is required to pay the cost of any such
services. If the homeowners' association is required to pay the costs of any
such services, the declaration must disclose to the unit owners that nonpayment
of utility bills by the homeowners' association may result in loss of those
services.
   B.   Heating System: Each condominium unit shall be equipped with its own
heating system, except where a central water or steam heating system is
present. Where a central water or steam heating system is present, each
condominium unit shall be provided with its own means of controlling
temperature in that unit.
   C.   Construction:
      1.   Construction shall proceed only upon issuance of a conditional use
permit and only in accordance with the plans and specifications approved by the
Planning Commission and the City Council, and in conformity with any additional
conditions attached by the Planning Commission or City Council. (Ord. 02-04, 3-
5-2002)
      2.   Amendments to approved plans and specifications for any condominium
project shall be recommended for approval by the Planning Commission to the
City Council. If approved, such approval shall be shown on the approved plans.
(Ord. 02-04, 3-5-2002; amd. 2019 Code)
      3.   The building inspector shall not issue any building or occupancy
permit for any proposed building or structure within a condominium project
unless such building or structure is constructed in accordance with the
approved development plan and any conditions imposed in conjunction with its
approval.
   D.   Additional Design And Layout:
      1.   A proposed condominium project, including the land upon which it is
to be situated, shall be owned by a single person or entity during development
in order to ensure full supervision and control of the condominium project and
to ensure conformance with these provisions and all conditions imposed upon the
preliminary and final project plans.
      2.   Where appropriate, the owner/developer of a condominium project
shall provide pedestrian and bicycle paths that are physically separated from
vehicular traffic in or adjacent to the condominium project.
      3.   All condominium projects shall provide reasonable visual and
acoustical privacy for dwelling units. Fences, insulation, walks, barriers,
landscaping and sound reducing construction techniques shall be used for the
enhancement of the privacy of the occupants.
      4.   A minimum of one thousand (1,000) square feet of playground area
shall be provided by the owner/developer of any condominium project consisting
of five (5) individual units or more, plus an additional two hundred (200)
square feet for each additional unit over five (5).
      5.   The declaration, bylaws or subsequent action by the homeowners'
association may prescribe limits on the total number of individual units that
may be leased at any given time.
   E.   Homeowners' Association: The declaration of any condominium project
shall provide for the organization of a homeowners' association to govern the
affairs of the condominium project and for the election or appointment of a
board of trustees and officers. A homeowners' association shall be organized
under the laws of the State and may take the legal form of a nonprofit
corporation or any other lawful business entity form. (Ord. 02-04, 3-5-2002)
9-3-7: ENFORCEMENT:
The City shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter
against violations thereof by actions including, but not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Denial of condominium initiation and maintenance of an action for
injunctive relief to restrain, abate or cause the correction of such violation;
or
   B.   Initiation and maintenance of an action for injunctive relief to
restrain, abate or cause the correction of such violation; or
   C.   Initiation of criminal proceedings. (Ord. 02-04, 3-5-2002)
9-3-8: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell any unit of any condominium or any
other portion thereof until the final declaration and record of survey map, in
full compliance with the provisions of this chapter, have been finally approved
by the City Council and duly recorded in the Office of the County Recorder, and
a conditional use permit has been issued by the Planning Commission. Any
developer, agent of a developer, owner, successor in interest of a developer or
owner, tenant, purchaser, builder, contractor, or other person who violates any
of the provisions of this chapter, or any conditions imposed pursuant to this
chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 02-04, 3-5-2002; amd. 2019 Code)
CHAPTER 4
IMPACT FEES AND EXACTIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Exactions
9-4-2: Amendments
9-4-3: Penalty
9-4-1: EXACTIONS:
   A.   Authority: The City Council is hereby authorized to establish and
require exactions as a condition of granting subdivision plat approval and/or
as a condition of the issuance of a building permit from an individual or a
developer when the proposed development will impact any public facility.
   B.   Definitions:
EXACTION: An in-kind contribution or donation (i.e., construction of sidewalk,
granting of easements, etc.).
IMPACT FEE: Direct fees assessed to cover public facilities improvements costs.
   C.   Determination: In order to protect and provide for the health, safety,
and general welfare of the residents, reasonable infrastructure exactions may
be required of individuals and developers based upon existing infrastructure or
lack of infrastructure in the area in which the construction is proposed in
order to provide adequate public facilities necessary to service new
development, the need for such facilities having been created by the new
development.
   D.   Method Of Assessing: The City Council may establish exaction
requirements by resolution based on infrastructure needs to adequately provide
for the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens. Exaction
determination shall be made by the City Council on a case-by-case basis of
which public facility improvements shall be required, which shall include, but
not be limited to, water, sewer, electric, fire hydrants, streets, sidewalks,
curbs and storm drainage.
   E.   Annexation Exactions: A condition of annexation shall not be limited
to, but may include an exaction of water rights based on the equivalent
residential connection usage formula as adopted by resolution. (Ord. 96-147, 6-
18-1996)
9-4-2: AMENDMENTS:
This chapter or the articles contained herein shall never be interpreted or
advanced to preclude or restrict the right of the City to amend this chapter
(or the individual articles therein) or to adopt future impact fees. (Ord. 08-
02, 5-6-2008)
9-4-3: PENALTY:
Commencement of construction without payment of impact fees shall be punishable
as a Class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4
of this Code. (Ord. 96-147, 6-18-1996; amd. 2019 Code)
ARTICLE A. WATER IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
9-4A-1: Findings And Purpose
9-4A-2: Definitions
9-4A-3: Wastewater System Impact Fee Analysis Adopted
9-4A-4: Service Area Established
9-4A-5: Impact Fees Levied
9-4A-6: Time Of Collection
9-4A-7: Use Of Fees
9-4A-8: Adjustments, Credits, And Reimbursements
9-4A-9: Exemptions
9-4A-10: Accounting, Expenditures And Refund
9-4A-11: Challenges And Appeals
9-4A-12: Administrative Development Fees
9-4A-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
The City Council hereby finds and determines:
   A.   There is a need for public facilities for development activity, which
need be consistent with the City General Plan and to protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
   B.   The continuing growth of the City necessitates the imposition and
collection of impact fees that requires development to pay its fair share of
the cost of providing public facilities occasioned by the demands and needs of
the development project as service levels necessary to promote and preserve the
public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 00-03, 3-7-2000; amd. Ord. 22-25, 12-
20-2022; Ord. 22-26, 12-20-2022)
9-4A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this article shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
             Those portions of the Fillmore City Wastewater System Impact Fee Analysis and
             Fillmore City Wastewater System Master Plan which pertain to:
             A.   Identifying the existing level of service;
CAPITAL      B.   Establishing a proposed level of service;
FACILITIES   C.   Identifying any excess capacity to accommodate future growth at the
PLAN:        proposed level of service;
             D.   Identifying demands placed upon existing public facilities by new
             development activity at the proposed level of service; and
             E.   Identifying the means by which the political subdivision or private entity
             will meet those growth demands.
CITY:        Fillmore City, Utah, a Utah Municipal corporation.
DEVELOPMENT  Any construction or expansion of a building, structure, or use, any change in
ACTIVITY:    use of a building or structure, or any changes in the use of land that creates
             additional demand and need for public facilities.
DEVELOPMENT  Written authorization from the City that authorizes the commencement of
APPROVAL:    development activity.
             A payment of money imposed upon new development activity as a condition of
             development approval to mitigate the impact of the development on public
IMPACT FEE:  infrastructure. Impact fee does not mean a tax. A special assessment, a building
             permit fee, a hookup fee, a fee for project improvements, or other reasonable
             permit or application fee.
             Site improvements and facilities that are:
PROJECT      A.   Planned and designed to provide service for development resulting from a
IMPROVEMENT: development activity; and
             B.   Necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of the
             development resulting from a development activity.
SERVICE      The geographic area designated by the City in which a defined set of public
AREA:        facilities provides service within the area.
The IMPACT   Title 11, Chapter 36a, Utah Code Annotated or its successor state statute of
FEES ACT or  that title and chapter if renumbered, recodified, or amended. (Ord. 00-03, 3-7-
the ACT:     2000; amd. Ord. 22-25, 12-20-2022; Ord. 22-26, 12-20-2022)
 
9-4A-3: WASTEWATER SYSTEM IMPACT FEE ANALYSIS ADOPTED:
The City Council hereby adopts the report from Sunrise Engineering, Inc., dated
November 10, 2022, entitled, "Fillmore City Wastewater System Impact Fee
Analysis." Said Fillmore City Wastewater System Impact Fee Analysis and
Amendment are set forth as Exhibit B on file in the City and is incorporated
herein by reference. (Ord. 00-03, 3-7-2000; amd. Ord. 22-25, 12-20-2022; Ord.
22-26, 12-20-2022)
9-4A-4: SERVICE AREA ESTABLISHED:
The City shall constitute a single service area and all real property located
within the corporate boundaries of the City shall be included within such
service area as well as adjacent areas, as approved by the City Council, that
are served by the Fillmore City Wastewater System. (Ord. 00-03, 3-7-2000; amd.
Ord. 22-25, 12-20-2022; Ord. 22-26, 12-20-2022)
9-4A-5: IMPACT FEES LEVIED:
The impact fees for the Service Area are hereby established and levied and will
be contained in the City fee schedule as follows:
 
              ERC1 Impact Fee - Wastewater
Residential   1    $9,583.59
Commercial    For non-residential connections, the ERC will be determined based
Industrial    up the higher of anticipated volume or concentration of loads
Institutional (e.g., if a commercial connection discharges four times the
              amount of wastewater of four times as concentrated discharge as a
City          residential connection, the impact fee will total $38,334.36)

1   "In [the Fillmore City Wastewater System Impact Fee Analysis], reference
will be made to Equivalent Residential Connections (ERCs). One ERC is defined
as the amount of wastewater [that] is generated by an average residential
connection. In accordance with the City's wastewater master plan, an average
residential connection is expected to use 300 gallons per day for ERC. Because
an ERC relates to the amount of water required for the average residential
connection, use of this term allows commercial, institutional, or other water
users to be equated to a residential connection. An ERC is also anticipated to
have a wastewater strength equivalent to the average municipal loading waste.
Users that discharge wastewater containing higher concentrations of BOD will be
equated to an ERC based upon the anticipated loadings. ERCs are factored into
calculations for impact fees, user rates, and other analyses as required for
design purposes. The wastewater master plan analysed wastewater production per
connection type. Commercial connections are assigned an ERC value of 4.
Industrial connections are assigned an ERC value of 16." Fillmore City
Wastewater System Impact Fee Analysis, § 6.2, Calculation of ERC, p. 8.
 
(Ord. 00-03, 3-7-2000; amd. Ord. 22-25, 12-20-2022; Ord. 22-26, 12-20-2022)
9-4A-6: TIME OF COLLECTION:
Unless otherwise provided by the City Council, impact fees shall be payable
prior to or at the time of the issuance of a building permit by the City. In no
event can a developer prepay impact fees prior to applying for a building
permit. (Ord. 00-03, 3-7-2000; amd. Ord. 22-25, 12-20-2022; Ord. 22-26, 12-20-
2022)
9-4A-7: USE OF FEES:
The fees shall be used solely as allowed under the Impact Fees Act. (Ord. 00-
03, 3-7-2000; amd. Ord. 22-25, 12-20-2022; Ord. 22-26, 12-20-2022)
9-4A-8: ADJUSTMENTS, CREDITS, AND REIMBURSEMENTS:
   A.   Adjustments. The City may, upon a proper showing, adjust (but not above
the maximum allowable fee) the standard impact fee at the time the fee is
charged:
      1.   To respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases or a request
for a prompt and individualized impact fee review for the development activity
of the state, a school district, or a charter school and an offset or credit
for a public facility for which an impact fee has been or will be collected;
and ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly;
      2.   Upon the City's review and approval of studies and data submitted by
a developer showing a substantial discrepancy between the fee being assessed
and the actual impact of the development activity on the system.
   B.   Credits/Reimbursements. A developer, including a school district or
charter school, may be allowed a credit against or proportionate reimbursement
of impact fees if the developer dedicates land for a system improvement; builds
and dedicates some or all of a system improvement; or dedicates a public
facility that Fillmore City and the developer agree will reduce the need for a
system improvement. A credit against impact fees shall be granted for any
dedication of land for, improvement to, or new construction of, any system
improvements provided by the developer if the facilities are system
improvements to the respective utilities, or are dedicated to the public and
offset the need for an identified future improvement. (Ord. 00-03, 3-7-2000;
amd. Ord. 22-25, 12-20-2022; Ord. 22-26, 12-20-2022)
9-4A-9: EXEMPTIONS:
The following may be exempted from payment of the impact fee:
   A.   Alterations or expansion of an existing building where no additional
residential units or equivalent residential units are created and where the use
is not changed.
   B.   The construction of accessory buildings or structures where no
additional units or equivalent residential units are created and where the use
is not changed.
   C.   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed building or
structure where no additional residential units or equivalent residential units
are created and where the use is not changed. (Ord. 00-03, 3-7-2000; amd. Ord.
22-25, 12-20-2022; Ord. 22-26, 12-20-2022)
9-4A-10: ACCOUNTING, EXPENDITURES AND REFUND:
The City shall account for, expend and refund impact fees in accordance with
the provisions of the Impact Fees Act. (Ord. 00-03, 3-7-2000; amd. Ord. 22-25,
12-20-2022; Ord. 22-26, 12-20-2022)
9-4A-11: CHALLENGES AND APPEALS:
The City adopts and incorporates herein Part 7, Challenges, of the Impact Fees
Act. (Ord. 00-03, 3-7-2000; amd. Ord. 22-25, 12-20-2022; Ord. 22-26, 12-20-
2022)
9-4A-12: ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT FEES:
   A.   In addition to construction and dedication of any required public
improvements and the payment of impact fees, fees may also be established by
the City for building permits, excavation permits, filing of various
applications, inspection of improvements, site plan reviews, connection to
water facilities and other similar purposes. The amounts of these fees shall be
listed in the City fee schedule and may hereafter be set or amended by
resolution of the City Council.
   B.   No application or request shall be accepted or application taken
thereon until the applicant has paid to the City the required fees listed in
the City fee schedule applicable to such application or request. (Ord. 00-03,
3-7-2000; amd. Ord. 22-25, 12-20-2022; Ord. 22-26, 12-20-2022)
ARTICLE B. WASTEWATER IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
9-4B-1: Title
9-4B-2: Intent And Purpose
9-4B-3: Rules Of Construction
9-4B-4: Definitions
9-4B-5: Impact Fee District
9-4B-6: Imposition Of Impact Fee
9-4B-7: Computation Of Amount
9-4B-8: Biannual Fee Schedule Review
9-4B-9: Payment Of Fee
9-4B-10: Service Outside City Limits
9-4B-11: Trust Fund Established
9-4B-12: Use Of Funds
9-4B-13: Refund Of Fees Paid
9-4B-14: Exemptions And Credits
9-4B-15: Challenges And Appeals
9-4B-16: Enforcement
9-4B-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the FILLMORE CITY WASTEWATER
IMPACT FEE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
9-4B-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This article is intended to assist in the implementation of the general
plan.
   B.   The purpose of this article is to regulate the use and development of
land so as to assure that new development bears its proportionate share of the
cost of capital expenditures necessary for public facility improvements in the
City. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
9-4B-3: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Purpose, Interest: The provisions of this article shall be liberally
construed so as to effectively carry out its purpose in the interest of the
public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   Specified: For the purpose of administration and enforcement, unless
otherwise stated in this article, the following rules of construction shall
apply to the text of this article:
      1.   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text
of this article and any caption, illustration, summary table or illustrative
table, the text shall control.
      2.   The word "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary; the word
"may" is permissive.
      3.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used
in the singular shall include plural; and the plural the singular, unless the
context clearly indicates the contrary.
      4.   The phrase "used for" includes "arranged for", "designed for", and
"maintained for", or "occupied for".
      5.   The word "person" includes an individual, a corporation, a
partnership, an association, or any other similar entity.
      6.   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a
regulation involves two (2) or more items, conditions, provisions or events
connected by the conjunction "and", "or", or "either...or", the conjunction
shall be interpreted as follows:
         a.   "And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply.
         b.   "Or" indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions
or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
         c.   "Either...or" indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
      7.   The word "includes" shall not limit a term to the specific example,
but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances or circumstances
of like kind or character.
      8.   "City" means Fillmore City, Utah, a Utah Municipal corporation.
Unless otherwise specifically designated in a particular section, actions to be
undertaken by the City shall be at the direction of the Fillmore City Council
or the City officials, they may designate to carry out the administration of
this article or other provisions of this Code. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
9-4B-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this article shall have the following
meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS: Includes public facility planning and engineering, land
acquisition, site improvements, building and equipment, but excludes
maintenance and operation.
DEVELOPMENT ORDER: A regulatory approval by Fillmore City.
FEE PAYER: A person applying for the issuance of a building permit or
manufactured home placement that will, in any way, be connecting to or
impacting the wastewater system.
PRIVATE RECREATIONAL FACILITY: Any recreational facility which is not owned by
or dedicated to any governmental entity.
STUDY: Refers to the Wastewater Impact Fee Study performed by Sunrise
Engineering, Inc., in 2006. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
9-4B-5: IMPACT FEE DISTRICT:
There is hereby established a wastewater impact fee district. The entire City
is one Citywide district. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
9-4B-6: IMPOSITION OF IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Payment Required: Any person who, after the effective date hereof,
seeks to develop land with the City by applying for a land use permit or
building installation, is hereby required to pay an impact fee in the manner
and set forth in the study completed by Sunrise Engineering, Inc., in 2006 and
in the amount imposed by this article.
   B.   Issuance Of Permit: No new building permit or new permit for
manufactured home installation, or for any activity requiring payment of an
impact fee pursuant to section
9-4B-9 of this article, shall be issued unless and until the impact fee hereby
required has been paid.
   C.   Extension: No extension of a building permit or permit for manufactured
home installation issued prior to the effective date hereof for any activity
requiring payment of an impact fee pursuant to section
9-4B-9 of this article shall be granted unless and until the impact fee hereby
required has been paid. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
9-4B-7: COMPUTATION OF AMOUNT:
   A.   Amount: The amount of the impact fee shall be determined by the method
presented in the study completed by Sunrise Engineering, Inc., in 2006 and is
based on equivalent residential connections (ERCs). The impact fee imposed is
two thousand two hundred dollars ($2,200.00) per ERC, which amount is less than
can be imposed under the study.
      1.   If a building is requested for mixed uses, then the fee shall be
determined using the aforementioned method by apportioning the space committed
to uses specified in the method per equivalent residential dwelling units or as
referred to in the study an ERC. The initial amount of the impact fee is set
forth above. Any changes in amount shall be approved and published by
resolution to the City Council.
      2.   The aforementioned method determines the per unit fee for
residential uses. If the type of development activity that a building permit is
applied for is not a residential use, the City shall determine the fee on an
equivalent residential dwelling unit basis. The City shall be guided in the
determination of equivalent residential dwelling units by the study, supporting
documents of the Zoning Ordinance, Uniform Building Codes and any other
information the City deems appropriate. If the City determines that there are
no comparable equivalent residential dwelling units, then the City shall
determine the appropriate fee by considering demographic or other documentation
which is available from State, local and regional authorities.
      3.   In the case of change of use, redevelopment or expansion or
modification of an existing use which required the issuance of a building
permit or manufactured home placement permit, the impact fee shall be based
upon the net positive increase in the impact fee for the new use as compared to
the previous use.
   B.   Independent Calculation Study: If a fee payer opts not to have the
impact fee determined according to subsection A of this section, then the fee
payer shall prepare and submit to the Mayor an independent fee calculation
study for the land development activity for which a building permit or
manufactured home placement permit is sought. The documentation submitted shall
show the basis upon which the independent fee calculation was made. The Mayor
shall consider the documentation submitted by the fee payer, but is not
required to accept such documentation as the Mayor reasonably deems to be
inaccurate or not reliable and may require the fee payer to submit additional
or different documentation for consideration. If an acceptable independent fee
calculation study is not presented, the fee payer shall pay the impact fee
based upon ERCs as applied in subsection A of this section. If an acceptable
independent fee calculation study is presented, the Mayor may adjust the fee to
that appropriate to the particular development. Determinations made by the
Mayor pursuant to this subsection may be appealed to the City Council by filing
a written appeal request with the City Recorder within ten (10) days of the
determination. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
9-4B-8: BIANNUAL FEE SCHEDULE REVIEW:
The fee schedule contained in subsection 9-4B-7A of this article shall be
reviewed by the City Council at least once each fiscal biennium (i.e., every 2
years). Any new or changed fee amounts shall be approved and published by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
9-4B-9: PAYMENT OF FEE:
   A.   Required: The fee payer shall pay the wastewater impact fee required by
this article to the City prior to the issuance of a land use permit or building
permit or a permit for manufactured home installation.
   B.   Funds Collected: All funds collected shall be properly identified by
impact fee type and district and promptly transferred for deposit in the
appropriate Impact Fee Trust Fund to be held in separate accounts as determined
by section
9-4B-11 of this article and used solely for the purposes specified in this
article. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
9-4B-10: SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
No service outside City limits is allowed under this article, unless the City
Council approves each service connection on an individual basis. (Ord. 08-02,
5-6-2008)
9-4B-11: TRUST FUND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Separate Fund: There is hereby established a separate Impact Fee Trust
Fund for wastewater facilities.
   B.   Use: Funds withdrawn from this account must be used in accordance with
the provision of section
9-4B-12 of this article. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
9-4B-12: USE OF FUNDS:
   A.   Capital Improvements: Funds collected from impact fees shall be used
solely for the purpose of acquiring and/or making capital improvements and
their related costs to public facilities under jurisdiction of the City.
   B.   Identified Use: Funds shall be used exclusively for acquisitions,
expansions or capital improvements within the Wastewater Impact Fee District,
as identified in the study, from which the funds were collected and only for
wastewater collection and treatment facilities. Funds shall be expended in the
order in which they are collected.
   C.   Payment Of Bonds: In the event that bonds or similar debt instruments
are issued for advance provision of capital facilities for which impact fees
may be expended, the impact fee may be used to pay debt service on such bonds
or similar debt instruments to the extent that the facilities provided are of
the type described in subsection A of this section and are located within the
appropriate impact fees district created by section
9-4B-5 of this article, or as provided in subsection B of this section.
   D.   Proposed Capital Improvements Program Submitted: At least once each
fiscal period the Mayor shall present to the City Council a proposed capital
improvements program for the public facilities, assigning funds, including any
accrued interest from the several impact fee trust funds, to specific public
improvement projects and related expenses. Monies, including any accrued
interest, not assigned in any fiscal period shall be retained in the same
impact fee trust funds until the next fiscal period, except as provided by the
refund provisions of this article.
   E.   Previously Incurred Costs: Funds may be used for wastewater collection
and treatment facility costs previously incurred by the City for the extent
that new growth and development will be served by the previously constructed
improvement.
   F.   Refunds: Funds may be used to provide refunds as described in section
9-4B-13 of this article. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
9-4B-13: REFUND OF FEES PAID:
   A.   Expiration Without Commencement Of Construction: If a building permit
or manufactured home placement permit expires without commencement of
construction, the fees have not been spent or encumbered, and no impact has
resulted, the fee payer shall be entitled to a refund, with interest at the
rate the City has received on the fee, of the impact fee paid as a condition
for its issuance, except that the City shall retain ten percent (10%) of the
fee to offset a portion of the cost of collection and refund. The fee payer
must submit an application for such refund to the City within thirty (30) days
of the expiration of the permit.
   B.   Unexpended Funds: Except as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 11-
36a-603, or its successor section, any funds not expended or encumbered by the
end of the calendar quarter immediately following six (6) years from the date
the impact fee was paid shall, upon application of the then current landowner,
be returned to such landowner with interest at the rate the City has received
on the fee; provided, that the landowner submits an application for a refund to
the City within one hundred eighty (180) days of the expiration of the six (6)
year period. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
9-4B-14: EXEMPTIONS AND CREDITS:
   A.   Exemptions: The following may be exempted from payment of the impact
fee:
      1.   Alterations or expansions of an existing building where no
additional residential units or equivalent residential units are created and
where the use is not changed.
      2.   The construction of accessory buildings or structures where no
additional residential units or equivalent residential units are created and
where the use is not changed.
      3.   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed building or
structure with a new building or structure of the same size and use.
      4.   The installation of a replacement mobile home on a lot or such site
when an impact fee for such mobile home site has previously been paid pursuant
to this article or where a mobile home legally existed on such a site on or
prior to the effective date hereof.
      5.   The construction of buildings by a government agency or other
development activities with a broad public purpose as determined by the City.
In the event that an exemption is granted, the City Council shall establish the
source of funding to pay for the impact of the development activity.
Any claim of exemption must be made no later than the time of application for a
building permit or permit for modular home installation. Any claim not so made
shall be deemed waived.
   B.   Credits:
      1.   Public capital improvements may be offered by the fee payer as total
or partial payment of the required impact fee. The offer must specifically
request or provide for an impact fee credit. If the City accepts such an offer,
whether the acceptance is before or after the effective date hereof, the credit
shall be determined and provided in the following manner:
         a.   Credit for the dedication of land shall be valued at one hundred
percent (100%) of the most recent assessed value by the County property
appraiser; by such other appropriate method as the City Council may have
accepted prior to the effective date hereof for particular public improvements;
or by fair market value established by private appraiser acceptable to the
City. Credit for the dedication of park land shall be provided when the
property has been conveyed at no charge to, and accepted by, the City in a
manner satisfactory to the City Council.
         b.   Applicants for credit for construction of public improvements
shall submit acceptable engineering drawings and specifications, and
construction costs estimates to the City. The City shall determine credit for
construction based upon either these cost estimates or upon alternative
engineering criteria and construction cost estimates performed by the City. The
City shall provide the applicant with a letter of certificate setting forth the
dollar amount of the credit, the reason for the credit, and the legal
description or other adequate description of the project or development to
which the credit may be applied. The applicant must sign and date a duplicate
copy of such letter or certificate and return such signed document to the City
before credit will be given. The failure of the applicant to sign, date and
return such document within sixty (60) days shall nullify the credit.
         c.   Except as provided in subsection B1d of this section, credit
against impact fees otherwise due will not be provided until:
            (1)   The construction is completed and accepted by the City;
            (2)   A suitable maintenance and warranty bond is received and
approved by the City, when applicable.
         d.   Credit may be provided before completion of specified public
improvements if adequate assurances are given by the applicant that the
standards set out in subsection B1c of this section will be met and if the fee
payer posts security as provided below for the costs of such construction.
Security in the form of a cash escrow agreement shall be posted with and
approved by the City at one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the amount
determined by the City. Twenty five percent (25%) of the cash escrow account
shall remain for two (2) years after completion of the project, as a guarantee
of the work, pursuant to the City's cash bond escrow agreement. If the public
improvement construction project will not be constructed within one year of the
acceptance of the offer by the City, the amount of the security shall be
increased by ten percent (10%) compounded for each year of the life of the
security. The security shall be reviewed and approved by the City
representatives prior to acceptance of the security by the City Council. If the
public improvement construction project is not to be complete within five (5)
years of the date of the fee payer's offer, the City Council must approve the
public improvement construction project and its scheduled completion date prior
to the acceptance of the offer by the City.
      2.   The City need not approve the credit unless the dedication is for
public facilities identified in the study or other similar studies adopted by
the City or a capital facilities plan adopted by the City and such public
facilities are required by the City as a condition of approving the development
activity.
      3.   Any claim for credit must be made no later than the time of
application for a land use permit, building permit or permit for modular home
installation. Any claim not so made shall be deemed waived.
      4.   Credits shall not be transferable from one project or development to
another without the approval of the City Council.
      5.   Determinations made by the City pursuant to this section may be
appealed to the City Council by filing a written appeal with the City Recorder
within ten (10) days of the determination. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
9-4B-15: CHALLENGES AND APPEALS:
Any challenges or appeals of this impact fee shall follow the procedures in
section
9-4A-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008; amd. 2019 Code)
9-4B-16: ENFORCEMENT:
The City may enforce the provisions of this article by an action at law or in
equity in any court having jurisdiction. (Ord. 08-02, 5-6-2008)
ARTICLE C. CITY POWER SYSTEM IMPACT FEE
SECTION:
9-4C-1: Findings And Purpose
9-4C-2: Definitions
9-4C-3: Power System Impact Fee Analysis Adopted
9-4C-4: Service Area Establishment
9-4C-5: Impact Fees Levied
9-4C-6: Time Of Collection
9-4C-7: Use Of Fees
9-4C-8: Adjustments, Credits, And Reimbursements
9-4C-9: Exemptions
9-4C-10: Accounting, Expenditures, And Refund
9-4C-11: Challenges And Appeals
9-4C-12: Administrative Development Fees
9-4C-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
The City Council hereby finds and determines:
   A.   There is a need for public facilities for development activity, which
need be consistent with the City General Plan and to protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
   B.   The continuing growth of the City necessitates the imposition and
collection of impact fees that requires development to pay its fair share of
the cost of providing public facilities occasioned by the demands and needs of
the development project at service levels necessary to promote and preserve the
public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 23-07, 4-18-2023)
9-4C-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this article shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   CAPITAL FACILITIES PLAN: Those portions of the Fillmore City Power System
Impact Fee Analysis and Fillmore City Power Master Plan which pertain to (i)
identifying the existing level of service; (ii) establishing a proposed level
of service; (iii) identifying any excess capacity to accommodate future growth
at the proposed level of service; (iv) identifying demands placed upon existing
public facilities by new development activity at the proposed level of service;
and (v) identifying the means by which the political subdivision or private
entity will meet those growth demands.
   CITY: Fillmore City, Utah, a Utah Municipal corporation.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY: Any construction or expansion of a building,
structure, or use, any change in use of a building or structure, or any changes
in the use of land that creates additional demand and need for public
facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL: Written authorization from the City that authorizes
the commencement of development activity.
   IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed upon new development activity as a
condition of development approval to mitigate the impact of the development on
public infrastructure. Impact fee does not mean a tax, a special assessment, a
building permit fee, a hookup fee, a fee for project improvements, or other
reasonable permit or application fee.
   PROJECT IMPROVEMENT: Site improvements and facilities that are:
   A.   Planned and designed to provide service for development resulting from
a development activity; and
   B.   Necessary for the use and convenience of the occupants or users of the
development resulting from a development activity.
   SERVICE AREA: The geographic area designated by the City in which a defined
set of public facilities provides service within the area.
   The IMPACT FEES ACT or the ACT: Title 11, Chapter 36a, Utah Code Annotated
or its successor state statute of that title and chapter if renumbered,
recodified, or amended.
(Ord. 23-07, 4-18-2023)
9-4C-3: POWER SYSTEM IMPACT FEE ANALYSIS ADOPTED:
The City Council hereby adopts the report from Dixie Power dated March 2023,
entitled, "Fillmore City Power System Impact Fee Analysis." Said Fillmore City
Power System Impact Fee Analysis is set forth as Exhibit B on file in the City
and is incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 23-07, 4-18-2023)
9-4C-4: SERVICE AREA ESTABLISHED:
The City shall constitute a single service area and all real property located
within the corporate boundaries of the City shall be included within such
service area as well as adjacent areas, as approved by the City Council, that
are served by the Fillmore City Power System.
(Ord. 23-07, 4-18-2023)
9-4C-5: IMPACT FEES LEVIED:
The impact fees for the Service Area are hereby established and levied and will
be contained in the City fee schedule as follows 1 :
"The impact fee per connection is calculated by multiplying the expected kVA
based on the connection type and panel rating per Table 6.1 [in the Fillmore
City Power Impact Fee Analysis] by the cost per kVA from Table 6.4 [in the
Fillmore City Power Impact Fee Analysis]. 2 "
(Ord. 23-07, 4-18-2023)
 
Notes
1    A recommended impact fee cost schedule is included in Exhibit B, Fillmore
  City Power System Impact Fee Analysis, Exhibit 7.
2    Fillmore City Power System Impact Fee Analysis, § 7.0, Conclusions and
  Recommendations, p. viii.
9-4C-6: TIME OF COLLECTION:
Unless otherwise provided by the City Council, impact fees shall be payable at
the time of the application or issuance of a building permit by the City. In no
event can a developer prepay impact fees prior to applying for a building
permit.
(Ord. 23-07, 4-18-2023)
9-4C-7: USE OF FEES:
The fees shall be used solely as allowed under the Impact Fees Act.
(Ord. 23-07, 4-18-2023)
9-4C-8: ADJUSTMENTS, CREDITS, AND REIMBURSEMENTS:
   A.   Adjustments. The City may, upon a proper showing, adjust (but not above
the maximum allowable fee) the standard impact fee at the time the fee is
charged:
      1.   To respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases or a request
for a prompt and individualized impact fee review for the development activity
of the state, a school district, or a charter school and an offset or credit
for a public facility for which an impact fee has been or will be collected;
and ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly;
      2.   Upon the City's review and approval of studies and data submitted by
a developer showing a substantial discrepancy between the fee being assessed
and the actual impact of the development activity on the system.
   B.   Credits/Reimbursements. A developer, including a school district or
charter school, may be allowed a credit against or proportionate reimbursement
of impact fees if the developer dedicates land for a system improvement; builds
and dedicates some or all of a system improvement; or dedicates a public
facility that Fillmore City and the developer agree will reduce the need for a
system improvement. A credit against impact fees shall be granted for any
dedication of land for, improvement to, or new construction of, any system
improvements provided by the developer if the facilities are system
improvements to the respective utilities, or are dedicated to the public and
offset the need for an identified future improvement.
(Ord. 23-07, 4-18-2023)
9-4C-9: EXEMPTIONS:
The following may be exempted from payment of the impact fee:
   A.   Alterations or expansion of an existing building where no additional
demand and need for public facilities is created and where the use is not
changed.
   B.   The construction of accessory buildings or structures where no
additional demand and need for public facilities is created and where the use
is not changed.
   C.   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed building or
structure where no additional demand and need for public facilities is created
and where the use is not changed.
(Ord. 23-07, 4-18-2023)
9-4C-10: ACCOUNTING, EXPENDITURES, AND REFUND:
The City shall account for, expend and refund impact fees in accordance with
the provisions of the Impact Fees Act.
(Ord. 23-07, 4-18-2023)
9-4C-11: CHALLENGES AND APPEALS:
The City adopts and incorporates herein Part 7, Challenges, of the Impact Fees
Act.
(Ord. 23-07, 4-18-2023)
9-4C-12: ADMINISTRATIVE DEVELOPMENT FEES:
   A.   In addition to construction and dedication of any required public
improvements and the payment of impact fees, fees may also be established by
the City for building permits, excavation permits, filing of various
applications, inspection of improvements, site plan reviews, connection to
power facilities and other similar purposes. The amounts of these fees shall be
listed in the City fee schedule and may hereafter be set or amended by
resolution of the City Council.
   B.   No application or request shall be accepted or application taken
thereon until the applicant has paid to the City the required fees listed in
the City fee schedule applicable to such application or request.
(Ord. 23-07, 4-18-2023)
TITLE 10
LAND USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Legislative Intent
10-1-2: Scope And Applicability
10-1-3: Zoning Map
10-1-4: General Description Of Land Use Regulations
10-1-5: Conflicting Provisions
10-1-6: Interpretation
10-1-7: Creation Of Vested Rights
10-1-8: Transitional Provisions
10-1-1: LEGISLATIVE INTENT:
This title is intended to:
   A.   Support the goals of the City General Plan;
   B.   Protect and promote public safety, health and general welfare by
providing adequate lighting, clean air, water and sewage control, and fire
protection;
   C.   Protect private property rights;
   D.   Promote coordinated development, redevelopment, effective use of land
and site planning;
   E.   Encourage innovation in residential development and redevelopment that
meets the growing demand for housing;
   F.   Preserve the character and stability of neighborhoods and conserve
property values by encouraging the most appropriate uses of land within zoning
districts;
   G.   Prevent substandard development, waste, inefficient use of land and
resources and danger and congestion in travel and transportation;
   H.   Ensure equal opportunity in housing to the handicapped;
   I.   Foster convenient, compatible and efficient relationships among land
uses;
   J.   Require the provision of adequate off street parking and loading
facilities, and promote a safe, effective traffic circulation system;
   K.   Regulate and control the division of land;
   L.   Protect life and property in areas subject to floods and other natural
disasters;
   M.   Promote prosperity, peace and good order, comfort and aesthetics of the
City and its present and future inhabitants and businesses;
   N.   Protect the tax base and property values;
   O.   Secure economy in governmental expenditures; and
   P.   Protect the environment. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-1-2: SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this title apply to all land and uses of land within the
City. This title became effective on May 31, 2005, and may be amended from time
to time. A lot annexed and zoned that does not meet the minimum lot standards
of this title, may be used notwithstanding such requirements, if such lot was
validly created. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-1-3: ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of the zoning districts are set forth on a map entitled "Zoning
District Map of the City of Fillmore, Utah" and adopted as part of this
section. This map shall be kept by the City Recorder and maintained as provided
in subsection B of this section.
   A.   Boundaries; Interpretation: Unless otherwise expressly defined on the
zoning map, zoning district boundary lines are lot lines, section lines and
City limit lines. If uncertainty remains as to the boundary of a zoning
district after application of the provisions of this subsection, the Planning
Commission or Planning and Zoning Administrator (staff) will interpret the
district boundary.
   B.   Amendments: All amendments to the zoning map shall be made by
ordinance. The City shall, within a reasonable time after adoption of any such
amendment, place the amendment on the zoning map. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-1-4: GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF LAND USE REGULATIONS:
A general description of the land use regulations follows. This description is
intended to provide the reader with some guidance using the terms of this title
and is not a substitute for the standards, criteria and procedures contained in
this title.
   A.   Zoning Map: Prior to considering the development or redevelopment of
land, an applicant should refer to the official zoning map to determine which
base zoning and overlay districts correspond to the property. The official
zoning map is available from the City Recorder and/or the Planning and Zoning
Administrator.
   B.   Zoning District Chapter/Article: Once the applicant has identified the
zoning district, the applicant should refer to the chapter or article which
corresponds to the applicable zoning district(s). Definitions are also found in
chapter 2 of this title. The applicant should next refer to the site
development and design requirements within the zoning district chapter or
article to determine if the property is adequate in size to accommodate the
proposed project. The site development and design standards will determine the
building setback from the property lines, minimum lot area (if any), minimum
open space, build-to lines, maximum height, density and parking requirements
for buildings and uses on the property, etc.
   C.   Overlay Districts: Some areas earmarked for redevelopment are in an
Overlay District, as well as in a base zoning district. Once the Overlay
District has been identified, the applicant should refer to both the base
zoning district chapter or article and the Overlay District chapter or article
that corresponds to the Overlay District.
   D.   Use Standards: The applicant should then refer to the use table for the
district. The applicant should first determine if the desired use is allowed in
the district. If the use is allowed as a conditional use, the applicant must
apply for and obtain a conditional use permit. Finally, if the use is an
existing legal use that is no longer allowed in the zoning district, and there
is a proposal to change or modify a structure associated with the use, the
applicant must apply for and obtain a variance from the Board of Adjustment.
   E.   Variances/Rezones: If the applicant cannot meet the standards described
in subsection B of this section, the applicant should determine whether there
are alternative development options or any exceptions to the general rules that
may accommodate the project. If the project does not meet standards and other
development alternatives are not possible, then there are two (2) methods
available to attempt to vary the standards: the variance process and a petition
for rezone.
      1.   Variance: The variance process is generally used for existing
development, or development of an existing, validly created lot. The Board of
Adjustment shall issue a variance upon the applicant's demonstration that the
application meets each variance standard detailed in section
10-5-6 of this title.
      2.   Rezone: A petition for rezone is a request to change the development
standards for the property in question. The process for requesting a rezone is
detailed in section
10-3-1 of this title. Rezones are discretionary legislative acts.
   F.   Subdivision Of Land: If the applicant would like to subdivide a piece
of property, merge a number of different parcels into one parcel, or
resubdivide, the applicant may need to go through the subdivision process as
provided in chapter 18 of this title. The purpose of the subdivision process is
to ensure that proposed building sites are appropriate for development; to
obtain an accurate and permanent record of the separate interests of land that
are created by subdivision of land; to apportion the costs of public services
and facilities serving the subdivision; to provide assurances to future buyers
of land that the subdivider owns the land to be sold; to provide legal and
physical access to each lot; and to provide for maintenance of improvements,
utilities and amenities. There are a number of divisions of land to which the
subdivision regulations do not apply. The applicant should review these
exceptions to determine if the project will be required to complete the
subdivision process. There is also an abbreviated process for projects that
only require relocation of a lot line between two (2) lots within an existing
subdivision.
   G.   Meanings And Intent: All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions
contained in this title shall be construed according to section
10-1-1 of this chapter.
   H.   Headings, Illustrations And Text: In case of any difference of meaning
or implication between the text of this title and any heading, drawing, table,
figure or illustration, the text shall control.
   I.   Lists And Examples: Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of
items or examples that use terms such as "including", "such as" or similar
language are intended to provide examples, not to be exhaustive lists of all
possibilities.
   J.   Computation Of Time: References to days are calendar days. Exclude the
first day and include the last day. If the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or
holiday observed by the City, that day shall be excluded.
   K.   References To Other Regulations, Publications And Documents: Whenever
reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation or document,
it shall be construed as a reference to the most recent edition of such
regulation (as amended), resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation or
document, unless otherwise specifically stated.
   L.   Technical And Nontechnical Terms: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases that may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law
shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   M.   Public Officials And Agencies: All public officials, bodies and
agencies to which references are made are those of Fillmore City, unless
otherwise indicated.
   N.   Mandatory And Discretionary Terms: The words "shall", "will", and
"must" are always mandatory. The words "may" and "should" are advisory and
discretionary terms.
   O.   Conjunctions: Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary,
conjunctions shall be interpreted as follows:
      1.   "And" indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events apply; and
      2.   "Or" indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events may apply.
   P.   Tenses And Plurals: Words used in one tense (past, present or future)
include all other tenses, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular. (Ord.
19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-1-5: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
This title is written to harmonize with Federal, State and City laws. To the
extent a provision of this title conflicts with a Federal, State or local law
or private contract, the following rules apply:
   A.   Conflict With State Or Federal Regulations: If the provisions of this
title are inconsistent with those of the State or Federal government, the more
restrictive provision will control, to the extent permitted by law.
   B.   Conflict With Other City Regulations: If the provisions of this title
are inconsistent with one another or if they conflict with provisions found in
other adopted ordinances, resolutions or regulations of the City, the more
restrictive provision will control.
   C.   Conflict With Private Agreements: It is not the intent of this title to
interfere with, abrogate or annul any easement, covenant, deed restriction or
other agreement between private parties. If the provisions of this title impose
a greater restriction than imposed by a private agreement, the provisions of
this title will control. If the provisions of a private agreement impose a
greater restriction than this title, the provisions of the private agreement
will control. The City shall not be responsible for monitoring or enforcing
private agreements. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-1-6: INTERPRETATION:
The Planning and Zoning Administrator (staff) shall have the power to interpret
the provisions of this title; provided, that the City staff shall consult with
the City Attorney concerning legal issues. The interpretations shall be
consistent with the rules of construction in section
10-1-4 of this chapter, with the rules of statutory construction, with the
rules of conflicting provisions in section
10-1-5 of this chapter and shall be consistent over time until changed, in
writing, by the City Council. Such interpretations shall be entitled the weight
accorded to administrative interpretations by the courts. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-
2019)
10-1-7: CREATION OF VESTED RIGHTS:
The City may alter certain private property rights by amending this title from
time to time as provided for in section
10-3-1 of this title.
   A.   How Rights Vest: Certain private property rights shall become fixed at
law, and may not be altered for a period of time, upon an applicant's:
      1.   Application: Submission of a complete application to develop
property that is consistent with this title; and
      2.   Fees: Payment of all applicable permit fees.
   B.   What Rights Vest: The applicant's rights vest under this title in those
rights for which the applicant has applied. For example, if the applicant has
applied for a subdivision, and has "vested rights" pursuant to subsection A of
this section, the applicant's rights vest under the Subdivision Ordinance, and
the applicant is entitled to the benefit of the Subdivision Ordinance in effect
at the time of vesting. An applicant's vested rights under the Subdivision
Ordinance, however, do not vest the applicant under an adopted Building, Fire
or Plumbing Code, because the applicant has not submitted a complete
application for the applicable permit, nor paid applicable fees. Applications
shall not vest if:
      1.   Pending Revisions: Revisions to this title are pending at the time
of application which would prohibit or further condition the approval sought;
or
      2.   Health, Safety: There exists a compelling and countervailing health,
safety or welfare reason.
   C.   Preservation Of Vested Rights/Compliance With Conditions Of Approval:
An applicant with vested rights must comply with and maintain all conditions of
final approval to preserve the vested rights. An applicant's failure to meet or
maintain conditions of approval constitutes the applicant's knowing and wilful
waiver of the applicant's vested rights.
   D.   Applicability Of Ordinances That Are General In Nature: The
establishment of a vested right shall not preclude the application of City
ordinances or regulations that are general in nature, applicable to all
property subject to land use regulation, and necessary to preserve the health,
safety or welfare of the community. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-1-8: TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Violations Continue: Any violation of the previous Zoning Ordinance
will continue to be a violation under this title and will be subject to
penalties and enforcement under chapter 3 of this title, unless the use,
development, construction or other activity complies with the provisions of
this title.
   B.   Legal Nonconformities: Any legal nonconformity under the previous
Zoning Ordinance or created by the adoption of this title will be a legal
nonconformity under this title. If a legal nonconforming use or structure under
the previous Zoning Ordinance becomes conforming because of the adoption of
this title, then the nonconformity expires. A legal nonconforming use will
become an illegal nonconforming use if the use lapses for six (6) consecutive
months.
   C.   Approved Projects And Existing Lots: The provisions of this title shall
affect approved projects and existing lots as follows:
      1.   Scope: Use permits, variances, architectural or design approvals,
subdivided lots, Master Plan overlays, subdivision maps and Planned Unit
Developments, which are valid on May 31, 2005, shall remain valid until their
expiration date. Projects with valid approvals or permits may be constructed as
approved; provided, that the permit or project approval is valid and has not
lapsed. Any change in the use or occupation of such land shall be made in
accordance with the amended provisions of this title.
      2.   Changes Not Required: No provision of this title shall require any
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any structure for which
a building permit has been issued prior to May 31, 2005.
   D.   Vested Rights; Applications In Progress; Reapplication: An applicant
with rights vested before May 31, 2005, and pending approval on May 31, 2005,
may opt for review wholly under the terms of the previous Zoning Ordinance or
under this title. Any reapplication for a permit that has expired must comply
with the standards in effect at the time of reapplication. Projects for which
no application has been submitted and accepted as complete prior to May 31,
2005, shall be subject to all requirements and standards of this title. (Ord.
19-07, 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain numbers, abbreviations, terms and words
shall be used, interpreted and defined as set forth herein. Words not defined
herein shall have a meaning consistent with Webster's New Collegiate
Dictionary, latest edition. Unless the context clearly indicates to the
contrary, words used in the present tense include the future tense; words used
in the plural number include the singular; the word "herein" means "in these
regulations"; the word "regulations" means "these regulations"; "used" or
"occupied" as applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the
words "intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied".
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, LARGE: An accessory building larger than six hundred
(600) square feet that is located on the same lot as a residence.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, OCCUPIED: A building on the same lot as the principal
building and that is:
      A.   Clearly incidental to, and customarily found in connection with,
such principal building;
      B.   Operated and maintained for the benefit of the principal use; and
      C.   A dwelling unit or home office.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, UNOCCUPIED: A building on the same lot as the principal
building and that is:
      A.   Clearly incidental to, and customarily found in connection with,
such principal building;
      B.   Operated and maintained for the benefit of the principal use; and
      C.   Not a dwelling unit.
   ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS: Accessory dwelling incidental to a church or
airport.
   ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING: A subordinate use or building customarily
incidental to and located upon the same lot occupied by the main use or
building.
   AFFECTED ENTITY: A county, municipality, independent special district under
Utah Code Annotated title 17D, chapter 1, Special Service District Act, school
district, interlocal cooperation entity established under Utah Code Annotated
title 11, chapter 13, Interlocal Cooperation Act, specified public utility,
property owner, property owners association, or the Utah Department of
Transportation, if:
      A.   The entity s services or facilities are likely to require expansion
or significant modification because of an intended use of land;
      B.   The entity has filed with the Municipality a copy of the entity s
general or long range plan; or
      C.   The entity has filed with the Municipality a request for notice
during the same calendar year and before the Municipality provides notice to an
affected entity in compliance with a requirement imposed under this title.
   AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRY OR BUSINESS: An industry or business involving
agricultural products in manufacturing, packaging, treatment, sales or storage,
including, but not limited to, food packaging or processing plants, and similar
uses as determined by the Planning Commission with a conditional use permit.
This definition does not include hog farms, commercial poultry businesses or
rendering facilities.
   AGRICULTURE: The tilling of soil, raising of crops, horticulture, gardening
and other similar uses.
   ALLEY: A public thoroughfare less than twenty six feet (26') wide.
   ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR VETERINARY OFFICES: An establishment where animals are
medically treated, lodged or trained by a licensed veterinarian.
   ANIMAL WASTE: The excrement and discharge from an animal, or animal
carcasses, tissues, or any other substance or material capable of transmitting
disease or disease carrying agents.
   ANTENNA: A transmitting or receiving device used in telecommunications that
radiates or captures radio, television or similar communication signals.
   ANTENNA, FREESTANDING: An antenna mounted on the roof of or within a stand
alone support structure, including, but not limited to, a wooden pole, steel
pole, lattice tower, utility pole, lift tower, light standard, flag pole or
other vertical support.
   ANTENNA, ROOF MOUNTED: An antenna or series of individual antennas mounted
on the roof of a building.
   ANTENNA, TEMPORARY: An antenna used for a time period of less than thirty
(30) days.
   ANTENNA, WALL MOUNTED: An antenna or series of individual antennas mounted
fully against the exterior face of a building, including on the face of a
chimney. A wall or face of a building is defined as the entire area of all
exposed vertical surfaces of a building that are aboveground and facing
approximately the same direction.
   ANTENNA, WHIP: An antenna that is cylindrical in shape. Whip antennas can be
directional or omnidirectional and vary in size depending upon the frequency
and gain for which they are designed.
   APARTMENT HOTEL: Any building that contains dwelling units and also
satisfies the definition of a hotel.
   APARTMENT HOUSE: A building that contains four (4) or more dwelling units
primarily for rent or lease, or a building that contains an apartment or
apartments and also contains other approved uses, such as office or retail
space.
   APPEAL AUTHORITY: A person, board, commission, agency or other body
designated by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use
application or a variance.
   APPLICANT: The owner of the property that is the subject of the application,
or the owner s agent.
   APPLICATION: A written request for development approval, including, but not
limited to, an alteration or revision to an approved master planned
development, conditional use permit, zoning or rezoning, subdivision or
annexation. The term application shall not include any building permits
associated with construction within an approved subdivision or on an existing
platted lot unless otherwise specified.
   ASSEMBLY FACILITY: A facility where parts are put together to develop a
final product. Generally referring to automobile, computer and electronic
assembly.
   ASSISTED LIVING CENTER: Residences that provide for semi-independent living.
Such facilities may be: a) equipped with studio or one bedroom apartments with
limited kitchen facilities, generally designed for single occupancy; b) contain
central dining facilities where prepared meals are served to the residents; c)
employ full time nursing or medical assistance and supervision; and d) may
provide other additional services to residents.
   ATHLETIC CLUB: An establishment providing facilities for physical
development, exercise, sports or recreation. Facilities may include exercise
equipment, indoor and/or outdoor racquetball or tennis courts, jogging track,
swimming pools, ice skating rink, indoor bathing, restaurant or snack bar, and
sales of athletic equipment. Facilities may be open to the public for a fee, or
available only to persons holding membership.
   AUTO, TRUCK, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT SALES AND RENTAL: Sales of
both new and used motor vehicles and equipment stored and displayed both
indoors and on outside lots, but not to include nonserviceable or junk vehicles
or equipment.
   AUTO WRECKING, SALVAGE YARD: The use of any lot, portion of lot or tract of
land for the storage and keeping of salvage, including scrap metals or other
scrap material, unlicensed/inoperable vehicles, or for the dismantling or
demolition of obsolete automobiles or equipment, machinery or parts thereof.
This definition shall not be deemed to include such uses which are clearly
accessory and incidental to any agricultural use permitted in the zone
district.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment primarily engaged in the
repair or maintenance of motor vehicles, trailers and similar large mechanical
equipment. Establishments involving auto body repair and painting services will
require a conditional use permit. Not included are automotive salvage yards.
   AUTOMOTIVE SELF-SERVICE STATION: An establishment for the retail sale of
automobile fuels and lubricants at which the customer provides the service to
his own vehicle, and at which no vehicle repair or maintenance service is
offered. Such an establishment may offer for sale at retail other convenience
items as a clearly secondary activity. Stations located at interstate exchanges
catering to semitrucks, which also include accommodations for truckers, also
known as truck stops, require a conditional use permit. Automotive Self-Service
Station includes establishments for the retail sale of gasoline, natural gas,
and propane but specifically excludes electric vehicle charging stations.
   AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE STATION: An establishment whose primary purpose is the
retail sale of gasoline or other motor vehicle and related fuel, oil or
lubricant. Secondary activities may include minor automotive repair,
maintenance or automatic car wash. Automotive Service Station includes
establishments for the retail sale of gasoline, natural gas, and propane but
specifically excludes electric vehicle charging stations.
   AVIATION AIRPORT SERVICES: Area containing an aviation landing strip,
runway, hangar or other related services needed for aircraft.
   BALCONY: A platform that projects from the wall of a building and is
enclosed by a railing, parapet or balustrade.
   BANKING OR FINANCIAL SERVICE: A bank, credit union, savings and loan
association, or other establishment with a primary purpose of receiving,
lending, exchanging or safeguarding money, or performing financial advisory
service. This definition shall include outside drive-up facilities for service
to customers in automobiles.
   BAR, TAVERN, LOUNGE AND CLUB: An establishment intended primarily for the on
premises sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages, open either to the public
or operated as a nonprofit private club for members only.
   BASEMENT: A story whose floor is more than twelve inches (12") below the
average level of the adjoining ground, but where no more than half of its floor
to ceiling height is below the average contact level of the adjoining ground. A
basement shall be counted as a story for purposes of height measurement and as
a half story for purposes of side yard determination.
   BED AND BREAKFAST: A building where, for compensation, meals and lodging are
provided for at least five (5) but not more than fifteen (15) persons.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: A five (5) member board appointed by the Fillmore City
Council as provided in
chapter 5 of this title.
   BOND, PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: A one year guarantee to the City that all public
improvements have been installed to City specifications and will operate
properly.
   BUILDING: Any structure, whether temporary or permanent, having a roof, and
used or built for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, possessions or
property of any kind.
   BUILDING AREA: The portion of a lot that is within the envelope formed by
the required yards or setbacks, within which a structure can be located.
   BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average finished grade
surface at the building wall to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof
or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or the mean height level between eaves
and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR: Fillmore City official known as the Zoning Enforcement
Officer, who is designated to inspect buildings under construction and upon
completion.
   BUILDING, MAIN: A building within which the principal land use of the lot is
conducted.
   BUSINESS: Any activity carried on for the purpose of gain or economic
profit. The acts of employees rendering service to employers are not included
in the term business unless otherwise specifically prescribed. Business
includes, but is not limited to, the sale or rental of tangible personal or
real property, the manufacturing of goods or property and the rendering of
personal services for others for consideration by persons engaged in any
profession, trade, craft, occupation, nonprofit organization or other calling.
   BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL, LESS INTENSIVE: A business that does not include
automotive, heavy equipment or twenty four (24) hour uses. May be with or
without a drive-up window.
   CANOPY: A roof or awning constructed of fabric or other material and
extending outward from a building to provide a protective shield for doors,
windows or other openings with supports extended to the ground directly under
the canopy or cantilevered from the building.
   CARPORT: A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the
purposes of this title, a carport shall be subject to all regulations
prescribed for a private garage.
   CEMETERY, COLUMBARIUM, CREMATORY, MAUSOLEUM: Land or buildings used for the
cremation, burial or interment of the human dead, but not including facilities
for embalming.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: The Mayor of Fillmore City.
   CHILD PLACING: Receiving, accepting or providing custody or care for any
child under eighteen (18) years of age, temporarily or permanently, for the
purpose of:
      A.   Finding a person to adopt the child;
      B.   Placing the child temporarily or permanently in a home for adoption;
or
      C.   Foster home placement.
   CHILDCARE CENTER: A business providing for the childcare of sixteen (16) or
fewer children, including the provider s children who are twelve (12) years of
age or under, within the provider s home.
   CHILDCARE FACILITY: Any business providing for childcare which does not
qualify as a childcare center.
   CHURCH: A building set apart primarily for the purpose of worship in which
religious services are held and with which clergy is associated, the main body
of which is kept for that use and not put to any other use inconsistent with
its primary purpose, and which is tax exempt under the laws of the State of
Utah.
   CINEMA, INDOOR: An enclosed building used primarily for the presentation of
motion pictures.
   CINEMA, OUTDOOR: An establishment at which motion pictures are projected
onto an outdoor screen for viewing by patrons seated in parked motor vehicles.
   CIVIC CLUB, FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION: A building or use, other than a church
or school, operated by a nonprofit association or organization for a social,
fraternal, political, civic or philanthropic purpose, which may include a
meeting hall and cooking and dining facilities for large groups, but shall not
provide overnight lodging.
   CLEAR VISION AREA: An area outlined by the sight distance triangle where
solid fencing or natural vegetation is restricted to a height of four feet (4')
in zones that do not allow residential dwellings and three feet (3') in all
zones that do allow residential dwellings, and where all other items or
structures that would obstruct vision are prohibited. See definition of sight
distance triangle.
   CLUB, PRIVATE: Any nonprofit corporation, or organization, operating as a
social club, recreational, fraternal, athletic or kindred association organized
primarily for the benefit of its stockholders or members and serving alcoholic
beverages and/or food.
   COAL YARD: The storage of coal in quantities in excess of ten (10) tons and/
or the retail or wholesale sale of coal.
   COLLOCATION: The location of a telecommunication facility on an existing
structure, tower or building in a manner that precludes the need for that
telecommunications facility to be located on a freestanding structure of its
own.
   COMPLETE APPLICATION: A submission, which includes all information requested
on the appropriate form, and full payment of all applicable fees.
   CONDITIONAL USE: A land use that, because of its unique characteristics or
potential impact on the Municipality, surrounding neighbors or adjacent land
uses, may not be compatible in some areas of a zone district, or may be
compatible only if certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate
the detrimental impacts. A conditional use decision is made by either the
Planning Commission or the Planning and Zoning Administrator as shown in the
tables for each use.
   CONDOMINIUM: Any structure or parcel that has been submitted to
fractionalize ownership under the provisions of the Utah Condominium Ownership
Act.
   CONGREGATE LIVING FACILITY: A residence in which three (3) or more persons
unrelated to the owner or provider reside, including, but not limited to, youth
homes, residential facilities for the disabled and residential facilities for
the elderly.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT: An easement designed to restore, enhance, protect and
sustain the quality and quantity of ecosystems and natural resources.
   CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING: Final action by the City to physically take or exact
private real property that requires com pensation to the owner because of the
mandates of the Fifth or Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States, or article I, section 22, of the Utah Constitution.
   CONVENIENCE GOODS SALES AND SERVICES: Stores or shops intended for retail
sales of convenience goods or performance of convenience services. Goods and
services regarded as convenience are those generally needed for daily home
consumption and for which locations near residential neighborhoods are
considered desirable. This category includes grocery store, drug store, variety
store, personal service, hardware store, dry cleaning pick up, and uses
considered similar and compatible.
   COUNCIL: Members of the City Council of Fillmore City.
   COUNTY: The unincorporated area of Millard County.
   COURT: . An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with
a building or group of buildings and which is bounded on two (2) or more sides
by such building or buildings
   COVERAGE: The percent of the total site area covered by structures or
impervious paving other than those accepted in this title.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street having an open end and being terminated at the
other end by a vehicle turnaround.
   CULINARY WATER AUTHORITY: The department, agency or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water
system and sources for the subject property.
   CULTURAL, CIVIC SERVICES: A building primarily used for the public,
nonprofit display of art, historic or cultural artifacts or other inanimate
exhibits, or a building primarily used as a lending library or reading room.
   DAIRY: A commercial establishment housing animals for the processing and/or
retail sale of dairy products.
   DEVELOPMENT: The act, process or result of erecting, placing, constructing,
remodeling, converting, altering, relocating or demolishing any structure or
improvement to property, including grading, clearing, grubbing, mining,
excavating or filling of such property. This definition includes construction
activity.
   DISABILITY: A. A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one
or more of a person s major life activities, including a person having a record
of such an impairment or being regarded as having such an impairment.
   DISABLED CARE: A long term care residential facility for disabled persons or
persons suffering from a physical or mental impairment that substantially
limits one or more of a person s major life activities, including a person
having a record of such an impairment or being regarded as having such an
impairment.
   DISTRICT: A portion of the area of Fillmore City, Utah, shown on a zoning
map (on file in the City office) and given a zone classification as set forth
in this title.
   DRIVE TEST, ANTENNA: A temporary antenna, which is used for field testing of
telecommunicatio ns signals and possible locations, but does not provide
telecommunicatio ns to customers.
   DRY CLEANING ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment employing volatile or explosive
substances for the cleaning or dyeing of fabrics. Excluded from this definition
are traditional laundries employing water and soaps in the cleaning of fabrics
and patron operated dry cleaning machines associated with laundromats.
   DWELLING: Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed for use for
residential purposes, except hotels, boarding houses, lodging houses and
tourist cabins.
   DWELLING, FOUR-FAMILY:A building arranged or designed to be occupied by four
(4) families, the structure having only four (4) dwelling units.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
more than four (4) families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
one family, the structure having only one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, THREE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
three (3) families, the structure having only three (3) dwelling units.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
(2) families, the structure having only two (2) dwelling units.
   EASEMENT: A negotiated interest in the land of another which allows the
easement holder specified uses or rights without actual ownership of the land.
   ELDERLY CARE: A long term care residential facility for the elderly. The
term does not include a healthcare facility.
   ELDERLY PERSON: A person who is sixty (60) years old or older, and who
desires or needs to live with other elderly persons in a group setting, who may
or may not be capable of living independently.
   EQUIPMENT SHELTER: A structure used to house equipment for
telecommunications facilities.
   ESCROW: A deposit of cash with the City or an approved, alternate security
in lieu of cash held to ensure a guarantee.
   FARM ANIMALS/LIVE STOCK: Animals other than household pets that may, where
permitted, be kept and maintained on private property.
   FARMERS MARKET: See definition of swap meet.
   FENCE: A physical barrier to delineate, contain or designate an area
designed for a specific use, such as an enclosure for a dwelling unit, an area
of storage, etc.
   FENCE, ELECTRIC: A fence wired with low voltage (12 volt maximum)
electricity.
   FENCE, RAZOR: A fence with razor coil, cable or tooth wire along certain
portions.
   FENCE, WILDLIFE: Open fencing allowed at a height six feet (6') or higher
when a need is shown to protect animals from entering or leaving an area.
   FINAL ACTION: The latter of the final vote or the approved, written decision
on a matter.
   FINAL PLAT: A recordable subdivision or condominium map.
   FIREWORKS SALES/STANDS : The temporary display and sale of legally allowed
fireworks. This use requires a business license and a temporary permit issued
from the Fillmore City Fire Chief or his/her designee after the business has
had a satisfactory fire inspection.
   FLAG LOT: The remaining lot created from the subdivision of one lot, with
proper street frontage, into two (2) lots which consist of: a) a frontage lot,
with proper street frontage; and b) a flag lot, with street access, but without
street frontage. The flag lot consists of an access portion and a banner
portion (diagram).
   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/c3e367ae308acf915db0d4d684c55fe9213c1262/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2752.gif]
   
   FLEA MARKET: See definition of swap meet.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The area of a building, including all enclosed areas
designed for human occupation. Gross floor area does not include unenclosed
porches, balconies, patios and decks, vent shafts, courtyards or garages, up to
a maximum floor area of six hundred (600) square feet.
   FLOOR AREA, NET LEASABLE: Gross floor area excluding common hallways,
mechanical and storage areas, and restrooms.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR): The maximum allowed gross floor area divided by the
area of the lot or parcel.
   FRONTAGE: The length of the property line of the lot fronting on one side of
a street.
   GARAGE, COMMERCIAL: A building other than a private garage used for the
temporary parking of automobiles, with or without a fee.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE (INCLUDING CARPORT): A detached accessory building or
portion of a main building for the parking or temporary storage of automobiles
of the occupants of the premises.
   GATED COMMUNITY: A subdivision or residential area where primary access is
regulated through a gated entry point.
   GENERAL MERCHANDISE SALES AND RELATED SERVICES: Stores, department stores or
shops intended for sale of goods or merchandise, but not including convenience
goods, liquor, motor vehicles, campers, trailers or lumber.
   GENERAL PLAN: A document that a municipality adopts that sets forth general
guidelines for proposed future development of the land within the municipality,
as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-401 et seq.
   GOVERNING BODY: The City Council of Fillmore City.
   GRADE:
      A.   For buildings adjoining more than one street, the average of the
elevations of the sidewalks at the centers of all walls adjoining streets.
      B.   For buildings adjoining one street only, the elevation of the
sidewalk at the center of that wall adjoining the street.
      C.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the streets, the average
level of the ground (finished surface) adjacent to the exterior walls of the
buildings.
   All walls approximately parallel to and not more than five feet (5') from a
street line are to be considered as adjoining a street.
   GROUP HOME: A profit or nonprofit boarding home for the sheltered care of
persons with special needs, which, in addition to providing food and shelter
may also provide some combination of personal care, social or counseling
services, and transportation. Group home includes congregate living facilities
for all persons.
   HANDICAPPED PERSON: A person who:
      A.   Has a severe, chronic disability that is attributable to mental or
physical impairments, that is likely to continue indefinitely, and that results
in a substantial functional limitation in three (3) or more of the following
areas of major life activity:
         1.   Capacity for independent living;
         2.   Economic self-sufficiency;
         3.   Learning;
         4.   Mobility;
         5.   Receptive and expressive language;
         6.   Self-care;
         7.   Self-direction; and
      B.   Requires special interdisciplinary or generic care, treatment or
other services that are individually planned and coordinated to allow the
person to function in, and contribute to, a residential neighborhood.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The Utah State Division of Environmental Health or local
health agency having jurisdiction.
   HEALTHCARE CENTER (CONVALESCENT CENTER): A publicly or privately operated
facility, other than a hospital, intended for the long term, inpatient care of
human illness or infirmity, including the elderly and developmentally disabled,
normally employing the services of skilled and licensed practitioners.
   HEAVY/FARM EQUIPMENT SALES: Vehicles or equipment in excess of one ton used
in farming, construction or other related services.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING: The vertical distance from the existing grade to the
highest point of the cornice of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard
roof or to the midpoint of the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
   HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation carried on by the occupant of a dwelling as a
secondary use in connection with which there is no display other than that
provided in Fillmore City ordinance with relation to signs, no stock in trade,
no person employed other than members of the family residing on the premises,
and no power tools used requiring a motor in excess of one horsepower. A home
occupation requires an administrative conditional use permit issued by the Land
Use Authority.
   HOSPITAL: An institution designed for the diagnosis, treatment and care of
human illness or infirmity and providing health services, primarily for in-
patients, and including as related facilities, laboratories, out-patient
departments, training facilities and staff offices, but not including clinics
or healthcare centers.
   HOTEL: A building designed or occupied as the more or less temporary abiding
place of fifteen (15) or more individuals who are, for compensation, lodged,
with or without meals.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS: Animals or birds ordinarily permitted in the house and kept
for company or pleasure, such as dogs, cats and canaries, but not including a
sufficient number of dogs or cats to constitute a kennel.
   INACTION: An application is inactive and subject to denial on the basis of
inactivity if, through the act or omission solely of the applicant and not of
the City:
      A.   More than six (6) months has passed since a request for additional
information was made by the City without a response from the applicant;
      B.   Upon notice the applicant is more than sixty (60) days in default of
the payment of any fee assessed by resolution, or has not paid the fee under
protest;
      C.   The applicant has stated an intent to abandon the project; and
      D.   The application appears to have been filed in bad faith for the
purpose of attempting to vest rights prior to a zoning change, without actual
intent to construct the project applied for.
   INDUSTRIAL (OR RESEARCH) PARK: A tract of land that is subdivided and
developed according to a plan for the use of a community of industries and
related uses and that is of sufficient size and physical improvement to protect
surrounding areas and the general community and to assure a harmonious
integration into the neighborhood.
   INDUSTRY, LIGHT: The manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling,
packaging or testing of goods or equipment entirely within an enclosed
structure, with no outside storage, serviced by small (3/4 ton) trucks or vans,
and imposing a nearly negligible impact upon the surrounding environment by
noise, vibration, smoke, dust or pollutants.
   INDUSTRY, MEDIUM: The manufacturing, compounding, processing, assembling,
packaging or testing of goods or equipment within an enclosed structure, or an
open yard that is capable of being screened from neighboring properties, is
serviced by trucks or other vehicles, and whose environmental impact is within
the industrial performance standards as outlined in this title.
   INTERMITTENT USE: A temporary business of selling and delivering goods,
wares and merchandise within Fillmore City.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT: Any person, firm or corporation, whether as owner,
agent, consignee or employee, whether or not a resident of the Municipality,
who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and
merchandise within the Municipality, and who, in furtherance of such purpose,
hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent,
railroad boxcar, public room in any hotel, motel, lodging house, apartment,
shop or any street, alley or other place within the Municipality, for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
at public auction. This also includes a person, firm or corporation associating
temporarily with a local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by
conducting such transient business in connection with, as part of, or in the
name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.
   JUNKYARD: The use of any lot, portion of a lot or tract of land for the
storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap
materials, or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles,
other vehicles or machinery or parts thereof; provided, that this definition
shall not be deemed to include such uses which are clearly accessory and
incidental in the district.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: A shelter for or a place where more than three (3) dogs
or cats are bred, boarded or trained for monetary gain.
   KENNEL, PRIVATE: A shelter for or a place where more than three (3) and no
more than five (5) dogs and cats are bred, boarded or trained for no monetary
gain.
   LAND USE APPLICATION: An application required by a municipality s Land Use
Ordinance.
   LAND USE AUTHORITY: A person, board, commission, agency or other body
designated by the local legislative body to act upon a land use application and
administrative conditional use permits.
   LAND USE ORDINANCE: A Planning, Zoning, Development or Subdivision Ordinance
of the Municipality, but does not include the General Plan.
   LATTICE TOWER: A self-supporting multiple sided, open steel frame structure
used to support telecommunications antenna equipment.
   LAUNDROMAT: An establishment in which patrons wash, dry or dry clean
clothing and other fabrics in coin operated, self- service machines.
   LAUNDRY ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment at which clothing and other fabrics
are washed and pressed. Excluded from this definition are dry cleaning
establishments and laundromats.
   LEASABLE, GROSS: Total area including hallways, mechanical equipment room
and common bathrooms.
   LEASABLE, NET: Total area excluding hallways, mechanical equipment room and
common bathrooms.
   LEGISLATIVE BODY: The Fillmore City Council.
   LINEN SERVICE: A service whereby materials, including but not limited to
linens, textiles, and uniforms, are collected, rented, cleaned, and delivered.
   LIQUOR STORE: A retail sales store authorized by the Utah Alcoholic Beverage
Control Commission to sell packaged alcoholic beverages for off premises
consumption.
   LOCAL JURISDICTION: Fillmore City.
   LOT: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a main building or group
of buildings (main and accessory), together with such yards, open spaces, lot
width and lot area as are required by this title and having frontage upon a
street. More than one dwelling structure may be built on a lot only in cases
where the lot is of such size as to provide such required lot area, yards and
frontage for each dwelling structure as are required for the first dwelling
structure on the lot.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets, where
the interior angle of such intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five
degrees (135 ). A corner lot fronts two (2) streets.
   LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the main direction of the side lot line.
   LOT LINE: Property lines bounding the lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT: The property line dividing a lot or parcel from the right-
of-way of the street from which the structure takes access.
   LOT LINE, REAR: The property line opposite the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot or property line other than a front or rear lot
line.
   LOT WIDTH: The minimum distance between the side lot lines at the front yard
or front building facade. For three (3) sided lots, the minimum distance
between the rear and side lot lines at the front yard or front building facade.
   LOW POWER RADIO SERVICES FACILITY: An unmanned structure, which consists of
equipment used primarily for the transmission, reception or transfer of voice
or data through radio wave or wireless transmissions. Such sites typically
require the construction of transmission support structures to which antenna
equipment is attached.
   LUMBER SALES AND STORAGE: The sale and display of lumber and building
supplies, including the outside storage of lumber and related merchandise.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A multi-sectional mobile home not exceeding two (2)
stories in height that is designed to be installed on a permanent foundation
system and was manufactured after June 15, 1976.
   MANUFACTURING USE: Research and development facilities, testing laboratories
and facilities for the production, fabrication, processing or assembly of goods
and products.
   MASSAGE THERAPY SERVICES: See definition of office, professional.
   MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT (MPD): A form of development characterized by a
comprehensive and unified site plan and design reviewed under the master
planned development review processes described in each zone chapter or article
of this title. The MPD generally includes a number of housing units; a mix of
building types and land uses; clustered buildings designed to integrate one
with another and to complement the surrounding land uses; significant open
space; flexible in interior setbacks, heights and density; and valued community
amenities.
   MEDICAL CLINIC: See definition of office, professional.
   MENTAL HEALTH CENTER: A publicly or privately operated facility, intended
for the diagnosis and treatment of mental or emotional disorders.
   MILITARY SURPLUS GOODS/STORE: New or used military equipment, vehicles or
supplies, which are available for resale to the general public.
   MIXED USE, COMMERCIAL: Development which incorporates a mix of uses,
including retail commercial and/or offices and residential.
   MIXED USE, HORIZONTAL: Commercial and residential uses which are within
close proximity to each other and designed in a village manner, but not
necessarily within the same building structures.
   MIXED USE, VERTICAL: Commercial and residential uses, which are within the
same building structure.
   MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit of not less than thirty
feet (30') in length, designed for long term occupancy and to be transported on
its own wheels or on a flatbed or other trailers or detachable wheels;
containing a flush toilet, sleeping accommodations, a tub or shower bath,
kitchen facilities, and plumbing and electrical connections provided for
attachment to appropriate external systems, and ready for occupancy except for
connections to utilities and other work. Presectionalized, modular or
prefabricated houses not placed on permanent foundations, shall be regarded as
mobile homes and only authorized in mobile home parks.
   MOBILE HOME LOT: A designated portion of a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home and its accessory buildings or structures
which complies with all relevant Building Codes and ordinances.
   MOBILE HOME PAD: Part of the mobile home space which has been prepared and
reserved for the placement of one mobile home.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A residential development in which owners of mobile homes
or manufactured housing may rent or lease a lot on which to place their home.
Such developments may provide all of the amenities and improvements typical of
subdivisions.
   MOBILE HOME PARK PLUMBING SYSTEM: The park sewer and water supply systems
within the park property line.
   MOBILE HOME PARK SEWAGE SYSTEM: Any pipe or line not built into the mobile
home which is used for the disposal of human waste.
   MOBILE HOME SERVICE BUILDING: A building which is not a mobile home which
houses separate toilet and bathing facilities for men and women and which may
also have laundry facilities, flushing rim sink and other facilities as may be
required by the ordinances of Fillmore City.
   MOBILE OFFICE SPACE/TRAILER: A mobile trailer, travel trailer, cargo storage
container or converted mobile or modular home may be used in the Public/Quasi-
Public Zone as a staging or office space only, and not as a dwelling, by a
local, State or Federal governmental agency or political subdivision of the
State of Utah as an emergency or temporary use if a public need is identified
and necessary to promote the health, safety and welfare of the citizens. This
use must be approved by the Council.
   MODEL HOME: A dwelling unit used initially for display or marketing
purposes, with a certificate of occupancy, which typifies the units that will
be constructed.
   MODULAR HOME: A permanent dwelling structure built of prefabricated units
which are assembled and erected on the site, and which meets the IBC.
   MONOPOLE: A single cylindrical steel or wood pole that acts as the support
structure for antennas.
   MORTUARY, FUNERAL HOME: An establishment in which the human dead are
prepared for burial or cremation. The facility may include a chapel for the
conduct of funeral services, spaces for informal gatherings and related
accessory uses.
   MOTEL: A building or group of buildings containing individual sleeping units
designed and used primarily for the accommodation of transient automobile
travelers and with automobile parking immediately accessible.
   MUNICIPAL FACILITIES: Those improved properties owned by the Municipality,
or the public.
   MUSEUM: A building or institution in which objects of historical,
scientific, artistic, or cultural interest are procured, studied, stored, and
exhibited.
   NATURAL WATERWAYS: Those areas, varying in width, along streams, creeks,
springs, gullies or washes that are natural drainage channels as determined by
the building inspector.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT: Any new construction activity.
   NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE: A structure that legally existed before its current
zoning designation and because of a zoning change does not conform to the
zoning district s development standards.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN OR SIGN STRUCTURE: A sign or sign structure, or portion
thereof, lawfully existing prior to May 31, 2005, which does not conform to all
height, area, yard spacing, animation, lighting or other regulations prescribed
in the zone in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE: A use of a lot or parcel that legally existed on the lot
or parcel before its current zoning designation; has been maintained
continuously for the preceding six (6) months; and does not conform with the
zoning regulations that now govern the land.
   NURSERY: A business that grows, cultivates and/or distributes and sells
plants and other landscaping or horticulture related items.
   NURSING HOME: A business described also as a rest home , or convalescent
home , other than a hospital, in which persons are lodged long term and
furnished with care rather than diagnoses or treatment.
   OFFICE, BUSINESS OR GOVERNMENT: A place intended for the conduct of
administration or services by a business enterprise or unit of government.
   OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL: A place intended for the conduct of a recognized
learned profession. Such uses include offices or clinics devoted to treatment
and care of human illness or injury (medical, dental, chiropractic offices,
massage therapist and similar uses). Other professions so defined would
include, but not be limited to, accountants, architects, engineers and lawyers.
Office, professional may be conducted in allowed zones of the zoning matrix and
may be conducted as a home occupation, provided they meet the criteria for home
occupation, under an administrative conditional use permit in zones where home
occupation is allowed. Definition does not allow for in-patient care facilities
or sexually oriented businesses.
   OFFICIAL STREETS MASTER PLAN: As adopted by the City Council, the
designation of each existing and planned street and right-of-way, and those
located on approved and filed plats, for the purpose of providing for the
development of the streets, highways, roads and rights-of-way and for their
future improvement, reconstruction, realignment and necessary widening,
including provision for curbs and sidewalks. The classification of each street
and right- of-way is based upon its location in the respective zoning district
of the City, its present and estimated future traffic volume and its relative
importance and function.
   OFFICIAL ZONING MAP: The map adopted by the City Council pursuant to law
showing the streets, zoning districts and City boundaries; and any amendments
or additions thereto resulting from the approval of rezones, subdivision or
annexation plats and the subsequent filing of such approved plats.
   OPEN SPACE: Space reserved in parks, courts, playgrounds, golf courses and
other similar open areas and those areas reserved to meet the density
requirements of planned unit development.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK: The line on the bank to which the high water
ordinarily rises annually in season as indicated by changes in the
characteristics of soil, vegetation or other appropriate means, which consider
the characteristics of the surrounding areas. Where the ordinary high water
mark cannot be found, the top of the channel bank shall be substituted. In
braided channels, the ordinary high water mark or substitute shall be measured
so as to include the entire stream feature.
   OUTDOOR RECREATION, PARK OR PLAYGROUND (PUBLIC OR PRIVATE): An area free of
buildings except for restrooms, dressing rooms, equipment storage and
maintenance buildings, and open air pavilions and used primarily for recreation
activities not involving motor vehicles or overnight use.
   OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL USES: Recreational activities involving off highway
vehicles and similar motorized vehicles for recreational use and horse arenas,
equestrian parks and equine activity, including, but not limited to, equine
shows, fairs, competitions, performances, racing or sales that involve any
breed of equines and any equine disciplines; boarding or training equines and
teaching persons equestrian skills. The Planning Commission may also determine
other equine activities that are consistent with this definition.
   OWNER: Any person, or group of persons, having record title to the property
sought to be developed or subdivided and the owner s agent.
   PARCEL: An unplatted unit of land described by metes and bounds and
designated by the County Recorder s Office with a unique tax identification
number.
   PARKING AREA: An unenclosed area or lot other than a street used or designed
for parking, the size of which shall be at least nine feet by eighteen feet (9'
x 18').
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area, other than a street, used for the
parking of the automobiles of occupants of a dwelling, hotel or apartment
hotel.
   PARKING, PUBLIC: A parking area or parking facility to be used by the public
for fee or otherwise.
   PARKING, RESIDENTIAL: A parking area or structure used exclusively for
residential, noncommercial uses.
   PARKING, SHARED: The development and use of parking areas on two (2) or more
separate properties for joint use by the businesses or residents on those
properties.
   PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE: A space within a building or a private or public
parking area, exclusive of driveways, ramps, columns and office and work areas,
for the parking of one automobile.
   PAWNSHOPS: A business dealing in or collecting used or secondhand
merchandise or personal property, which has been legitimately obtained.
   PERSON: An individual, corporation, partnership or incorporated association
of individuals, such as a club.
   PERSONAL SERVICES: Establishments primarily involved in providing personal
grooming and related services. This definition shall include barbershops,
beauty parlors, hair salons, ear piercings, tailors or massage services, but
not laundries, dry cleaners, or other body piercings. This definition also
includes services for permanent facial cosmetics of the eye, brow and lip only,
that are a form of tattooing, and subject to all licensing requirements of a
tattoo parlor. This use must be in conjunction with a licensed provider and a
commercial beauty parlor or hair salon, but not as a home occupation.
   PET GROOMING: The grooming of small pets, such as dogs and cats; provided,
that no more than five (5) animals may be on the premises at one time and that
no lodging of animals is allowed.
   PLANNING COMMISSION: The Fillmore City Planning Commission.
   PLAT: A map or other graphical representation of lands being laid out and
prepared in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-601 et seq. See
chapter 18, article A, Design Standards For Construction And Development , of
this title.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT: The preliminary drawings of a proposed subdivision,
specifying the layout, uses and restrictions.
   PRESCHOOL: The education or teaching of children, including kindergarten
preparation, music lessons, etc.
   PROPERTY: Any parcel, lot or tract of land, including improvements thereon,
in the possession of or owned by, or recorded as the real property of, the same
person or persons.
   PROPERTY LINE: The boundary line of a parcel or lot.
   PROPERTY LINE, FRONT: That part of a parcel or lot, which abuts a street.
   PUBLIC HEARING: A hearing at which members of the public are provided a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any building, water system drainage ditch, roadway,
parkway, sidewalk, pedestrianway, tree, lawn, off street parking lot, space or
structure, lot improvement, or other facility for which the City may ultimately
assume responsibility, or which may affect a City improvement.
   PUBLIC MEETING: A meeting that is required to be open to the public under
Utah Code Annotated title 52, chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings Act.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: An area of land that is legally described in a
registered deed for the provision of public access.
   PUBLIC SERVICE: Uses, which may be housed in separate buildings, or which
may occupy a space within a building, that are operated by a unit of government
to serve public needs, such as police (with jail), fire service, ambulance,
Post Office or Judicial Court, but not including public utility stations or
maintenance facilities.
   PUBLIC STREET: A street, including the entire right-of-way, which has been
dedicated to and accepted by the Fillmore City or other governmental agency, or
which has been devoted to public use by legal mapping, use or other means.
   PUBLIC UTILITY STATIONS: A structure or facility used by a public or quasi-
public agency to store, distribute, generate or chemically treat water, power,
gas, sewage, equipment or other service elements.
   REASONABLE NOTICE: The requirements of reasonable notice are met if notice
of hearing or meeting meets the requirements under state law for such public
hearing or meeting; is posted in at least three (3) public places within the
jurisdiction and notice of the hearing or meeting is published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the jurisdiction; is posted in at least three (3)
public places within the jurisdiction, on the Utah Public Notice Website, and
on Fillmore City s website; or if actual legal notice of the hearing or meeting
is given.
   RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: A graphic illustration of a survey of land prepared in
accordance with State laws.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular unit, other than a mobile home, primarily
designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation use,
which is either self-propelled or is mounted on or pulled by another vehicle,
including, but not limited to, a travel trailer, a camping trailer, a truck
camper, a motor home, a fifth wheel trailer and a van.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (TRAVEL TRAILER PARK): Any area or tract of land
or separately designated section where lots are rented to one or more owners or
users of recreational vehicles for a temporary time.
   RELIGIOUS, EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTE: A 28 USC 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization
engaged in teaching, community programs or spiritual endeavors, which qualifies
as a tax exempt religious institution under title 28 of the United States Code.
   REPAIR SERVICES, SMALL APPLIANCE OR EQUIPMENT: An establishment for the
repair of household or other small appliances or equipment and at which no such
appliances or their parts are stored out of doors.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE DISABLED/RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH
A DISABILITY: A facility that is occupied by three (3) to five (5) unrelated
persons with disabilities on a twenty four (24) hour per day basis in a family
type arrangement under the supervision of a house family or manager, and that
conforms to all applicable standards and requirements of and is licensed by the
Utah Department of Human Services, division of services for people with
disabilities or health, and is operated by or under contract with that
department. Such facilities shall not include facilities for the following:
secure treatment, inpatient treatment, residential treatment, adult daycare,
day treatment, comprehensive mental health treatment, comprehensive substance
abuse treatment or domestic violence treatment.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE ELDERLY: A long term care residential facility
for elderly persons. The term does not include a healthcare facility.
   RESIDENTIAL SUPPORT: Arranging for or providing the necessities of life as a
protective service to individuals or families who are disabled or who are
experiencing a dislocation or emergency which prevents them from providing
these services for themselves or their families. Treatment is not a necessary
component of residential support.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT CENTER: A twenty four (24) hour group living
environment for three (3) to nine (9) individuals unrelated to the owner or
provider that offers room or board and specialized treatment, rehabilitation or
habilitation services for persons with emotional, psychological, developmental
or behavioral dysfunctions or impairments. For the purposes of this section,
residential treatment center shall not include facilities for comprehensive
substance abuse treatment or domestic violence treatment.
   RESOURCE FAMILY HOME: A home licensed to provide services to a child in the
custody of the State and includes a foster care home and a legal risk home.
   RESTAURANT, CAFE, CONFECTIONERY: An establishment where food is prepared and
served to customers for consumption on the premises.
   RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD, DRIVE-IN: An establishment distinguished from a
traditional sit down restaurant in that service is provided from a counter or
window for consumption either off or on the premises; on premises consumption
normally requires considerably less time than consumption in a traditional
restaurant. Service may also be provided to customers in automobiles by use of
an outside drive-up window; parking is provided immediately adjacent to the
building. This definition includes also specialty food stores such as ice cream
parlors or delicatessens, having counter or window service.
   RESUBDIVISION: A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat
if such change affects any right-of-way or lot line; or any change in a map or
plan legally recorded prior to the adoption of regulations controlling
subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip of land, dedicated to public use that is occupied, or
reserved to be occupied, by a street, crosswalk, trail, stairway, railroad,
road, utilities or for another special use.
   ROAD CLASSIFICATION: The streets, highways, roads and rights-of-way
designated on the Streets Master Plan.
   ROAD, RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH: The distance between property lines measured at
right angles to the centerline of the street.
   ROOF: The building element, which covers the top of the structure as the
walls enclose the sides.
   SANITARY SEWER AUTHORITY: The department, agency or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services
or on site wastewater systems.
   SATELLITE RECEIVING STATION: Any apparatus or device designed for the
purpose of transmitting and/or receiving radio, television, satellite
microwave, or other electromagnetic energy signals between terrestrially and/or
orbital based uses. This definition includes, but is not limited to, what are
commonly referred to as satellite earth stations, satellite microwave antennas,
TVROs or dish antennas. This definition does not include conventional
television antennas.
   SCHOOL, PRIVATE OR QUASI-PUBLIC: A school operated by a private or quasi-
public organization or individual, which has a program similar to that provided
in any public school in the State of Utah, except that such curriculum may
include religious instruction. A private school may be a profit making or
nonprofit organization. This definition shall not include commercial schools.
   SCHOOL, PUBLIC: An educational facility operated by a school district or
other public agency of the State of Utah.
   SCREEN OR SCREENED: The act, process or result of visually and/or audibly
shielding or obscuring a structure or use from adjacent property by fencing,
walls, berms, densely planted vegetation or other features.
   SECURE TREATMENT: Twenty four (24) hour specialized residential treatment or
care for persons whose current functioning is such that they cannot live
independently or in a less restrictive environment. Secure treatment differs
from residential treatment to the extent that it requires intensive
supervision, locked doors and other security measures which are imposed on
residents with neither their consent nor control.
   SENIOR CITIZEN CENTER: A government sponsored public building, other than a
church or school, serving the social and recreational needs of the elderly.
Such a center may include a meeting hall and cooking and dining facilities for
large groups, but shall not provide overnight lodging.
   SETBACK: The required minimum distance between a building or structure and
the closest of the following: property line; platted street; or existing curb
or edge of a street.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Any or all of the following or any portion of
the following: a(n) adult bookstore or adult video store, adult business, adult
motion picture theater, adult theater, outcall services, seminude dancing
agency, seminude entertainment business, as defined in
Title 3, Chapter 11, of the Fillmore City Municipal Code, and similar uses.
   SHOPPING CENTER, COMMUNITY (RETAIL BUSINESS): A completely planned and
designed commercial development providing for the sale of general merchandise
and convenience goods and including a variety store, discount store or
supermarket.
   SHOPPING CENTER, NEIGHBORHOOD: A planned commercial development providing
primarily for the sale of convenience goods and services. The center is
designed to serve a residential neighborhood.
   SHORT TERM RENTAL: The use of property located in the following zoning
districts: Agriculture, Rural Residential, Residential 2, General Commercial,
Highway Commercial, and Office Residential; by a person or entity; for
occupancy, rent or lease; for the purpose of receiving compensation, money,
rent, or other bargained consideration; for less than thirty (30) consecutive
days. Any rental that is leased out consecutively to the same tenant thirty
(30) days or more will not constitute a residential Short-Term Rental. Short-
Term Rentals do not include other lodging facilities, such as bed and breakfast
facilities.
   SIGHT DISTANCE TRIANGLE: A triangular area at the intersection of two (2)
streets bounded by the top back of curb and a line connecting them at points
twenty five feet (25') from the intersection of the two (2) curb lines.
   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/c3e367ae308acf915db0d4d684c55fe9213c1262/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2754.gif]
   
   SIGN: Any words, letters, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, emblems, devices, trade names or trade marks, by which anything is
made known, such as are used to designate an individual, a firm, an
association, a corporation, a profession, a business, a commodity or product
which are visible from any public way. Sign shall also include the sign
structure supports, lighting system and any attachments, ornaments or other
features intended to draw the attention of observers.
      A-Frame Sign: A sign constructed with two (2) sides attached at the top
so as to allow the sign to stand in an upright position. Usually temporary and/
or moveable.
      Alteration, Sign: A change or rearrangement in the structural part or
design of a sign, whether by extending on a side, by increasing in area or
height, or by relocating or change in position.
      Animated Sign: A sign, which includes motion or rotation of any part by
mechanical or artificial means, or subdued color changes.
      Awning Sign: A sign painted, printed or placed on any portion of a cloth
or fabric covering.
      Banner Sign: A sign made of fabric or any nonrigid material with no
enclosing framework. A type of temporary sign.
      Billboard Sign: An off premises advertising sign.
      Campaign Sign: A temporary sign used by candidates running for political
and elected offices and signs with political purposes.
      Changeable Message Sign: A portion of a sign used to electronically
display lettering or other symbols upon which it is possible to change the
message.
      Flashing Sign: A sign, which has or appears to have motion or rotation of
the lighting elements or displays flashing or intermittent light.
      Flat Sign: A sign erected parallel to and attached to the outside wall of
a building and extending not more than twenty four inches (24") from such wall
with messages of copy on the face side only.
      Floodlighted Or Externally Lighted Sign: A sign made legible in the
absence of daylight by devices, which reflect or project light upon it.
      Illuminated Sign: A sign, which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outlines illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes.
      Mobile Changeable Copy Sign: A sign mounted on a trailer or frame,
lighted or unlighted, with changeable lettering.
      Monument Sign: A sign six feet (6') or less in height which is flush to
the ground.
      Nameplate Sign: A sign indicating the name or names of persons legally
occupying the premises.
      Overhanging Sign: A sign, which projects twelve inches (12") or more
beyond any portion of the roof of a building.
      Pole Sign: A sign permanently attached to the ground or a foundation with
a pole, poles or other similar means of support, and not attached to any other
structure.
      Roof Sign: A sign, which is erected partly or wholly on the roof of the
building.
      Sign Area: The area of a sign that is used for display purposes,
excluding the minimum frame and supports. In computing sign area, only one side
of a back to back or double faced sign shall be computed when signs are
parallel or diverge from a common edge by an angle of not more than ten degrees
(10o). For signs that do not have a frame or a separate background, the sign
area shall be computed on the basis of the least rectangle, triangle or circle
large enough to frame the display. Sign areas in the shape of a sphere, prism,
cylinder, cone, pyramid, square or other such shape shall be computed as one-
half (1/2) of the total surface area.
      Sign Maintenance: The upkeep of signs in a safe, presentable and good
condition, including the replacement of defective parts, repainting, cleaning
and other acts required for the maintenance of said sign.
      Sign Setback: The minimum distance that any portion of a sign or sign
structure shall be from any street property line.
      Sign Structure: Anything constructed or erected supporting a sign, which
requires locations on or below the ground or attached to something having
location on or below the ground.
      Snipe Sign: A temporary sign or poster, which is attached to the supports
for another sign, a public utility pole, tree, fence, etc.
      Temporary Sign: Any sign, banner, pennant, valance or advertising display
constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or
other light materials, with or without frames, intended to be displayed out of
doors for a short period of time. Temporary signs are restricted to ten (10)
days before the event and two (2) days after, or a maximum of forty eight (48)
days per year.
   SIGNIFICANT VEGETATION: Includes all large trees six inches (6") in diameter
or greater measured four and one-half feet (41/2') above the ground, all groves
of small trees, and all clumps of oak or maple covering an area fifty (50)
square feet or more measured at the drip line.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: Regulations unique to each zone concerning
standards for development, including, but not limited to, lot areas, setbacks
and building height.
   SKETCH PLAT: A sketch preparatory to the preliminary plat, or subdivision
plat in the case of minor subdivisions, to enable the owner to save time and
expense in reaching general agreement with the Planning Commission as to the
form of the plat.
   SLOPE: The level of inclination of land from the horizontal plane determined
by dividing the horizontal run, or distance, of the land into the vertical
rise, or distance, of the same land and converting the resulting figure to a
percentage value.
   SMALL ENGINE REPAIR: An establishment engaged in the repair and maintenance
of small engines with an engine displacement size no greater than two thousand
(2,000) cc. This includes, but is not limited to, motorcycles, OHVs, ATVs, home
and garden tools and equipment, outboard motor watercraft (engine removed),
snowmobiles, chain saws and other similar small engines.
   SOLICITORS: Any person who goes upon the premises of any business or private
residence, not having been invited by the occupant thereof, for the purpose of
selling, offering for sale, or taking orders for merchandise or services door
to door within the City. Merchandise shall include goods, food, wares,
photographs and subscriptions to any kind of publication, tickets, coupons or
receipts representing value.
   SPECIAL DISTRICT: An entity established under the authority of Utah Code
Annotated title 17D, chapter 1, Special Service District Act, and any other
governmental or quasi-governmental entity that is not a county, municipality,
school district or unit of the State.
   STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory structure used for the keeping and
housing of livestock by the occupants of the premises.
   STABLE, PUBLIC: A stable other than a private stable.
   STEALTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: A telecommunications facility, which is
disguised as another object or otherwise concealed from public view.
   STORAGE LAND SEA CONTAINERS: Any trailer commonly described as a storage
container or storage unit, including, but not limited to, semitrailers, cargo
trailers and any other similar unit with a storage space of greater than one
hundred twenty (120) square feet.
   STORAGE LAND SEA CONTAINERS (TEMPORARY): Any storage land sea container
greater than one hundred twenty (120) square feet but less than three hundred
(300) square feet permitted as a temporary use only during the construction or
alteration of a building.
   STORY: A habitable level within a building serving to define the building
height. Basements that emerge less than four feet (4') from grade or attics not
exceeding four feet (4') at the kick wall shall not constitute an additional
story.
   STORY, HALF: A story with at least two (2) of its opposite sides situated in
a sloping roof, the floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the
floor immediately below it.
   STREAM: A naturally fed watercourse that flows year around or intermittently
during years of normal rainfall. This definition excludes ditches and canals
constructed for irrigation and drainage purposes.
   STREAM CORRIDOR: The corridor defined by the stream s ordinary high water
mark.
   STREET: A private or public right-of-way, highway, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, road, lane, walk, alley, viaduct, subway, tunnel, bridge, public
easement and other way.
   STREET, ACCESS: A street that serves a small number of dwellings and usually
does not allow through traffic. Usual ADT (average daily traffic) range is zero
(0) to two hundred fifty (250) vehicles.
   STREET, ARTERIAL: A street which provides for through traffic movement
between areas and across the City, with moderate access to abutting property
subject to necessary control of entrances, exits and curb use and also provides
access to highways. Arterials are not usually included in residential street
plans. Maximum ADT is three thousand plus (3,000+) vehicles.
   STREET, COLLECTOR: A street that provides for a high volume of traffic
movement between major arterials and local streets, and direct access to
abutting property. Usual ADT range is one thousand (1,000) to three thousand
(3,000) vehicles.
   STREET, LOCAL: A street that provides for direct access to abutting land and
for local traffic movements.
   STREET, PRIVATE: A right-of-way or easement in private ownership, not
dedicated or maintained as a public street, which affords the principal means
of access to two (2) or more lots.
   STREET, PUBLIC: A street that has been dedicated to and accepted by the City
Council; that the City has acquired and accepted by prescriptive right; or that
the City owns in fee. A public thoroughfare which affords principal means of
access to abutting property and has a right-of-way that exceeds twenty six feet
(26') in width. The term street, public shall include avenue, drive, circle,
road, parkway, boulevard, highway, thoroughfare or any other similar term.
   STREET, SUBCOLLECTOR: A street which conveys traffic to more dwellings and
includes through traffic between access streets and collectors. Usual ADT range
is two hundred fifty (250) to one thousand (1,000) vehicles.
   STREETSCAPE: The distinguishing characteristics of a particular street,
including paving materials, adjacent space on both sides of the street,
landscaping, retaining walls, sidewalks, building facades, lighting, medians,
street furniture and signs.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, the use of which requires a fixed location
on or in the ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the
ground and which imposes an impervious material on or above the ground.
Definition includes building .
   SUBDIVISION:
      A.   Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed to be
divided into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other
division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale,
lease or development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other
Residential and Nonresidential zoned land, whether by deed, metes and bounds
description, devise and testacy, lease, map, plat or other recorded instrument.
      B.    Subdivision does not include:
         1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable
Zoning Ordinance;
         2.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties
adjusting their mutual boundary if:
            a.   No new lot is created; and
            b.   The adjustment does not result in a violation of applicable
Zoning Ordinances; or
            c.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising
the legal description of more than one contiguous parcel of property into one
legal description encompassing all such parcels of property.
         3.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel
of property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a subdivision
under State law as to the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the
unsubdivided parcel to the Subdivision Ordinance.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR: All subdivisions of ten (10) or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of Municipal facilities, or
the creation of any public improvements, and not in conflict with any provision
or portion of the General Plan, official zoning map, Streets Master Plan or
these regulations.
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR: Any subdivision containing less than ten (10) lots that
may require the recordation of a plat and all or part of the development
requirement of a major subdivision, and not in conflict with any provision or
portion of the General Plan, official zoning map, Streets Master Plan or these
regulations.
   SUBDIVISION PLAT: The final map or drawing, on which the applicant s plan of
subdivision is presented to the City Council for approval and which, if
approved, may be submitted to the County Recorder for filing.
   SUBDIVISION, SIMPLE LOT: Any subdivision containing not more than three (3)
lots fronting on an existing street, not involving any new street, or the
extension of Municipal facilities, or the creation of any public improvements,
and not adversely affecting the remainder of the parcel or adjoining property,
and not in conflict with any provision or portion of the General Plan, Official
Land Use Map, Streets Master Plan or these regulations. Subdivisions qualifying
as a simple lot subdivision are exempt for the plat requirement.
   SURPLUS, SECONDHAND STORE: An establishment that sells surplus items, used
furniture, appliances, clothing and miscellaneous small items. Excluded from
this definition are establishments selling used motor vehicles, their parts,
military surplus and other heavy equipment.
   SWAP MEET: A temporary use business where the owner of the business lends or
leases portions of real property which he owns or leases to persons for use as
an open market place to barter, exchange or sell goods. The market place may be
located either outdoors or indoors. The business owner is responsible for
providing that all persons bartering, exchanging or selling goods at the swap
meet comply with all laws relating to the conduct of business within the City
and also comply with all zoning provisions, including, but not limited to, the
terms of any conditional use permit granted to the owner. A swap meet includes
farmers markets and flea markets. Yard sales and garage sales are not swap
meets. Persons, as set out herein, include both individuals and entities.
   TATTOO OR BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENT: Any business that is engaged
primarily in the practice of tattooing or body piercing. This definition does
not include services for permanent facial cosmetics of the eye, brow and lip or
piercings of the ear contained under the definition of Personal Services.
   TECHNICAL NECESSITY: A particular design, placement, construction or
location of a telecommunications facility that is technically necessary for
telecommunications consistent with the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996,
as amended.
   TELE- COMMUNICATIONS: The transmission, between or among points specified by
a user, of information of the user s choosing, without change in the form or
content of the information as sent or received.
   TELE- COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: A telecommunications facility of less than
thirty five feet (35') in height consisting of antenna, equipment shelters and
related structures used for transmitting and/or receiving telecommunications
and/or radio stations.
   TEMPORARY OUTDOOR USE: A use, activity, vending cart, special event or
commercial use outside that is not permanent in nature and after a seventy two
(72) hour time period ceases or is removed.
   TEMPORARY USE: A use, activity or special event that is not permanent in
nature and after a designated time period ceases or is removed.
   THEATER, CONCERT HALL: A building or amphitheater used primarily for the
presentation of live stage productions or performances.
   TRAILER, TRAVEL: See definition of recreational vehicle.
   TRANSFER STATION: A facility designed for the transfer and transport of
solid waste.
   TRAVEL PARK: See definition of recreational vehicle park.
   TWIN HOME: Two (2) single-family dwelling units of separate ownership having
a zero-lot line. Each unit is structurally independent with separate utility
connections. The adjoining dwellings may be offset, but not separated from each
other. Each side of the twin home shall be considered a single family dwelling
unit, however, one building permit and certificate of occupancy shall be issued
for both units.
   UNINCORPORATED: The area outside of the incorporated boundaries of cities
and towns.
   USE: The activities occurring on a lot or parcel of land for which land or a
building is arranged, designed or intended, or for which land or a building is
or may be occupied, including all accessory uses.
   USE, PREEXISTING: A use, which validly existed prior to May 31, 2005 and has
not been abandoned for more than six (6) months.
   VENDING CART: A small wheeled, nonmotorized vehicle from which to sell food
and/or merchandise for immediate consumption or use.
   WAREHOUSE STORAGE UNITS: A structure in which goods, merchandise or
equipment are stored for eventual distribution, or for which storage space is
rented. For all zones, except the light industrial zoning district, such
structure must be a building. For the light industrial zoning district, only, a
warehouse storage unit may include cargo shipping containers as provided in
Section 10-9A-101 et seq., upon approval of a conditional use permit.
   WELDING MACHINE SHOP: A building or structure where pieces of metal are
welded.
   YARD: An open space on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward.
   YARD, FRONT: An open, unoccupied space, in the same lot with a building,
between the front line of the main building and the street line and extending
for the full width of the lot.
   YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
most rear main building and the rear lot line. The depth of the required rear
yard shall be measured horizontally from the nearest point of the rear lot
line. On lots that are not rectangular in shape, the required minimum rear yard
may be an average of the distances measured from the rear corners of the main
building directly to the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE: An open, unoccupied space, except as otherwise provided in this
title, on the same lot with the building, between the side line of the building
and the side lot line, and extending from the front yard to the rear yard; or
the shortest distance across said space from the main building to the side lot
line.
   YOUTH HOME: A twenty four (24) hour group living environment for three (3)
to five (5) persons under the age of eighteen (18), unrelated to an owner or
operator that offers room, board or specialized services to residents. Youth
home may include facilities for the following: resource family home, child
placement or residential support as defined in Utah Code Annotated title 62A.
Youth home shall not include facilities for the following: secure treatment,
inpatient treatment, residential treatment, adult daycare, day treatment,
comprehensive mental health treatment, youth program, comprehensive substance
abuse treatment or domestic violence treatment as defined in Utah Code
Annotated title 62A.
   YOUTH PROGRAM:
      A.   A nonresidential program, designed to provide behavioral, substance
abuse or mental health services to minors that:
         1.   Serves either adjudicated or nonadjudicated youth;
         2.   Charges a fee for its services;
         3.   May or may not provide host homes or other arrangements for
overnight accommodation of the youth;
         4.   May or may not provide all or part of its services in the
outdoors;
         5.   May or may not limit or censor access to parents or guardians;
and
         6.   Prohibits or restricts a minor s ability to leave the program at
any time of his own free will.
      B.   Youth program does not include recreational programs, such as Boy
Scouts, Girl Scouts, 4-H and other such organizations.
   ZONING MAP: A map, also known as a land use map, adopted as part of a Land
Use Ordinance that depicts land use zones, overlays or districts.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-04, 7-20-2021; Ord. 21-13, - -2021; Ord.
21-16, 9- 21-2021; Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021; Ord. 22-23, 11- 15-2022; Ord. 24-01,
2-6-2024; Ord. 24-02, 2-6-2024; Ord. 24-04, 2-20-2024; Ord. 24-05, - -2024;
Ord. 24-17, 6-18-2024; Ord. 24-22, 10-15-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Amendments To This Title Or Map
10-3-2: Reviewing Bodies
10-3-3: Allowed Use Review
10-3-4: Conditional Use/Administrative Conditional Use Review
10-3-5: Master Planned Development Review
10-3-6: Sign Permit Review
10-3-7: Telecommunications Review
10-3-8: Notice
10-3-9: Termination Of Projects For Inaction
10-3-10: Licenses, Permits Void
10-3-11: Appeals And Reconsideration Process
10-3-12: Constitutional Takings Review And Appeal
10-3-13: Notice Matrix
10-3-14: Penalty
10-3-1: AMENDMENTS TO THIS TITLE OR MAP:
Amendments to this title shall be made in the following manner:
   A.   Application: An applicant must file a written request for amendment
with the Planning and Zoning Administrator. The City Council, Planning
Commission or owner applicant may initiate an amendment as provided below. An
owner applicant shall pay the filing fee prescribed by resolution, and shall
file an application, which shall include, without limitation:
      1.   The legal description of all property included;
      2.   Common address if available; and
      3.   A written statement addressing the reasons for the amendment. If the
request is for rezoning, then a written statement addressing the criteria
required for approval pursuant to subsection E of this section shall be
provided.
   B.   Hearing Before Planning Commission: The Planning Commission, a Land Use
Authority, shall hold a public hearing on all amendments to this title or to
the Land Use Zoning Map. The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall cause a
notice, including a description of the property for which the zoning amendment
is requested, a brief explanation of the proposed zoning, and the date, place
and time of the public hearing, to be prepared as provided in section
10-3-13 of this chapter. The purpose of the notice is to reasonably inform
surrounding property owners and jurisdictions of the application. No minor
omission or defect in the notice or mailing shall be deemed to impair the
validity of the proceedings to consider the application.
   C.   Action By Planning Commission: Following the public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall adopt a written recommendation to the City Council,
advising the Council to approve, disapprove or modify the proposal. If the
Planning Commission fails to take action within sixty (60) days of the close of
the public hearing, the City Council shall consider the matter forwarded from
the Planning Commission with a negative recommendation.
   D.   Hearing Before City Council: The City Council shall hold a public
hearing on all proposed amendments to this title or the Land Use Zoning Map
forwarded from the Planning Commission. Notice of the public hearing shall be
consistent with subsection B of this section.
   E.   Criteria/Required Findings: The City's land use zoning is the result of
a detailed and comprehensive appraisal of the City's present and future land
use allocation needs. In order to establish and maintain sound, stable and
desirable development within the City, rezoning of land is to be discouraged
and allowed only under the limited circumstances herein described. Therefore,
the Planning Commission may recommend, and the City Council may grant, a
rezoning application only if it determines, in written findings, that the
rezoning is consistent with the policies and goals of the City General Plan and
that the applicant has demonstrated that the:
      1.   Proposed rezoning is necessary either to comply with the City
General Plan proposed Land Use Map, or to provide land for a community need
that was not anticipated at the time of adoption of the City General Plan;
      2.   Existing zoning was either the result of a clerical error or a
mistake of fact, or that it failed to take into account the constraints on
development created by the natural characteristics of the land, including, but
not limited to, steep slopes, floodplain, unstable soils and inadequate
drainage; or
      3.   Land or its surrounding environs has changed or is changing to such
a degree that it is in the public interest to encourage redevelopment of the
area or to recognize the changed character of the area.
   F.   Temporary Or Emergency Zoning: The City Council may enact an ordinance,
without a public hearing or Planning Commission recommendation, which
establishes temporary zoning regulations for any part or all of the area within
the Municipality if the:
      1.   City Council makes a written finding of compelling, countervailing
public interest; or
      2.   Area is not zoned.
Temporary zoning regulations may prohibit or regulate the erection,
construction, reconstruction or alteration of any building or structure, or any
subdivision approval. The City Council shall establish a period of limited
effect for the ordinance, which period may not exceed six (6) months. (Ord. 19-
07, 9-3-2019)
10-3-2: REVIEWING BODIES:
The Planning and Zoning Administrator (P&Z Administrator), the Planning
Commission (PC), the City Council (CC), and the Appeals Authority (AA) each
have the following primary authority to review applications for compliance with
this title:
TABLE 10-3-2
REVIEWING BODIES
A - Appeal, D - Decision, R - Review
Type Of Review P&Z PC CC AA
TABLE 10-3-2
REVIEWING BODIES
A - Appeal, D - Decision, R - Review
Type Of Review P&Z                                                                         PC CC AA
Business       R & D                                                                          A
license
Administrative
conditional    R & D                                                                          A
use
Conditional    R                                                                           D  A
use
Line
adjustment
Lot line       R                                                                           R  D  A
Type Of Review P&Z                                                                         PC CC AA
Parcel         R & D (Only if one of the parcels includes a dwelling pursuant to Utah Code
boundary       Ann. § 10-9a-523(3) to ensure utility lines, set-backs, etc., are not            A
               affected)
MPD            R                                                                           R  D  A
Noncomplying   R & D                                                                             A
structure
Nonconforming  R & D                                                                             A
use
Plat amendment R                                                                           R  D  A
Subdivision/   R                                                                           R  D  A
condo
Title 10/map   R                                                                           R  D  A
amendment
Variance       R & D                                                                             A
All other land R                                                                           R  D  A
use decisions
 
   A.   Building Permit Required: No building permit shall be valid for any
structure unless the permit for the proposed structure has been submitted to
and have been approved by the Planning and Zoning Administrator.
   B.   Uses: No new use shall be valid on any property unless the use is
allowed in the zone, or un-less a conditional use permit has been properly
issued for the use.
   C.   Subdivisions: No subdivision map shall be recorded unless all
conditions of subdivision ap-proval have been satisfied or otherwise secured.
   D.   Planning And Zoning Administrator Authority: The Planning and Zoning
Administrator initially reviews all complete applications requiring action by
the Planning Commission and recommends approval or rejection to the Planning
Commission, according to the type of application filed. The Planning and Zoning
Administrator may process one application at a time, per property, or may
process coordinated applications simultaneously. The Administrator may issue
administrative conditional use permits, as a Land Use Authority, or may
recommend to the Planning Com-mission certain conditions of approval to
applications for conditional use permits.
   E.   Permits, Business Licenses: The Planning Commission issues permits for
allowed uses, administrative lot line adjustments and conditional uses, and the
building official issues building permits. The City Council issues business
licenses.
   F.   Planning Commission Reviews: The Planning Commission reviews, holds a
public hearing and forwards a recommendation to the City Council regarding each
application for subdivision approval, subdivision plat amendment, initial
zoning, rezoning, condominium record of survey, mas-ter planned developments,
and amendments to this title.
   G.   Board Of Adjustment: The Board of Adjustment hears all requests for
variances.
   H.   Payment Of Fees: No review shall occur until all applicable fees are
paid. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-11, 7-6-2023)
10-3-3: ALLOWED USE REVIEW:
   A.   Plan Review Process: The following process and those outlined in
chapter 18, article A of this title, applies to all applications for new
development.
   B.   Initial Contact: An applicant for new development shall contact the
Planning and Zoning Administrator to discuss the scope and purpose of the
proposed development and the requirements of this title, including the
following:
      1.   An allowed use within the zone;
      2.   Complies with all applicable development requirements of the zone,
including building height, setback, front, side and rear yards, and lot
coverage;
      3.   Respects lot lines of a legally subdivided lot;
      4.   Complies with the parking requirements for the zone;
      5.   Conforms with applicable design guidelines, if any, for the zone;
      6.   Can adequately be serviced by roads, existing or proposed, utility
systems or lines; and
      7.   Pertains to land on which all tax assessments have been paid.
   C.   Preliminary Staff Review: The applicant shall provide Planning and
Zoning staff with:
      1.   A statement of intended use;
      2.   Drawings in sufficient detail to allow staff to review the proposal
for compliance with this title;
      3.   The tax identification number for the parcel;
      4.   A vicinity map to orient the parcel to its surrounding
infrastructure and a statement of intended use;
      5.   Project identification (project name, location, developer and
developer's address and contact information);
      6.   Concept drawings shall be either eight and one-half inches by eleven
inches (81/2" x 11") or eleven inches by seventeen inches (11" x 17") and shall
include the following:
         a.   Location and height of existing and proposed structures within
the proposed development and within two hundred feet (200') of the proposed
development;
         b.   Location of fire hydrants and streetlights within two hundred
fifty feet (250') of the proposed development;
         c.   Property lines and dimensions indicating total site area, parking
and driveway area, gross area of all buildings and structures, area of proposed
landscaping indicated as a percentage of lot coverage by landscaping;
         d.   North arrow;
         e.   Proposed buildings, parking areas, drive aisle widths, road or
driveway lengths and landscaped areas. Indicate number and layout of proposed
parking spaces;
         f.   Locations of access, curb cuts, gutters, sidewalks and proposed
driveways as well as proposed circulation pattern;
         g.   Public improvements and dedications;
         h.   Location and design of proposed walls, landscaping and exterior
lighting;
         i.   Phasing plan, if any;
         j.   Description and hours of intended uses; and
         k.   Payment of the application fee set by fee resolution.
   D.   Residential Site Plan Review: The site plan drawings shall include:
      1.   Dated drawings prepared on a twenty two inch by thirty four inch
(22" x 34") format;
      2.   Indicated scale shall be no less than one inch equals forty feet (1"
= 40');
      3.   Name of project/development, address and developer's name;
      4.   Parcel dimensions;
      5.   North arrow;
      6.   Total site area;
      7.   Parking and driveway area;
      8.   Location of new buildings and structures;
      9.   Location of existing buildings and structures;
      10.   All existing sewer mains, water mains, fire hydrants and electric
lines;
      11.   Building elevations with proposed materials of construction for new
construction or exterior modifications of existing buildings;
      12.   Any further information related to site development as requested by
City officials.
   E.   Commercial Site Plan Review (Not An MPD Or Subdivision): The site plan
drawings shall include:
      1.   Dated drawings prepared on a twenty two inch by thirty four inch
(22" x 34") format;
      2.   Indicated scale shall be no less than one inch equals forty feet (1"
= 40');
      3.   Name of project/development, address and developer's name;
      4.   Parcel dimensions;
      5.   North arrow;
      6.   Total site area;
      7.   Parking and driveway area;
      8.   Location of new buildings and structures;
      9.   Location of existing buildings and structures;
      10.   Location and height of structures;
      11.   Setbacks for on site and off site structures;
      12.   Landscaped area (indicate percentage of total site area to be
landscaped);
      13.   All existing and proposed sewer mains, water mains, fire hydrants
and electric lines;
      14.   Building elevations with proposed materials of construction for new
construction or exterior modifications of existing buildings;
      15.   Provide existing and proposed utility and lighting information;
      16.   Provide location and size of vehicular entrances and exits;
      17.   Any further information related to site development as requested by
City officials.
   F.   Building Permit: Upon approval of the building and site plan drawings,
and payment of all applicable fees, the building official shall issue a
building permit to the applicant.
   G.   Inspections: The building official or other designated official shall
inspect the project during construction through its completion to verify
conformance with approved plans.
   H.   Rejected Uses: If an application does not meet the criteria set forth
above, the Planning and Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant stating
specifically which criteria have not been satisfied.
   I.   Disclaimer: No permit shall be valid if any of the criteria listed in
this section has not been met. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-3-4: CONDITIONAL USE/ADMINISTRATIVE CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW:
There are certain uses that, because of unique characteristics or the potential
for detrimental impacts, may not be compatible in some areas of a zone or may
be compatible only if certain conditions are imposed. The Planning and Zoning
Administrator will evaluate all conditional use permit applications. The
Planning and Zoning Administrator may issue administrative conditional use
permits or may recommend to the Planning Commission certain conditions of
approval to applications for conditional use permits. The Planning and Zoning
Administrator and the Planning Commission shall review all applications for a
conditional use permit according to the following procedure:
   A.   Development Review Committee: If determined necessary by the Planning
and Zoning Administrator, an applicant shall attend a preapplication conference
with the Planning and Zoning Administrator and other City staff or departments
to discuss the proposed improvements associated with the conditional use and
the conditions that the staff would recommend to mitigate proposed adverse
impacts. This meeting will allow other City departments to provide comments on
the application.
   B.   Fees; Complete Application: An applicant must pay all appropriate fees
and must file a complete application.
   C.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of a complete application, the Planning
and Zoning Administrator shall provide reasonable notice as provided in section
10-3-8 of this chapter. The Planning Commission may conduct a public hearing on
the conditional use permit application and shall either approve, deny or modify
and approve the application.
   D.   Standards For Review: The City shall not issue a conditional use permit
unless the Planning and Zoning Administrator, in the case of an administrative
conditional use, or the Planning Commission, for all other conditional uses,
concludes that the application complies with the standards of review specific
to the zone in which the use is proposed.
   E.   Transferability: A conditional use permit runs with the land.
   F.   Expiration: Unless otherwise indicated in the final conditions,
conditional use permits shall expire one year from the date of initial
approval, unless the conditionally permitted use has commenced on the site.
   G.   Annual Review: The Planning and Zoning Administrator may review
conditional use permits on an annual basis for compliance with all final
conditions of approval.
   H.   Revocation: If the Planning and Zoning Administrator or the building
official determines that the holder of a conditional use permit is in violation
of the terms or conditions upon which the permit was issued, the City Recorder
shall notice the permit holder and schedule a hearing before the Planning
Commission, at which the permit holder must show cause to the Planning
Commission why the conditional use permit should not be revoked. If the
Planning Commission determines that the terms or conditions of the permit have
been violated, it shall cause the permit holder to specify how the holder will
promptly comply with the terms and conditions of the permit, or it shall revoke
the permit.
   I.   Appeals: Appeals must be pursuant to section
10-3-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-3-5: MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT REVIEW:
Each master planned development application shall be signed by all owners of
record, shall be processed as a conditional use and shall satisfy all
conditional use permit criteria outlined in the zone and the standards in
chapter 18, article A of this title.
   A.   Application: The application shall include:
      1.   A statement of the present and contemplated ownership, with current
and proposed tenants;
      2.   A legal description of the land, including all recorded and
unrecorded real property interests in the land;
      3.   A proposed development schedule or phasing plan;
      4.   A mailing list of all property owners within three hundred feet
(300') of the MPD boundary; and
      5.   A statement of the development objectives, including proposed uses,
parking requirements, height variances or density bonuses requested.
   B.   Development Agreement: In conjunction with the approval for any master
planned development, the owner shall execute a development agreement, to the
satisfaction of the City Attorney and City Council, in which the owner agrees
to comply with the provisions of the conditional use permit for the master
planned development and provides security, to the satisfaction of the City
Attorney and City Council, for all on and off site public improvements
associated with the master planned development. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-3-6: SIGN PERMIT REVIEW:
This title regulates signs to the maximum extent allowed by law.
   A.   Exceptions: The following signs are not regulated by this title:
      1.   Signs of a governmental nature for the control of traffic and other
regulatory purposes, such as street signs, danger signs, railroad crossing
signs and signs of public service companies indicating danger and aids to
service or safety;
      2.   Signs which are associated with public and quasi-public organization
functions which are clearly of a temporary nature;
      3.   Interior signs;
      4.   Flags, emblems or insignias of any nation or political subdivision;
      5.   Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and bearing only
property numbers, post box numbers or names of occupants of premises;
      6.   Legal notices, identification information or directional signs
erected by governmental bodies;
      7.   Commemorative plaques of recognized historical agencies, or
identification emblems or symbols of religious orders; provided, that no such
plaque, symbol or identification emblem exceeds three (3) square feet in area,
and such that the plaque, symbol or emblem be placed flat against a building;
and
      8.   Existing signage, which has been previously approved, shall not be
required to comply with this title insofar as the initial installation is
concerned. All other requirements are in force.
   B.   Nonconforming Signs: A nonconforming sign shall not be reconstructed,
raised, moved, placed, extended or enlarged unless said sign is changed so as
to conform to all provisions of this title. Alterations shall not be
interpreted to include changing the text or copy of off premises advertising
signs, theater signs, outdoor bulletins or other similar signs which are
designed to accommodate changeable copy.
   C.   Prohibited Signs: Prohibited signs are Class C misdemeanors, subject to
penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. The nonconforming sign
provisions of this title shall not be applicable to prohibited signs.
   D.   Permits: Except as provided in this title, it is unlawful to display,
erect, relocate or alter any sign without first submitting a sign permit
application to the Planning and Zoning Administrator in writing and obtain a
recommendation for a sign permit from the Planning Commission. When a City sign
permit has been issued, it is unlawful to change, modify, alter or otherwise
deviate from the terms or conditions of said permit without prior approval of
the building official and the Planning and Zoning Administrator. A written
record of such approval shall be entered upon the original permit application
and maintained in the files of said City official. The application for a sign
permit shall be made by the owner or tenant of the property on which the sign
is to be located, or his/her authorized agent, or a licensed sign contractor
and shall be accompanied by the following plans and other information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the owner or persons
entitled to possession of the sign or control of the same and of the sign
contractor or erector;
      2.   The location by street address of the proposed sign structure;
      3.   A site plan and elevation drawings of the proposed sign, caption of
the proposed sign and elevations of building facades if the application is for
a wall sign. The site plan shall include the proposed location of the sign in
relation to the face of the building or to the boundaries of the lot on which
it is situated;
      4.   Plans for freestanding signs requiring a building permit shall
indicate the scope and structural detail of the work to be done, including
details of all connections, guy lines, supports and footings, and materials to
be used, stamped by a professional engineer licensed in the State;
      5.   Application for, and required information for such application, and
for an electrical permit for all electric signs if the person building the sign
is to make the electrical connection;
      6.   A statement of sign value as personal property.
   E.   Exempt Sign Changes: The following changes do not require a sign
permit:
      1.   The changing of the advertising copy or message of signs
specifically designed for the use of replaceable copy;
      2.   Electrical maintenance, repainting or cleaning maintenance of a
sign;
      3.   The repair of a sign;
      4.   Real estate signs no larger than six (6) square feet;
      5.   Nameplate signs.
   F.   Traffic Hazards: Signs or other advertising structures shall not be
erected at the intersection of any streets or driveways in such manner as to
obstruct free and clear vision; or at any location where by reason of the
position, shape or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of or be
confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal device, or make use of words,
phrases, symbols or characters in such manner as to interfere with, mislead or
confuse vehicle operators.
      1.   At intersecting streets and within the clear view area, there shall
be no signs allowed, unless a sign is less than four feet (4') in height as
measured from the average grade of the intersecting streets.
      2.   For signs over pedestrianways, and after an encroachment permit has
been obtained, the clearance between the ground and the bottom of any
projecting sign shall not be less than seven feet (7').
      3.   For signs over driveways for vehicular traffic, the minimum
clearance shall be fourteen feet (14').
   G.   Signs Over Public Property: No sign shall be located on publicly owned
land or inside street rights-of-way, except signs required and erected by
permission of an authorized public agency. This restriction shall include, but
not be limited to, handbills, posters, advertisements or notices that are
fastened, placed, posted, painted or attached in any way upon any curbstone,
lamp post, telephone pole, electric light or power pole, hydrant, bridge, tree,
rock, sidewalk or street. No projecting sign attached to a building shall
project over public property more than four feet (4') and in no case be closer
than four feet (4') to curb line or edge of street, whichever is more
restrictive. Ground signs must be set back at least eighteen inches (18") from
any public right-of-way. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-3-7: TELECOMMUNICATIONS REVIEW:
All telecommunications regulations apply to both commercial and private low
power radio services and facilities, such as cellular or PCS communications and
paging systems.
   A.   Telecommunications Signs: Signs shall only be permitted if they are
related to the health and safety of the general public. All proposed signs
shall be submitted with the telecommunications facility application and are
subject to review by the Planning Commission.
   B.   Removal: The building official is empowered to require an unmaintained
or abandoned low power radio services antenna to be removed from the building
or premises when that antenna has not been repaired or put into use by the
owner, the person having control, or the person receiving the benefit of the
structure within thirty (30) calendar days after notice is given to the owner,
the person having control, or the person receiving the benefit of the
structure.
   C.   Abandonment: The applicant, or applicant's successor and/or assign,
shall be responsible for the removal of unused telecommunications facilities
within twelve (12) months of abandonment of use. If such tower is not removed
by the property owner, then the City may employ all legal measures, including
as necessary, obtaining authorization from a court of competent jurisdiction,
to remove the tower, and after removal may place a lien on the subject property
for all direct and indirect costs incurred in dismantling and disposal of the
tower, including court costs and reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-
2019)
10-3-8: NOTICE:
The City shall notice all public hearings and public meetings that are required
by this title according to the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 10-
9a-201 et seq., or any successor provision. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-3-9: TERMINATION OF PROJECTS FOR INACTION:
Applicants must move their projects either to approval or denial in a
reasonably expeditious manner. Upon fourteen (14) days' written notice to the
applicant, the City may formally deny an application, which remains inactive
for six (6) months. Delays occasioned by the City shall not constitute cause
for terminating an application. An applicant may appeal the Planning and Zoning
Administrator's denial of a project for inaction to the Planning Commission in
the same manner as any other appeal. The Planning Commission may reinstate
subject to conditions, or may deny reinstatement. If reinstatement is denied,
the application is formally denied. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-3-10: LICENSES, PERMITS VOID:
Licenses or permits issued in violation of this title, or based on fraudulent
information, are null and void. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-3-11: APPEALS AND RECONSIDERATION PROCESS:
The applicant, staff, or any other person with standing to challenge a decision
administering or interpreting this title may appeal the decision as follows:
   A.   Zoning Interpretation And Administration: All City decisions which
interpret or administer this title, may be appealed to the authority shown in
the table at section
10-3-2 of this chapter within ten (10) days of final action, by filing notice
of appeal with the City Recorder.
   B.   Appeal Authority: The District Court hears appeals of decisions of the
Appeal Authority that are filed within thirty (30) days of the final Appeal
Authority decision.
   C.   Standing To Appeal: The following persons have standing to appeal a
final action:
      1.   Any person who submitted written comment or testified on a proposal
before the Planning Commission;
      2.   The owner of any property within three hundred feet (300') of the
boundary of the subject site;
      3.   Any City official, board or commission having jurisdiction over the
matter; and
      4.   The owner of the subject property.
   D.   Form Of Appeals: Appeals must be filed with the Planning and Zoning
Administrator and must be by letter or petition, with the name, address and
telephone number of the petitioner; his or her relationship to the project or
subject property; and a comprehensive statement of the reasons for the appeal,
including the specific provisions of law that are alleged to be violated by the
action taken.
   E.   Written Findings Required: The appellate body shall prepare detailed
written findings of fact, which explain the circumstances of the body's
decision, and conclusions of law in support of its decision.
   F.   Action On Appeals To City Body: The City shall comply with the
following standards for all appeals to a City body under this title:
      1.   The City, in consultation with the appellant, shall set a date for
the appeal;
      2.   The City shall notify the owner of the appeal date;
      3.   The City body hearing the appeal shall consider the written appeal,
final action and all other pertinent information from the appellant and the
Planning and Zoning Administrator;
      4.   The City body hearing the appeal may affirm, reverse or affirm in
part and reverse in part any properly appealed decision or may remand the
matter with directions for specific areas of review or clarification. Appellate
review is limited to consideration of only those matters raised in the written
appeal and the staff's responses thereto, unless the body, by motion, enlarges
the scope of the appeal to accept information on other matters; and
      5.   The City shall prepare written findings for review and approval
within thirty (30) working days of the appellate decision.
   G.   City Council Call Up: Within fifteen (15) calendar days of final action
on any decision, the City Council, on its own motion, may call up for review
any final action taken by the Planning Commission. The City Recorder shall give
prompt notice of the call up to the Chairperson of the Planning Commission,
together with the date set by the Council for consideration of the merits of
the matter. The Recorder shall also provide notice as required by subsection H
of this section. In calling a matter up, the Council may limit the scope of the
hearing to certain issues.
   H.   Notice: Notice of all appeals or call ups shall be given by mailing
courtesy notice seven (7) days prior to the hearing to the applicant and all
parties who requested mailed courtesy notice for the original action.
   I.   Stay Of Approval Pending Review Of Appeal: Upon call up, or appeal, any
approval granted by the Planning Commission or staff will be suspended until
the reviewing body has taken final action on the appeal.
   J.   Appeal From The City Council: The applicant or any person aggrieved by
City action on the project may appeal from the final action of the Board of
Adjustment or City Council to a court of competent jurisdiction. The decision
shall stand, and those affected by the decision may act in reliance on it
unless and until a court enters an interlocutory or final order modifying or
suspending the decision.
   K.   Finality Of Action: Final action occurs when the deciding body has
adopted and executed written findings of fact and conclusions of law on the
matter in question. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-3-12: CONSTITUTIONAL TAKINGS REVIEW AND APPEAL:
To promote the protection of private property rights and to prevent the
physical taking or exaction of private property without just compensation, the
City Council and all commissions and boards shall adhere to the following
before authorizing the seizure or exaction of property:
   A.   Takings Review Procedure: Prior to any proposed action to exact or
seize property, the City Attorney shall review the proposed action to determine
if a constitutional taking requiring "just compensation" would occur. The City
Attorney shall review all such matters pursuant to the guidelines established
in subsection B of this section. Upon identifying a possible constitutional
taking, the City Attorney shall, in a confidential, protected writing, inform
the Council, commission or board of the possible consequences of its action.
This opinion shall be advisory only. No liability shall be attributed to the
City for failure to follow the recommendation of the City Attorney.
   B.   Takings Guidelines: The City Attorney shall review whether the action
constitutes a constitutional taking under the Fifth or Fourteenth Amendments to
the Constitution of the United States, or under article I, section 22 of the
Utah Constitution. The City Attorney shall determine whether the proposed
action bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest and
whether the action is roughly proportionate and reasonably related to the
legitimate governmental interest. The City Attorney shall also determine
whether the action deprives the private property owner of all reasonable use of
the property. These guidelines are advisory only and shall not expand nor limit
the scope of the City's liability for a constitutional taking.
   C.   Appeal: Any owner of private property who believes that his/her
property is proposed to be "taken" by an otherwise final action of the City may
appeal the City's decision to the Takings Appeal Board within thirty (30) days
after the decision is made. The appeal must be filed in writing with the City
Recorder. The Takings Appeal Board shall hear and approve and remand or reject
the appeal within fourteen (14) calendar days after the appeal is filed. The
Takings Appeal Board, with advice from the City Attorney, shall review the
appeal pursuant to the guidelines in subsection B of this section. The decision
of the Takings Appeal Board shall be in writing and a copy given to the
appellant and to the City Council, commission or board that took the initial
action. The Takings Appeal Board's rejection of an appeal constitutes
exhaustion of administrative remedies rendering the matter suitable for appeal
to a court of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   Takings Appeal Board: There is hereby created a three (3) member
Takings Appeal Board. The Mayor shall appoint three (3) current members of the
Board of Adjustment to serve on the Takings Appeal Board. If, at any time,
three (3) members of the Board of Adjustment cannot meet to satisfy the time
requirements stated in subsection C of this section, the Mayor shall appoint a
member or sufficient members to fill the vacancies. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-3-13: NOTICE MATRIX:
Land Use Description Time Notice Type
Land Use      Time          Notice Type
Description
              A. Upon
              inception of
              the initial
              process to
              generally
              plan or the
              process for   A.   Notice mailed or e-mailed to:
Preparation,  any           1.   Affected entities;
adoption or   comprehensive 2.   AOG;
amendments of plan          3.   State Planning Coordinator;
General Plan  amendment.    4.   Automated Geographic Reference Center (AGRC).
              B. 10 days    B.   As required by Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-204, or any successor statute.
              prior to      C.   As required by Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-204, or any successor statute.
              first public
              hearing.
              C. 24 hours'
              notice of
              each public
              meeting.
              A. 10 days
              prior to
Adoption or   first public
amendments of hearing; or   A.   As required by Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-205, or any successor statute.
Land Use      B. 24 hours'  B.   As required by Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-205, or any successor statute.
Ordinance     notice of
              each public
              meeting.
              A. 14 days
              prior to
              first public
              meeting or    A.   As required by Utah Code Ann. 10-2-401 et seq., or any successor
              hearing.      statute.
Annexation    B. 14 days    B.   As required by Utah Code Ann. 10-2-401 et seq., or any successor
Policy Plan   prior to      statute.
              first public  C.   Copy to County.
              hearing.
              C. 30 days
              after
              adoption.
Appeal of
permit                     Notice must be given to applicant 10 days prior to hearing.
decision
Conditional   See Land use   
use permit    application.
                            Notify the applicant of the date, time and place of each public hearing
Land use                   and public meeting and of any final action on a pending application and to
application                 the record owner of each parcel within specified parameters of that
                            property if designated by this title.
Nonconforming
uses/         See Land use   
noncomplying  application.
structures
Subdivision   10 days prior
plat          to public     As required by Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-9a-207 and 10-9a-601 et seq., or any
amendment or  hearing.      successor statutes.
approval
Termination
of project                 14 days' notice to applicant.
for inaction
Vacation,
alteration or 10 days prior As required by Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-9a-208 and 10-9a-601 et seq., or any
amendment to  to public     successor statutes..
platted       hearing.
streets
Variances     See Land use   
              application.
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 20-04, 2020; Ord. 21-13, - -2021)
10-3-14: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person, firm, partnership or corporation, and
the principals or agents thereof, violating or causing the violation of this
title, or a permit issued pursuant to this title, shall be guilty of a Class C
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this
Code.
   A.   Civil Action: In addition, the City shall be entitled to bring a civil
action to enjoin and/or abate the continuation of the violation.
   B.   Private Citizens: Private citizens of the City or owners of property
within the City may file an action to enjoin the continuation of a violation
affecting their interests. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 4
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-4-1: Establishment Of Commission
10-4-2: Appointment; Term; Removal; Vacancies
10-4-3: Powers And Duties
10-4-4: Organization And Meetings
10-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION:
There is created a Planning Commission to be composed of seven (7) voting and
one nonvoting member, who is a representative of the City Council, and two (2)
alternate members, who are appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent
of the City Council, from among qualified electors of the City in a manner
providing balanced geographic, professional, neighborhood and community
interest representation. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-4-2: APPOINTMENT; TERM; REMOVAL; VACANCIES:
The terms of the Planning Commission shall be staggered. Each member of the
Planning Commission shall serve for a term of three (3) years and until their
successor is qualified and appointed; provided, that the term of the members
shall be such that the terms of two (2) members shall expire one year, the
terms of two (2) members shall expire in the next year, and the terms of three
(3) members shall expire in the next year. Members may serve a maximum of two
(2) consecutive terms. Terms of members of the Planning Commission shall begin
on July 1 of each year. The Governing Body may remove any member of the
Planning Commission for cause and after public hearing, if one is requested.
Vacancies shall be promptly filled in the same manner as the original
appointment for the remainder of the unexpired term. An unexpired term shall
not be counted toward the maximum number of terms. The Mayor, with the advice
and consent of the City Council, may appoint up to two (2) alternate members to
the Planning Commission for a term not to exceed three (3) years. The prior
term of an alternate member who subsequently becomes a full time member shall
not prevent that member from serving two (2) consecutive terms. The Planning
Commission shall select a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson annually, who will
serve for a term of one year. The Vice Chairperson shall serve as Chairperson
during any period of the Chairperson's absence, inability, refusal or failure
to act. Nothing shall prohibit the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson from serving
consecutive terms. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-4-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Planning Commission shall:
   A.   Prepare and recommend a General Plan and amendments to the General Plan
to the City Council;
   B.   Prepare and recommend Zoning Ordinances and maps, and amendments to
Zoning Ordinances and maps, to the City Council;
   C.   Administer provisions of the Zoning Ordinance, where specifically
provided for in the Zoning Ordinance;
   D.   Prepare and recommend Subdivision Ordinances and amendments to those
Subdivision Ordinances to the City Council that regulates the subdivision of
land in the City;
   E.   Recommend approval or denial of subdivision applications as provided in
chapter 18 of this title;
   F.   Approve or deny conditional use permits;
   G.   Recommend an Appeal Authority for the City to the City Council;
   H.   Advise the City Council on matters as the City Council directs and hear
or decide any matters that the City Council designates, including those powers
authorized by State law;
   I.   Conduct such public hearings as are required by law or as may be deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission;
   J.   Exercise any other powers that are necessary to enable the Planning
Commission to perform its functions or delegated to it by the City Council.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-4-4: ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS:
The Planning Commission may adopt such rules that it deems necessary for the
conduct of its proceedings. Meetings of the Planning Commission shall be held
at the call of the Chairperson and at such times as the Planning Commission may
determine. The Planning Commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the Office
of the City Recorder, which shall be the Office of the Planning Commission, and
shall be a public record.
   A.   Meetings: The Planning Commission shall meet as necessary and at such
times as the Planning Commission may determine. Meetings shall be held at the
City offices or at such other reasonable locations within the City as the
Planning Commission may adjourn from time to time. Meetings shall be held in
accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 52, chapter 4, as
amended, entitled Open and Public Meetings Act, or any successor statute
enacted in its place.
   B.   Quorum: Four (4) members of the Planning Commission shall constitute a
quorum. An alternate member may be counted as part of the membership for a
quorum. A majority of the voting members present at a meeting at which a quorum
is present shall be required for any action. No less than four (4) yes votes
are required for passage of any action. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
 
 
CHAPTER 5
APPEAL AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-5-1: Appointment; Term
10-5-2: Organization
10-5-3: Powers And Duties
10-5-4: Appeals
10-5-5: Variance
10-5-6: Standards For Variance
10-5-7: Building Permits
10-5-8: Notice To Council Of Variance Or Building Permit Application
10-5-9: District Court Review Of Appeal Authority Decision
10-5-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM:
The Appeal Authority shall consist of an individual or group of individuals
contracted with Fillmore City or appointed by Fillmore City to hear and decide
appeals regarding decisions on a land use. application or a variance. (Ord. 23-
11, 7-6-2023)
10-5-2: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Chairperson; Rules: The Appeal Authority shall organize and elect a
Chairperson. If the Appeal Authority is made up of one contracted person, that
person shall act as Chairperson. The Appeal Authority may adopt rules for its
own proceedings as it deems necessary.
   B.   Meetings: The Appeal Authority shall meet at the call of the
Chairperson and at any other times that the Appeal Authority determines.
   C.   Oaths; Attendance of Witnesses: The Chairperson, or in the absence of
the Chairperson, the Acting Chairperson, may administer oaths, and compel the
attendance of witnesses.
   D.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the Appeal Authority shall comply with
the requirements of Utah Code Ann. § 52-4, Open and Public Meetings, or any
successor statute enacted in its place.
   E.   Minutes; Records: The Appeal Authority shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating that fact; and keep records of its examinations
and other official actions. The Appeal Authority may, but is not required to,
have its proceedings contemporaneously transcribed by a court reporter or a
tape recorder. The Appeal Authority shall file its records in the Office of the
City Recorder, which shall be the Office of the Appeal Authority. All records
in the Office of the Appeal Authority are public records.
   F.   Decision Effective: Decisions of the Appeals Authority become effective
at the meeting in which the decision is made, unless a different time is
designated in the rules or at the time the decision is made. (Ord. 23-11, 7-6-
2023)
10-5-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the Appeal Authority shall be to hear and decide the
following:
   A.   Requests for variances from the terms of land use ordinances;
   B.   Appeals from land use decisions applying land use ordinances; and
   C.   Appeals from a fee charged in accordance Utah Code Annotated. § 10-9a-
510. (Ord. 23-11, 7-6-2023)
10-5-4: APPEALS:
   A.   Scope And Authority:
      1.   The applicant or any other person or entity adversely affected by a
decision administering or interpreting a land use may appeal that decision
applying the land use ordinance by alleging that there is error in any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by an official in the
administration or interpretation of the land use ordinance.
      2.   Any person, including any officer, department, board or bureau of
the City affected by a decision administering or interpreting a land use
ordinance or affected by the grant or refusal of a building permit or by any
other decisions of the Land Use Authority in the administration or
interpretation of the land use ordinance may appeal such decision to the Appeal
Authority. An appeal must be made within thirty (30) days from the date of such
decision by filing with the City Recorder a written notice of appeal specifying
the grounds thereof. When an appeal is taken from a decision of the Land Use
Authority, the Planning and Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to
the Appeal Authority all papers, if any, constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
      3.   An appeal filed in accordance with this section stays all
proceedings in the appeal action, unless the officer from whom the appeal is
taken certifies to the Appeal Authority that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate the stay would in his/her opinion cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such cases, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
restraining order which may be granted by the Appeal Authority or by the
District Court on application and notice and on due cause shown.
      4.   The Appeal Authority shall fix the time for hearing any appeal
within fifteen (15) days of the date of filing such appeal with the City
Recorder and shall give public notice thereof in accordance with the Utah Open
and Public Meetings Act, as well as notice to the parties in interest.
      5.   Proceedings and hearings before the Appeal Authority shall be had
pursuant to rules adopted by the Appeal Authority and in conformance with
general principles of due process. Any party in interest may appear at such
hearing in person, by agent, or by an attorney of his/her choice.
      6.   The person or entity making the appeal has the burden of proving
that an error has been made.
      7.   The person or entity making the appeal must pay the fee as set by
the fee schedule before a hearing shall be set.
   B.   Permitted, Prohibited Appeals:
      1.   Only decisions applying the land use ordinance, as set forth in
section
10-3-2, of this title may be appealed to the Appeal Authority.
      2.   A person may not appeal to the Appeal Authority, and the Appeal
Authority may not consider, any land use ordinance amendments.
      3.   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals for decisions
regarding Administrative Conditional Uses and Conditional Uses.
   C.   Waivers Or Modifications Not Permitted: Appeals may not be used to
waive or modify the terms or requirements of the land use ordinance. (Ord. 23-
11, 7-6-2023)
10-5-5: VARIANCE:
Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the requirements of
the land use ordinance as applied to a parcel of property that he/she owns,
leases, or in which he/she holds some other beneficial interest may apply to
the Board of Adjustment for a variance from the terms of the land use
ordinance. (Ord. 23-11, 7-6-2023)
10-5-6: STANDARDS FOR VARIANCE:
   A.   Conditions: The Board of Adjustment may grant a variance only if each
of the following conditions are met:
      1.   Literal enforcement of the land use ordinance would cause an
unreasonable hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the
general purpose of the land use ordinance;
      2.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not
generally apply to other properties in the same district;
      3.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial
property right possessed by other property in the same district;
      4.   The variance will not substantially affect the General Plan and will
not be contrary to the public interest; and
         a.   The spirit of the land use ordinance is observed and substantial
justice done.
   B.   Unreasonable Hardship: In determining whether or not enforcement of the
land use ordinance would cause unreasonable hardship under subsection A of this
section, the Board of Adjustment may not find an unreasonable hardship unless
the alleged hardship:
   C.   Self-Imposed Hardship: In determining whether or not enforcement of the
land use ordinance would cause unreasonable hardship under subsection A of this
section, the Board of Adjustment may not find an unreasonable hardship if the
hardship is self-imposed or economic.
   D.   Special Circumstances: In determining whether or not there are special
circumstances attached to the property under subsection A of this section, the
Board of Adjustment may find that special circumstances exist only if the
special circumstances:
      1.   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
      2.   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in
the same district.
   E.   Burden Of Proof: The applicant shall bear the burden of proving all of
the conditions justifying a variance have been met.
   F.   Run With Land: Variances run with the land.
   G.   Use Variances Not Permitted: The Board of Adjustment and any other body
may not grant use variances.
   H.   Additional Requirements May Be Imposed: In granting a variance, the
Board of Adjustment may impose additional requirements on the applicant that
will:
      1.   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
      2.   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
modified. (Ord. 23-11, 7-6-2023)
10-5-7: BUILDING PERMITS:
The building official shall not issue any building permit for any building,
construction or repair of any building unless such fully conforms to all land
use ordinances and regulations of this Municipality in effect at the time of
application. No permit shall issue for any building or structure or part
thereof on any land located between the mapped lines of any street as shown on
any official streets map adopted by the Governing Body. (Ord. 23-11, 7-6-2023)
10-5-8: NOTICE TO COUNCIL OF VARIANCE OR BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION:
Before any application for a variance or building permit is heard by the Appeal
Authority, the Board of Adjustment shall give the City at least fifteen (15)
days’ notice of any hearing to consider the application. (Ord. 23-11, 7-6-2023)
10-5-9: DISTRICT COURT REVIEW OF APPEAL AUTHORITY DECISION:
   A.   Petition: Any person adversely affected by any decision of the Appeal
Authority may petition the District Court for a review of the decision in
accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-801 et seq. If there is no
Appeal Authority designated in section
10-3-2 of this title, then any person adversely affected by a decision may
directly petition the District Court for a review of the decision.
   B.   Permitted Allegations: In the petition, the plaintiff may only allege
that the Appeal Authority’s decision was arbitrary, capricious or illegal.
   C.   Time Limit: The time limit for filing a petition to the District Court
shall be as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-801.
   D.   Records Submitted To Court:
      1.   The Appeal Authority shall transmit to the District Court the record
of its proceedings including its minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a
true and correct transcript of its proceedings.
      2.   If the proceeding was taped, a transcript of that tape recording is
a true and correct transcript for purposes of this subsection.
   E.   Limitation Of Review:
      1.   If there is a record, the District Court’s review is limited to the
record provided by the Appeal Authority.
      2.   The court may not accept or consider any evidence outside the Appeal
Authority’s record unless that evidence was offered to the Appeal Authority and
the court determines that it was improperly excluded by the Appeal Authority.
      3.   If there is no record, the court may call witnesses and take
evidence.
   F.   Affirmation Of Appeal Authority Decision: The court shall affirm the
decision of the Appeal Authority if the decision is supported by substantial
evidence in the record.
   G.   Stay Of Appeal Authority Decision:
      1.   The filing of a petition does not stay the decision of the Appeal
Authority.
         a.   Before filing a petition under this section or a request for
mediation or arbitration of a constitutional taking issue, the aggrieved party
may petition the Appeal Authority to stay its decision.
         b.   Upon receipt of a petition to stay, the Appeal Authority may
order its decision stayed pending District Court review if the Appeal Authority
finds it to be in the best interest of the City.
         c.   After a petition is filed under this section or a request for
mediation or arbitration of a constitutional taking issue is filed under the
Utah State Code, the petitioner may seek an injunction from the District Court
staying the Appeal Authority’s decision. (Ord. 23-11, 7-6-2023)
CHAPTER 6
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Use Table
10-6-3: Development Standards
10-6-4: Reserved
10-6-5: Performance Standards
10-6-6: Parking
10-6-7: Master Planned Development
10-6-8: Conditional Use Standards Of Review
10-6-9: Signs
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to create an Agricultural Zone which:
   A.   Agricultural Uses Protected: Allows for and protects agricultural uses
within the City by controlling density and coverage and providing for
compatible land uses.
   B.   Residential Uses Protected: Protects nearby residential uses from
possible objectionable effects of certain agricultural operations, such as
livestock raising and storage of fertilizer. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
   C.   Permits uses, including conditional uses, as outlined in the Land Use
Appendix. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-14, 5-7-2024)
10-6-2: USE TABLE:
If a use is not specifically designated then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-6-2
USES
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Use Business License
Type                        Allowed Administrative Conditional Business License
                                    Use
Accessory structure,        X
unoccupied
Agriculture                 X
Animal Hospital                                                X
Athletic club                       X                          X
Church                      X
Civic club                  X
Dwelling, single-family     X
Farm animals/livestock      X
Heavy/farm equipment sales                                     X
Home Occupation                     X                          X
Intermittent commercial use         X                          X
Commercial, Kennel                  X                          X
Lumber sales-storage        X                                  X
Nursery                     X                                  X
Outdoor rec-park-play       X                                  X
Preschool                           X                          X
Public utility stations-            X
except sewer
School, public              X
Schools, private, quasi-    X                                  X
public
Short-Term Rental           X                                  X
Stables, private            X
Stables, public             X                                  X
Subdivisions (compliance
with Chapter 18 of this
Title required)
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021; Ord. 24-14, 5-7-2024)
10-6-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
TABLE 10-6-3
MINIMUM LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 
Lot       Area           Width        Height      Setbacks   Sidewalk, Curb,
                                                             and Gutter
                                                  Front: 25'
Standard  1 acre minimum 132' minimum 40' maximum Side: 15'
                                                  Rear: 40'  Not required.
Accessory                                         Front: 25'
Structure 1 acre minimum 120' minimum 40' maximum Side: 8'
                                                  Rear: 8'
 
   A.   One Principal Structure on Lot: Only one principal structure is
permitted on a single lot.
   B.   Structure To Have Access: All structures shall be on a lot adjacent to
a public street or with access to an approved private street, and shall be so
located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for fire protection.
   C.   Farm Animals And Livestock: Livestock, fowl, and other animals
(excluding household pets) that may, where permitted, be kept, bred, and
maintained with the following restrictions:
      1.   Livestock: One animal for every five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures). One horse, cow, pig, llama, goat, or
five (5) sheep. Unaltered male goats are not allowed other than on a temporary
basis for breeding purposes. The offspring of livestock may be kept without
consideration of the space limitations until the animal is weaned or not to
exceed six (6) months.
      2.   Other Farm Animals: For each five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures) five (5) rabbits, fowl, or other
similar small animals may be kept. One hundred (100) rabbits or fowl may be
kept in an enclosed structure with a roof and walls on all sides. The offspring
kept in the enclosed structure shall not exceed two hundred (200) and may be
kept for a period of six (6) months. One enclosed structure may be kept for
every five thousand (5,000) square feet of property (excluding occupied
structures).
      3.   Animals Stabled Or Housed In Enclosed Areas: Any building,
structure, or corral in which livestock is kept must be at least fifty feet
(50') from any street, dwelling, or sidewalk. This restriction does not include
open pasturing on a temporary or seasonal basis.
   D.   Public Utility Stations: In any zone where residences are allowed,
public utility stations shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Lot Area: Each station shall be located on a lot not less than two
thousand (2,000) square feet in area.
      2.   Access: Each station shall be located on a lot that has adequate
access from a street, alley, or easement.
      3.   Yards: Each station shall be provided with a yard on each of the
four (4) sides of the building or structures not less than five feet (5') in
width, except that for such stations located on lots fronting on a street and
abutted by one or more residential lots, the front, side, and rear yards should
equal those required for a single-family residence in the same district. (Ord.
19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-09, 6-6-2023; Ord. 24-14, 5-7-2024)
10-6-4: RESERVED:
10-6-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The operation of any use permitted in this district is subject to the following
standards of performance:
   A.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: All uses must be operated so that all
practical means are used to confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration, or
other similar features to the premises upon which they are located.
   B.   Lighting: Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas, or for any
other purpose shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the
lighted property by appropriate directional hooding.
   C.   Fencing: Any fencing shall meet the standards of the Fencing Ordinance
found in Chapter 25.
   D.   Parking: All parking shall meet the parking standards for the
respective use found in the Parking Ordinance, Chapter 14.
   E.   Home Occupations: Home Occupations shall meet the standards in Title
10, Chapter 23, Home Occupations.
   F.   Temporary Uses: Temporary Uses shall meet the standards in Title 10,
Chapter 21, Temporary Use Ordinance. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; Ord. 24-14, 5-7-
2024)
10-6-6: PARKING:
Parking standards in chapter 14 of this title also apply to the following on
site parking requirements:
TABLE 10-6-6
PARKING
Uses Parking Requirement
Uses                                 Parking Requirement
Accessory structure, occupied        1 space in addition to requirements for
                                     primary structure
Animal hospital                      3 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross floor
                                     area
Business, commercial less intensive  3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Childcare facility/center            1 space per on duty employee and 1 per 6
                                     children
Dwelling, single-family              2.5 spaces per dwelling unit (minimum 162
                                     square feet per space)
                                     The greater of: 1 space per 2 bedrooms,
Group home                           plus 1 space per employee per shift; or 2
                                     per 3 employees per shift
                                     As determined by the Planning Commission,
Master planned development           based on the proposed uses and the
                                     potential for shared parking
Public and quasi-public institution, The greater of: 1 space per 5 seats; or 2
church and school; public utility;   spaces per 3 employees; or 1 space per
Municipal facility                   1,000 square feet
                                     2.5 spaces per dwelling unit (minimum 167
Short-Term Rental                    square feet per space). The parking of RVs
                                     and travel trailers is prohibited.
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021)
10-6-7: MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT:
Any proposal for new development or redevelopment in excess of ten (10) acres
in the zone shall be master planned to assure coordination of design,
mitigation of adverse impacts and common open space. The master plan commits
the owner to a specific, detailed development plan as listed below:
   A.   Development Requirements: All master planned development applications
must include:
      1.   Pedestrian Access: Planned access for pedestrian use;
      2.   Open Space: A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the land as
improved common open space to include such uses as: mini parks, picnic,
playground, recreation structures, etc.;
      3.   Easement: A designated permanent easement on and over all open
spaces to guarantee that the open space remains in recreation use, with the
ownership and maintenance the responsibility of the owners' association; and
      4.   Articles, Bylaws: Adopted articles of association and bylaws that
are satisfactory to the City and are in compliance with State and Federal laws.
   B.   Incentives For Master Planned Development Design: The Planning
Commission may recommend the following incentives for master planning:
      1.   Setback, Yard Reductions: Reduction of setbacks and required yard,
subject to the International Building Code.
      2.   Private Roads, Reduced Right-Of-Way: Allow for the development of
private roads and reduced right-of-way areas.
      3.   Parking Reduction: Reduce required parking, based on an analysis
that shows:
         a.   The proposed number of vehicles required by the typical tenant
mix of the project;
         b.   A comparison of similar projects and proposed occupancy;
         c.   The parking needs of nonresidential uses;
         d.   A shared parking plan and plan for overflow parking. (Ord. 19-07,
9-3-2019)
10-6-8: CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
The City shall not issue a conditional use permit unless the Planning and
Zoning Administrator, in the case of an administrative conditional use, or the
Planning Commission, for all other conditional uses, concludes that the
application fully mitigates all identified adverse impacts and complies with
the following general standards applicable to all conditional uses, as well as
the specific standards for the use:
   A.   General Review Criteria: An applicant for a conditional use in the zone
must demonstrate:
      1.   Compliance: The application complies with all applicable provisions
of this title, and State and Federal law;
      2.   Structure Compatibility: The structures associated with the use are
compatible with surrounding structures in terms of use, scale, density and
circulation;
      3.   Use Not Detrimental: The use is not detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare;
      4.   Consistent With General Plan: The use is consistent with the City
General Plan, as amended;
      5.   Traffic Conditions: Traffic conditions are not adversely affected by
the proposed use, including the existence or need for dedicated turn lanes,
pedestrian access and capacity of the existing streets;
      6.   Utility Capacity: There is sufficient utility capacity;
      7.   Emergency Vehicle Access: There is sufficient emergency vehicle
access;
      8.   Off Street Parking: The location and design of off street parking
are in compliance with off street parking standards;
      9.   Fencing, Screening, Landscaping: A plan for fencing, screening and
landscaping to separate the use from adjoining uses and mitigate the potential
for conflict in uses;
      10.   Exterior Lighting: That exterior lighting complies with the
lighting standards of the zone;
      11.   Flood Control: That within and adjoining the site, impacts on the
aquifer, slope retention and flood potential have been fully mitigated and is
appropriate to the topography of the site.
   B.   Specific Review Criteria For Certain Conditional Uses: In addition to
the foregoing, the Planning Commission or Planning and Zoning Administrator, as
the case may be, must evaluate the applicant's compliance with each of the
following criteria when considering whether to approve, deny or condition an
application for each of the following conditional uses or administrative
conditional uses:
      1.   Accessory Structure (Occupied): New development of an accessory
structure intended for human occupancy is a conditional use and shall meet the
following development standards:
         a.   Distance From Main Building: The accessory structure must be
located no less than six feet (6') from the main building;
         b.   Location; Setback: The accessory structure must be located in
either the rear or side yard, with no less than a ten foot (10') setback from
the rear and side lot lines, unless the accessory structure is located at the
front yard setback of an adjacent corner lot, in which case, the side yard
setback to the nearest side lot line must be at least fifteen feet (15');
         c.   Height: The accessory structure height may not exceed twenty four
feet (24') to the mid point for a sloped roof and twenty feet (20') to the
cornice for a flat roof;
         d.   Area: The maximum area of an occupied accessory structure is the
larger of nine hundred (900) square feet or thirteen percent (13%) of the lot
area. No more than six hundred (600) square feet of the accessory structure
shall be used for human occupancy.
      2.   Childcare Facility/Center:
         a.   Application: Each application for a childcare facility or center
must include and comply with:
            (1)   Proof of application for State childcare license;
            (2)   Compliance with State, Federal and local law;
            (3)   A design that does not include a front yard playground;
            (4)   A parking and traffic plan that adequately mitigates the
adverse impacts of increased traffic in the neighborhood.
         b.   Number Permitted: Childcare providers operating as a childcare
center in their own dwelling may not exceed sixteen (16) children at any given
time, including the provider's own children twelve (12) years of age or
younger.
         c.   Infants: Childcare providers operating as a childcare center in
their own dwelling may not provide services for more than two (2) infants.
      3.   Intermittent Commercial Uses: The occasional use of dwellings,
community buildings, private clubs, lodges, social or recreational
establishments and/or their accessory buildings for commercial purposes may be
allowed upon receiving an administrative conditional use permit and provided
that there is compliance with the provisions of this subsection. The following
standards shall apply to all intermittent commercial uses in addition to any
conditions the Planning and Zoning Administrator deems necessary and desirable
to protect the public health, safety and general welfare:
         a.   Displays: The display and sales of merchandise should be
contained primarily within a building;
         b.   Setback, Clear Vision, Code Compliance: The building proposed for
the intermittent commercial use must comply with setback and clear vision area
requirements of this title and with applicable Building and Fire Codes;
         c.   Business License Required: A business license from the City is
required to conduct an intermittent commercial use;
         d.   Parking: Adequate parking is provided to serve the commercial use
that does not create a parking shortage for other existing uses on site;
         e.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: The use does not cause noise, light or
glare which adversely imparts surrounding uses.
      4.   Home Occupation: Each application for a business license for a home
occupation shall include the owner's agreement that the proposed use:
         a.   Outdoor Storage; Vehicle Parking: Shall not include outdoor
storage, outdoor display of merchandise, nor parking/storage of any vehicle in
excess of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds' gross vehicle weight;
         b.   Signage: Shall not include identifying signage in excess of a six
(6) square foot nameplate, attached to the dwelling;
         c.   Employees: Is limited to the on site employment of immediate
family members who occupy the dwelling (this criteria is not intended to limit
the number of employees who are engaged in business for the home occupation but
work off premises);
         d.   Residential Character Maintained: Shall not alter the residential
character or appearance of the dwelling or neighborhood;
         e.   Occupancy Limitation: Shall not occupy more than twenty five
percent (25%) of the main floor of the dwelling, nor more than fifty percent
(50%) of the floor area of any garage or outbuilding in which the use is
conducted;
         f.   Traffic: Shall not generate business related vehicular traffic in
excess of three (3) vehicles per hour;
         g.   Demand For Services: Shall not cause a demand for Municipal
services in excess of that associated with normal residential use;
         h.   Enclosed Within Structure: Shall be enclosed within a structure
in complete conformity with International Building Codes as adopted by the
City; and
         i.   Prohibited Uses: Is not a mortuary, animal hospital, kennel,
clinic, hospital, RV service, junkyard, auto repair service, public stable or
sexually oriented business.
      5.   Gated Communities: Applicants must comply with the following
standards:
         a.   Scope: The applicants have demonstrated a need for an entry gate
to effectively control ongoing negative health, safety and welfare issues; or,
in highly unique circumstances, excessive non-neighborhood parking or traffic
on a regular basis;
         b.   Private Street: The private street is not a through street and
traffic circulation through the neighborhood to other parts of the community is
not impacted;
         c.   Setback Of Entry Gate: The entry gate shall be set back twenty
five feet (25');
         d.   Building Permit Required: A building permit for the gate must be
approved;
         e.   Design Standards: The entry gate shall meet the following design
standards:
            (1)   The clearance distance from the gate bottom to the ground
shall be a minimum of two feet (2');
            (2)   The maximum height from the bottom to top rail shall be three
feet (3');
            (3)   The gate shall be constructed from visually open materials
that will not obstruct more than fifty percent (50%) visibility (i.e., open
fencing);
            (4)   Fencing adjacent to the gate shall not exceed a height of
four feet (4') for solid fencing materials and six feet (6') for open
materials;
            (5)   Columns added for architectural interest shall not exceed
nine feet (9');
            (6)   The gate design shall be minimal in height and scale to
accomplish the goal of preventing unauthorized access.
         f.   Access Plan: An access plan for emergency services and authorized
City representatives shall be provided to and approved by the City.
      6.   Storage Land Sea Containers As Temporary Use: Storage containers
greater than one hundred twenty (120) square feet, but less than three hundred
(300) square feet are allowed during the construction phase of a project. This
use shall be allowed when a building permit for new construction or alteration
is approved. This use is of a temporary nature and includes the following
standards:
         a.   Number Permitted: No more than two (2) containers on any one
property;
         b.   Occupancy Permit Required: Building permit for the construction
project requires an occupancy permit. The occupancy permit shall be withheld
until the containers are removed;
         c.   Removal: The containers shall be removed within ten (10) days of
completion of the project. Failure to remove the containers may result in
termination of utility services. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -
2024)
10-6-9: SIGNS:
If a sign type is not specifically designated below, then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-6-9
SIGNS
Sign Type Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General Restrictions
Sign Type     Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General
                                                              Restrictions
                                                              Must be set back
A-frame sign          X                                      10' from the
                                                              intersection.
                                                              Installation
                                                              height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
Banner sign   X                   3' x 6'      3'             and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
                                                              Off premises
                                                              permitted in I-
                                                              15 corridor for
                                                              1,000'. See Zone
                                                              Map for allowed
                                                              areas.
Billboard             X                                      Installation
                                                              height 25'
                                                              maximum. 24 hour
                                                              illumination of
                                                              billboards along
                                                              the I- 15
                                                              corridor is
                                                              permitted.
                                                              Must be removed
Campaign sign X                                              10 days
                                                              following the
                                                              election.
Construction                                                  Installation
sign          X                   4' x 8'      4'             height 4'
                                                              maximum.
                                                              Low intensity
Flat or wall  X                   39 sq. ft.   7'             light fixtures
sign                                                          only. 1 sign per
                                                              building.
                                                              1 sign per 500'
                                                              of frontage. Low
                                                              intensity light
                                                              fixtures only.
                                                              Installation
                                                              height to be
Monument sign X                   39 sq. ft.   6'             reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
                                                              and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
Nameplate     X                   2' x 3'      2'              
                                               25' or on
                                               premises       Same
Pole signs            X                        exception of   restrictions as
                                               40' if within  Billboard signs.
                                               1,320' of I-15
                                               corridor.
Real estate   X                   3' x 6'      3'              
sign
 
Note: Continuous illumination of signs is prohibited except for billboards on
the I-15 corridor in this zone.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Purpose
10-7A-2: Use Table
10-7A-3: Development Standards
10-7A-4: Reserved
10-7A-5: Performance Standards
10-7A-6: Parking
10-7A-7: Master Planned Development
10-7A-8: Conditional Use Standards Of Review
10-7A-9: Signs
10-7A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to create a Rural Residential Zone which is
intended as a permanent Residential District for those areas of the community
where it is desirable to maintain low residential densities and to allow uses
as outlined in the Land Use Appendix. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-15,
5-7-2024)
10-7A-2: USE TABLE:
If a use is not specifically designated then it is prohibited.
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Use Business License
Type                     Allowed Administrative Conditional Business License
                                 Use
Accessory structure,     X
unoccupied
Agriculture              X
Childcare for business:
Center                           X                          X
Facility                         X                          X
Church                   X
Civic Club                       X
Dwelling, Single-Family  X
Dwelling, Two-Family     X
Dwelling, Twin Home      X
Farm animals/livestock   X
Gated communities        X
Home Occupation                  X                          X
Kennel, Private                  X                          X
Outdoor rec-park-play    X                                  X
Preschool                        X                          X
Public utility stations          X
except sewer
School, public           X
Schools, private, quasi- X                                  X
public
Short-Term-Rental        X                                  X
Stable, private          X
Subdivisions (compliance
with chapter 18 of this  X
title)
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021; Ord. 24-15, 5-7-2024)
10-7A-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
TABLE 10-7A-3
MINIMUM LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 
                                                                                                          Sidewalk,
Lot       Area    Width  Height Setbacks                                                                  Curb, and
                                                                                                          Gutter
          0.5
          acre    120'   40'    Front: 25' Side: 15' Rear: 40'
Standard  21,780  minimu maximu A corner lot shall have one front, two sides, and one rear. For setback
          square  m      m      purposes, front is determined by the building’s orientation relative to Sidewalk:
          feet                  street as well as building address.                                       Required
          minimum                                                                                         along lot
                                                                                                          frontage.
                                                                                                          For corner
                                                                                                          lots,
                                                                                                          required
                                                                                                          along lot
                                                                                                          frontage and
                                                                                                          along lot
                                                                                                          side
                                                                                                          adjacent to
                                                                                                          street. Any
                                                                                                          portion of
                                                                                                          the sidewalk
                                                                                                          required
                                                                                                          over 165' is
                                                                                                          eligible to
                                                                                                          participate
                                                                                                          in the City
                                                                                                          cost sharing
                                                                                                          program for
                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                          construction
                                                                                                          of that
                                                                                                          portion of
                                                                                                          the
                                                                                                          sidewalk.
                                                                                                          Curb and
                                                                                                          Gutter:
          0.5                                                                                             Required
          acre                                                                                            along lot
Accessor  21,780  120'   40'    Front: 25'                                                                frontage.
y         square  minimu maximu Side: 3'                                                                  For corner
Structure feet    m      m      Rear: 3'                                                                  lots,
          minimum                                                                                         required
                                                                                                          along lot
                                                                                                          frontage and
                                                                                                          along lot
                                                                                                          side
                                                                                                          adjacent to
                                                                                                          street.
                                                                                                          Exceptions
                                                                                                          would be
                                                                                                          limited to
                                                                                                          instances in
                                                                                                          which the
                                                                                                          City
                                                                                                          Engineer
                                                                                                          determines
                                                                                                          construction
                                                                                                          of the
                                                                                                          sidewalk,
                                                                                                          curb, and/or
                                                                                                          gutter would
                                                                                                          be
                                                                                                          detrimental
                                                                                                          to public
                                                                                                          safety or
                                                                                                          protection
                                                                                                          of property.
 
   A.   One Principal Structure on Lot: Only one principal structure is
permitted on a single lot.
   B.   Structure To Have Access: All structures shall be on a lot adjacent to
a public street or with access to an approved private street, and shall be so
located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for fire protection.
   C.   Farm Animals And Livestock: Livestock, fowl, and other animals
(excluding household pets) that may, where permitted, be kept, bred, and
maintained with the following restrictions:
      1.   Livestock: One animal for every five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures). One horse, cow, pig, llama, goat, or
five (5) sheep. Unaltered male goats are not allowed other than on a temporary
basis for breeding purposes. The offspring of livestock may be kept without
consideration of the space limitations until the animal is weaned or not to
exceed six (6) months.
      2.   Other Farm Animals: For each five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures) five (5) rabbits or fowl, or other
similar small animals, may be kept. One hundred (100) rabbits or fowl may be
kept in an enclosed structure with a roof and walls on all sides. The offspring
kept in the enclosed structure shall not exceed two hundred (200) and may be
kept for a period of six (6) months. One enclosed structure may be kept for
every five thousand (5,000) square feet of property (excluding occupied
structures).
      3.   Animals Stabled Or Housed In Enclosed Areas: Any building,
structure, or corral in which livestock is kept must be at least fifty feet
(50') from any street, dwelling, or sidewalk. This restriction does not include
open pasturing on a temporary or seasonal basis.
   D.   Public Utility Stations: In any zone where residences are allowed,
public utility stations shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Lot Area: Each station shall be located on a lot not less than two
thousand (2,000) square feet in area;
      2.   Access: Each station shall be located on a lot that has adequate
access from a street, alley or easement;
      3.   Yards: Each station shall be provided with a yard on each of the
four (4) sides of the building or structures not less than five feet (5') in
width, except that for such stations located on lots fronting on a street and
abutted by one or more residential lots, the front, side, and rear yards should
equal those required for a single-family residence in the same district. (Ord.
19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-09, 6-6-2023; Ord. 24-15, 5-7-2024)
10-7A-4:RESERVED:
10-7A-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The operation of any use permitted in this district is subject to the following
standards of performance:
   A.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: All uses must be operated so that all
practical means are used to confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration, or
other similar features to the premises upon which they are located.
   B.   Lighting: Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas, or for any
other purpose shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the
lighted property by appropriate directional hooding.
   C.   Fencing: All fencing shall meet the standards of the Fencing Ordinance
found in Chapter 25.
   D.   Parking: All parking shall meet the parking standards for the
respective use found in the Parking Ordinance, 14.
   E.   Home Occupations: Home Occupations shall meet the standards in Title
10, Chapter 23, Home Occupations.
   F.   Temporary Uses: Temporary Uses shall meet the standards in Title 10,
Chapter 21, Temporary Use Ordinance. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-15, 5-
7-2024)
10-7A-6: PARKING:
Parking standards in chapter 14 of this title also apply to the following on
site parking requirements:
TABLE 10-7A-6
PARKING
Uses Parking Requirement
Uses                                 Parking Requirement
Accessory structure, occupied        1 space in addition to requirements for
                                     primary structure
Childcare facility/center            1 space per on duty employee and 1 per 6
                                     children
Dwelling, single-family              2.5 spaces per dwelling unit (minimum 167
                                     sq. ft. per space)
Dwelling, two-family                 2.5 spaces per dwelling unit (minimum 167
                                     sq. ft. per space)
                                     The greater of: 1 space per 2 bedrooms,
Group home                           plus 1 space per employee per shift; or 2
                                     per 3 employees per shift
                                     As determined by the Planning Commission,
Master planned development           based on the proposed uses and the
                                     potential for shared parking
Public and quasi-public institution, The greater of: 1 space per 5 seats; or 2
church and school; public utility;   spaces per 3 employees; or 1 space per
Municipal facility                   1,000 sq. ft.
                                     2.5 spaces per dwelling unit (minimum 167
Short-Term Rentals                   square feet per space). The parking of RVs
                                     and Travel trailers is prohibited.
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021)
10-7A-7: MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT:
Any proposal for new development or redevelopment in excess of ten (10) acres
in the zone shall be master planned to assure coordination of design,
mitigation of adverse impacts and common open space. The master plan commits
the owner to a specific, detailed development plan as listed below:
   A.   Development Requirements: All master planned development applications
must include:
      1.   Pedestrian Access: Planned access for pedestrian use;
      2.   Open Space: A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the land as
improved common open space to include such uses as: mini parks, picnic,
playground, recreation structures, etc.;
      3.   Easement: A designated permanent easement on and over all open
spaces to guarantee that the open space remains in recreation use, with the
ownership and maintenance the responsibility of the owners' association; and
      4.   Articles, Bylaws: Adopted articles of association and bylaws that
are satisfactory to the City and are in compliance with State and Federal laws.
   B.   Incentives For Master Planned Development Design: The Planning
Commission may recommend the following incentives for master planning:
      1.   Setback, Yard Reductions: Reduction of setbacks and required yard,
subject to the International Building Code;
      2.   Private Roads, Reduced Right-Of-Way: Allow for the development of
private roads and reduced right-of-way areas;
      3.   Parking Reduction: Reduce required parking, based on an analysis
that shows:
         a.   The proposed number of vehicles required by the typical tenant
mix of the project;
         b.   A comparison of similar projects and proposed occupancy;
         c.   The parking needs of nonresidential uses; and
         d.   A shared parking plan and plan for overflow parking. (Ord. 19-07,
9-3-2019)
10-7A-8: CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
The City shall not issue a conditional use permit unless the Planning and
Zoning Administrator, in the case of an administrative conditional use, or the
Planning Commission, for all other conditional uses, concludes that the
application fully mitigates all identified adverse impacts and complies with
the following general standards applicable to all conditional uses, as well as
the specific standards for the use:
   A.   General Review Criteria: An applicant for a conditional use in the zone
must demonstrate:
      1.   Compliance: The application complies with all applicable provisions
of this title, and State and Federal law;
      2.   Structure Compatibility: The structures associated with the use are
compatible with surrounding structures in terms of use, scale, density and
circulation;
      3.   Use Not Detrimental: The use is not detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare;
      4.   Consistent With General Plan: The use is consistent with the City
General Plan, as amended;
      5.   Traffic Conditions: Traffic conditions are not adversely affected by
the proposed use, including the existence or need for dedicated turn lanes,
pedestrian access and capacity of the existing streets;
      6.   Utility Capacity: There is sufficient utility capacity;
      7.   Emergency Vehicle Access: There is sufficient emergency vehicle
access;
      8.   Off Street Parking: The location and design of off street parking
are in compliance with off street parking standards;
      9.   Fencing, Screening, Landscaping: A plan for fencing, screening and
landscaping to separate the use from adjoining uses and mitigate the potential
for conflict in uses;
      10.   Exterior Lighting: That exterior lighting complies with the
lighting standards of the zone;
      11.   Flood Control: That within and adjoining the site, impacts on the
aquifer, slope retention and flood potential have been fully mitigated and is
appropriate to the topography of the site.
   B.   Specific Review Criteria For Certain Conditional Uses: In addition to
the foregoing, the Planning Commission or Planning and Zoning Administrator, as
the case may be, must evaluate the applicant’s compliance with each of the
following criteria when considering whether to approve, deny or condition an
application for each of the following conditional uses or administrative
conditional uses:
      1.   Accessory Structure (Occupied): New development of an accessory
structure intended for human occupancy is a conditional use and shall meet the
following development standards:
         a.   Distance From Main Building: The accessory structure must be
located no less than six feet (6') from the main building;
         b.   Location; Setback: The accessory structure must be located in
either the rear or side yard, with no less than a ten foot (10') setback from
the rear and side lot lines, unless the accessory structure is located at the
front yard setback of an adjacent corner lot, in which case, the side yard
setback to the nearest side lot line must be at least fifteen feet (15');
         c.   Height: The accessory structure height may not exceed twenty four
feet (24') to the mid point for a sloped roof and twenty feet (20') to the
cornice for a flat roof;
         d.   Area: The maximum area of an occupied accessory structure is the
larger of nine hundred (900) square feet or thirteen percent (13%) of the lot
area. No more than six hundred (600) square feet of the accessory structure
shall be used for human occupancy.
      2.   Childcare Facility/Center:
         a.   Application: Each application for a childcare facility or center
must include and comply with:
         (1)   Proof of application for State childcare license;
         (2)   Compliance with State, Federal and local law;
         (3)   A design that does not include a front yard playground;
         (4)   A parking and traffic plan that adequately mitigates the adverse
impacts of increased traffic in the neighborhood.
         b.   Number Permitted: Childcare providers operating as a childcare
center in their own dwelling may not exceed sixteen (16) children at any given
time, including the provider’s own children twelve (12) years of age or
younger.
         c.   Infants: Childcare providers operating as a childcare center in
their own dwelling may not provide services for more than two (2) infants.
      3.   Intermittent Commercial Uses: The occasional use of dwellings,
community buildings, private clubs, lodges, social or recreational
establishments and/or their accessory buildings for commercial purposes may be
allowed upon receiving an administrative conditional use permit and provided
that there is compliance with the provisions of this subsection. The following
standards shall apply to all intermittent commercial uses in addition to any
conditions the Planning and Zoning Administrator deems necessary and desirable
to protect the public health, safety and general welfare:
         a.   Displays: The display and sales of merchandise should be
contained primarily within a building;
         b.   Setback, Clear Vision, Code Compliance: The building proposed for
the intermittent commercial use must comply with setback and clear vision area
requirements of this title and with applicable Building and Fire Codes;
         c.   Business License Required: A business license from the City is
required to conduct an intermittent commercial use;
         d.   Parking: Adequate parking is provided to serve the commercial use
that does not create a parking shortage for other existing uses on site;
         e.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: The use does not cause noise, light or
glare which adversely impacts surrounding uses.
      4.   Small Engine Repair: Each application for a small engine repair
shall be reviewed as a home occupation using the review criteria outlined in
subsection B5 of this section.
      5.   Home Occupation: Each application for a business license for a home
occupation shall include the owner’s agreement that the proposed use:
         a.   Outdoor Storage; Vehicle Parking: Shall not include outdoor
storage, outdoor display of merchandise, nor parking/storage of any vehicle in
excess of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds’ gross vehicle weight;
         b.   Signage: Shall not include identifying signage in excess of a six
(6) square foot nameplate, attached to the dwelling;
         c.   Employees: Is limited to the on site employment of immediate
family members who occupy the dwelling (this criteria is not intended to limit
the number of employees who are engaged in business for the home occupation but
work off premises);
         d.   Residential Character Maintained: Shall not alter the residential
character or appearance of the dwelling or neighborhood;
         e.   Occupancy Limitation: Shall not occupy more than twenty five
percent (25%) of the main floor of the dwelling, nor more than fifty percent
(50%) of the floor area of any garage or outbuilding in which the use is
conducted;
         f.   Traffic: Shall not generate business related vehicular traffic in
excess of three (3) vehicles per hour;
         g.   Demand For Services: Shall not cause a demand for Municipal
services in excess of that associated with normal residential use;
         h.   Enclosed Within Structure: Shall be enclosed within a structure
in complete conformity with International Building Codes as adopted by the
City; and
         i.   Prohibited Uses: Is not a mortuary, animal hospital, kennel,
clinic, hospital, RV service, junkyard, auto repair service, public stable or
sexually oriented business.
      6.   Gated Communities: Applicants must comply with the following
standards:
         a.   Scope: The applicants have demonstrated a need for an entry gate
to effectively control ongoing negative health, safety and welfare issues; or,
in highly unique circumstances, excessive non-neighborhood parking or traffic
on a regular basis;
         b.   Private Street: The private street is not a through street and
traffic circulation through the neighborhood to other parts of the community is
not impacted;
         c.   Setback Of Entry Gate: The entry gate shall be set back twenty
five feet (25');
         d.   Building Permit Required: A building permit for the gate must be
approved;
         e.   Design Standards: The entry gate shall meet the following design
standards:
         (1)   The clearance distance from the gate bottom to the ground will
be a minimum of two feet (2');
         (2)   The maximum height from the bottom to top rail shall be three
feet (3');
         (3)   The gate shall be constructed from visually open materials that
will not obstruct more than fifty percent (50%) visibility (i.e., open
fencing);
         (4)   Fencing adjacent to the gate shall not exceed a height of four
feet (4') for solid fencing materials and six feet (6') for open materials;
         (5)   Columns added for architectural interest shall not exceed nine
feet (9');
         (6)   The gate design shall be minimal in height and scale to
accomplish the goal of preventing unauthorized access.
         f.   Access Plan: An access plan for emergency services and authorized
City representatives shall be provided to and approved by the City.
      7.   Storage Land Sea Containers As A Temporary Use: Storage containers
greater than one hundred twenty (120) square feet but less than three hundred
(300) square feet are allowed during the construction phase of a project. This
use shall be allowed when a building permit for new construction or alteration
is approved. This use is of a temporary nature and includes the following
standards:
         a.   Number Permitted: No more than two (2) containers on any one
property;
         b.   Occupancy Permit Required: Building permit for the construction
project requires an occupancy permit. The occupancy permit shall be withheld
until the containers are removed;
         c.   Removal: The containers shall be removed within ten (10) days of
completion of the project. Failure to remove the containers may result in
termination of utility services. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -
2024)
10-7A-9: SIGNS:
If a sign type is not specifically designated below, then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-7A-9
SIGNS
Sign Type Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General Restrictions
Sign Type     Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General
                                                              Restrictions
                                                              Installation
                                                              height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
Banner sign   X                  3' x 6'      3'             and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
                                                              Must be removed
Campaign sign X                                              10 days
                                                              following the
                                                              election.
Construction                                                  Installation
sign          X                  4' x 8'      4'             height 4'
                                                              maximum.
                                                              Low intensity
Flat or wall  X                  39 sq. ft.   7'             light fixtures
sign                                                          only. 1 sign per
                                                              building.
                                                              1 sign per 500'
                                                              of frontage. Low
                                                              intensity light
                                                              fixtures only.
                                                              Installation
                                                              height to be
Monument sign X                  39 sq. ft.   6'             reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
                                                              and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
Nameplate     X                  2' x 3'      2'              
Real estate   X                  3' x 6'      3'              
sign
 
Note: Continuous illumination of signs is prohibited in this zone.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
ARTICLE B. R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY AND MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Purpose
10-7B-2: Use Table
10-7B-3: Development Standards
10-7B-4: Performance Standards
 
10-7B-1: PURPOSE:
   The purpose of this article is to create a Residential Zone that provides
for a compatible mixture of single- and multi-family dwellings.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-20, 8-6-2024; Ord. 25-01, 7-1-2025)
10-7B-2: USE TABLE:
   If a use is not specifically designated then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-7B-2
USES
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Use Business License
Type                        Allowed Administrative Conditional Business License
                                    Use
Accessory structure,        X
unoccupied
Agriculture                 X
Athletic club                       X                          X
Childcare for business:
   Center                        X                          X
   Facility                      X                          X
Church                      X
Civic club                          X
Dwelling, single-family     X
Dwelling, two-family        X                                  X
Dwelling, three-family      X                                  X
Dwelling, four-family       X                                  X
Dwelling, twin home         X
Farm animals/livestock      X
Group home:
   Assisted living facility      X                          X
   Disabled                      X                          X
   Elderly                       X                          X
Home occupation                     X                          X
Intermittent commercial use         X
Outdoor rec-park- play      X
Preschool                           X                          X
Public rights-of-way        X
Public services                     X                          X
School, public                      X
Schools, private, quasi-            X                          X
public
Short-Term Rental           X                                  X
Stable, private                     X
Subdivisions (compliance
with chapter 18 of this     X
title)
Telecommunications facility         X                          X
(45' in height)
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-16, 9-21-2021; Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021; amd.
Ord. 24-20, 8-6-2024; Ord. 25-01, 7-1-2025)
10-7B-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
TABLE 10-7B-3
MINIMUM LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 
             Area     Width     Height                                                                                 Sidewalks,
Lot          (minimum (minimum) (maximum) Setbacks (minimum)                                                           Curb, and
             )                                                                                                         Gutter
Single-      7,500    75'       35'
family       sq. ft.                      Front: 25'                                                                   Sidewalk:
Two-family   9,000    90'       35'       Side: 8'                                                                     Required
             sq. ft.                      Rear: 20'                                                                    along lot
Three-family 17,125   90'       35'       A corner lot shall have one front, two sides, and one rear. For setback      frontage.
             sq. ft.                      purposes, front is determin ed by the building’ s orientatio n relative to Any portion
Four-family  20,380   90'       35'       street as well as building address.                                          of the
             sq. ft.                                                                                                   sidewalk
             4,500                        Front: 25'                                                                   required
Twin home    sq. ft.  50'       35'       Side: 8' for unattache d side and 0' for attached side                       over 165' is
                                          Rear: 20'                                                                    eligible to
                                                                                                                       participate
                                                                                                                       in the city
                                                                                                                       cost sharing
                                                                                                                       program for
                                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                                       construction
                                                                                                                       of that
                                                                                                                       portion of
                                                                                                                       the
                                                                                                                       sidewalk.
                                                                                                                       Curb and
                                                                                                                       Gutter:
                                                                                                                       Required
                                                                                                                       along lot
                                                                                                                       frontage.
                                                                                                                       Exceptions
Accessory    7,500                        Front: 25'                                                                   would be
structure    sq. ft.  75'       35'       Side: 3'                                                                     limited to
(unoccupied)                                                                                                           instances in
                                                                                                                       which the
                                                                                                                       City
                                                                                                                       Engineer
                                                                                                                       determines
                                                                                                                       construction
                                                                                                                       of the
                                                                                                                       sidewalk,
                                                                                                                       curb, and/or
                                                                                                                       gutter would
                                                                                                                       be
                                                                                                                       detrimental
                                                                                                                       to public
                                                                                                                       safety or
                                                                                                                       protection
                                                                                                                       of property.
 
   A.   One Principal Structure On Lot: Only one principal structure is
permitted on a single lot.
   B.   Structure To Have Access: All structures shall be on a lot adjacent to
a public street or with access to an approved private street, and shall be so
located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for fire protection.
   C.   Corner Lot: A corner lot shall have one front, two sides, and one rear.
For setback purposes, front is determined by the building’s orientation
relative to street as well as building address. For sidewalk, curb, and gutter,
sidewalk is required along lot frontage and along lot side adjacent to street
for all corner lots.
   D.   Farm Animals And Livestock: Livestock, fowl and other animals
(excluding household pets) that may, where permitted, be kept, bred and
maintained with the following restrictions:
      1.   Livestock: One animal for every five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures). One horse, cow, pig, llama, goat or
five (5) sheep. Unaltered male goats are not allowed other than on a temporary
basis for breeding purposes. The offspring of livestock may be kept without
consideration of the space limitations until the animal is weaned or not to
exceed six (6) months.
      2.   Other Farm Animals: For each five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures) five (5) rabbits or fowl, or other
similar small animals, may be kept. One hundred (100) rabbits or fowl may be
kept in an enclosed structure with a roof and walls on all sides. The offspring
kept in the enclosed structure shall not exceed two hundred (200) and may be
kept for a period of six (6) months. One enclosed structure may be kept for
every five thousand (5,000) square feet of property (excluding occupied
structures).
      3.   Animals Stabled Or Housed In Enclosed Areas: Any building, structure
or corral in which livestock is kept must be at least fifty feet (50') from any
street, dwelling or sidewalk. This restriction does not include open pasturing
on a temporary or seasonal basis.
      4.   Multi-Family Structures And/Or Units: Farm animals and/or livestock
are prohibited from being kept, bred, and/or maintained at any property on
which a multi-family structure is located.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-11, 7-6-2021; Ord. 21-16, 9-21-2021; Ord.
23-09, 6-6-2023; Ord. 24-20, 8-6-2024; Ord. 25-01, 7-1-2025)
10-7B-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The operation of any use permitted in this district is subject to the following
standards of performance:
   A.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: All uses must be operated so that all
practical means are used to confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration or
other similar feature to the premises upon which they are located.
   B.   Lighting: Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas, or for any
other purpose shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the
lighted property by appropriate directional hooding.
   C.   Fencing: All fencing shall meet the standards of the fencing ordinance
found in Title 10, Chapter 21, Fencing.
   D.   Parking: All parking shall meet the parking standards for the
respective use found in Title 10, Chapter 14, Parking Standards.
   E.   Home Occupations: Home occupations shall meet the standards in Title
10, Chapter 23, Home Occupations.
   F.   Temporary Uses: Temporary uses shall meet the standards in Title 10,
Chapter 21, Temporary Uses.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-20, 8-6-2024; Ord. 25-01, 7-1-2025)
ARTICLE C. MOBILE HOME DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7C-1: Purpose
10-7C-2: Use Table
10-7C-3: Development Standards
10-7C-4: Reserved
10-7C-5: Performance Standards
10-7C-6: Parking
10-7C-7: Conditional Use Standards Of Review
10-7C-8: Signs
10-7C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to create a zone which allows for mobile homes
and related uses in a well planned and safe environment. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-7C-2: USE TABLE:
If a use is not specifically designated then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-7C-2
USES
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Use Conditional Use Business License
Type                  Allowed Administrative  Conditional Use Business License
                              Conditional Use
Accessory structure,  X
unoccupied
Athletic club                                 X               X
Childcare for
business:
Center                        X                               X
Facility                      X                               X
Church                X
Civic club                                    X
Dwelling, single-     X
family
Fencing                       X
Gated communities                             X
Home occupation               X                               X
Household pets        X
Intermittent                  X                               X
commercial use
Laundromat            X                                       X
Laundry establishment X                                       X
Manufactured home     X
Mobile home           X
Modular home          X
Outdoor rec-park-play X                                       X
Public rights-of-way  X
Recreational vehicle                          X               X
park
Subdivisions (must
meet subdivision
requirements of       X
chapter 18 of this
title)
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-7C-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
TABLE 10-7C-3
MINIMUM LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 
Lot        Area               Width Setbacks         Height Sidewalks, Curb,
                                                            and Gutter
Standard   4,000 sq. ft./unit 40'   Front: 10' Side: 35'
                                    10' Rear: 10'           Required.
                                                            Exceptions would be
                                                            limited to
                                    Corner lot: A           instances in which
                                    corner lot shall        the City Engineer
                                    have 2 fronts, 2        determines
                                    sides, 0 rear.          construction of the
Exceptions No                 No    Front is               sidewalk, curb,
                                    determined by           and/or gutter would
                                    location of             be detrimental to
                                    streets.                public safety or
                                                            protection of
                                                            property.
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-09, 6-6-2023)
10-7C-4: RESERVED:
10-7C-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The operation of any use permitted in this district is subject to the following
standards of performance:
   A.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: All uses must be operated so that all
practical means are used to confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration or
other similar feature to the premises upon which they are located.
   B.   Lighting: Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas or for any
other purpose shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the
lighted property by appropriate directional hooding. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-7C-6: PARKING:
Parking standards in chapter 14 of this title also apply to the following on
site parking requirements:
TABLE 10-7C-6
PARKING
 
Uses                                 Parking Requirement
Childcare facility/center            1 space per on duty employee and 1 per 6
                                     children
Dwelling, single-family              2.5 spaces per dwelling unit (minimum 167
                                     sq. ft. per space)
Public and quasi-public institution, The greater of: 1 space per 5 seats; or 2
church and school; public utility;   spaces per 3 employees; or 1 space per
Municipal facility                   1,000 sq. ft.
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-7C-7: CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
The City shall not issue a conditional use permit unless the Planning and
Zoning Administrator, in the case of an administrative conditional use, or the
Planning Commission, for all other conditional uses, concludes that the
application fully mitigates all identified adverse impacts and complies with
the following general standards applicable to all conditional uses, as well as
the specific standards for the use:
   A.   General Review Criteria: An applicant for a conditional use in the zone
must demonstrate:
      1.   Compliance: The application complies with all applicable provisions
of this title, and State and Federal law;
      2.   Structure Compatibility: The structures associated with the use are
compatible with surrounding structures in terms of use, scale, density and
circulation;
      3.   Use Not Detrimental: The use is not detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare;
      4.   Consistent With General Plan: The use is consistent with the City
General Plan as amended;
      5.   Traffic: Traffic conditions are not adversely affected by the
proposed use, including the existence or need for dedicated turn lanes,
pedestrian access and capacity of the existing streets;
      6.   Utility Capacity: There is sufficient utility capacity;
      7.   Emergency Vehicle Access: There is sufficient emergency vehicle
access;
      8.   Off Street Parking: The location and design of off street parking
are in compliance with off street parking standards;
      9.   Fencing, Screening: A plan for fencing, screening and landscaping to
separate the use from adjoining uses and mitigate the potential for conflict in
uses;
      10.   Exterior Lighting: That exterior lighting complies with the
lighting standards of the zone;
      11.   Flood Control: That within and adjoining the site, impacts on the
aquifer, slope retention and flood potential have been fully mitigated and is
appropriate to the topography of the site.
   B.   Specific Review Criteria For Certain Conditional Uses: In addition to
the foregoing, the Planning Commission or Planning and Zoning Administrator, as
the case may be, must evaluate the applicant’s compliance with each of the
following criteria when considering whether to approve, deny or conditionally
approve an application for each of the following conditional uses or
administrative conditional uses:
      1.   Childcare Facility/Center:
         a.   Application: Each application for a childcare facility or center
must include and comply with:
         (1)   Proof of application for State childcare license;
         (2)   Compliance with State, Federal and local law;
         (3)   A design that does not include a front yard playground;
         (4)   A parking and traffic plan that adequately mitigates the adverse
impacts of increased traffic in the neighborhood;
         b.   Number Permitted: Childcare providers operating as a childcare
center in their own dwelling may not exceed sixteen (16) children at any given
time, including the provider’s own children twelve (12) years of age or
younger;
         c.   Infants: Childcare providers operating as a childcare center in
their own dwelling may not provide services for more than two (2) infants.
      2.   Intermittent Commercial Uses: The occasional use of dwellings,
community buildings, private clubs, lodges, social or recreational
establishments and/or their accessory buildings for commercial purposes may be
allowed upon receiving an administrative conditional use permit and provided
that there is compliance with the provisions of this subsection. The following
standards shall apply to all intermittent commercial uses in addition to any
conditions the Planning and Zoning Administrator deems necessary and desirable
to protect the public health, safety and general welfare:
         a.   Displays: The display and sales of merchandise should be
contained primarily within a building;
         b.   Setback, Clear Vision, Code Compliance: The building proposed for
the intermittent commercial use must comply with setback and visibility at
intersection requirements of this title and with applicable Building and Fire
Codes;
         c.   Business License Required: A business license from the City is
required to conduct an intermittent commercial use;
         d.   Parking: Adequate parking is provided to serve the commercial use
that does not create a parking shortage for other existing uses on site;
         e.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: The use does not cause noise, light or
glare which adversely impacts surrounding uses.
      3.   Home Occupation: Each application for a business license for a home
occupation shall include the owner’s agreement that the proposed use:
         a.   Outdoor Storage; Vehicle Parking: Shall not include outdoor
storage, outdoor display of merchandise, nor parking/storage of any vehicle in
excess of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds’ gross vehicle weight;
         b.   Signage: Shall not include identifying signage in excess of a six
(6) square foot nameplate, attached to the dwelling;
         c.   Employees: Is limited to the on site employment of immediate
family members who occupy the dwelling (this criteria is not intended to limit
the number of employees who are engaged in business for the home occupation but
work off premises);
         d.   Residential Character Maintained: Shall not alter the residential
character or appearance of the dwelling or neighborhood;
         e.   Occupancy Limitation: Shall not occupy more than twenty five
percent (25%) of the main floor of the dwelling, nor more than fifty percent
(50%) of the floor area of any garage or outbuilding in which the use is
conducted;
         f.   Traffic: Shall not generate business related vehicular traffic in
excess of three (3) vehicles per hour;
         g.   Demand For Services: Shall not cause a demand for Municipal
services in excess of that associated with normal residential use;
         h.   Enclosed Within Structure: Shall be enclosed within a structure
in complete conformity with International Building Codes as adopted by the
City; and
         i.   Prohibited Uses: Is not a mortuary, animal hospital, kennel,
clinic, hospital, RV service, junkyard, auto repair service, public stable or
sexually oriented business.
      4.   Gated Communities: Applicants must comply with the following
standards:
         a.   Scope: The applicants have demonstrated a need for an entry gate
to effectively control ongoing negative health, safety and welfare issues; or,
in highly unique circumstances, excessive non-neighborhood parking or traffic
on a regular basis;
         b.   Private Street: The private street is not a through street and
traffic circulation through the neighborhood to other parts of the community is
not impacted;
         c.   Setback Of Entry Gate: The entry gate shall be set back twenty
five feet (25');
         d.   Building Permit Required: A building permit for the gate must be
approved;
            e.   Design Standards: The entry gate shall meet the following
design standards:
         (1)   The clearance distance from the gate bottom to the ground shall
be a minimum of two feet (2');
         (2)   The maximum height from the bottom to top rail shall be three
feet (3');
         (3)   The gate will be constructed from visually open materials that
shall not obstruct more than fifty percent (50%) visibility (i.e., open
fencing);
         (4)   Fencing adjacent to the gate shall not exceed a height of four
feet (4') for solid fencing materials and six feet (6') for open materials;
         (5)   Columns added for architectural interest shall not exceed nine
feet (9');
         (6)   The gate design shall be minimal in height and scale to
accomplish the goal of preventing unauthorized access.
         f.   Access Plan: An access plan for emergency services and authorized
City representatives shall be provided to and approved by the City. (Ord. 19-
07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -2024)
10-7C-8: SIGNS:
If a sign type is not specifically designated below, then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-7C-8
SIGNS
Sign Type Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General Restrictions
Sign Type     Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General
                                                              Restrictions
                                                              Installation
                                                              height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
Banner sign   X                  3' x 6'      3'             and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
                                                              Must be removed
Campaign sign X                                              10 days
                                                              following the
                                                              election.
Construction                                                  Installation
sign          X                  4' x 8'      4'             height 4'
                                                              maximum.
                                                              Low intensity
Flat or wall  X                  39 sq. ft.   7'             light fixtures
sign                                                          only. 1 sign per
                                                              building.
                                                              1 sign per 500'
                                                              of frontage. Low
                                                              intensity light
                                                              fixtures only.
                                                              Installation
                                                              height to be
Monument sign X                  39 sq. ft.   6'             reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
                                                              and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
Nameplate     X                  2' x 3'      2'              
Real estate   X                  3' x 6'      3'              
sign
 
Note: Continuous illumination of signs is prohibited in this zone.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
ARTICLE D. RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY OVERLAY
SECTION:
10-7D-1: Purpose
10-7D-2: Permitted And Accessory Uses
10-7D-3: Development Standards
10-7D-4: Performance Standards
10-7D-5: Parking
10-7D-6: Approval Process
10-7D-7: Other Requirements
10-7D-1: PURPOSE:
The Residential Multi-Family (RMF) Overlay is established to provide areas
within the City for high-density housing and multi-family structures designed
to allow economical use of land while creating an attractive, functional, and
safe residential environment. The RMF Zone is intended to be primarily
residential in nature. Applying the RMF Overlay should be carefully reviewed to
ensure compatibility with existing development and neighborhoods and the land
use goals of the City. (Ord. 23-17, 11-21-2023)
10-7D-2: PERMITTED AND ACCESSORY USES:
The following land use types are permitted uses in the RMF Overlay. Unless
specifically listed, any other use is not permitted. Uses listed as conditional
or accessory uses are allowed in the zone only in accordance with the criteria
established in this ordinance.
   A.   Permitted Uses: The following land use types are permitted uses in the
RMF Overlay:
      1.   Single-family dwellings.
      2.   Multi-family structures and dwellings.
      3.   Public or private utility rights-of-way.
      4.   Parks, trails, open space areas, and other related recreation
facilities and project amenities.
      5.   Religious buildings and structures.
      f.   Educational facilities unless otherwise addressed in Utah Code.
      g.   Public and private utility maintenance facilities.
   B.   Accessory Uses: The following land use types are allowed as accessory
uses in the RMF Overlay. Any accessory use must be clearly incidental to a
permitted or conditional use of the property. Accessory uses are not allowed
without the approval of a permitted or conditional use of the parcel unless
otherwise noted in this Section.
      1.   Storage facilities for equipment that is associated with maintenance
of the site. The accessory building shall be constructed of essentially the
same materials as the main residential buildings or structures.
      2.   Incidental shelter for pets.
      3.   Home occupations, pursuant to Fillmore City Code.
      4.   Accessory Dwelling Units, in a single family detached dwelling,
pursuant to Fillmore City Code. (Ord. 23-17, 11-21-2023)
10-7D-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Project Area: This overlay is designed to accommodate larger multi-
family projects, such as townhomes and apartment complexes, or communities with
a mix of housing types. Therefore, any parcel seeking application of the RMF
Overlay shall contain no less than five (5) acres.
   B.   Density: The RMF Overlay accommodates a variety of densities for multi-
family dwellings. In granting overlay approval, the City Council shall
designate the maximum density permitted, at a density of either 10 or 15
residential units per acre. This density is calculated as the net density
rounded to the nearest whole number for the area dedicated to multi-family
dwellings. This shall be designated on the Overlay approval as RMF-10, RMF-15,
respectively. In making a determination for the maximum density, the Council
shall consider the following:
      1.   The design standards of the proposed project
      2.   The nature of the surrounding neighborhood and potential impact on
the neighborhood
      3.   Steps taken by the development to reduce any negative impact on the
surrounding neighborhood, such as, but not limited to, onsite parking, new
streets and other vehicular access, open space, pedestrian and/or bike trails,
and landscaping.
      4.   Other desired uses, such as religious buildings, parks and open
space, education facilities, and maintenance facilities, shall be reviewed as
part of the overlay application and shall present a lot area, design, traffic
circulation, parking, and other design elements that are to the satisfaction of
the City Council. These uses shall only be permitted within the overlay when
they are part of a much larger project and are there to support housing within
the overlay.
   C.   Width: Each project in the RMF Overlay shall have a minimum width and
frontage of one hundred and twenty (120) feet for all of the area within the
required front setback of the zone. Projects with more than four (4) units
shall have more than this amount, however the exact amount of frontage on a
public street will be determined by City Council based on the configuration of
the project.
   D.   Single-Family Detached Dwellings: If the RMF Overlay is used to
accommodate single-family dwellings, each lot for a single-family dwelling
shall have a minimum lot width and frontage of seventy-five (75) feet and lot
area of 7,500 square feet. Flag lots shall not be permitted.
   E.   Setback: When a proposed project in the RMF Overlay is adjacent to a
non-multi-family dwelling outside the RMF Overlay, the setback requirements of
the adjacent residential zone shall be implemented along the perimeter of the
development. Otherwise, the following minimum setback and build-to-line
requirements shall apply for each building or structure and is measured from
the respective property line of the lot or parcel:
      1.   Front Setback: Twenty- five (25) feet.
      2.   Side Setback: Eight (8), unless otherwise noted herein.
         a.   Side Setback For Corner Lot: Eight (8) along the public street on
the side of the lot not being used as the front setback.
         b.   Side Setback For Accessory Building: Three (3) feet
      3.   Rear Setback: Twenty (20) feet.
      4.   Rear setback for accessory building: Three (3) feet
      5.   The land use authority may impose a build-to-line that represents
the distance from the property line that a structure will be constructed. The
build-to-line may be imposed on any side of the structure. Reasons to impost a
build-to-line may include: reducing parking adjacent to the street, aesthetic
improvements, and enhanced circulation.
   F.   Projections Into Setbacks: The following structures may project into a
required setback, but not beyond the property line, except as noted herein:
      1.   Fences and walls in conformance with all applicable City ordinances
and resolutions.
      2.   Landscaping and irrigation systems that shall be extended to the
sidewalk or back of the curb.
      3.   Necessary appurtenances for utility service.
      4.   Cornices, eaves, sills, buttresses, awnings, planter boxes, or other
similar architectural features may project up to four (4) feet into any
required front or rear setback or up to two (2) feet into a side setback.
   G.   Building Height: Each structure shall satisfy the regulations of the
adopted fire code. The Fire Chief may reduce the maximum building height and/or
roof slope to ensure the ability to protect the structure on a case-by-case
basis, as necessary based on the abilities of the local Fire Department. The
maximum height for single family and multi-family residential unit are as
follows:
      1.   Two (2) stories and thirty-five (35) feet total height.
      2.   An accessory structure may not exceed eighteen (18) feet in total
height.
   H.   Distance Between Buildings: The minimum distance between buildings is
determined by building height, and shall be whichever is greater, as follows:
      1.   Any two-story building, except for attached multi-family units:
Sixteen (16) feet.
      2.   Accessory building and any residential building: ten (10) feet.
   I.   Lot Coverage: The sum total of all buildings and structures shall not
be greater than forty (40) percent of the total area.
   J.   Open Space: Each project shall contain at least thirty (30) percent
permanently maintained outdoor open space exclusive of buildings (except a
clubhouse, gazebo, or other usable amenities, as agreed at the time of the
overlay approval), parking, and roadways. That thirty (30) percent shall be
broken down as follows:
      1.   Twenty-five (25) percent minimum: Sited and designed as usable open
space for the residents of the project. At least approximately half of this, or
twelve (12) percent shall be a non-impervious surface.
      2.   Five (5) percent maximum: Landscaped areas between the structures.
These are areas where the actual distance between the buildings is within ten
(10) feet of the minimum required distance between those buildings.
      3.   Stormwater Facilities: The acreage set aside for stormwater
facilities shall not be used toward the open space requirement unless the City
Council has determined that the area is designed as functional usable open
space. The presumption shall be that storm drainage areas are not suitable as
usable open space due to their purpose of retaining water runoff. The City
Council is not obliged to grant this waiver but may consider proposals where
ample steps have been taken to make the ground usable. The Council shall, at a
minimum, consider the following:
         a.   The location, size, design, access, and usability of the
stormwater facility;
         b.   That the facility is placed in a centralized location within the
project or reasonably connected to other project amenities;
         c.   The slope of the basin is no steeper than 5:1;
         d.   The size of the basin and adjacent landscaped area is no more
than ten (10) percent of the required open space requirement;
         e.   The landscaping treatments are suitable for use by the residents
of the project and include amenities as deemed appropriate.
   K.   Landscaping: All open areas not covered by residential buildings or
structures, parking, or permitted accessory structures shall be attractively
landscaped and maintained. Each project shall include a landscaping plan,
prepared by a licensed landscape architect or other qualified landscape
professional, for review and approval. At a minimum, the landscaping plan shall
include the following:
      1.   General landscape principles:
         a.   Visual variety and interest to site and buildings;
         b.   Landscape features that highlight primary entry to a building and
complex, for both vehicular and pedestrian access;
         c.   Placement of shade trees over gathering areas and near buildings;
         d.   Landscape screening of parking areas and undesirable views;
         e.   Use of landscaping to provide a visual and noise buffer and
shelter from wind.
      2.   Incorporation of layered landscaping and a mix of deciduous and
evergreen trees. As a guideline, the landscaping plan will need to indicate one
(1) tree for every two (2) dwelling units, with the trees being a mixture of
coniferous evergreen and deciduous trees. The coniferous trees shall be at
least eight (8) feet in height and the deciduous trees shall be at least two
(2) inches in caliper. Shrubs and other plantings shall be included in the
landscaping plan.
      3.   Landscaped areas shall contain grass or other acceptable ground
cover. Xeriscaping with native and water-wise vegetation is encouraged and the
City may prohibit any vegetation that is deemed to be invasive.
      4.   All landscaped areas shall be irrigated by an underground automatic
sprinkling system.
      5.   Plant materials shall be selected and located to avoid conflicts
with underground or above-ground utilities.
   L.   Fencing Standards: Multi-family projects shall be fenced on at least
three sides by a six (6) foot sight-obscuring fence unless it can be
demonstrated that the fence is unnecessary to make the proposed project
compatible with the surrounding area.
      1.   All fencing in multi-family projects shall have decorative features
and shall be constructed primarily of masonry materials. The use of chain link,
vinyl, and wood products will be limited to internal areas that are not visible
from the exterior of the project and located in low-traffic areas.
      2.   The Council may require certain areas to be free of fencing or have
reduced fence height to increase visibility and connectivity to the surrounding
neighborhood.
   M.   Lighting: Safety and security in the project and its immediate
surroundings shall be enhanced through lighting design. A photometric plan
shall be included showing how the project will meet the lighting standards.
Lighting fixtures shall:
      1.   Be compatible with the architectural style, materials, color, and
scale of the project.
      2.   Be located to avoid light spillage and glare on adjacent properties
and in private spaces.
      3.   Include full cutoff light fixture that shield light away from
bedroom windows, adjacent properties, and the sky.
      4.   Have a maximum correlated color temperature of 3,000 K (Kelvins).
      5.   Be mounted no higher than sixteen (16) feet.
      6.   Not be visible from the property line or beyond.
      7.   Have a maximum lumens amount of 2,500 lumens per light with a
maximum of 100,000 lumens per net acre. (Ord. 23-17, 11-21-2023)
10-7D-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Amenities: Each development approved in the RMF Overlay shall include
amenities for the residents of the project and shall include a plan for the
amenities to be properly maintained. Because each project is different in
nature, the amenities may vary but shall be tailored to accommodate the
expected demographic of the residents. As a general rule, active recreation
areas will include amenities such as sports courts (designed for basketball,
pickleball, tennis, skate park, or another sport), horseshoe pits, swimming
pools, volleyball courts, putting greens, splash pads, playgrounds, and
clubhouses, etc. Passive recreation areas, which include open lawn space,
community gardens, or dog parks are required for all projects. Any sports court
shall meet an industry minimum standard for usability for the intended use. The
minimum amount of amenities in addition to passive recreation areas that are
required is determined by the proposed number of units in the development, as
follows:
      1.   Fewer than fifty (50) units:
         a.   Picnic areas with tables and barbecue areas; and
         b.   An active recreation area.
      2.   Fifty-one (51) to seventy-five (75) units:
         a.   A picnic area with tables and barbecue area with a shade
structure;
         b.   A sports court with at least one thousand (1,000) square feet;
         ci.   An active recreation area, or an additional one thousand (1,000)
square feet of sports court.
      3.   Seventy-six (76) to one hundred (100) units:
         a.   Two (2) picnic areas with tables and barbecue areas with shade
structures;
         b.   A sports court with at least one thousand (1,000) square feet;
         c.   An active recreation area, or an additional one thousand (1,000)
square feet of sports court;
         d.   A clubhouse used for gatherings of residents not less than one
thousand (1000) square feet in size complete with restrooms. The clubhouse may
be substituted for an outside social function area, no less than two thousand
(2000) square feet in size, with approval by the City Council.
      4.   One hundred (100) or more units:
         a.   Two (2) picnic areas with tables and barbecue areas with shade
structures;
         b.   A sports court with at least one thousand (1,000) square feet;
         c.   Two (2) active recreation areas with amenities appropriate for
the targeted population, one of these areas could be an additional one thousand
(1,000) square feet of sports court;
         d.   A clubhouse used for gatherings of residents not less than two
thousand (2,000) square feet in size complete with restrooms and indoor
amenities and services.
      5.   The City Council will be the final authority in determining if the
amenity package is appropriate for the project size, location, and target
population. The type and quality of amenities will be taken into consideration
in determining an acceptable amenity package and whether to grant the
application of the Overlay.
   B.   Design Standards: Building design should enhance the appearance of the
buildings from streets and other public viewpoints. All sides of structures
shall receive equal design consideration, particularly where they may be
readily viewed by pedestrians and motorists, or from adjacent properties.
      1.   Exterior Materials: All buildings shall include brick, stucco,
stone, or other decorative masonry products, including fiber-cement siding, as
approved by the City Council upon recommendation by the Planning Commission. At
least two different building materials shall be used on all sides of the
building with at least forty (40) percent of the vertical surface containing
brick or stone. Garage doors, windows, and doors are not included in the
vertical surface calculation. Vinyl and wood siding are not permitted; however,
shake shingles may be permitted as an accent material as approved. The types of
material will be complementary to the architectural design and heavier
materials used lower on the building elevation to form the building base.
      2.   Colors: Varied building colors are essential to a quality project.
The use of different colors and materials helps to break up the massing of the
building. A minimum of two colors per elevation, plus trim and roof color shall
be provided. Contrasting but complementary colors should be used for trim,
windows, doors, and ornamental features.
      3.   Wall Plane: There shall be a variation in wall plane on all facades
visible from a public street or public view. It is expected that the highest
level of articulation will occur on the front façade. However, some
architectural detailing should be incorporated into all building elevations, as
well as courtyards, play areas, and similar common areas.
      4.   Architectural Design: Architectural elements, such as balconies,
porches, overhangs, trellises, projections, awnings, insets, materials, and
textures shall be used to create shadow patterns that contribute to a
building’s character and visual interest. Deep roof overhangs are encouraged to
create shadows and add depth to façades, also helping to shade openings and
windows.
      5.   Massing: Tall or large structures should emphasize horizontal planes
through the use of trim, awnings, eaves, or a combination of complementary
colors. The upper story of a multi-story building shall be stepped to reduce
the scale of façades facing streets or courtyards unless the building height
contributes to the sense of place.
      6.   Roofing Design: Roof forms typical of residential buildings such as
gable or hip roofs are encouraged. For row-type townhouses, each unit shall be
varied in height and setback.
      7.   Development Entrance Features: Pedestrian and vehicular pavement
designs shall include material and/or color changes at entrances, walkways,
crosswalks, and other significant areas.
      8.   If an applicant can clearly demonstrate that one or more unique
conditions affecting the land make the literal application of one or more of
the design standards impracticable or unduly burdensome, the City Council may
modify the standard as may be reasonable. The modification shall not be
contrary to the general intent and purposes of this Chapter and the health,
safety, general welfare, and aesthetics of the neighborhood. The City Council
is not obligated to grant any modification and the site may ultimately not be
suitable for application of this overlay.
      9.   If the applicant and staff disagree on the architectural design,
types of amenities, or determining adequate amenities for the proposed project,
the City Council shall render the decision. (Ord. 23-17, 11-21-2023)
10-7D-5: PARKING:
Each project in the RMF Overlay shall provide adequate vehicular access to the
site, internal circulation, and parking. Furthermore, pedestrian connections
and networks shall be integrated into the site and connect to adjoining public
facilities, including sidewalks. Each applicant shall demonstrate the
following:
   A.   Minimum Parking: Projects shall provide at least the minimum parking of
2.5 parking stalls per residential unit. Any other use, such as religious or
education facilities, shall be consistent with the Fillmore City Municipal Code
Chapter 14 Parking Ordinance.
   B.   Parking Location: Parking shall only be interior to the project and
generally hidden from the public street, with the primary structures along the
outside edges of the projects, unless the City determines that interior parking
is impractical or undesirable due to unique characteristics of the site and/or
connection to surrounding properties. A build-to-line may be imposed to
accomplish this design feature.
   C.   Circulation: Site circulation shall allow for and facilitate emergency
access to the site and all buildings.
   D.   Covered Parking: Garages shall be designed consistent with the roof
pitch, materials, colors, and architectural features of the primary structures.
   E.   Bicycle Parking and Pedestrian Walkways: Pedestrian circulation
walkways and bicycle racks are required in multi-family projects. These
facilities shall be located in highly visible and convenient areas. Bicycle
parking shall be provided at the ratio of 0.5 bicycle spaces per unit. (Ord.
23-17, 11-21-2023)
10-7D-6: APPROVAL PROCESS:
Any request for the RMF Overlay shall include Preliminary Project Plan review
and approval. Approval is subject to any and all applicable City resolutions
and ordinances and the Fillmore City General Plan.
   A.   Each applicant shall first submit a Concept Plan of the proposed
development. Following review of the Concept Plan and after receiving staff
comments, the applicant may prepare a Preliminary Development Plan.
   B.   The Preliminary Development Plan shall include project layout, design
elements, architectural elevations, lot and road specifications, and all other
information necessary to allow staff to review, and Planning Commission and
City Council to make an informed decision. Any approved plans and
specifications shall be binding and material modifications shall be treated as
a new request and require new approvals.
   C.   Following review by staff, the Planning Commission will hold a public
hearing to receive input about application of the Overlay based on the Concept
Plan and Preliminary Development Plan. Notice of the public hearing will be in
accordance with Fillmore City Code.
   D.   Following a public hearing, the Planning Commission will forward to the
City Council a recommendation to approve, approve with conditions, or deny
application of the RMF Zone based on, and tied to, the Preliminary Development
Plan. This review and approval is a legislative decision.
   E.   After receiving a recommendation from the Planning Commission, the City
Council may approve, amend and approve, approve with conditions, remand the
proposed development back to the Planning Commission for further review, or
deny the application for the RMF Overlay based on, and tied to, the Preliminary
Development Plan approval.
   F.   Following approval of the Overlay and Preliminary Development Plan by
the City Council, the applicant may prepare the Preliminary and Final Plat.
After their review, the City Council may approve, amend and approve, approve
with conditions, or deny the application for Preliminary and Final Plat
approval. The City Council, at their discretion, may approve the Preliminary
Development Plan and the Final Plat concurrently. A copy of the Final
Development Plan will be included in the Planning Commission packet for their
review prior to final review by the City Council.
   G.   Development Agreement: The approval of the City Council and the
obligations of the applicant shall be ratified in a development agreement. The
agreement between the developer and the City shall demonstrate how the
developer’s proposal will fulfill each provision of this ordinance along with
any other conditions of RMF Overlay approval.
   H.   Covenants, Conditions, And Restrictions (CC&Rs): All multi-family
projects shall include the establishment of an owner’s or renters’ association
to address maintenance, parking, enforcement, and other resident-related
issues. Generally, the City is not a party to this contract.
   I.   Project Master Plan: If the project will be carried out in multiple
phases, a Project Master Plan is required to address the timing and
responsibilities carried out in each phase. This Plan can be incorporated into
the Development Agreement and is required as part of the Overlay approval.
(Ord. 23-17, 11-21-2023)
10-7D-7: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
The following requirements shall be met:
   A.   Signs: Refer to Chapter 19 Signs shall be consistent with the
requirements of the Fillmore City Code. Sign type and locations shall be
consistent throughout the project and the sign materials and graphics shall
complement the project design.
   B.   Solid Waste And Recycling: All refuse and recycling containers, except
individual residential containers, shall be placed within screened storage
areas or enclosures. Enclosure materials and colors will be consistent with,
and complementary to, building materials and finishes. These containers should
be conveniently located throughout the project, yet sufficiently buffered from
project entries, main building entries, and main pedestrian paths. (Ord. 23-17,
11-21-2023)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8A-1: Purpose
10-8A-2: Use Table
10-8A-3: Development Standards
10-8A-4: Performance Standards
10-8A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to create a zone which:
   A.   Provides for basic retail, commercial and office service uses in
addition to those uses normally permitted in downtown locations. These
commercial uses may be relatively large or intense in nature and require
convenient access.
   B.   Mitigates incompatibility between commercial uses and residential uses
by considering the commercial uses proximity and location in relation to
residential districts to avoid adverse impacts on the residential areas. (Ord.
19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-17, 6-18-2024)
10-8A-2: USE TABLE:
If a use is not specifically designated then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-8A-2
USES
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Use Business License
Type                        Allowed Administrative Conditional Business License
                                    Use
Accessory building,         X
unoccupied
Apartment house             X                                  X
Athletic club               X                                  X
Automotive self-service     X                                  X
station
Automotive service station  X                                  X
Auto, truck, recreational
vehicle and equipment sales X                                  X
and rental
Automotive repair           X                                  X
establishment1
Banking or financial        X                                  X
service
Bar, tavern, lounge and             X                          X
club
Bed and breakfast           X                                  X
Childcare for business:
   Center                        X                          X
   Facility                      X                          X
Church                      X
Cinema, indoor              X                                  X
Civic club                  X
Convenience goodssales and  X                                  X
services
Cultural, civic services    X                                  X
Dry cleaning establishment          X                          X
Fireworks sales/stands              X                          X
General merchandise sales   X                                  X
and service
Healthcare center           X                                  X
Heavy/farm equipment sales  X                                  X
or rental
Home occupation                     X                          X
Hospital                    X                                  X
Hotel                       X                                  X
Intermittent commercial use         X                          X
Laundromat                  X                                  X
Linen service                       X                          X
Liquor store                X                                  X
Lumber sales/storage                X                          X
Mental health center        X                                  X
Military surplus goods/     X                                  X
store
Mortuary, funeral home      X                                  X
Motel                       X                                  X
Museum                      X                                  X
Nursery                     X                                  X
Office, business,           X
government
Office, professional        X                                  X
Outdoor recreation, park or X                                  X
playground
Pawnshops                   X                                  X
Personal services           X                                  X
Pet grooming                X                                  X
Preschools                          X                          X
Public rights-of-way        X
Public service              X
Public utility stations             X
Recreational vehicle park   X                                  X
Repair services, small      X                                  X
appliance
Restaurant, café           X                                  X
Restaurant, fast food       X                                  X
School, public              X
Schools, private, quasi-    X                                  X
public
Shopping center, community  X                                  X
Short-Term Rental           X                                  X
Small engine repair         X                                  X
Subdivisions (must meet
subdivision requirements of X
chapter 18 of this title)
Surplus, secondhand store           X                          X
Swap meets                          X                          X
Tattoo or Body Piercing     X                                  X
Establishment
Telecommunications facility         X                          X
<45'
Temporary outdoor use               X                          X
Theater, concert hall       X                                  X
Warehouse storage units     X                                  X
Welding machine shop        X                                  X
 
1.   Establishments involving auto body repair and painting services will
require a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021; Ord. 24-05, - -2024; Ord. 24-
17, 6-18-2024; Ord. 24-23, 12-3-2024)
10-8A-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   TABLE
10-8A-3
   MINIMUM LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 
Lot           Area           Width Height Setbacks          Sidewalk, Curb, and
                                                            Gutter
                                                            Sidewalk: R equired
                                                            along lot frontage.
                                                            For corner lots,
                                                            sidewalk is
                                          Front: None       required along lot
                                          Side: 0' next to  frontage and along
                                          existing, general lot side adjacent
                                          commerci al uses  to street. For
                                          15' next to       single-family
Standard      7,500 sq. ft.  90'   45'    residential uses, dwellings, any
                                          including single  portion of a
                                          family dwellings  sidewalk required
                                          and apartments,   over 165' is
                                          and undeveloped   eligible to
                                          uses              participate in the
                                          Rear: 0'          city cost sharing
                                                            program for the
                                                            construction of
                                                            that portion of the
                                                            sidewalk.
Exceptions:                               Front: 25'
Single-family 7,500 sq. ft.  75'   35'    Side: 8'          Curb and Gutter:
dwelling                                  Rear: 20'         Required along lot
                                          Front: 25'        frontage. For
Apartment     12,000 sq. ft. 120'  35'    Side: 8'          corner lots,
                                          Rear: 20'         required along lot
                                                            frontage and along
                                                            lot side adjacent
                                                            to street.
                                                            Exceptions would be
                                                            limited to
                                                            instances in which
                                                            the City Engineer
Accessory                                 Front: 25'        determines
structure     7,500 sq. ft.  75'   35'    Side: 3'          constructio n of
                                          Rear: 3'          the sidewalk, curb,
                                                            and/or gutter would
                                                            be detrimental to
                                                            public safety or
                                                            protection of
                                                            property.
 
   A.   One Principal Structure On Lot: Only one principal structure is
permitted on a single lot.
   B.   Structure To Have Access: All structures shall be on a lot adjacent to
a public street or with access to an approved private street, and shall be so
located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for fire protection.
   C.   Utility Connections: Single-family dwellings allow one utility
connection; external accessory dwellings must connect to the existing utility
connection. Multi-family dwelling units shall have individual utility
connections per dwelling unit. Commercial uses shall have individual utility
connections per commercial unit. City engineers will review for adequate
utility connections.
   D.   Public Utility Stations: Public utility stations shall meet the
following requirements:
      1.   Lot Area: Each station shall be located on a lot not less than two
thousand (2,000) square feet in area.
      2.   Access: Each station shall be located on a lot that has adequate
access from a street, alley or easement.
      3.   Yards: Each station shall be provided with a yard on each of the
four (4) sides of the building or structures not less than fifteen feet (15')
in width,except that for such stations located on lots fronting on a street and
abutted by one or more residential lots. The lot size should be seven thousand
five hundred (7,500) square feet with a privacy fence and possible barbed or
razor wire around the perimeter. Setbacks should be twenty-five feet (25') from
the front, fifteen feet (15') from each side, and forty feet (40') in the rear.
This will allow equipment to enter the property and maintain or repair the
utility station. The access and parking area of the lot should have some type
of weed barrier with gravel throughout the lot for aesthetics and weed control.
   E.   Fencing To Separate Residential And Commercial Uses:
      1.   Purpose: Six-foot (6') sight-obscuring fences will be required in
situations where residential uses and non-residential uses are developed next
to each other or when residential uses are developed next to undeveloped
property in order to mitigate the incompatibility between such uses.
      2.   Fencing Required: Any person who applies for a residential use or
any commercial use in which a person resides or intends to reside, including
apartments, shall construct a six-foot (6') sight-obscuring fencing around the
use prior to receiving a certificate of occupancy. In cases where the use
immediately adjacent to such property is residential in nature and has
similarly completed construction of such fencing, fencing is not necessary to
divide the completed residential development from the completed residential
development. Any person who applies for a non-residential use that is
reasonably likely to impose an impact upon existing, adjacent residential uses,
will unreasonably disturb existing, adjacent residential uses, or is adjacent
to an existing primarily residential zone shall construct a fence separating
such non-residential use from the residential use or zone. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-
2019; amd. Ord. 22-27, 1-3-2022; Ord. 23-09, 6-6-2023; Ord. 24-17, 6-18-2024)
10-8A-4: ERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The operation of any use permitted in this district is subject to the following
standards of performance:
   A.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: All uses must be operated so that all
practical means are used to confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration, or
other similar feature to the premises upon which they are located.
   B.   Lighting: Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas or for any
other purpose shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the
lighted property by appropriate directional hooding.
   C.    Fencing: Fencing shall follow the standards found in Chapter 25.
   D.   Parking: Parking shall follow the standards found in Chapter 14.
   E.   Home Occupations: Home occupations shall follow the standards found in
Chapter 23.
   F.   Temporary Uses: Temporary uses shall follow the standards found in
Chapter 19.
   G.   Apartment: Apartments may be permitted as a three or four-plex and
shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Design Standards: An apartment shall include at least two (2) of the
following design elements:
         a.   At least twenty percent (20%) of the front elevation materials
shall be masonry (brick or stone).
         b.   A porch at least six feet (6') deep per unit.
         c.   At least three (3) points of wall relief, as either a stepback,
recession, or the like.
      2.   Pedestrian Access: At least one (1) paved pedestrian access (4'
minimum width), exclusive of any driveway, shall be provided between the public
sidewalk and the primary entrance of the principal structure.
      3.   Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking areas, including any detached
garages or carport, shall be located to the rear of the principal structure,
except for uncovered parking on any driveway leading to a garage or carport.
      4.   Attached Garages: An applicant may elect to provide an attached
garage to help meet the minimum parking standards. Any attached garage or
carport shall be located to the side or rear of the structure. If a side garage
is oriented toward the street, no more than thirty (30%) percent of the width
of the front elevation may include garage doors.
      5.   Accessory Building:
         a.   No accessory dwelling units are permitted.
         b.   No more than one unoccupied accessory structure, not including a
detached garage or carport, per lot. Any accessory structure shall not be used
for living space.
      6.   Landscaping: At least one (1) tree per fifty (50) feet of lot
frontage, including frontage along any side or rear street, if any. Any new
tree shall be at least 1.5 inches in diameter at the time of planting. (Ord.
19-07, 9-3-2019; Ord. 24-17, 6-18-2024)
ARTICLE B. HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8B-1: Purpose
10-8B-2: Use Table
10-8B-3: Development Standards
10-8B-4: Performance Standards
10-8B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to create a zone which provides an area in the
City for commercial uses that are oriented to vehicular traffic and service
related uses. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-18, 6-18-2024)
10-8B-2: USE TABLE:
If a use is not specifically designated then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-8B-2
USES
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Use Business License
Type                        Allowed Administrative Conditional Business License
                                    Use
Accessory building,         X
unoccupied
Agricultural industry or            X                          X
business
Apartment house                     X                          X
Athletic club               X                                  X
Automotive self-service     X                                  X
station
Automotive service station  X                                  X
Auto, truck, recreational
vehicle and equipment sales X                                  X
or rental
Automotive repair           X                                  X
establishment1
Banking - financial         X                                  X
services
Bar, tavern, lounge and             X                          X
club
Bed and breakfast           X
Church                      X
Cinema, indoor              X                                  X
Civic club                  X
Convenience goods sales and X                                  X
services
Dry cleaning/laundry                X                          X
establishment
Fireworks sales/stands              X                          X
General merchandise sales   X                                  X
and related services
Healthcare center           X                                  X
Heavy/farm equipment sales  X                                  X
Hospital                    X                                  X
Hotel                       X                                  X
Industry, light                     X                          X
Intermittent use                    X                          X
Laundromat                  X                                  X
Linen services                      X                          X
Lumber sales/storage        X                                  X
Mental health center        X                                  X
Military surplus goods/     X                                  X
store
Mortuary, funeral home      X                                  X
Motel                       X                                  X
Museum                      X                                  X
Nursery                     X                                  X
Office, business, or        X
government
Office, professional        X                                  X
Pawnshops                   X                                  X
Personal services           X                                  X
Pet grooming                X                                  X
Public rights-of-way        X
Public service              X
Public utility stations             X
Recreational vehicle park   X                                  X
Repair services, small      X                                  X
appliance or equipment
Restaurant-caf              X                                  X
Restaurant-fast food        X                                  X
School, public              X
Schools, private, quasi-    X                                  X
public
Shopping center- community          X                          X
Short-term rental           X                                  X
Small engine repair         X                                  X
Storage containers                  X
Subdivisions (must meet
subdivision requirements of X
chapter 18 of this title)
Surplus, secondhand store   X                                  X
Swap meet                           X                          X
Tattoo or Body Piercing     X                                  X
Establishment
Telecommunications facility         X                          X
<45'
Temporary outdoor use               X                          X
Theater, concert hall       X                                  X
Warehouse storage units     X                                  X
Short-term rental           X                                  X
Small engine repair         X                                  X
Storage containers                  X
Subdivisions (must meet
subdivision requirements of X
chapter 18 of this title)
Surplus, secondhand store   X                                  X
Swap meet                           X                          X
Tattoo or Body Piercing     X                                  X
Establishment
Telecommunications facility         X                          X
<45'
Temporary outdoor use               X                          X
Theater, concert hall       X                                  X
Warehouse storage units     X                                  X
 
   1.   Establishments involving auto body repair and painting services will
require a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 19-09, 10-1-2019; Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021; Ord.
24-05, - -2024; amd. Ord. 24-18, 6-18-2024)
10-8B-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
TABLE 10-8B-3
MINIMUM LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 
Lot       Area            Widt h Height Setbacks   Sidewalk, Curb, and
                                                   Gutter
                                        Front: 20'
Standard  7,500 sq. ft.   90'    45'    Side: 0'   Sidewalk: Required
                                        Rear: 0'   along lot frontage.
                                        Front: 25' For corner lots,
Apartment 12,00 0 sq. ft. 120'   35'    Side: 8'   sidewalk is
                                        Rear: 20'  required along lot
                                                   frontage and along
                                                   lot side adjacent
                                                   to street. For
                                                   single-family
                                                   dwellings, any
                                                   portion of a
                                                   sidewalk required
                                                   over 165' is
                                                   eligible to
                                                   participate in the
                                                   city cost sharing
                                                   program for the
                                                   construction of
                                                   that portion of the
                                                   sidewalk.
                                                   Curb and Gutter:
                                                   Required along lot
                                                   frontage. For
Accessory                               Front: 25' corner lots,
Structure 7,500 sq. ft.   75'    35'    Side: 3'   required along lot
                                        Rear: 3'   frontage and along
                                                   lot side adjacent
                                                   to street.
                                                   Exceptions would be
                                                   limited to
                                                   instances in which
                                                   the City Engineer
                                                   determines
                                                   construction of the
                                                   sidewalk,
                                                   construction of the
                                                   sidewalk, curb,
                                                   and/or gutter would
                                                   be detrimental to
                                                   public safety or
                                                   protection of
                                                   property.
 
   A.   One Principal Structure On Lot: Only one principal structure is
permitted on a single lot.
   B.   Structure To Have Access: All structures shall be on a lot adjacent to
a public street or with access to an approved private street, and shall be so
located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for fire protection.
   C.   Utility Connections: Single-family dwellings allow one utility
connection; external accessory dwellings must connect to the existing utility
connection. Multi-family dwelling units shall have individual utility
connections per dwelling unit. Commercial uses shall have individual utility
connections per commercial unit. City Engineers will review for adequate
utility connections.
   D.   Public Utility Stations: Public utility stations shall meet the
following requirements:
      1.   Lot Size: Each station shall be located on a lot not less than two
thousand (2,000) square feet in area.
      2.   Access: Each station shall be located on a lot that has adequate
access from a street, alley or easement.
      3.   Yards: Each station shall be provided with a yard on each of the
four (4) sides of the building or structures not less than fifteen feet (15')
in width, except that for such stations located on lots fronting on a street
and abutted by one or more residential lots, the lot size should be seven
thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet with a privacy fence and possible
barbed or razor wire around the perimeter. Setbacks should be twenty-five feet
(25') from the front, fifteen feet (15') from each side, and forty feet (40')
in the rear. This will allow equipment to enter the property and maintain or
repair the utility station. The access and parking area of the lot should have
some type of weed barrier with gravel throughout the lot for aesthetics and
weed control.
   E.   Fencing To Separate Apartments And Commercial Uses:
      1.   Purpose: Six-foot (6') sight-obscuring fences will be required in
situations where residential uses and non-residential uses are developed next
to each other or when residential uses are developed next to undeveloped
property in order to mitigate the incompatibility between such uses.
      2.   Fencing Required: Any person who applies for a residential use or
any commercial use in which a person resides or intends to reside, including
apartments, shall construct a six-foot (6') sight-obscuring fencing around the
use prior to receiving a certificate of occupancy. In cases where the use
immediately adjacent to such property is residential in nature and has
similarly completed construction of such fencing, fencing is not necessary to
divide the completed residential development from the completed residential
development. Any person who applies for a non-residential use that is
reasonably likely to impose an impact upon existing, adjacent residential uses,
will unreasonably disturb existing, adjacent residential uses, or is adjacent
to an existing primarily residential zone shall construct a fence separating
such non-residential use from the residential use or zone. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-
2019; amd. Ord. 23-09, 6-6-2023; amd. Ord. 24-18, 6-18-2024)
10-8B-4: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The operation of any use permitted in this district is subject to the following
standards of performance:
   A.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: All uses must be operated so that all
practical means are used to confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration or
other similar features to the premises upon which they are located.
   B.   Lighting: Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas, or for any
other purpose shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the
lighted property by appropriate directional hooding.
   C.   Fencing: Fencing shall follow the standards found in Chapter 25.
   D.   Parking: Parking shall follow the standards found in Chapter 14.
   E.   Home Occupations: Home occupations shall follow the standards found in
Chapter 23.
   F.   Temporary Uses: Temporary uses shall follow the standards found in
Chapter 19.
   G.   Apartment: Apartments may be permitted as a three or four-plex and
shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Design Standards: An apartment shall include at least two (2) of the
following design elements:
         a.   At least twenty percent (20%) of the front elevation materials
shall be masonry (brick or stone).
         b.   A porch at least six feet (6') deep per unit.
         c.   At least three (3) points of wall relief, as either a stepback,
recession, or the like.
      2.   Pedestrian Access: At least one (1) paved pedestrian access (4'
minimum width), exclusive of any driveway, shall be provided between the public
sidewalk and the primary entrance of the principal structure.
      3.   Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking areas, including any detached
garages or carport, shall be located to the rear of the principal structure,
except for uncovered parking on any driveway leading to a garage or carport.
      4.   Attached Garages: An applicant may elect to provide an attached
garage to help meet the minimum parking standards. Any attached garage or
carport shall be located to the side or rear of the structure. If a side garage
is oriented toward the street, no more than thirty (30%) percent of the width
of the front elevation may include garage doors.
      5.   Accessory Building:
         a.   No accessory dwelling units are permitted.
         b.   No more than one unoccupied accessory structure, not including a
detached garage or carport, per lot. Any accessory structure shall not be used
for living space.
      6.   Landscaping: At least one (1) tree per fifty (50) feet of lot
frontage, including frontage along any side or rear street, if any. Any new
tree shall be at least 1.5 inches in diameter at the time of planting. (Ord.
19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-18, 6-18-2024)
10-8B-9: SIGNS:
If a sign type is not specifically designated below, then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-8B-9
SIGNS
Sign Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Maximum Area Maximum General
                                                          Height  Restrictions
Sign Type    Allowed Administrative Conditional Maximum  Maximum   General
                                                Area     Height    Restrictions
                                                                   Must be set
A-frame sign                        X                    6'        back 10' from
                                                                   intersection.
Awning sign  X                                                      
                                                                   Installation
                                                                   height to be
                                                                   reviewed by
                                                                   staff for
                                                                   safety and
Banner sign  X                                  3' x 6'  3'        visibility.
                                                                   Maximum
                                                                   installation
                                                                   height
                                                                   allowed is
                                                                   25'.
                                                                   See Zone Map
                                                                   for allowed
                                                                   areas. All
                                                                   signs over 32
                                                                   sq. ft. shall
                                                                   not be less
                                                500 sq.            than 1,000
                                                ft.                lineal feet.
                                                250 sq.            Installation
Billboards                          X           ft. in   25'       height to be
                                                certain            reviewed by
                                                areas              staff for
                                                                   safety and
                                                                   visibility.
                                                                   Maximum
                                                                   installation
                                                                   height
                                                                   allowed is
                                                                   25'.
                                                                   Must be
Campaign                                                           removed 10
sign         X                                                     days
                                                                   following the
                                                                   election.
Construction                                                       Installation
sign         X                                  4' x 8'  4'        height 4'
                                                                   maximum.
                                                Not to
                                                exceed             Low intensity
Flat or wall X                                  30% of             light
sign                                            each               fixtures
                                                building           only.
                                                wall
                                                                   1 sign per
                                                                   500' of
                                                                   frontage. Low
                                                                   intensity
                                                                   light
                                                                   fixtures
                                                                   only.
                                                                   Installation
Monument     X                                  39 sq.   6'        height to be
sign                                            ft.                reviewed by
                                                                   staff for
                                                                   safety and
                                                                   visibility.
                                                                   Maximum
                                                                   installation
                                                                   height
                                                                   allowed is
                                                                   25'.
Nameplate    X                                  2' x 3'  2'         
                                                         60' or on
                                                         premises
                                                         exception Same
Pole sign                           X                    of 90' if restrictions
                                                         within    as
                                                         1,320' of Billboards.
                                                         I-15
                                                         corridor
Real estate  X                                  3' x 6'  3'         
sign
                                                                   Size to be
                                                                   reviewed by
                                                                   staff for
Special                                                            safety and
event sign           X                                             visibility.
                                                                   Allowed for
                                                                   45
                                                                   consecutive
                                                                   days only.
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; 21-05, 3-16-2021)
CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9A-1: Purpose
10-9A-2: Use Table
10-9A-3: Development Standards
10-9A-4: Reserved
10-9A-5: Performance Standards
10-9A-6: Parking
10-9A-7: Master Planned Development
10-9A-8: Conditional Use Standards Of Review
10-9A-9: Signs
10-9A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to create a zone which:
   A.   Allows for a compatible mixture of commercial and light industrial uses
which do not require intensive land coverage, generate large volumes of traffic
or create obnoxious sounds, glare, dust or odors.
   B.   This district includes areas which are well adapted to industrial
development; but proximity to Residential or Business Districts makes it
desirable to limit the manner and extent of industrial operations. (Ord. 19-07,
9-3-2019)
10-9A-2: USE TABLE:
If a use is not specifically designated then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-9A-2
USES
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Use Conditional Use Business License
Type                   Allowed Administrative  Conditional Use Business License
                               Conditional Use
Accessory structure,   X
unoccupied
Adult oriented                                 X               X
business
Agricultural industry                          X               X
Agriculture            X
Animal hospital                                X               X
Auto self-service      X                                       X
station
Auto service station   X                                       X
Auto truck, RV sales   X                                       X
and rental
Automotive body/paint                          X               X
repair establishment
Automotive repair      X                                       X
establishment
Aviation airport-      X                                       X
services
Bar, tavern, lounge                            X               X
Childcare for
business:
   Facility                 X                               X
Cinema, outdoor                                X               X
Civic club             X
Coal yard                                      X               X
Convenience goods-     X                                       X
sales
Dry cleaning
establishment                                  X               X
(laundry)
Farm animals/livestock X
Fence, electric        X
Fence, razor                   X
Fence, wildlife/large          X
animal
Fireworks sales/stands         X                               X
Gated communities for
industrial                                     X
developments
General merchandise                            X               X
sales and service
Heavy/farm equipment                           X               X
sales
Household pets         X
Industrial park        X                                       X
Industry, light                                X               X
Industry, medium                               X               X
Intermittent                   X                               X
commercial use
Kennel                                         X               X
Lumber sales/storage                           X               X
Master planned                                 X
development
Military surplus store                         X               X
Mortuary               X                                       X
Nursery                X                                       X
Pawnshops              X                                       X
Public rights-of-way   X
Public services        X
Public utility                 X
stations-except sewer
Public utility                 X
stations-with sewer
Recreational activity                          X               X
specialties
Repair services, small X                                       X
appliances
Security Watchman              X                               X
Dwelling
Sexually oriented                              X               X
business
Small engine repair    X                                       X
Stable, public                 X                               X
Storage containers                             X
Subdivisions (must
meet subdivision
requirements of        X
chapter 18 of this
title)
Telecommunications
facility <35' in               X                               X
height
Temporary outdoor use          X                               X
Warehouse storage                              X               X
units-commercial only
Welding machine shop   X                                       X
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -2024; Ord. 24-06, - -2024)
10-9A-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
TABLE 10-9A-3
MINIMUM LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 
Lot      Area Width Setbacks   Height                 Sidewalks, Curb, and
                                                      Gutter
                                                      Required. Exceptions
                                                      would be limited to
                                                      instances in which the
                    Front: 25'                        City Engineer determines
Standard None 120'  Side: 25'  See subsection E below construction of the
                    Rear: None                        sidewalk, curb, and/or
                                                      gutter would be
                                                      detrimental to public
                                                      safety or protection of
                                                      property.
 
   A.   Erection Of More Than One Principal Structure On The Lot: More than one
structure housing a permitted principal use may be erected on a single lot;
provided, that yard setbacks and other requirements of this title shall be met
for each structure.
   B.   Structure To Have Access: All structures shall be on a lot adjacent to
a public street or with access to an approved private street, and shall be so
located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for fire protection.
   C.   Farm Animals And Livestock: Livestock, fowl and other animals
(excluding household pets) that may, where permitted, be kept, bred and
maintained with the following restrictions:
      1.   Livestock: One animal for every five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures). One horse, cow, pig, llama, goat or
five (5) sheep. Unaltered male goats are not allowed other than on a temporary
basis for breeding purposes. The offspring of livestock may be kept without
consideration of the space limitations until the animal is weaned or not to
exceed six (6) months.
      2.   Other Farm Animals: For each five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures) five (5) rabbits or fowl or other
similar small animals may be kept. One hundred (100) rabbits or fowl may be
kept in an enclosed structure with a roof and walls on all sides. The offspring
kept in the enclosed structure shall not exceed two hundred (200) and may be
kept for a period of six (6) months. One enclosed structure may be kept for
every five thousand (5,000) square feet of property (excluding occupied
structures).
      3.   Animals Stabled Or Housed In Enclosed Areas: Any building, structure
or corral in which livestock is kept must be at least fifty feet (50') from any
street, dwelling or sidewalk. This restriction does not include open pasturing
on a temporary or seasonal basis.
   D.   Public Utility Stations: Public utility stations shall meet the
following requirements:
      1.   Lot Area: Each station shall be located on a lot not less than two
thousand (2,000) square feet in area.
      2.   Access: Each station shall be located on a lot that has adequate
access from a street, alley or easement.
      3.   Yards: Each station shall be provided with a yard on each of the
four (4) sides of the building or structures not less than five feet (5') in
width, except that for such stations located on lots fronting on a street and
abutted by one or more residential lots, the front, side and rear yards should
equal those required for a single-family residence in the same district.
   E.   Maximum Height: A maximum height of seventy five feet (75') may be
allowed if in compliance with airport height restrictions and fire suppression
standards. Approval by fire personnel and airport aviation administration will
be required.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 22-15, 7-19-2022; Ord. 23-09, 6-6-2023)
10-9A-4: RESERVED:
10-9A-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The operation of any use permitted in this district is subject to the following
standards of performance:
   A.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: All uses must be operated so that all
practical means are used to confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration or
other similar feature to the premises upon which they are located.
   B.   Lighting: Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas, or for any
other purpose shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the
lighted property by appropriate directional hooding. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-9A-6: PARKING:
Parking standards in chapter 14, "Parking Standards", of this title, also apply
to the following on site parking requirements. Lighting standards are required
for lots that require more than twenty five (25) spaces and are outlined in
chapter 14, "Parking Standards", of this title.
TABLE 10-9A-6
PARKING
Uses Parking Requirement
Uses                                    Parking Requirement
Animal hospital                         3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Auto truck, RV sales and rental         3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                        1 space per service bay, plus 3 stalls
Automotive repair establishment         per 1,000 square feet for office and
                                        retail areas
Aviation airport-services               4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Childcare facility                      1 space per on duty employee and 1 per
                                        6 children
                                        2 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
                                        floor area for the first 10,000 square
                                        feet, plus 1/2 space per 2,000 square
Industrial park                         feet for the remaining space. Office
                                        area parking requirements shall be
                                        calculated separately based on office
                                        parking rates
Industry                                2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Kennel                                  1 space per 2 employees
Laundry, dry cleaning establishment     3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                        As determined by the Planning
Master planned development              Commission based on the proposed uses
                                        and the potential for shared parking
                                        1 space per 4 seats in parlor, plus 1
Mortuary                                space per 2 employees, plus 1 space per
                                        vehicle used in connection with the
                                        business
Nursery                                 2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Retail sales establishment              3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Sexually oriented business              4 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                        2 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
Warehouse storage units-commercial only floor area for the first 10,000 square
                                        feet, plus 1/2 space per 2,000 square
                                        feet for the remaining space
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -2024)
10-9A-7: MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT:
Any proposal for new development or redevelopment in excess of ten (10) acres
in the zone shall be master planned to assure coordination of design,
mitigation of adverse impacts and common open space. The master plan commits
the owner to a specific, detailed development plan as listed below:
   A.   Development Requirements: All master planned development applications
must include:
      1.   Pedestrian Access: Planned access for pedestrian use;
      2.   Common Open Space: A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the land as
improved common open space to include such uses as: mini parks, picnic,
playground, recreation structures, etc.;
      3.   Easement: A designated permanent easement on and over all open
spaces to guarantee that the open space remains in recreation use, with the
ownership and maintenance the responsibility of the owners' association; and
      4.   Articles, Bylaws: Adopted articles of association and bylaws that
are satisfactory to the City and are in compliance with State and Federal laws.
   B.   Incentives For Master Planned Development Design: The Planning
Commission may recommend the following incentives for master planning:
      1.   Setback, Yard Reductions: Reduction of setbacks and required yard,
subject to the International Building Code;
      2.   Private Roads, Reduced Right-Of-Way: Allow for the development of
private roads and reduced right-of-way areas;
      3.   Parking Reduction: Reduce required parking, based on an analysis
that shows:
         a.   The proposed number of vehicles required by the typical tenant
mix of the project;
         b.   A comparison of similar projects and proposed occupancy;
         c.   The parking needs of nonresidential uses; and
         d.   A shared parking plan and plan for overflow parking. (Ord. 19-07,
9-3-2019)
10-9A-8: CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
The City shall not issue a conditional use permit unless the Planning and
Zoning Administrator, in the case of an administrative conditional use, or the
Planning Commission, for all other conditional uses, concludes that the
application fully mitigates all identified adverse impacts and complies with
the following general standards applicable to all conditional uses, as well as
the specific standards for the use:
   A.   General Review Criteria: An applicant for a conditional use in the zone
must demonstrate:
      1.   Compliance: The application complies with all applicable provisions
of this title, and State and Federal law;
      2.   Structure Compatibility: The structures associated with the use are
compatible with surrounding structures in terms of use, scale, density and
circulation;
      3.   Use Not Detrimental: The use is not detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare;
      4.   Consistent With General Plan: The use is consistent with the City
General Plan as amended;
      5.   Traffic Conditions: Traffic conditions are not adversely effected by
the proposed use, including the existence or need for dedicated turn lanes,
pedestrian access and capacity of the existing streets;
      6.   Utility Capacity: There is sufficient utility capacity;
      7.   Emergency Vehicle Access: There is sufficient emergency vehicle
access;
      8.   Off Street Parking: The location and design of off street parking
are in compliance with off street parking standards;
      9.   Fencing, Screening, Landscaping: A plan for fencing, screening and
landscaping to separate the use from adjoining uses and mitigate the potential
for conflict in uses;
      10.   Exterior Lighting: That exterior lighting complies with the
lighting standards of the zone;
      11.   Flood Control: That within and adjoining the site, impacts on the
aquifer, slope retention and flood potential have been fully mitigated and is
appropriate to the topography of the site.
   B.   Specific Review Criteria For Certain Conditional Uses: In addition to
the foregoing, the Planning Commission or Planning and Zoning Administrator, as
the case may be, must evaluate the applicant’s compliance with each of the
following criteria when considering whether to approve, deny or condition an
application for each of the following conditional uses or administrative
conditional uses:
      1.   Sexually Oriented Businesses: The purpose and objective of this
subsection B1 is to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
concentration of sexually oriented businesses or their location in areas
deleterious to the health, safety and welfare of the City, and to prevent
inappropriate exposure of such businesses to the community. This subsection B1
regulates the time, place and manner of the operation of sexually oriented
businesses, consistent with the United States and Utah State Constitutions. See
also title 3, chapter 11, “Sexually Oriented Businesses”, of this Code.
         a.   Location: No sexually oriented business may be located within one
thousand feet (1,000') of any:
         (1)   School, childcare facility, cemetery, public park, library or
religious institution;
         (2)   Residential zoning boundary;
         (3)   Liquor store; or
         (4)   Other sexually oriented business.
         b.   Measuring Distance: For the purposes of this subsection, distance
is measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which the sexually
oriented business is located and:
         (1)   The closest exterior wall of another sexually oriented business;
         (2)   The closest property line of any school, childcare facility,
public park, library, cemetery or religious institution; and
         (3)   The nearest property line of any Residential Zone.
      2.   Childcare Facility:
         a.   Compliance Requirements: Each application for a childcare
facility must include and comply with:
         (1)   Proof of application for State childcare license;
         (2)   Compliance with State, Federal and local law;
         (3)   A design that does not include a front yard playground;
         (4)   A parking and traffic plan that adequately mitigates the adverse
impacts of increased traffic in the neighborhood.
      3.   Intermittent Commercial Uses: The occasional use of dwellings,
community buildings, private clubs, lodges, social or recreational
establishments and/or their accessory buildings for commercial purposes may be
allowed upon receiving an administrative conditional use permit and provided
that there is compliance with the provisions of this subsection. The following
standards shall apply to all intermittent commercial uses in addition to any
conditions the Planning and Zoning Administrator deems necessary and desirable
to protect the public health, safety and general welfare:
         a.   Displays: The display and sales of merchandise should be
contained primarily within a building;
         b.   Setback, Clear Vision, Code Compliance: The building proposed for
the intermittent commercial use must comply with setback and clear vision area
requirements of this title and with applicable Building and Fire Codes;
         c.   Business License Required: A business license from the City is
required to conduct an intermittent commercial use;
         d.   Parking: Adequate parking is provided to serve the commercial use
that does not create a parking shortage for other existing uses on site;
         e.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: The use does not cause noise, light or
glare which adversely impacts surrounding uses.
      4.   Temporary Outdoor Use: Temporary vendors must:
         a.   Notification In Writing: Notify the City of date, place and
duration of their intended use along with permission in writing from the
property owner or event organizer;
         b.   Setback: Have the use set back twenty five feet (25') from any
public street, sidewalk or right-of-way; and
         c.   Hours Permitted: Last no longer than seventy two (72) hours.
      5.   Minor Telecommunications Facility:
         a.   Purpose; Intent: The purpose of this subsection B5 is to
establish general requirements for the siting of wireless telecommunications
facilities. The intent is to:
         (1)   Encourage the location of facilities in nonresidential areas;
         (2)   Minimize the total number of monopole facilities throughout the
community;
         (3)   Encourage the joint use of new and existing communications
sites;
         (4)   Encourage providers of facilities to locate them where the
adverse impact on the community is minimal;
         (5)   Encourage providers of facilities to use innovative design to
minimize adverse visual impact; and
         (6)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunication
services to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively and
efficiently.
         b.   Applicability: The requirements of this subsection B5 apply to
both commercial and private wireless telecommunications services such as
“cellular” or “PCS” (personal communications services) communications and
paging systems. All facilities shall comply with the following regulations and
all other ordinances of the City and any pertinent regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission and the Federal Aviation Administration.
         c.   Facility Types And Standards: Wireless telecommunications
facilities are characterized by the type and location of the antenna structure.
There are four (4) general types of antenna structures: wall mounted; roof
mounted; monopoles; and lattice towers. Standards for the installation of each
type of antenna are as follows:
         (1)   Wall Mounted Antenna:
            (A) Wall mounted antennas shall not extend above the wall line of
the building or structure or extend more than four feet (4') horizontally from
the face of the building or structure;
            (B) Antennas, equipment and the supporting structure shall be
painted to match the color of the building or structure or the background
against which they are most commonly seen. Antennas and the supporting
structures on building should be architecturally compatible with the building
and the supporting structures on the building should be architecturally
compatible with the building;
            (C) Antennas mounted directly on existing parapet walls, penthouses
or mechanical equipment rooms, with no portion of the antenna extending above
the roofline of such structures, shall be considered a wall mounted antenna;
            (D) Stealth wall mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be
allowed to vary from the provisions of this subsection as determined by the
Planning and Zoning Administrator as part of the administrative conditional
use.
         (2)   Roof Mounted Antenna:
            (A) Roof mounted antennas shall be allowed on top of existing
penthouses or mechanical equipment rooms provided the antennas and antenna
mounting structures shall not extend more than eight feet (8') above the
existing roofline of the penthouse or mechanical equipment room;
            (B) For antennas not mounted on a penthouse or mechanical equipment
room and on a flat roof, the antennas shall be mounted at least five feet (5')
from the exterior wall or parapet wall of the building or structure and shall
be measured from the top of the antenna to the roofline of the building,
structure or parapet. The height of the antenna shall be equal to the distance
the antenna is set back from the exterior wall or parapet wall;
            (C) Roof mounted antennas on a pitched roof shall be allowed,
provided the antennas and antenna support structures do not extend higher than
the peak of the roof measured by a horizontal line from the peak extending over
the roof;
            (D) Stealth roof mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be
allowed to vary from the provisions of this subsection as determined by the
Planning and Zoning Administrator as part of the administrative conditional
use.
         (3)   Monopole:
            (A) The height limit for monopoles is thirty five feet (35').
            (B) In Residential Zones, the monopole will only be allowed in
conjunction with an existing public or quasi-public use, including, but not
limited to, churches, schools, utilities and parks;
            (C) No monopoles shall be allowed in the front yard setback of any
lot;
            (D) Stealth monopole facilities are encouraged and shall be allowed
to vary from the provision of this subsection as determined by the Planning and
Zoning Administrator as part of the administrative conditional use.
      (4)   Lattice Towers: Lattice towers are not allowed.
         d.   Color/Design: Monopoles, antennas and any associated buildings or
equipment shall be painted to blend with the surroundings that are most
commonly seen. The color shall be determined on a case by case basis by the
Planning and Zoning Administrator as part of the administrative conditional use
process. Within six (6) months after the facility has been constructed, the
Planning and Zoning Administrator may require the color be changed if it is
determined that the original color does not blend well with the surroundings.
         e.   Additional Requirements: The following shall be considered by the
Planning and Zoning Administrator as part of the administrative conditional use
process:
         (1)   Compatibility of the proposed structure with the height and mass
of existing buildings and utility structures;
         (2)   Location of the antenna on other existing structures in the same
vicinity such as other monopoles, buildings, water towers, utility poles,
athletic fields, lights, parking lot lights, etc., where possible without
significantly impacting antenna transmission or reception;
         (3)   Location of the antenna in relation to existing vegetation,
topography, including ridge lines, and buildings to obtain the best visual
screening;
         (4)   Spacing between monopoles which create detrimental impacts to
adjoining properties;
         (5)   Installation of, but not limited to, curb, gutter, sidewalk,
landscaping and fencing.
         f.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings to antenna structures
must comply with the required setback, height and landscaping requirements of
the zoning district in which they are located. All utility lines on the lot
leading to the accessory building and antenna structure shall be underground.
         g.   Nonmaintained Or Abandoned Facilities: The building official may
require each nonmaintained or abandoned telecommunications facility to be
removed from the building or premises when such a facility has not been
repaired or put into use by the owner or agent within ninety (90) calendar days
after notice of nonmaintenance or abandonment is given to the owner or agent.
The applicant shall post a site specific bond when a permit is issued to
guarantee removal of the facility and site restoration. The type of bond and
amount shall be determined upon review by the City staff on a case by case
basis. No bond shall be required for roof or wall mounted facilities.
         h.   Building Permit Required: A building permit is required for all
wireless telecommunication facilities, including, but not limited to,
monopoles, and roof and wall mounted antennas.
         i.   Temporary Drive Test: Companies wishing to perform drive tests
shall submit notice to the Planning and Zoning Administrator stating the
location and the date of the proposed test. Antennas in use for the drive tests
shall be limited to testing functions only and shall not be used for
telecommunication services to customers.
      6.   Recreational Activity Specialties: The following recreational
activities specialties shall be allowed as conditional uses:
         a.   Off Highway Vehicles: Recreational activities involving off
highway vehicles and similar motorized vehicles for recreational use.
         b.   Equine Activities: Horse arenas, equestrian parks and equine
activity, including, but not limited to equine shows, fairs, competitions,
performances, racing or sales that involve any breeds of equines and any equine
disciplines; boarding or training equines; teaching persons equestrian skills;
and other equine activities as determined by the Planning Commission to be
consistent with this subsection.
         c.   Other Activities: Any other recreational activity as determined
by the Planning Commission to be consistent with this district.
      7.   Gated Communities For Industrial Developments: Applicants must
comply with the following standards:
         a.   Need Established: The applicants have demonstrated a need for an
entry gate to effectively control ongoing negative health, safety and welfare
issues; or, in highly unique circumstances, excessive non-neighborhood parking
or traffic on a regular basis.
         b.   Private Street: The private street is not a through street and
traffic circulation through the neighborhood to other parts of the community is
not impacted.
         c.   Setback Of Entry Gate: The entry gate shall be set back twenty
five feet (25').
         d.   Building Permit Required: A building permit for the gate must be
approved.
         e.   Design Standards: The entry gate shall meet the following design
standards:
         (1)   The clearance distance from the gate bottom to the ground shall
be a minimum of two feet (2');
         (2)   The maximum height from the bottom to top rail shall be three
feet (3');
         (3)   The gate will be constructed from visually open materials that
will not obstruct more than fifty percent (50%) visibility (i.e., open
fencing);
         (4)   Fencing adjacent to the gate shall not exceed a height of four
feet (4') for solid fencing materials and six feet (6') for open materials;
         (5)   Columns added for architectural interest shall not exceed nine
feet (9');
         (6)   The gate design shall be minimal in height and scale to
accomplish the goal of preventing unauthorized access.
         f.   Emergency Access Plan: An access plan for emergency services and
authorized City representatives will be provided to and approved by the City.
      8.   Storage Containers:
         a.   Storage Container Defined: For purposes of this subsection B8
only, “storage container” shall mean any trailer commonly described as a
storage container or storage unit, including, but not limited to, semitrailers,
cargo trailers and any other similar unit with a storage space of greater than
one hundred twenty (120) square feet. “Temporary storage container” shall mean
any storage container greater than one hundred twenty (120) square feet but
less than three hundred (300) square feet permitted as a temporary use during
the construction or alteration of a building, and allowed as a conditional use
issued with a building permit;
         b.   Number Permitted: A maximum of two (2) storage containers, either
temporary or permanent, per business shall be allowed as a conditional use;
         c.   Setback: Storage containers shall be required to have a setback
from the primary building or structure. Permanent storage containers shall be
painted a color to match the primary building or structure or, in the direction
of the Planning Commission, shall be painted a neutral color;
         d.   Removal: Temporary storage containers shall be removed within ten
(10) days of completion of the construction and prior to the issuance of an
occupancy permit. Failure to remove the containers may result in termination of
utility services.
      9.   Security Watchman Dwelling:
         a.   Purpose: Limited use to allow a security guard or watchman
opportunity to secure property on-site and protect against theft, trespassers,
and vandalism. This use is not for the purpose of residential rentals dwellings
or for the purpose of accruing residential rental income. It is limited to two
(2) security watchman employees.
         b.   Additional Development Standard:
         (1)   No standalone dwelling unit: The security watchman dwelling must
be located within or attached to the industrial structure. A separate dwelling
unit, including an RV or travel trailer, mobile home, home, or other standalone
structure is prohibited.
         (2)   No separate utilities: Existing utility laterals and service
connections will need to be inspected and upgraded as deemed necessary by the
utility provider. Establishment of a security watchmen dwelling does not
authorize an additional connection or utility meter. The property shall have no
more than one (1) connection and meter for each utility service.
         (3)   Maximum area: A security watchman dwelling shall be no more than
nine hundred square feet in area (900 sq. ft.).
         (4)   Compliance with law: A security watchman dwelling shall be
compliant with all state statutes and regulations, and all ordinances and
resolutions of the City, including adopted codes of the City pursuant to
Fillmore City Municipal Code Title 9, Chapter 1.
         (5)   Business License Required: Upon application, and annually
thereafter, a business license shall be submitted by the security watchman in
compliance with Fillmore City Municipal Code, Title 3, Chapter 1. In
conjunction with such business license, the applicant must submit proof of
employment and compliance with this section, which may include a signed
affidavit by the security watchman that such security watchman is following the
conditions required herein and within an approved conditional use permit.
      10.   Warehouse Storage Units:
         a.   Site Plan And Permit Required:
         (1)   The construction and design shall be in accordance and follow
the International Building Code.
         (2)   A site plan must provided, addressing and including plans for
sufficient ingress, egress, and access to and from units as well as stormwater
drainage and retain prior to approval of a building permit.
         (3)   The minimum lot and development standards under section
10-9A-3 must be followed, including the minimum area, width, and setbacks.
         (4)   This use may not be combined with other uses, commercial or
otherwise, on the same property.
         (5)   This use may not be combined with other uses, commercial or
otherwise, on the same property.
         b.   Use: Shipping containers shall onlu be used to store the same
items as similar self-storage facilities, such as personal household items.
business supplies, etc.
         c.   Exterior:
         (1)   Shipping containers must be uniform in color, and shall be
beige, brown, or similar color.
         (2)   Security fencing shall be constructed around the perimeter in
accordance with title 10, chapter 21, with sufficient visibility to allow
patrolling law enforcement the ability to view the units.
         d.   Prohibition. The following practices are prohibited:
         (1)   Stacking of shipping containers.
         (2)   Storage of hazardous materials within shipping containers.
         (3)   Occupancy of humans or animals within shipping containers.
         (4)   Utility connection to shipping containers.
         (5)   Container Yard Practices. If containers are added or removed to
the site, the applicant must first receive approval under this section after
submitting a revised site plan. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -
2024; Ord. 24-06, - -2024; Ord. 24-22, 10-15-2024)
10-9A-9: SIGNS:
If a sign type is not specifically designated below, then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-9A-9
SIGNS
Sign Type Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General Restrictions
Sign Type     Allowed Conditional Maximum Area  Maximum Height General
                                                               Restrictions
                                                               Must be set back
A-frame sign          X                         6'             10' from
                                                               intersection.
Awning sign   X                                                
                                                               Installation
                                                               height to be
                                                               reviewed by
                                                               staff for safety
Banner sign   X                  3' x 6'       3'             and visibility.
                                                               Maximum
                                                               installation
                                                               height allowed
                                                               is 25'.
                                                               See Zone Map for
                                                               allowed areas.
                                                               All signs over
                                                               32 sq. ft. shall
                                                               not be less than
                                                               1,000 lineal
                                                               feet.
Billboards            X           500 sq. ft.   25'            Installation
                                                               height to be
                                                               reviewed by
                                                               staff for safety
                                                               and visibility.
                                                               Maximum
                                                               installation
                                                               height allowed
                                                               is 25'.
                                                               Must be removed
Campaign sign X                                               10 days
                                                               following the
                                                               election.
Construction                                                   Installation
sign          X                  4' x 8'       4'             height 4'
                                                               maximum.
Flat or wall                      Not to exceed                Low intensity
sign          X                  30% of each   '              light fixtures
                                  building wall                only.
                                                               1 sign per 500'
                                                               of frontage. Low
                                                               intensity light
                                                               fixtures only.
                                                               Installation
Monument/                                                      height to be
freestanding  X                  39 sq. ft.    6'             reviewed by
sign                                                           staff for safety
                                                               and visibility.
                                                               Maximum
                                                               installation
                                                               height allowed
                                                               is 25'.
Nameplate     X                  2' x 3'       2'              
                                                               Same
Pole sign             X                         40'            restrictions as
                                                               Billboards.
Real estate   X                  3' x 6'       3'              
sign
 
Note: Continuous illumination of signs is prohibited in this zone.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-06, 4-18-2023)
CHAPTER 10
OFFICE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-10-1: Purpose
10-10-2: Use Table
10-10-3: Development Standards
10-10-4: Reserved
10-10-5: Performance Standards
10-10-6: Parking
10-10-7: Conditional Use Standards Of Review
10-10-8: Signs
10-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to create a zone which allows for limited
commercial office businesses that are compatible with single- and two-family
dwellings. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-10-2: USE TABLE:
If a use is not specifically designated then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-10-2
USES
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Use Conditional Use Business License
Type                   Allowed Administrative  Conditional Use Business License
                               Conditional Use
Accessory structure,   X
unoccupied
Agriculture            X
Apartment house                                X               X
Childcare for
business:
Center                         X                               X
Facility                       X                               X
Church                 X
Civic club             X                                       X
Dwelling, single-      X
family
Dwelling, two-family   X
Farm animals/livestock X
Fence, electric                X
Fence, wildlife/large          X
animal
General merchandise                            X               X
sales and service
Group home:
Assisted living                                X               X
facility
Disabled                                       X               X
Elderly                                        X               X
Healthcare center      X                                       X
Home occupation                X                               X
Hospital               X                                       X
Household pets         X
Intermittent                   X                               X
commercial use
Manufactured home      X
Mental health center                           X               X
Modular home           X
Office, business,      X
government
Office, professional   X                                       X
Outdoor rec-park-play  X                                       X
Personal services      X                                       X
Preschools                     X                               X
Public rights-of-way   X
Public services                                X
Repair services, small X                                       X
appliances
Schools, private       X                                       X
Schools, public        X
Short-term rental      X                                       X
Stable, private        X
Subdivisions (must
meet subdivision
requirements of        X
chapter 18 of this
title)
Tattoo or Body         X                                       X
Piercing Establishment
Temporary outdoor use          X                               X
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021)
10-10-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
TABLE 10-10-3
MINIMUM LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 
                                                                 Sidewalk,
Lot        Area          Width Setbacks     Height Sidewalks     Curb, and
                                                                 Gutter
                                                   Yes. Single-  Required.
                                                   family/owner  Exceptions
                                                   occupied new  would be
                                                   construction  limited to
                                                   only: Any     instances in
                                                   portion of    which the
                               Front: 25'          sidewalk      City Engineer
                               Side: 8'            required over determines
Single-                        Rear: 20'           150' is       construction
family     7,500 sq. ft. 75'   Accessory    35'    eligible to   of the
dwelling                       structure:          participate   sidewalk,
                               25' front/3'        in the        curb, and/or
                               side                Fillmore City gutter would
                                                   cost sharing  be
                                                   program for   detrimental
                                                   the           to public
                                                   construction  safety or
                                                   of that       protection of
                                                   portion of    property.
                                                   the sidewalk.
                               Front: 25'
                               Side: 8'
                               Rear: 20'
Two-family 9,000 sq. ft. 90'   Accessory    35'    Yes
                               structure:
                               25' front/3'
                               side
                               Front: 25'
                               Side: 8'
                               Rear: 20'
Commercial 7,500 sq. ft. 90'   Accessory    35'    Yes
                               structure:
                               25' front/3'
                               side
 
   A.   Erection Of More Than One Principal Structure On The Lot: More than one
structure housing a permitted principal use may be erected on a single lot;
provided, that yard setbacks and other requirements of this title shall be met
for each structure.
   B.   Structure To Have Access: All structures shall be on a lot adjacent to
a public street or with access to an approved private street, and shall be so
located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for fire protection.
   C.   Farm Animals And Livestock: Livestock, fowl and other animals
(excluding household pets) that may, where permitted, be kept, bred and
maintained with the following restrictions:
      1.   Livestock: One animal for every five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures). One horse, cow, pig, llama, goat or
five (5) sheep. Unaltered male goats are not allowed other than on a temporary
basis for breeding purposes. The offspring of livestock may be kept without
consideration of the space limitations until the animal is weaned or not to
exceed six (6) months.
      2.   Other Farm Animals: For each five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures) five (5) rabbits or fowl or other
similar small animals may be kept. One hundred (100) rabbits or fowl may be
kept in an enclosed structure with a roof and walls on all sides. The offspring
kept in the enclosed structure shall not exceed two hundred (200) and may be
kept for a period of six (6) months. One enclosed structure may be kept for
every five thousand (5,000) square feet of property (excluding occupied
structures).
      3.   Animals Stabled Or Housed In Enclosed Areas: Any building, structure
or corral in which livestock is kept must be at least fifty feet (50') from any
street, dwelling or sidewalk. This restriction does not include open pasturing
on a temporary or seasonal basis.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-09, 6-6-2023)
10-10-4: RESERVED:
10-10-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The operation of any use permitted in this district is subject to the following
standards of performance:
   A.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: All uses must be operated so that all
practical means are used to confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration or
other similar feature to the premises upon which they are located.
   B.   Lighting: Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas, or for any
other purpose shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the
lighted property by appropriate directional hooding. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-10-6: PARKING:
Parking standards in chapter 14, "Parking Standards", of this title, also apply
to the following on site parking requirements:
TABLE 10-10-6
PARKING
Uses Parking Requirement
Uses                                 Parking Requirement
Apartment house                      3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Childcare facility/center            1 space per on duty employee and 1 per 6
                                     children
Dwelling, single-family              2.5 spaces per dwelling unit (minimum 167
                                     square feet per space)
Dwelling, two-family                 2.5 spaces per dwelling unit (minimum 167
                                     square feet per space)
                                     The greater of: 1 space per 2 bedrooms,
Group home                           plus 1 space per employee per shift; or 2
                                     per 3 employees per shift
Healthcare center                    5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Office, business, government         3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Office, professional                 2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Public and quasi-public institution, The greater of: 1 space per 5 seats; or 2
church and school; public utility;   spaces per 3 employees; or 1 space per
Municipal facility                   1,000 square feet
Retail sales establishment           3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                     2.5 spaces per dwelling unit (minimum 167
Short-term rental                    square feet per space). The parking of RVs
                                     and travel trailers is prohibited.
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-20, 1-4-2021)
10-10-7: CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
The City shall not issue a conditional use permit unless the Planning and
Zoning Administrator, in the case of an administrative conditional use, or the
Planning Commission, for all other conditional uses, concludes that the
application fully mitigates all identified adverse impacts and complies with
the following general standards applicable to all conditional uses, as well as
the specific standards for the use:
   A.   General Review Criteria: An applicant for a conditional use in the zone
must demonstrate:
      1.   Compliance: The application complies with all applicable provisions
of this title, and State and Federal law;
      2.   Structure Compatibility: The structures associated with the use are
compatible with surrounding structures in terms of use, scale, density and
circulation;
      3.   Use Not Detrimental: The use is not detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare;
      4.   Consistent With General Plan: The use is consistent with the City
General Plan, as amended;
      5.   Traffic: Traffic conditions are not adversely affected by the
proposed use, including the existence or need for dedicated turn lanes,
pedestrian access and capacity of the existing streets;
      6.   Utility Capacity: There is sufficient utility capacity;
      7.   Emergency Vehicle Access: There is sufficient emergency vehicle
access;
      8.   Off Street Parking: The location and design of off street parking
are in compliance with off street parking standards;
      9.   Fencing, Screening, Landscaping: A plan for fencing, screening and
landscaping to separate the use from adjoining uses and mitigate the potential
for conflict in uses;
      10.   Exterior Lighting: That exterior lighting complies with the
lighting standards of the zone;
      11.   Flood Control: That within and adjoining the site, impacts on the
aquifer, slope retention and flood potential have been fully mitigated and is
appropriate to the topography of the site.
   B.   Specific Review Criteria For Certain Conditional Uses: In addition to
the foregoing, the Planning Commission or Planning and Zoning Administrator, as
the case may be, must evaluate the applicant's compliance with each of the
following criteria when considering whether to approve, deny or condition an
application for each of the following conditional uses or administrative
conditional uses:
      1.   Childcare Facility/Center:
         a.   Compliance Requirements: Each application for a childcare
facility or center must include and comply with:
            (1)   Proof of application for State childcare license;
            (2)   Compliance with State, Federal and local law;
            (3)   A design that does not include a front yard playground;
            (4)   A parking and traffic plan that adequately mitigates the
adverse impacts of increased traffic in the neighborhood.
         b.   Number Permitted: Childcare providers operating as a childcare
center in their own dwelling may not exceed sixteen (16) children at any given
time, including the provider's own children twelve (12) years of age or
younger.
         c.   Infants: Childcare providers operating as a childcare center in
their own dwelling may not provide services for more than two (2) infants.
      2.   Intermittent Commercial Uses: The occasional use of dwellings,
community buildings, private clubs, lodges, social or recreational
establishments and/or their accessory buildings for commercial purposes may be
allowed upon receiving an administrative conditional use permit and provided
that there is compliance with the provisions of this subsection. The following
standards shall apply to all intermittent commercial uses in addition to any
conditions the Planning and Zoning Administrator deems necessary and desirable
to protect the public health, safety and general welfare:
         a.   Displays: The display and sales of merchandise should be
contained primarily within a building;
         b.   Setback, Clear Vision, Code Compliance: The building proposed for
the intermittent commercial use must comply with setback and clear vision area
requirements of this title and with applicable Building and Fire Codes;
         c.   Business License Required: A business license from the City is
required to conduct an intermittent commercial use;
         d.   Parking: Adequate parking is provided to serve the commercial use
that does not create a parking shortage for other existing uses on site;
         e.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: The use does not cause noise, light or
glare which adversely impacts surrounding uses.
      3.   Home Occupation: Each application for a business license for a home
occupation shall include the owner's agreement that the proposed use:
         a.   Outdoor Storage; Vehicle Parking: Shall not include outdoor
storage, outdoor display of merchandise, nor parking/storage of any vehicle in
excess of twelve thousand (12,000) pounds' gross vehicle weight;
         b.   Signage: Shall not include identifying signage in excess of a six
(6) square foot nameplate, attached to the dwelling;
         c.   Employees: Is limited to the on site employment of immediate
family members who occupy the dwelling (this criteria is not intended to limit
the number of employees who are engaged in business for the home occupation but
work off premises);
         d.   Residential Character Maintained: Shall not alter the residential
character or appearance of the dwelling or neighborhood;
         e.   Occupancy Limitation: Shall not occupy more than twenty five
percent (25%) of the main floor of the dwelling, nor more than fifty percent
(50%) of the floor area of any garage or outbuilding in which the use is
conducted;
         f.   Traffic: Shall not generate business related vehicular traffic in
excess of three (3) vehicles per hour;
         g.   Demand For Services: Shall not cause a demand for Municipal
services in excess of that associated with normal residential use;
         h.   Enclosed Within Structure: Shall be enclosed within a structure
in complete conformity with International Building Codes as adopted by City;
and
         i.   Prohibited Uses: Is not a mortuary, animal hospital, kennel,
clinic, hospital, RV service, junkyard, auto repair service, public stable or
sexually oriented business.
      4.   Storage Land Sea Containers As A Temporary Use: Storage containers
greater than one hundred twenty (120) square feet, but less than three hundred
(300) square feet, are allowed during the construction phase of a project. This
use shall be allowed when a building permit for new construction or alteration
is approved. This use is of a temporary nature and includes the following
standards:
         a.   Number Permitted: No more than two (2) containers on any one
property;
         b.   Occupancy Permit Required: Building permit for the construction
project requires an occupancy permit. The occupancy permit shall be withheld
until the containers are removed;
         c.   Removal: The containers shall be removed within ten (10) days of
completion of the project. Failure to remove the containers may result in
termination of utility services. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 24-05, - -
2024)
10-10-8: SIGNS:
If a sign type is not specifically designated below, then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-10-8
SIGNS
Sign Type Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General Restrictions
Sign Type     Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General
                                                              Restrictions
                                                              Must be set back
A-frame sign          X                        6'             10' from the
                                                              intersection.
Awning sign   X                                               
                                                              Installation
                                                              height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
Banner sign   X                  3' x 6'      3'             and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
                                                              Must be removed
Campaign sign X                                              10 days
                                                              following the
                                                              election.
Construction                                                  Installation
sign          X                  4' x 8'      4'             height 4'
                                                              maximum.
                                                              Low intensity
Flat or wall  X                  39 sq. ft.   7'             light fixtures
sign                                                          only. 1 sign per
                                                              building.
                                                              1 sign per 500'
                                                              of frontage. Low
                                                              intensity light
                                                              fixtures only.
                                                              Installation
                                                              height to be
Monument sign X                  39 sq. ft.   6'             reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
                                                              and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
Nameplate     X                  2' x 3'      2'              
Real estate   X                  3' x 6'      3'              
sign
 
Note: Continuous illumination of signs is prohibited in this zone.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 11
PUBLIC/QUASI-PUBLIC DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose
10-11-2: Use Table
10-11-3: Development Standards
10-11-4: Reserved
10-11-5: Performance Standards
10-11-6: Parking
10-11-7: Conditional Use Standards Of Review
10-11-8: Signs
10-11-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to create a zone in which:
   A.   Space in the City is preserved to be developed for both public and
semipublic purposes.
   B.   Areas are identified as being used in a public or semipublic manner.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-11-2: USE TABLE:
If a use is not specifically designated then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-11-2
USES
Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Use Conditional Use Business License
Type                   Allowed Administrative  Conditional Use Business License
                               Conditional Use
Accessory structure,   X
unoccupied
Agriculture            X
Athletic club          X                                       X
Aviation airport:
Accessory living               X
quarters
Services               X                                       X
Cemetery               X
Cemetery, private      X                                       X
Church                 X
Accessory living               X
quarters
Cultural, civic        X                                       X
services
Farm animals/livestock X
Fence, electric                X
Fence, razor                   X
Fence, wildlife/large          X
animal
Healthcare center      X                                       X
Hospital                                       X               X
Intermittent                   X                               X
commercial use
Mental health center                           X               X
Office, business,      X
government
Outdoor rec-park-play  X                                       X
Preschools                     X                               X
Public rights-of-way   X
Public services        X
Public utility                                 X               X
stations-with sewer
Schools, private       X
Schools, public        X
Skating-roller board                           X               X
park
Stable, public                                 X
Storage containers                             X
Subdivisions (must
meet subdivision
requirements of        X
chapter 18 of this
title)
Telecommunications
facility <35' in                               X               X
height
Temporary outdoor use          X                               X
Theater, concert hall  X                                       X
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 19-09, 10-1-2019)
10-11-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
TABLE 10-11-3
MINIMUM LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 
Lot      Area          Width Setbacks              Height Sidewalks, Curb, and
                                                          Gutter
                                                          Required. Exceptions
                                                          would be limited to
                                                          instances in which
                             Front: 25' Side: 8'          the City Engineer
                             Rear: 20' Accessory          determines
Standard 7,500 sq. ft. 90'   structure: 25' front/ 35'    construction of the
                             3' side                      sidewalk, curb, and/
                                                          or gutter would be
                                                          detrimental to public
                                                          safety or protection
                                                          of property.
 
   A.   Erection Of More Than One Principal Structure On The Lot: More than one
structure housing a permitted principal use may be erected on a single lot;
provided, that yard setbacks and other requirements of this title shall be met
for each structure.
   B.   Structure To Have Access: All structures shall be on a lot adjacent to
a public street or with access to an approved private street, and shall be so
located on lots as to provide safe and convenient access for fire protection.
   C.   Farm Animals And Livestock: Livestock, fowl and other animals
(excluding household pets) that may, where permitted, be kept, bred and
maintained with the following restrictions:
      1.   Livestock: One animal for every five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures). One horse, cow, pig, llama, goat or
five (5) sheep. Unaltered male goats are not allowed other than on a temporary
basis for breeding purposes. The offspring of livestock may be kept without
consideration of the space limitations until the animal is weaned or not to
exceed six (6) months.
      2.   Other Farm Animals: For each five thousand (5,000) square feet of
property (excluding occupied structures) five (5) rabbits or fowl or other
similar small animals may be kept. One hundred (100) rabbits or fowl may be
kept in an enclosed structure with a roof and walls on all sides. The offspring
kept in the enclosed structure shall not exceed two hundred (200) and may be
kept for a period of six (6) months. One enclosed structure may be kept for
every five thousand (5,000) square feet of property (excluding occupied
structures).
      3.   Animals Stabled Or Housed In Enclosed Areas: Any building, structure
or corral in which livestock is kept must be at least fifty feet (50') from any
street, dwelling or sidewalk. This restriction does not include open pasturing
on a temporary or seasonal basis.
      4.   Exception: Animals stabled in the Public/Quasi-Public Zone in the
immediate vicinity of the County Fairgrounds or Arena are exempt from the
square footage requirement.
   D.   Public Utility Stations With Sewer: Public utility stations with sewer
shall meet the following requirements:
      1.   Lot Area: Each station shall be located on a lot not less than two
thousand (2,000) square feet in area;
      2.   Access: Each station shall be located on a lot that has adequate
access from a street, alley or easement;
      3.   Yards: Each station shall be provided with a yard on each of the
four (4) sides of the building or structures not less than five feet (5') in
width, except that for such stations located on lots fronting on a street and
abutted by one or more residential lots, the front, side and rear yards should
equal those required for a single-family residence in the same district.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-09, 6-6-2023)
10-11-4: RESERVED
10-11-5: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
The operation of any use permitted in this district is subject to the following
standards of performance:
   A.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: All uses must be operated so that all
practical means are used to confine any noise, odor, dust, smoke, vibration or
other similar feature to the premises upon which they are located.
   B.   Lighting: Any light used to illuminate signs, parking areas, or for any
other purpose shall be so arranged as to confine direct light beams to the
lighted property by appropriate directional hooding. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-11-6: PARKING:
Parking standards in chapter 14, "Parking Standards", of this title, also apply
to the following on site parking requirements. Lighting standards are required
for lots that require more than twenty five (25) spaces and are outlined in
chapter 14, "Parking Standards", of this title.
TABLE 10-11-6
PARKING
Uses Parking Requirement
Uses                                   Parking Requirement
Aviation airport-services              3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Healthcare center                      5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Hospital                               1.80 parking spaces per hospital bed
Office, business, government           3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Public and quasi-public institution,   The greater of: 1 space per 5 seats; or
church; public utility; Municipal      2 spaces per 3 employees; or 1 space per
facility                               1,000 square feet
                                       1 parking space for each 3 faculty
                                       members and other full time employees,
Schools, private, public, quasi-public plus 1 parking space for each 10
                                       students if students enrolled are of
                                       driving age
Theater, concert hall                  1 space per 4 seats
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-11-7: CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
The City shall not issue a conditional use permit unless the Planning and
Zoning Administrator, in the case of an administrative conditional use, or the
Planning Commission, for all other conditional uses, concludes that the
application fully mitigates all identified adverse impacts and complies with
the following general standards applicable to all conditional uses, as well as
the specific standards for the use:
   A.   General Review Criteria: An applicant for a conditional use in the zone
must demonstrate:
      1.   Compliance: The application complies with all applicable provisions
of this title, and State and Federal law;
      2.   Structure Compatibility: The structures associated with the use are
compatible with surrounding structures in terms of use, scale, density and
circulation;
      3.   Use Not Detrimental: The use is not detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare;
      4.   Consistent With General Plan: The use is consistent with the City
General Plan, as amended;
      5.   Traffic: Traffic conditions are not adversely affected by the
proposed use, including the existence or need for dedicated turn lanes,
pedestrian access and capacity of the existing streets;
      6.   Utility Capacity: There is sufficient utility capacity;
      7.   Emergency Vehicle Access: There is sufficient emergency vehicle
access;
      8.   Off Street Parking: The location and design of off street parking
are in compliance with off street parking standards;
      9.   Fencing, Screening, Landscaping: A plan for fencing, screening and
landscaping to separate the use from adjoining uses and mitigate the potential
for conflict in uses;
      10.   Exterior Lighting: That exterior lighting complies with the
lighting standards of the zone;
      11.   Flood Control: That within and adjoining the site, impacts on the
aquifer, slope retention and flood potential have been fully mitigated and is
appropriate to the topography of the site.
   B.   Specific Review Criteria For Certain Conditional Uses: In addition to
the foregoing, the Planning Commission or Planning and Zoning Administrator, as
the case may be, must evaluate the applicant's compliance with each of the
following criteria when considering whether to approve, deny or condition an
application for each of the following conditional uses or administrative
conditional uses:
      1.   Intermittent Commercial Uses: The occasional use of dwellings,
community buildings, private clubs, lodges, social or recreational
establishments and/or their accessory buildings for commercial purposes may be
allowed upon receiving an administrative conditional use permit and provided
that there is compliance with the provisions of this subsection. The following
standards shall apply to all intermittent commercial uses in addition to any
conditions the Planning and Zoning Administrator deems necessary and desirable
to protect the public health, safety and general welfare:
         a.   Displays: The display and sales of merchandise should be
contained primarily within a building;
         b.   Setback, Clear Vision, Code Compliance: The building proposed for
the intermittent commercial use must comply with setback and clear vision area
requirements of this title and with applicable Building and Fire Codes;
         c.   Business License Required: A business license from the City is
required to conduct an intermittent commercial use;
         d.   Parking: Adequate parking is provided to serve the commercial use
that does not create a parking shortage for other existing uses on site;
         e.   Nuisances Or Disturbances: The use does not cause noise, light or
glare which adversely impacts surrounding uses.
      2.   Temporary Outdoor Use: Temporary vendors must:
         a.   Written Notification: Notify the City of date, place and duration
of their intended use, along with permission in writing from the property owner
or event organizer;
         b.   Setback: Must have the use set back twenty five feet (25') from
any public street, sidewalk or right-of-way; and
         c.   Hours Permitted: Must last no longer than seventy two (72) hours.
      3.   Minor Telecommunications Facility:
         a.   Purpose; Intent: The purpose of this subsection B3 is to
establish general requirements for the siting of wireless telecommunications
facilities. The intent is to:
            (1)   Encourage the location of facilities in nonresidential areas;
            (2)   Minimize the total number of monopole facilities throughout
the community;
            (3)   Encourage the joint use of new and existing communications
sites;
            (4)   Encourage providers of facilities to locate them where the
adverse impact on the community is minimal;
            (5)   Encourage providers of facilities to use innovative design to
minimize adverse visual impact; and
            (6)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunication
services to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively, and
efficiently.
         b.   Applicability: The requirements of this subsection B3 apply to
both commercial and private wireless telecommunications services, such as
"cellular" or "PCS" (personal communications services) communications and
paging systems. All facilities shall comply with the following regulations and
all other ordinances of the City and any pertinent regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission and the Federal Aviation Administration.
         c.   Facility Types And Standards: Wireless telecommunications
facilities are characterized by the type and location of the antenna structure.
There are four (4) general types of antenna structures: wall mounted; roof
mounted; monopoles; and lattice towers. Standards for the installation of each
type of antenna are as follows:
            (1)   Wall Mounted Antenna:
               (A)   Wall mounted antennas shall not extend above the wall line
of the building or structure or extend more than four feet (4') horizontally
from the face of the building or structure.
               (B)   Antennas, equipment and the supporting structure shall be
painted to match the color of the building or structure or the background
against which they are most commonly seen. Antennas and the supporting
structures on the building should be architecturally compatible with the
building and the supporting structures on building should be architecturally
compatible with the building.
               (C)   Antennas mounted directly on existing parapet walls,
penthouses or mechanical equipment rooms, with no portion of the antenna
extending above the roofline of such structures, shall be considered a wall
mounted antenna.
               (D)   Stealth wall mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be
allowed to vary from the provisions of this subsection, as determined by the
Planning Commission as part of the conditional use.
            (2)   Roof Mounted Antenna:
               (A)   Roof mounted antennas shall be allowed on top of existing
penthouses or mechanical equipment rooms, provided the antennas and antenna
mounting structures shall not extend more than eight feet (8') above the
existing roofline of the penthouse or mechanical equipment room.
               (B)   For antennas not mounted on a penthouse or mechanical
equipment room and on a flat roof, the antennas shall be mounted at least five
feet (5') from the exterior wall or parapet wall of the building or structure
and shall be measured from the top of the antenna to the roofline of the
building, structure or parapet. The height of the antenna shall be equal to the
distance the antenna is set back from the exterior wall or parapet wall.
               (C)   Roof mounted antennas on a pitched roof shall be allowed,
provided the antennas and antenna support structures do not extend higher than
the peak of the roof measured by a horizontal line from the peak extending over
the roof.
               (D)   Stealth roof mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be
allowed to vary from the provisions of this subsection, as determined by the
Planning Commission as part of the conditional use.
            (3)   Monopole:
               (A)   The height limit for monopoles is thirty five feet (35').
               (B)   In Residential Zones, the monopole will only be allowed in
conjunction with an existing public or quasi-public use, including but not
limited to churches, schools, utilities and parks.
               (C)   No monopoles shall be allowed in the front yard setback of
any lot.
               (D)   Stealth monopole facilities are encouraged and shall be
allowed to vary from the provision of this subsection, as determined by the
Planning Commission as part of the conditional use.
            (4)   Lattice Towers: Lattice towers are not allowed.
         d.   Color/Design: Monopoles, antennas and any associated buildings or
equipment shall be painted to blend with the surroundings that are most
commonly seen. The color shall be determined on a case by case basis by the
Planning Commission as part of the conditional use process. Within six (6)
months after the facility has been constructed, the Planning Commission may
require the color be changed if it is determined that the original color does
not blend well with the surroundings.
         e.   Additional Requirements: The following shall be considered by the
Planning Commission as part of the conditional use process:
            (1)   Compatibility of the proposed structure with the height and
mass of existing buildings and utility structures;
            (2)   Location of the antenna on other existing structures in the
same vicinity, such as other monopoles, buildings, water towers, utility poles,
athletic fields, lights, parking lot lights, etc., where possible without
significantly impacting antenna transmission or reception;
            (3)   Location of the antenna in relation to existing vegetation,
topography, including ridge lines, and buildings to obtain the best visual
screening;
            (4)   Spacing between monopoles which create detrimental impacts to
adjoining properties;
            (5)   Installation of, but not limited to, curb, gutter, sidewalk,
landscaping and fencing.
         f.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings to antenna structures
must comply with the required setback, height and landscaping requirements of
the zoning district in which they are located. All utility lines on the lot
leading to the accessory building and antenna structure shall be underground.
         g.   Nonmaintained Or Abandoned Facilities: The building official may
require each nonmaintained or abandoned telecommunications facility to be
removed from the building or premises when such a facility has not been
repaired or put into use by the owner or agent within ninety (90) calendar days
after notice of nonmaintenance or abandonment is given to the owner or agent.
The applicant shall post a site specific bond when a permit is issued to
guarantee removal of the facility and site restoration. The type of bond and
amount shall be determined upon review by the City staff on a case by case
basis. No bond shall be required for roof or wall mounted facilities.
         h.   Building Permit Required: A building permit is required for all
wireless telecommunication facilities, including, but not limited to, monopoles
and roof and wall mounted antennas.
         i.   Temporary Drive Test: Companies wishing to perform drive tests
shall submit notice to the Planning Commission stating the location and the
date of the proposed test. Antennas in use for the drive tests shall be limited
to testing functions only and shall not be used for telecommunication services
to customers.
      4.   Storage Land Sea Containers As A Temporary Use: Storage containers
greater than one hundred twenty (120) square feet, but less than three hundred
(300) square feet are allowed during the construction phase of a project. This
use shall be allowed when a building permit for new construction or alteration
is approved. This use is of a temporary nature and includes the following
standards:
         a.   Number Permitted: No more than two (2) containers on any one
property.
         b.   Occupancy Permit Required: Building permit for the construction
project requires an occupancy permit. The occupancy permit shall be withheld
until the containers are removed.
         c.   Removal: The containers shall be removed within ten (10) days of
completion of the project. Failure to remove the containers may result in
termination of utility services. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-11-8: SIGNS:
If a sign type is not specifically designated below, then it is prohibited.
TABLE 10-11-8
SIGNS
Sign Type Allowed Administrative Maximum Area Maximum Height General
                                                             Restrictions
Sign Type     Allowed Administrative Maximum Area Maximum Height General
                                                                 Restrictions
                                                                 Installation
                                                                 height to be
                                                                 reviewed by
                                                                 staff for
Banner sign   X                     3' x 6'      3'             safety and
                                                                 visibility.
                                                                 Maximum
                                                                 installation
                                                                 height allowed
                                                                 is 25'.
                                                                 Must be
Campaign sign X                                                 removed 10
                                                                 days following
                                                                 the election.
Construction                                                     Installation
sign                  X              4' x 8'      4'             height 4'
                                                                 maximum.
                                                                 Low intensity
Flat or wall  X                     39 sq. ft.   7'             light fixtures
sign                                                             only. 1 sign
                                                                 per building.
                                                                 1 sign per
                                                                 500' of
                                                                 frontage. Low
                                                                 intensity
                                                                 light fixtures
                                                                 only.
                                                                 Installation
Monument sign X                     39 sq. ft.   6'             height to be
                                                                 reviewed by
                                                                 staff for
                                                                 safety and
                                                                 visibility.
                                                                 Maximum
                                                                 installation
                                                                 height allowed
                                                                 is 25'.
Nameplate     X                     2' x 3'      2'              
                                                                 Installation
                                                                 specifications
                                                                 to be reviewed
                                                                 by staff for
                                                                 safety and
                                                                 visibility.
Pole sign     X                     20' x 8'5"   20'            Such sign must
                                                                 comply with
                                                                 the Clear
                                                                 Vision Area.
                                                                 May include
                                                                 changeable
                                                                 message signs.
Real estate   X                     3' x 6'      3'              
sign
                                                                 Size to be
                                                                 reviewed by
                                                                 staff for
Special event X       X                                          safety and
sign                                                             visibility.
                                                                 Allowed for 45
                                                                 consecutive
                                                                 days only.
 
Note: Continuous illumination of signs is prohibited in this zone.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 22-23, 11-15-2022)
CHAPTER 12
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. AIRPORT PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE; AIRPORT INFLUENCE AREA
SECTION:
10-12A-1: Intent
10-12A-2: Purpose
10-12A-3: General Provisions
10-12A-4: Limitation Of Uses In Overlay District
10-12A-5: Exceptions To Article
10-12A-6: Special Limitations
10-12A-7: Exceptions To Special Limitations Height Restrictions
10-12A-8: Fair Disclosure Statement Sample
10-12A-9: Aviation And Hazard Easement Sample
10-12A-1: INTENT:
The intent of this article is to create an Airport Protection Overlay Zone to:
   A.   Protect the health and safety of the residents of the City from
aircraft using the Fillmore Municipal Airport by minimizing dangers to aircraft
and lessening the chance of aircraft accidents; and
   B.   Protect the Fillmore Municipal Airport from incompatible or conflicting
land uses. The above shall be accomplished by:
      1.   Minimizing exposure of residential and other sensitive land uses to
aircraft overflight areas;
      2.   Avoiding dangers in aircraft overflight areas, encouraging
compatible land use within the area;
      3.   Restricting noncompatible land uses within the Airport Influence
Area. For purposes of this article, noncompatible land uses are described as:
         a.   Residential and other noise sensitive uses in close proximity to
the airport;
         b.   Congregations of people in approach and departure areas to
protect people and property on the ground;
         c.   Manmade and natural structures that interfere with flight and
that create dangers greater than existing land uses;
         d.   Land uses which may be affected by vibrations or fumes from
aircraft operations; and
         e.   Uses of land on the airport grounds that interfere with areas
needed for aviation related activities. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-12A-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Overlay Zone is to protect public health and safety by
minimizing dangers to aircraft, to help avoid danger by lessening the chance of
aircraft accidents and to maintain land use compatibility in the areas
influenced by airport operations. Uses should consider the factors of airport
operations, overflight exposure and density of proposed development. A special
mandatory review process may be required for land use change proposals in the
Airport Influence Area District that will determine compatibility with this
Airport Protection Overlay District. These review processes are required in
runway protection zones, runway approach surfaces and extended approach
surfaces ("landing path areas") as shown on the current City Off-Airport Land
Use Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference. In areas of the Airport
Influence Area outside the landing path areas, land use change proposals shall
be reviewed by the City. Aviation easements for development and building may be
required in the Airport Protection Overlay District depending upon the nature
and magnitude of the proposed development. Aviation easements will be required
to be signed by the owner of property before construction begins in the runway
protection zones and the runway approach surfaces as shown on the City Off-
Airport Land Use Plan. New construction in the Airport Influence Area will
require fair disclosure notices to be signed by the owner of the property
before construction begins. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-12A-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Jurisdiction: This article shall apply to all lands within or around
the airport which would be impacted by air traffic, overflight or any hazard
related to the operation and maintenance of an airport facility whose operation
may increase or whose fleet mix of aircraft may change.
   B.   Boundaries: The approximate boundaries of all established Airport
Influence Areas and landing path areas shall be as they appear on the current
Off-Airport Land Use Plan, the City Municipal Airport Layout Plan, which is
incorporated herein by reference, or other maps or documents approved by the
City.
   C.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of protection provided
by this article is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based
on engineering and scientific methods of study. This article does not imply
that areas outside of the Airport Influence Area will be totally free from
hazards, nor shall this article create a liability on the part of or a cause of
action against the City, or any officer or employee thereof, for any damages
that may result directly or indirectly from the reliance on this article. (Ord.
19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-12A-4: LIMITATION OF USES IN OVERLAY DISTRICT:
No use may be made of land within the designated Airport Influence Area
District in such a manner as to create bird attractants, electrical
interference with radio communications between the airport and aircraft, make
it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and other lights,
cause glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the
vicinity of the airport or otherwise endanger the landing, taking off or
maneuvering of aircraft at the airport or in the vicinity of the airport.
Review of land use proposals and/or changes shall utilize the Airport Overlay
District boundaries and their relationship to airport operations. (Ord. 19-07,
9-3-2019)
10-12A-5: EXCEPTIONS TO ARTICLE:
No building or land shall be used and no building shall hereafter be erected,
converted or structurally altered unless otherwise provided for herein, with
the exception of one or more of the following uses:
   A.   Construction: The regulations prescribed in this article shall not be
construed to: 1) require the removal, lowering or other changes or alteration
of any structure or object of natural growth not conforming to this article as
of the effective date hereof; or 2) otherwise interfere with the continuance of
any nonconforming use or noncomplying structure, except as to a requirement for
markers or lights for safety purposes, as set forth below;
   B.   Changes: Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the
construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or
alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date hereof and is
diligently prosecuted; provided, however, that when the noncomplying structure
is damaged or destroyed, the reconstruction, rebuilding or replacement of such
structure shall be subject to section
10-13-6 of this title;
   C.   Markers, Lights: The owner of any noncomplying structure or object of
natural growth, under this article, in order to maintain such noncomplying
structure or object natural growth, is hereby required to permit the
installation, operation and maintenance thereon of such markers and lights as
shall be deemed necessary by the Planning and Zoning Administrator to indicate
to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of
such noncomplying structures or objects of natural growth. Such markers and
lights shall be installed, operated and maintained at the expense of the City.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-12A-6: SPECIAL LIMITATIONS:
The Airport Influence District will require certain special limitations on land
use as follows:
   A.   Height Limitations: Height limitations within the Airport Influence
Area District, except as otherwise provided in this article, are subject to the
recommendations of the City which may consult with other appropriate agencies
to develop such recommendations. Except as may otherwise be allowed in this
article, no structure or object of natural growth shall be constructed,
erected, altered, allowed to grow, or to be maintained in excess of height
limits and airport related zones herein established.
   B.   Notice Of Proposed Construction And Alteration Form: Submission of a
notice of proposed construction and alteration (FAA form 7460-1) and subsequent
approval from the Federal Aviation Administrator shall be required for the City
to issue a permit for the construction or alteration of any structure
penetrating a 100:1 foot plane located within twenty thousand feet (20,000')
from any runway, except as allowed in section
10-12A-7 of this article. Receipt of FAA form 7640-9, Determination of No
Hazard for any structure, is required before issuing a building permit, unless
the foregoing plane is not penetrated or the foregoing heights are complied
with.
   C.   FAR Part 77 Imaginary Surface Limitations: Imaginary surface
limitations as prescribed by Federal Aviation Regulation Part 77, within the
Airport Influence Area Overlay District include all land and air space within
the area which would be hazardous to air navigation. These limitations
represent areas above imaginary surfaces and are designed to regulate the
height of structures and trees in the airport vicinity. They are set forth by
the FAA in the Federal Aviation Regulations Part 77. All of the surface
limitation categories listed below have their dimensions given in the FAA
approved Fillmore Municipal Airport Layout Plan adopted and dated March 2006.
      1.   Runway Protection Zone: A runway protection zone (RPZ) is
trapezoidal in shape and centered about the extended runway centerline. The RPZ
is the land at ground level that begins two hundred feet (200') beyond the end
of each runway.
      2.   Object Free Area: The object free area (OFA) is a two- dimensional
ground area surrounding runways, taxiways and taxi lanes, which is clear of all
objects except those whose location is fixed by function and excepted by the
FAA.
      3.   Runway Safety Area: A defined surface area surrounding the runway
prepared or suitable for reducing the risk of damage to airplanes.
      4.   Primary Surface: A Part 77 airport surface longitudinally centered
on a runway. The primary surface extends two hundred feet (200') beyond the
paved surface end.
      5.   Approach Surface: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended
runway centerline and extending outward and upward from each end of the primary
surface. An approach surface is applied to each end of each runway based upon
the type of approach available or planned for that runway end. Refer to the
Fillmore Municipal Airport Layout Plan (ALP) drawings for the airport to
determine the approach surfaces and slopes.
      6.   Transitional Surfaces: The transitional surfaces are located on both
sides of the approach and primary surfaces. These surfaces extend outward and
upward at right angles to the runway centerline and runway centerline extended,
at a slope of seven feet (7') horizontal for every one foot (1') vertical rise
from the sides of the primary and approach surfaces, until it reaches one
hundred fifty feet (150') above the highest point on any runway (airport
elevations).
      7.   Horizontal And Conical Surfaces: These are the upper aeronautical
surfaces surrounding an airport that are used by aircraft for turning and
maneuvering in close proximity to the airport preceding landing and immediately
after takeoff.
   D.   Land Use Limitations: To assume the protection of the public from
overflight impacts and hazards associated with flying operations, and to comply
with FAR Part 77, all uses shall be evaluated by the City and approved
according to the conditions of this article.
      1.   Special Criteria Areas (Zones) Within The District:
         a.   Horizontal And Conical Surfaces Zone: Exposure to airport
overflight is considered minimal, but increases as the runway ends are
approached. Residential construction should be limited to low density
development. The siting of public facilities, such as hospitals, schools,
churches, etc., or noise sensitive development near runway approaches, should
be discouraged.
         b.   Approach Surface Zone: Exposure to airport noise is considered
moderate. Residential and public facilities should be carefully reviewed in
this zone for compatibility with airport operations. Residential and public
facilities that are not compatible with airport operations shall be prohibited
in the approach surface zone. Nonresidential development should be restricted
as to density and should only be approved provided noise attenuation measures
are incorporated into facility design. Aviation easements are recommended for
all new buildings and developments and fair disclosure notices shall be filed
with each new building or development.
         c.   Runway Protection Zone: All land in this zone should be kept
clear of any structures. Land use in this area should be restricted to open
space or agriculture.
         d.   Critical Zones:
            (1)   Areas two thousand feet (2,000') wide extending five thousand
feet (5,000') horizontally from a point two hundred feet (200') from each end
of visual runways.
            (2)   Areas four thousand feet (4,000') wide extending ten thousand
feet (10,000') horizontally from a point two hundred feet (200') from each end
of instrument runways.
Due to overlapping concerns of the above zones, the critical zones require that
no use may be made or activity carried on land within this zone in a manner as
to:
            (1)   Create electrical interference with navigational signals or
radio communication between the airport and aircraft;
            (2)   Make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport
lights and other lighting;
            (3)   Result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport;
            (4)   Impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport; or
            (5)   Otherwise in any way create a hazard or endanger the landing,
takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
      2.   Fair Disclosure Statement: Fair disclosure statements serve to
notify prospective buyers of property near airports that they may be exposed to
potentially impactive levels of aircraft overflight. These statements in no way
abrogate an individual's right to take later action against the airport, but
they at least give buyers a fair warning. These statements may also limit the
height of natural growth to the height specified therein.
      3.   Aviation Easement: An aviation easement is a nonpossessory property
interest in airspace over a land parcel or portion of land. It is a legally
developed document obtained by an airport to cover items such as the right of
flight, right to remove obstructions, etc., but not necessarily to the extent
of prohibiting the use of land within the limits of the rights obtained. (Ord.
19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-12A-7: EXCEPTIONS TO SPECIAL LIMITATIONS HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
Notwithstanding the above, outside the landing path areas and subject to all
other limitations on heights of structures and objects of natural growth
contained in this article, the following heights are allowed for new structures
and objects of natural growth in the Airport Influence Area without requiring
submission of a notice of proposed construction or alteration to the FAA (FAA
form 7460-1):
   A.   New Structures: New structures may be built to a height of forty five
feet (45') from the ground level of the lowest point of the building lot;
   B.   Natural Growth: Objects of natural growth are allowed to a height of
sixty five feet (65') above the ground at the place the object of natural
growth emerges from the ground; and
   C.   Less Restrictive: The heights for structures or objects of natural
growth allowed in section
10-12A-6 of this article, if less restrictive. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-12A-8: FAIR DISCLOSURE STATEMENT SAMPLE:
A disclosure statement, substantially in the form of the statement below, shall
be provided to and signed by each purchaser of property within the Airport
Influence Area when required by this article. The signed statement will then be
affixed by the seller to the agreement of the sale.
The tract of land situated at                  in                          ,
consisting of approximately        acres which is being conveyed from
                     to                        lies within                miles
of the Fillmore Municipal Airport may be subjected to aircraft overflight both
now and in the future. Airport operations are expected to increase and the
fleet mix of aircraft operating at the airport may change as industry and
community needs change, as the same is shown and depicted on the Official
Zoning Maps.
   CERTIFICATION
The undersigned purchaser(s) of said tract of land certify(ties) that (he)
(she) (they) (has) (have) read the above disclosure statement and acknowledge
(s) the pre-existence of the airport named above and the overflight exposure
due to the operation of said airport.
                      
Signed by Purchaser
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-12A-9: AVIATION AND HAZARD EASEMENT SAMPLE:
An aviation and hazard easement, substantially in the form shown below, shall
be provided to and signed by each purchaser of property within the Airport
Influence Area when required by this article. Such easement shall be recorded
in the County Recorder's Office:
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that                             
WHEREAS,                                      who collectively shall
hereinafter be referred to as the Grantors, all own an interest in a part of
that certain tract of land in Section             , Township               ,
Range               of the              , County of Millard, State of Utah more
particularly described in Exhibit A attached hereto.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the sum of Ten ($10.00) Dollars and other
good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby
acknowledged, the Grantors, for themselves, their heirs, personal
representatives, successors and assigns, do hereby grant, bargain, sell and
convey unto Fillmore City, its successors and assigns, hereinafter referred to
as the Grantee, for the use and benefit of the public, an easement and right-
of-way, appurtenant to the Fillmore Municipal Airport, for the unobstructed
passage of all aircraft, (aircraft being defined for the purposes of this
instrument as any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or designed
for navigation of or flight in the air) by whomsoever owned and operated in the
air space above Grantors' property to an infinite height, together with the
right to cause in all air space above the surface of Grantors' property such
noise, vibrations, fumes, dust, fuel particles, light emissions from aircraft
and airport, and all other effects that may be caused by the operation of
aircraft landing at, or taking off from, or operating at or on said Fillmore
Municipal Airport.
Grantors do hereby waive, remise and release any right or cause of action which
they may now have or which they may have in the future against Grantee, its
successors and assigns, with respect to Grantors' property due to such noise,
vibrations, fumes, dust, fuel particles, light emissions from aircraft and
airport, and all other effects that may be caused or may have been caused by
the operation of aircraft landing at, or taking off from, or operating at or on
said Fillmore Municipal Airport.
Nothing stated in the foregoing waiver, grant and release shall release any
person from liability for damages or divest the Grantors, their heirs, personal
representatives, successors and assigns from any right or cause of action for
damages to any person or property resulting from the unlawful or negligent
operation of any aircraft at any altitude over and across Grantors' property.
The easement and right-of-way hereby granted includes the continuing right in
the Grantee to prevent the erection or growth upon Grantors' property of any
building, structure, tree or other object extending into the airport airspace
and to remove from said air space, or at the sole option of the Grantee, as an
alternative, to mark and light as obstructions to air navigation, any such
building, structure, tree or other object now upon, or which in the future may
be upon Grantors' property, together with the right of reasonable ingress to,
egress from, and passage over Grantors' property for the above purposes.
TO HAVE AND TO HOLD said easement and right-of-way, and all rights appertaining
thereto unto the Grantee, its successors and assigns, until Grantee shall cease
to use said Fillmore Municipal Airport for public airport purposes.
AND for the consideration hereinabove set forth, the Grantors, for themselves,
their heirs, personal representatives, successors and assigns, do hereby agree
that for and during the life of said easement and right-of-way, they will not
hereafter erect, permit the erection or growth of, or permit or suffer to
remain upon Grantors property any building, structure, tree or other object
extending into the aforesaid prohibited air space, and that they shall not
hereafter use or permit or suffer the use of Grantors' property in such a
manner as to create electrical interference with radio communication between
any installation upon said airport and aircraft, or as to make it difficult for
flyers to distinguish between airport lights and others, or as to impair
visibility in the vicinity of the airport, or as otherwise to endanger the
landing, taking off or maneuvering of aircraft. It is understood and agreed
that the aforesaid covenants and agreements shall run with the land and shall
be forever binding upon the heirs, administrators, executors, successors and
assigns of the Grant.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Grantors have executed this Aviation and Hazard
Easement as of this       day of                 , 20    .
                            
Signed by Grantors
STATE OF UTAH)
: ss.
COUNTY OF MILLARD)
On the        day of              , 20     , personally appeared before me
                         the signers of the foregoing Easement, who duly
acknowledged to me that they executed the same.
                                    
Notary Public
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 13
NONCONFORMING USES AND NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose
10-13-2: Determination Of Nonconforming Status
10-13-3: Authority To Continue
10-13-4: Abandonment Or Loss Of Nonconforming Use
10-13-5: Nonconforming Uses And Buildings And Structures Containing
Nonconforming Uses
10-13-6: Noncomplying Structures
10-13-7: Ordinary Repair And Maintenance, And Structural Safety
10-13-8: Appeals
10-13-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter regulates the continued existence of nonconforming uses and
noncomplying structures, as defined in chapter 2 of this title. While
nonconforming uses, noncomplying structures and improvements may continue, this
chapter is intended to limit enlargement, alteration, restoration or
replacement, which would increase the discrepancy between existing conditions
and the development standards prescribed by this title. In addition,
applications are reviewed to ensure that they are reducing the degree of
nonconformity and improving the physical appearance of the structure and site
through such measures as landscaping, building design or the improved function
of the use in relation to other uses. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-13-2: DETERMINATION OF NONCONFORMING STATUS:
   A.   Burden On Owner To Establish Legality: The owner bears the burden of
establishing that any nonconforming use or nonconforming structure lawfully
exists.
   B.   Determination Of Status: The designated Land Use Authority shall
determine the nonconforming or noncomplying status of properties. Any decision
of the Planning and Zoning Administrator may be appealed within ten (10)
calendar days of the decision to the City Council. Upon appeal, the City
Council shall conduct a hearing and shall review the matter under de novo
standard of review. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-13-3: AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE:
   A.   Nonconforming Use: A lawful nonconforming use may continue subject to
the standards and limitations of this chapter.
   B.   Noncomplying Structure: A noncomplying structure that was lawfully
constructed with a permit prior to a contrary change in this title, may be used
and maintained, subject to the standards and limitations of this chapter. (Ord.
19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-13-4: ABANDONMENT OR LOSS OF NONCONFORMING USE:
   A.   Abandonment Of Nonconforming Use: A nonconforming use that is
discontinued for a continuous period of six (6) months is presumed abandoned
and shall not thereafter be reestablished or resumed. Any subsequent use of the
building, structure or land must conform to the regulations for the zoning
district in which it is located.
   B.   Rebuttable Presumption Of Abandonment: The presumption of abandonment
may be rebutted upon showing that during such period:
      1.   Any period of discontinued use was caused by governmental actions or
an act of God without any contributing fault by the owner and the owner did not
intend to discontinue the use; or
      2.   The owner can demonstrate no abandonment of the use. (Ord. 19-07, 9-
3-2019)
10-13-5: NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES CONTAINING
NONCONFORMING USES:
No nonconforming use may be moved, enlarged, altered or occupy additional land,
except as provided in this chapter.
   A.   Enlargement: A nonconforming use may not be enlarged, expanded or
extended to occupy all or a part of another structure or site that it did not
occupy on the date on which the use became nonconforming. A nonconforming use
may be extended through the same building or structure, provided no structural
alteration of the building or structure is proposed or made for the purpose of
the extension and the parking demand is not increased.
   B.   Exterior Or Interior Remodeling Or Improvements To Building Or
Structure: Exterior or interior remodeling or improvements to a structure
containing a nonconforming use shall be allowed, provided there is no expansion
of the area of the nonconforming use.
   C.   Relocation Of Building Or Structure: A building or structure containing
a nonconforming use may not be moved unless the use shall thereafter conform to
the regulations of the zoning district into which the building or structure is
moved.
   D.   Change Of Nonconforming Use To Another Nonconforming Use: No
nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use. (Ord. 19-07, 9-
3-2019)
10-13-6: NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES:
No noncomplying structure may be moved, enlarged or altered, except in the
manner provided in this chapter or unless required by law.
   A.   Repair, Maintenance, Alteration And Enlargement: Any noncomplying
structure may be repaired, maintained or altered; provided, that such repair,
maintenance or alteration shall neither create any new noncompliance nor shall
increase the degree of the existing noncompliance of all or any part of such
structure.
   B.   Moving: A noncomplying structure shall not be moved in whole or in
part, for any distance whatsoever, to any other location on the same or any
other lot unless the entire structure shall thereafter conform to the
regulations of the zone in which it will be located. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-13-7: ORDINARY REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE, AND STRUCTURAL SAFETY:
The owner may complete normal maintenance and incidental repair on a complying
structure that contains a nonconforming use or on a noncomplying structure.
This chapter shall not be construed to authorize any violations of law, nor to
prevent the strengthening or restoration to a safe condition of a structure in
accordance with an order of the building official who declares such structure
to be unsafe and orders its restoration to a safe condition. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-
2019)
10-13-8: APPEALS:
Appeal from the Planning and Zoning Administrator decision made pursuant to
this chapter shall be made to the City Council. Any person filing an appeal
with the City Council for review of any decision made under the terms of this
chapter shall file such appeal within thirty (30) days after the date of the
Planning and Zoning Administrator's final decision. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 14
PARKING STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Purpose
10-14-2: Application Of Standards
10-14-3: General Provisions
10-14-4: Minimum Parking Standards
10-14-5: Location
10-14-6: Joint Parking Facilities
10-14-7: Plan Of Parking Areas
10-14-8: Landscaping
10-14-9: Lighting
10-14-10: Screening
10-14-11: Stopping, Standing Or Parking Of A Vehicle On Privately Owned Parking
Areas Serving Commercial Establishments
10-14-12: Americans With Disabilities Act Accessible Parking Requirements
10-14-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide uniform parking regulations and
standards for residential and commercial developments in the City. (Ord. 19-07,
9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-18, - -2023)
10-14-2: APPLICATION OF STANDARDS:
The minimum standards for off-street on-site parking requirements shall be
mandatory for all new construction and expansions of existing uses unless a
hardship can be clearly demonstrated. In unusual circumstances, where the
parking requirements create an extreme hardship, a reasonable reduction may be
requested to the Appeals Authority. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-18, -
-2023)
10-14-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the following
requirements:
   A.   Parking Space Size: Each parking space shall be at least 9' x 18',
unless otherwise required herein.
   B.   Off-Street Parking Space Required: The minimum off-street parking
spaces as outlined in this chapter, along with adequate provisions for ingress
and egress by standard-size automobiles, and adequate loading facilities, shall
be provided for any use of land or main building or structure in the City.
These spaces and facilities shall be provided both at the time the use is
approved and the time a building is constructed. Businesses already established
are exempt from these regulations. However, a business existing prior to the
enactment of this ordinance, which provides fewer parking stalls than is
required under the current ordinance, cannot further reduce the number of
provided off-street parking stalls.
   C.   No Parking Reduction: Space for off-street parking being used in
connection with an existing building shall not be reduced in the number or size
of parking spaces, nor shall it be utilized for any other purpose than off-
street parking but shall be maintained in perpetuity.
   D.   Tandem Parking (Parking Two Vehicles End to End): Tandem parking shall
not be allowed except for townhomes with a dedicated garage and driveway or
single-family dwellings. In this case, the parking space may be within the
driveway area in the required yard.
   E.   Enlargements: No building or structure shall be enlarged, altered, or
converted unless there is provided and thereafter maintained for such building
and its use, a minimum number of parking spaces as hereinafter required in each
zoning district. Provided, however, that if such alteration, enlargement, or
conversion does not increase the number of required parking spaces by more than
fifteen percent (15%), no additional parking spaces need to be provided.
   F.   Uses Not Mentioned: In the case of a use not specifically mentioned
herein, the requirements for the most nearly similar use, which is so
mentioned, shall apply. The decision of the City Council, as recommended by the
Planning Commission, as to what is the most nearly similar use shall apply.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-18, - -2023)
10-14-4: MINIMUM PARKING STANDARDS:
The required number of off-street parking stalls per use are outlined as
follows. Unless otherwise specified, parking stalls are per gross square feet
of floor area.
# Land Use Required Parking
#  Land Use                              Required Parking
   Arcades, Athletic Clubs, Mini-Golf,
   Games Centers, Bowling Alley,
1  Recreation Centers, Reception         1 stall / 200 sq. ft.
   Centers, Health Clubs and Spas,
   Civic, and Private Clubs, and similar
   uses
2  Animal Hospital / Veterinary          3 stalls / 1,000 sq. ft.
   Automotive Service Station / Gas      1 stall / 200 sq. ft.; pumping areas
3  Station                               are not to be included in the parking
                                         calculation
4  Automobile, Truck, RV Sales and       3 stalls / 1,000 sq. ft.
   Rental
                                         1 stall/service bay plus 3 stalls /
5  Automotive Repair Facilities          1,000 sq. ft. for office and retail
                                         areas
6  Aviation Airport-Services             1 stall / 250 sq. ft.
7  Banking and Financial Services        1 stall / 500 sq. ft.
8  Bars, Liquor Stores or Taverns        1 stall / 200 sq. ft.
9  Bed and Breakfast or Inn              2 stalls for tenants and 1 stall/guest
                                         room
10 Car Wash                              2 stalls plus at least 3 tandem spaces
                                         per washing bay
11 Childcare Facility/Center             1 stall per on-duty employee plus 1
                                         per 6 children
12 Churches                              1 stall / 100 sq. ft.
   Dwelling, Single, Two Three & Four
13 Family, Apartment House, Condominium  2.5 stalls per dwelling unit
   / Townhome
14 Grocery Stores, Drug Stores,          3 stalls / 1,000 sq. ft.
   Convenience Stores
                                         The greater of 1 stall per 2 bedrooms
15 Group Home                            plus 1 stall per employee per shift or
                                         2 per 3 employees per shift
16 Healthcare Center                     1 stall / 200 sq. ft.
17 Hospital                              1 stall / 400 sq/ ft.
                                         2 parking stalls plus 2 additional
18 Hotel/Motel                           stalls per unit and 1 stall per 200
                                         sq. ft. of conference space
19 Industry, Light                       1 stall / 500 sq. ft.
                                         1 stall / 500 sq. ft. for the first
20 Industrial Park                       10,000 sq. ft. plus 1 stall / 4,000
                                         sq. ft. after that; office areas 1
                                         stall / 500 sq. ft.
21 Kennel                                1 stall / 2 employees
22 Laundry, Dry Cleaning                 3 stalls / 1,000 sq. ft.
23 Manufacturing                         1 stall / 400 sq. ft. plus parking for
                                         office uses as calculated herein
24 Mortuaries                            1 stall / 100 sq. ft.
25 Assisted Living, Nursing Home, or     1 stall/employee and 1 stall / 3 bed
   Convalescent Center
26 Nursery                               1 stall / 500 sq. ft.
27 Office, Business                      3 stalls / 1,000 sq. ft.
28 Office, Government                    3 stalls / 1,000 sq. ft.
29 Offices, Professional                 1 stall / 500 sq. ft.
30 Personal Services, Barber Shops,      1 stall / 200 sq. ft.
   Beauty Shops, Travel Agencies
31 Repair, Small Appliance, Small Engine 1 stall / 500 sq. ft.
32 Restaurant, Café & Fast Food         6 stalls / 1,000 sq. ft.
33 Restaurants, Drive-Thru               1 stalls / 500 sq. ft. plus 6 tandem
                                         spaces for drive-thru
34 Retail Sales Establishment            3 stalls / 1,000 feet
35 Schools; Elementary (public or        2 stalls/classroom
   private)
36 Schools; Middle or Junior (public or  3 stalls/classroom
   private)
37 Schools; Secondary, High (public or   1 stall/employee and 7 stalls/
   private)                              classroom
38 Sexually-Oriented Business            1 stall / 250 sq. ft.
39 Shopping Center-Community             1 stall / 500 sq. ft.
40 Short-Term Rentals                    2.5 stalls/unit; no parking of RVs or
                                         travel trailers allowed
41 Theater, Concert Hall, Cinema-Indoor  1 stall / 4 seats
                                         1 stall / 1,000 sq. ft. plus parking
42 Warehousing                           for any other uses such as
                                         manufacturing and office space as
                                         calculated herein
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-18, - -2023; Ord. 24-05, - -2024)
10-14-5: LOCATION:
The parking area shall be provided on the same property as the principal
building, except for joint or off-site parking as permitted in section
10-14-6. Such separate parking lots shall be maintained as long as the
principal buildings or uses are maintained. Except for driveways leading to
covered parking, parking spaces in Residential Districts shall not be in a
front yard setback as required by setback regulations. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019;
amd. Ord. 2023-18, - -2023)
10-14-6:JOINT PARKING FACILITIES:
The off-street parking requirements for uses other than residential dwellings
in the commercial and industrial zoning districts, may be supplied with other
off-street facilities, provided operations of other uses, such as business
offices, retail stores, manufacturing, or wholesale buildings, are not normally
conducted during the same hours, and, provided that:
   A.   Distance: Off-street parking designated for joint use shall not be more
than seven hundred feet (700') from the property or use it is intended to
serve.
   B.   Offsite Parking: To satisfy required parking minimums, the applicant
must demonstrate perpetuity of parking use and compliance with all requirements
herein, including the lack of conflict in operation hours, by submitting a
signed agreement, which shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder,
or a signed easement, which shall be recorded in the office of the county
recorder. The property contemplated for use must be sufficient to meet the
requirements herein, as well as fire/emergency and engineering standards. A
copy of such agreement or easement shall be submitted to the City prior to
recordation and be kept on file in the City office.
   C.   Purchase Or Lease: A business may purchase a long-term lease of off-
street parking from a parking entity (public or private) to provide additional
parking, however, this cannot be used to meet minimum parking requirements,
except for temporary use events that exceed the parking demands of the use
typically conducted on the property.
   D.   No Conflict: Sufficient evidence shall be presented to the Planning
Commission to demonstrate that there will be no substantial conflict in any
joint parking arrangement. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-18, - -2023)
10-14-7: PLAN OF PARKING AREAS:
For any parking area, plans should be submitted to the City for investigation
and recommendation to the Planning Commission. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord.
2023-18, - -2023)
10-14-8: LANDSCAPING:
When an area provides parking spaces for more than fifteen (15) vehicles, a
minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the total area of the parking lot shall be
used for landscaping and/or aesthetic treatment. This shall only apply to new
parking lots, parking lots expanded to fifteen (15) parking stalls, or parking
lots servicing a facility with a change in use to a more parking-intensive use.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-18, - -2023)
10-14-9: LANDSCAPING:
Parking lots may utilize pole-mounted sodium-based or LED lighting. The best
practices for containing the light on site should be used. This can be
accomplished by using cutoff luminaries or other similar shields. For any
parking lot lighting, the following shall apply:
   A.   Maximum Light Distribution: The maximum allowed average horizontal
luminance level is two (2) foot candles with a four to one (4:1) uniformity
ratio over the site.
   B.   Light Shielding: Lighting shall be shielded downward and toward the
parking lot, and, if any residential dwellings are located within two hundred
(200) feet of the lighting source, away from any residential dwellings.
   C.   Pole Height; Wattage; Design; Height: Luminaire mounting height is
measured from the parking lot surface (finished grade) and may range from
fifteen feet (15') to a maximum of twenty-five feet (25'). Lighting intended
primarily for pedestrians or near residential uses shall have a poll height at
or close (15'), while lighting primarily designed to serve vehicular travel may
have an increased height. Review criteria include:
      1.   Review of the site plan;
      2.   Proposed land use;
      3.   Surrounding land uses;
      4.   Size of the parking area;
      5.   Size and use of the building;
      6.   Location of the site with respect to other lighting sources;
      7.   Impacts to adjacent properties; and
      8.   Other site features.
   D.   Parking Area Wattage; Design Standard:
      1.   Luminaire for fifteen-foot (15') to eighteen-foot (18') poles shall
not exceed one hundred watts (100 W) per pole.
      2.   Luminaire for nineteen-foot (19') to twenty-foot (20') poles shall
not exceed one hundred fifty watts (150 W) per pole.
      3.   Luminaire for twenty-one-foot (21') to twenty-five-foot (25') poles
shall not exceed two hundred watts (200 W) per pole.
   E.   Temperature: The correlated color temperature of all parking lot
lighting shall not exceed 3000 degrees Kelvin.
   F.   Application: An application for the development of off-street parking
areas shall contain the following:
      1.   Plans indicating the location, type, and size of proposed poles; and
      2.   Installation and electrical details. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd.
Ord. 2023-18, - -2023)
10-14-10: SCREENING:
For each boundary line of a business parking area abutting directly on
residential use, there shall be a wall, screen fence, or screen planting of a
year around nature, of six feet (6') high, except where setback requirements
and site distance requirements would limit it. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord.
2023-18, - -2023)
10-14-11: STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING OF A VEHICLE ON PRIVATELY OWNED PARKING
AREAS SERVING COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS::
It shall be unlawful for any prson, except authorized personnel, to stop, stand
or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, after business hours, on the
parking lots of those businesses who have entered into an agreement with the
City or who may hereafter enter into an agreement with the City, for the
regulation of such parking on privately owned lots serving commercial
establishments.
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
 
                                 Shall include, but not be limited to, owners,
                                 managers, lessors, lessees, employees, and
AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL:            those people lawfully on the premises by
                                 invitation or permission of such authorized
                                 personnel.
                                 All signs, signals, markings, and devices
                                 placed or erected by authority of, or at the
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE: request of, a public body or official having
                                 jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
                                 warning, or guiding traffic.
 
   B.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park
a vehicle in any place where official traffic control devices prohibit
stopping, standing, or parking on public or private property.
   C.   Agreement To Allow For Enforcement Of Parking Regulations On Private
Property: Those businesses who have agreed to allow enforcement of parking
regulations on private property have executed an agreement with the City,
giving its consent to such enforcement. A copy of each such agreement is on
file in the City as an exhibit and incorporated herein by reference.
   D.   Property Owner Responsible To Post Signs: The City may require each
property owner, whose business establishment is subject to this section, to
post a sign, approved by the City, prohibiting the stopping, standing, or
parking of any unauthorized vehicles on business premises, after business
hours. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-18, - -2023)
10-14-12: AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT ACCESSIBLE PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
Any parking area to be used by the general public shall provide accessible
parking spaces designated and located to adequately meeting the requirements of
the Americans with Disabilities Act, and these shall be clearly marked as
accessible. Accessible parking shall be located in close proximity to the
principal building. The designation of accessible parking spaces shall
constitute consent by the property owner to municipal enforcement of such
spaces. The nature of accessible parking spaces, access aisles, and the number
of required accessible spaces shall conform to the standards of the Americans
with Disabilities Act. See: https://www.ada.gov/topics/parking/. (Ord. 19-07,
9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 2023-18, - -2023)
CHAPTER 15
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
10-15-1: Purpose
10-15-2: Development Standards
10-15-3: Zoning And Regulatory Requirements Pertinent To Mobile Home Parks
10-15-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to allow for the usage of mobile homes and
mobile home parks within the City, and to allow for proper safety, sanitary and
design considerations within the parks. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-15-2: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The following development standards apply to all new development in the Mobile
Home District:
TABLE 10-15-2-1
MINIMUM LOT AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
 
Lot        Minimum Lot Area Width Setbacks         Sidewalks Height/ Stories
                                                   Required
Standards  4,000 sq. ft./   40'   Front: 10' Side: No        35'
           unit                   10' Rear: 10'
Exceptions No               No                              
  
TABLE 10-15-2-2
FENCING
 
Clear Vision Setbacks        Height          Wildlife   Electric   Razor
Restriction
25'          Front: 3' Side: Front: 6' Side: Prohibited Prohibited Prohibited
             3'              6' Rear 6'
 
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-15-3: ZONING AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS PERTINENT TO MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   A.   License And Permits:
      1.   No person shall construct, maintain or operate any mobile home park
within the City limits without first obtaining a license for the mobile home
park from the City office and a certificate of occupancy from the City building
inspector.
      2.   No person shall use, permit or cause to be used a mobile home which
is structurally unsound, which constitutes a safety hazard, or which does not
adequately protect its occupants against the elements.
      3.   No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, improve or convert any
lands within the City limits for use as a mobile home park without first
obtaining a valid permit for such work from the City office.
      4.   In addition to any applicable regulations in this chapter, all
development of mobile home parks shall strictly conform to the procedures and
standards set forth in chapter 18, "Subdivisions", of this title.
   B.   Inspections:
      1.   The building inspector shall make such inspections of the mobile
home park, during development and upon completion, as may be necessary to
determine satisfactory compliance with this and other applicable ordinances and
regulations, and shall take such steps as necessary to enforce compliance.
      2.   The building inspector and/or Fire Chief shall have the power to
enter at reasonable times upon any private or public property for the purpose
of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
chapter, or regulations issued under it for the purpose of its enforcement.
   C.   Certificate Of Occupancy: Upon the final approval by the building
inspector that the newly developed mobile home park complies with all
applicable City and State regulations, the building inspector shall issue the
developer a certificate of occupancy.
   D.   Physical Requirements For Mobile Home Parks: The soil conditions,
groundwater level, drainage and topography of mobile home parks shall not
create hazards to the property, adjacent properties or to the health and safety
of the occupants. The site shall not be exposed to objectionable smoke, dust,
noise, odors or other adverse environmental influences, and no portion shall be
subject to predictable sudden flooding or erosion. The site shall not be used
for any purpose which would expose persons or property to hazards to health or
safety.
   E.   Plans And Lot Placement: Mobile home parks within the City shall have
acceptable lot markers for each individual mobile home lot. Lot markers for
individual mobile home lots shall substantially conform to the depicted lot
markers and lot size on the approved plan. The mobile home park owner shall
have responsibility to ensure that lot markers conform with this section.
   F.   Lot Markers: The limits of each mobile home lot shall be clearly marked
on the ground by permanent flush stakes or other suitable means.
   G.   Livable Open Space: Livable open space shall be provided on each mobile
home lot in an amount equal to at least ten percent (10%) of the lot area;
provided, that in no case shall livable space be required to be less than three
hundred (300) square feet or more than five hundred (500) square feet. Such
required livable open space shall not have a dimension of less than fifteen
feet (15').
   H.   Utilities: All utility lines to individual lots shall be underground.
Risers for connections, meters, necessary service attachments, etc., which must
be aboveground, shall be as uniform in appearance and as unobtrusive as
practicable.
   I.   Water Supply And Distribution: The park culinary water supply system
shall be connected to the City water system and shall be the only water system
used. All water piping fixtures and other equipment shall be constructed in
accordance with applicable local, State and Federal regulations and shall be of
a type and in locations approved by appropriate health agencies.
   J.   Gas And Electricity:
      1.   Gas equipment and installations within the mobile home park shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with applicable codes and regulations.
      2.   All electrical wiring, fixtures and other materials or equipment
shall be designed and constructed in accordance with applicable Electrical
Codes.
   K.   Telephone And Television: When telephone or cable television service is
provided, the distribution system shall be underground, unless evidence can be
presented demonstrating that such installation is impractical.
   L.   Sewage Disposal: Sewage systems shall meet local and State codes and
regulations for each lot in the park. Wherever feasible, connection shall be
made to a public sewage system. All joints shall be watertight. Provisions
shall be made for sealing riser pipes on unoccupied lots. Surface drainage
shall be diverted away from risers. Rims of risers shall extend at least four
inches (4") above ground elevation.
   M.   Setback, Yard Size, Separation Of Buildings: No two (2) mobile homes
shall have any point less than twenty feet (20') apart, and all mobile homes
shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from the roadway within the mobile
home park. The minimum distance from the shorter dimension side of a mobile
home to a boundary of the mobile home park shall be eight feet (8'). The
minimum distance from the longer dimension side of a mobile home to a boundary
of the mobile home park shall be twenty feet (20'). A strip of land at least
eight feet (8') wide surrounding the mobile home park shall be left unoccupied.
   N.   Skirting: Each mobile home shall be skirted within thirty (30) days
after installation in a mobile home park. Skirting shall be of aluminum or
other durable and noncorrosive metal, or other material so constructed and
attached to the mobile home as to deter and prevent the entry of animals and to
screen from view any materials that might be stored under the mobile home.
   O.   Carports, Awnings, Patio Covers, Etc.: All carports, awnings, patio
covers or similar accessory structures or constructions shall meet all
applicable City Building Codes, including building permit and inspection
requirements.
   P.   Individual Structures: Freestanding or attached structures covering not
more than one hundred (100) square feet of ground space may be located in any
portion of the required open space on individual mobile home lots with the
exception of the eight foot (8') zone that shall surround the outside of the
mobile home park. Any such structure shall be separated from any structure on
any neighboring lot by at least five feet (5') of open space.
   Q.   Streets And Streetlighting:
      1.   Streets, drives, parking and service areas within the mobile home
park shall provide safe and convenient access to dwelling units and supporting
facilities and shall allow convenient access for service and emergency
vehicles. Access to individual lots within the mobile home park shall be
limited to streets internal to the park.
      2.   Streets and roads shall have a minimum width of thirty two feet
(32'), shall be durably paved to a width of at least twenty six feet (26') and
be well drained under normal use and weather conditions. Their surfaces shall
be protected by suitable means to prevent shifting of the base.
      3.   Lighting shall be designed to produce a minimum of 0.1 foot-candles
throughout the street system. Potentially hazardous locations, such as major
street intersections, shall be illuminated with a minimum of 0.3 foot-candles.
   R.   Parking: Two (2) off street parking spaces shall be provided for each
mobile home lot. The parking spaces must be located on the lot and must have a
minimum area of two hundred (200) square feet for each space.
   S.   Inspection Of Mobile Home Parks:
      1.   The building inspector and Fire Chief are hereby authorized and
directed to inspect the mobile home park, at least yearly, by the first
business day in December, to determine satisfactory compliance with this
chapter and the regulations issued hereunder.
      2.   The building inspector and Fire Chief, or their representatives, are
hereby authorized to enter at reasonable times upon any private or public
property for the purpose of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to
the enforcement of this chapter.
   T.   Penalty For Developing Or Operating Mobile Home Park Without Permit:
      1.   Any person or other entity who commences development or operation of
a mobile home park without first securing the necessary permits and licenses
from the City shall be guilty of developing or operating a mobile home park
without a proper permit. When the building inspector or other authorized person
learns of a violation, he or she shall have authority to require that the work
or operation stop immediately and that it not continue until an authorized
person acquires a permit.
      2.   Any person or entity that violates this subsection T shall be guilty
of an infraction, and shall be subject to penalty as provided in title 1,
chapter 4 of this Code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   U.   Penalty And Procedure For Violating This Chapter:
      1.   Any person or other entity who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be subject to penalty as
provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this Code for each offense and shall be
required to correct the violation.
      2.   Before issuing a citation for an infraction, the building inspector
or other authorized person shall issue a warning notice, describing the alleged
offense, the location, the ordinance or Code section involved, and a statement
of what must be done to correct the violation. The notice shall state the date
by which such correction must be completed. Such date shall give five (5)
calendar days from the date of the notice; provided, that a shorter time shall
be specified if there is substantial immediate danger to persons or property. A
longer time than five (5) days shall be stated if there would be practical
physical difficulties in completing the correction within five (5) days and
there is no emergency.
      3.   Failure of the City to issue a warning as described in subsection U2
of this section, shall not affect the validity of any prosecution for an
infraction.
   V.   Safety And Fire Protection:
      1.   Mobile home parks shall be subject to the fire and safety rules and
regulations as set up by the City Council.
      2.   Mobile home parks shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other
flammable materials.
      3.   Portable fire extinguishers of a type approved by the Fire Chief or
his authorized representative shall be kept in mobile home park service
buildings and at all other locations designated by the Fire Chief and shall be
maintained in good operating condition.
      4.   Cooking shelters, barbecue pits, fireplaces and stoves shall be so
located, constructed, maintained and used as to minimize fire hazards and smoke
nuisance, both on the property on which they are used and on neighboring
property. Installation of stoves and fireplaces must meet current Building Code
regulations. Stoves must be UL approved for mobile homes. An inspection shall
be made by the Fire Chief prior to operation of such stoves and/or fireplaces.
      5.   Fire hydrants shall be installed in accordance with all applicable
Fire and Building Codes.
   W.   Responsibilities Of Mobile Home Park Management:
      1.   The person to whom a license for a mobile home park is issued shall
operate the park in compliance with this chapter and regulations issued
hereunder and shall provide adequate supervision to maintain the park, its
facilities and equipment in good repair, in a clean and sanitary condition and
in a manner free of fire hazards.
      2.   The mobile home park management shall notify park occupants of all
applicable provisions of this chapter and shall inform them of their duties and
responsibilities under this chapter and regulations issued hereunder.
      3.   The park management shall supervise the placement of each mobile
home on its mobile home space, including securing its stability and installing
all utility connections.
      4.   The park management shall maintain a register containing the names
of all park occupants.
   X.   Responsibilities Of Mobile Home Park Occupants: Mobile home park
occupants shall comply with all applicable requirements of this chapter and
regulations issued hereunder and shall maintain their mobile home lots,
facilities and equipment in good repair, in a clean and sanitary condition and
in a manner free of fire hazards.
   Y.   Permit Required Prior To Relocation And Occupancy: A mobile home permit
shall be required to move any mobile home into a mobile home park. Occupancy
may occur after inspection and approval by the City building inspector.
   Z.   Conflict With State Or Federal Law: Nothing in this chapter or in its
interpretation, application or enforcement shall act or be allowed to operate
in conflict with any State or Federal law. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 16
TRAVEL TRAILER AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
10-16-1: Purpose
10-16-2: Location Of Recreational Vehicle Parks
10-16-3: Development Of Recreational Vehicle Parks
10-16-4: Regulations Outside Travel Trailer Parks
10-16-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to allow for the use of travel trailers, campers
and other recreational vehicles on designated land within the City and to
provide for safe and sanitary living conditions for the residents of the park.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-19, - -2023)
10-16-2: LOCATION OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
   A.   Districts: It shall be unlawful to develop or otherwise locate a
recreational vehicle park within the City except as a conditional use in the
Agricultural, Highway Commercial, General Commercial and Mobile Home Districts.
   B.   Alterations or Placing of Structures: Except for emergency, temporary
removal to accomplish repairs, the removal of wheels or axle from a travel
trailer or recreational vehicle, the placing of a travel trailer or
recreational vehicle on a permanent foundation, or other permanent structures
added onto a recreational vehicle or travel trailer is prohibited.
   C.   Nonexempt: The removal of wheels or axle from a travel trailer or
recreational vehicle, the placing of a travel trailer or recreational vehicle
on a permanent foundation, or other alterations to a travel trailer or
recreational vehicle do not exempt such travel trailer or recreational vehicle
from the from the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd.
Ord. 23-19, - -2023)
10-16-3: DEVELOPMENT OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
   A.   Compliance With Requirements: Any person, firm or other entity seeking
to develop a travel trailer park or recreational vehicle park shall do so
pursuant to the requirements set forth in this chapter and chapter 18,
“Subdivisions”, of this title.
   B.   Development Requirements: Development requirements for travel trailers,
campers and other recreational vehicle parks:
      1.   Soil, Drainage: The developer of a recreational vehicle park shall
demonstrate to the Planning Commission that the soil, drainage system and
topography are of such a nature that normal use of the recreational vehicle
park will not create a substantial risk to the property on which the park is
located, any adjacent properties, or any person.
      2.   Street Standards: All streets located within the park shall conform
to the following standards:
         a.   All roads shall be improved with gravel, cinders, concrete or
asphalt, and shall be in accordance with City specifications;
         b.   All street grades within the recreational vehicle park shall
strictly conform to City specifications; and
         c.   Improved street widths must have a minimum of twelve feet (12')
of improved street for one-way roadways and a minimum of twenty feet (20') for
two-way roadways.
      3.   Space Specifications: All travel trailer or recreational vehicle
spaces in a park shall conform to the following specifications:
         a   Travel trailer or recreational vehicle spaces in the park shall
have an average of at least one thousand (1,000) square feet;
         b.   All travel trailer or recreational vehicle spaces shall be
designed in such a way so as to allow at least a twenty-five foot (25') setback
from the trailer or recreational vehicle site to any dedicated public street.
      4.   Travel Trailer Site Width: Each travel trailer site shall have an
average width of twenty-five feet (25'). Trailers shall be separated from each
other and from other structures by at least ten feet (10'). Awnings or steps
shall, for this separation requirement, be considered part of the trailer.
      5.   Travel Trailer Site Frontage: Each travel trailer site shall abut
directly upon a travel trailer park street for a minimum distance of twenty-
five feet (25'). Alignment and gradient shall be properly adapted to
topography.
      6.   Travel Trailer Density: Not more than one travel trailer shall be
placed on a travel trailer site.
      7.   Site Coverage: The travel trailer and accessory structures shall not
cover more than seventy five percent (75%) of a travel trailer site.
      8.   Utilities: All travel trailer or recreational vehicle parks within
the City shall install and maintain utilities that comply with all health and
safety standards of the City and the State.
      9.   Alterations: From October 1st to April 1st, temporary skirting is
permitted. The City expressly prohibits skirting made from materials that
threaten the health, safety, and welfare of the park, adjacent properties, and
any person, including, but not limited to, hay and straw bales.
      10.   Minimum Park Area: No travel trailer park area shall be constructed
on a partial property area that has an area of less than two (2) acres.
      11.   Public Toilets: All travel trailer or recreational vehicle parks
shall have on premises public toilet facilities in such a quantity so as to
adequately meet the needs of the park tenants and visitors as determined by the
Public Works Director or designated public health official.
      12.   Enforcement: The owner of a recreational vehicle park shall be
penalized, as provided in section
10-3-14, to the same extent as an owner of a recreational vehicle or travel
trailer in violation of this section, for recreational vehicles or travel
trailers in violation of the requirements herein. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd.
Ord. 23-19, - -2023)
10-16-4: REGULATIONS OUTSIDE TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS:
   A.   Parking Of Travel Trailers And Recreational Vehicles On Private
Property During Construction:
      1.   Conditions: Notwithstanding any limitation set forth in subsection
10-16-2A of this chapter, a person may live in a travel trailer or recreational
vehicle outside of a recreational vehicle park for a term not to exceed one
year when all of the following conditions are met:
         a.   The person living in the travel trailer or recreational vehicle
is actively employed in the construction of a dwelling or other building within
the City, or is the owner of a dwelling or other building which is under active
construction;
         b.   The travel trailer or recreational vehicle is located on the
construction site referred to in subsection A1a of this section;
         c.   A permit is obtained from the City to live in the travel trailer
or recreational vehicle;
         d.   The travel trailer or recreational vehicle complies with all
relevant utility requirements of the City and the State.
      2.   Setback Violations: It shall be unlawful to park or otherwise keep
any travel trailer or recreational vehicle on private property in such a manner
that would violate the setback requirement of any structure if the dimensions
of the structure and the travel trailer or recreational vehicle were added
together.
      3.   Utility Hookups And Fees: The building inspector must approve all
utility hookups before recreational vehicles or travel trailers are occupied
and utilities connected.
   B.   Temporary Occupancy And Time Frame In Residential Zones:
      1.   Number: No more than two (2) travel trailers or recreational
vehicles shall be temporarily occupied on private residential property.
      2.   Time: Such travel trailer(s) or recreational vehicle(s) shall not be
temporarily occupied for more than fourteen (14) days.
      3.   Setbacks: The setback requirements shall apply as outlined in
subsection
10-16-4A2 to ensure adequate fire safety.
      4.   Single Wide: No single wide mobile homes will be allowed in any area
other than existing mobile home parks.
      5.   Self-Contained: Only self-contained travel trailers and recreational
vehicles will be allowed on private property.
      6.   Vacant Lots: Occupation of recreational vehicles and travel trailers
is not allowed on vacant lots unless a permit is obtained under section A.
      7.   Encroachments: Recreational vehicles and travel trailers are subject
to the parking, notice, and removal requirements under subsection
7-1-4B of this code.
   C.   Administrative Conditional Use for Temporary Use of Travel Trailers or
Recreational Vehicles Associated with Outdoor Recreational Use activities.
      1.   Permits: The use of travel trailers or recreational vehicles shall
not be considered or approved until the following applications for permits have
been approved:
         a.   Application for Administrative Conditional Use Permit: An
administrative conditional use permit application shall be completed and
submitted, accompanied with the applicable permit fee by an applicant.
         b.   Application for Temporary Use Permit:
            (1)   A temporary use permit, pursuant to Fillmore City Code Title
10, Chapter 21, shall be completed and submitted, accompanied with the
applicable permit fee by an applicant. An applicant shall comply with all
provisions and requirements of the temporary use permit.
            (2)   Zones: This exception shall only be allowed in the Industrial
and Public Quasi-Public zones.
            (3)   Site plan of recreational vehicle and travel trailer parking
must be provided to the City in addition to requirements of Title 10, Chapter
21 as well as anticipated number of travel trailers or recreational vehicles,
as well as signature of emergency medical services and fire chief,
acknowledging respective review of site plans and acknowledgment that services
can be safely provided.
      2.   Setbacks: The setback requirements shall apply as outlined in
subsection
10-16-4A.2. to ensure adequate fire safety.
      3.   Onsite Use: Only applications requesting the use of travel trailers
or recreational vehicles on the same site as the outdoor recreational use
activities may be approved.
      4.   Utilities:
         a.   Self-Contained: Only self-contained travel trailers and
recreational vehicles will be permitted. Travel trailers and recreational
vehicles shall not be permitted to connect to City utilities unless permitted
connection are available and connection fees and impact fees have been paid.
      5.   Expiration of Permit:
         a.   The administrative conditional use permits shall have an
expiration date of fourteen (14) days from the issue date. Consecutive renewal
periods are prohibited. There shall exist a gap of five days from expiration of
the prior administrative conditional use permit period and removal of travel
trailers and recreation vehicles before another administrative conditional use
permit may be approved.
      6.   Compliance, Responsibility: The applicant is responsible for
ensuring all attendees comply with requirements stated herein. Failure to
comply may result in revocation of the conditional use permit and/or
prohibition of permitting such applicant and/or property for a period of up to
12 months. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 21-01, 1-19-2021; Ord. 23-15, - -
2023; Ord. 23-19, - -2023)
CHAPTER 17
GROUP HOMES
SECTION:
10-17-1: Purpose
10-17-2: Requirements
10-17-3: Design
10-17-4: Fees And Financial Capability
10-17-5: Exemptions
10-17-6: Standards And Conditions
10-17-7: Licenses, Permits, Certifications And Compliance
10-17-8: Procedure
10-17-9: Appendix A - Congregate Living Facility Checklist
10-17-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to allow for the continuation of low density
residential neighborhoods and to not encourage an over concentration of
congregate living facilities that tends to create an "institutional" rather
than a "residential" atmosphere in the applicable neighborhoods. Such purposes
include:
   A.   Distinguishing between facilities providing residential services to the
disabled or to the elderly and other congregate living facilities, such as
youth homes;
   B.   Avoiding the institutionalization of residential neighborhoods and
create an environment that will facilitate the "mainstreaming" of persons with
disabilities and elderly persons into a "normalized" residential environment;
   C.   Providing an opportunity for congregate living facilities to be located
within the City;
   D.   Establishing zoning uses, standards and practices which will not have
the effect of discriminating against congregate living arrangements of
unrelated people with disabilities or the elderly;
   E.   Enacting a separation requirement of at least one-fourth (1/4) mile
that is necessary to provide the adequate mixture of residential housing types
to meet the needs of maintaining a "normalized" residential environment, while
still providing adequate alternatives for the establishment of such housing
throughout the community. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-17-2: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Residential Facility For Disabled:
      1.   Defined: Residential facility for the disabled is defined as a
facility that is occupied on a twenty four (24) hour per day basis in a family
type arrangement under the supervision of a house family or manager, and that
conforms to all applicable standards and requirements of and is licensed by the
Utah Department of Human Services, Division of Services for People With
Disabilities, and is operated by or under contract with that department. Such
facilities are not residential treatment facilities and shall not include
facilities for the following: secure treatment; inpatient treatment;
residential treatment; adult daycare; day treatment; comprehensive mental
health treatment; comprehensive substance abuse treatment; or domestic violence
treatment.
      2.   Conditional Use Permit; Districts Permitted: A residential facility
for persons with a disability requires a conditional use permit and is
permitted only in Residential and Agricultural Zones. The application for a
conditional use permit shall include sufficiently detailed site plans, building
plans or remodeling plans, and all other information necessary to determine
compliance with building, safety and health regulations and standards
applicable to similar dwellings. Any alterations must be reviewed and
recommended by the Planning Commission before a conditional use permit is
approved. Additionally, the facility shall conform to all applicable Building,
Fire, Health and Safety Codes and requirements for facilities of this type.
      3.   Applicability: A residential facility for persons with a disability
is subject to this title, the standards contained herein and the exemptions in
this chapter.
      4.   Residential Character Maintained: A residential facility for persons
with a disability shall not have any structural or landscaping alterations that
would change the structure's residential character.
      5.   Number Permitted: A residential facility for persons with a
disability shall be limited to three (3) to five (5) persons unrelated to the
owner or provider.
      6.   Distance To Similar Facility: A residential facility for persons
with a disability shall not be located within a radius of one-fourth (1/4) mile
of another existing congregate living facility inside or outside of the City
limits.
   B.   Residential Facility For Elderly:
      1.   Defined: Residential facility for the elderly is defined as a
facility that is occupied on a twenty four (24) hour per day basis in a family
type arrangement under the supervision of a house family or manager, and that
conforms to all applicable standards and requirements of and is licensed by the
appropriate licensing department of the State and is operated by or under
contract with that department. A residential facility for the elderly is not a
residential treatment facility and shall not include facilities for the
following: secure treatment; inpatient treatment; residential treatment; adult
daycare; day treatment; comprehensive mental health treatment; comprehensive
substance abuse treatment; or domestic violence treatment.
      2.   Conditional Use Permit; Districts Permitted: A residential facility
for the elderly requires a conditional use permit and is permitted only in
Residential and Agricultural Zones. The application for a conditional use
permit shall include sufficiently detailed site plans, building plans or
remodeling plans, and all other information necessary to determine compliance
with building, safety and health regulations and standards applicable to
similar dwellings. Any alterations must be reviewed and recommended by the
Planning Commission before a conditional use permit is approved. Additionally,
the facility shall conform to all applicable Building, Fire, Health and Safety
Codes and requirements for facilities of this type.
      3.   Applicability: A residential facility for the elderly is subject to
this title, the standards contained herein, and the exemptions in this chapter.
      4.   Residential Character Maintained: A residential facility for the
elderly shall not have any structural or landscaping alterations that would
change the structure's residential character.
      5.   Number Permitted: A residential facility for the elderly shall be
limited to five (5) persons unrelated to the owner or provider.
      6.   Distance To Similar Facility: A residential facility for the elderly
shall not be located within a radius of one-fourth (1/4) mile of another
existing congregate living facility inside or outside of the City limits.
   C.   Youth Home:
      1.   Defined: Youth home is defined in section
10-2-1 of this title.
      2.   Conditional Use Permit; Districts Permitted: A youth home requires a
conditional use permit and is permitted only in zones primarily permitting
residential or agricultural development, subject to specific requirements of
this title. The application for a conditional use permit shall include
sufficiently detailed site plans, building plans or remodeling plans, and all
other information necessary to determine compliance with building, safety and
health regulations and standards applicable to similar dwellings. Any
alterations must be reviewed and recommended by the Planning Commission before
a conditional use permit is approved. Additionally, the facility shall conform
to all applicable Building, Fire, Health and Safety Codes and requirements for
facilities of this type.
      3.   Applicability: A youth home is subject to this title, the standards
contained herein and the exemptions in this chapter.
      4.   Residential Character Maintained: A youth home shall not have any
structural or landscaping alterations that would change the structure's
residential character.
      5.   Number Permitted: Youth homes shall be limited to five (5) persons
under the age of eighteen (18) who are unrelated to the owner or provider of
the youth home.
      6.   Distance To Similar Facility: A youth home shall not be located
within a radius of one-fourth (1/4) mile of another existing congregate living
facility inside or outside of the City limits. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-17-3: DESIGN:
   A.   Development Standards: Any conversion of buildings or new construction
of a congregate living facility shall require that the development standards of
this title are met.
   B.   Open Space, Parking: Any conversion of existing buildings or uses to a
congregate living facility must provide at least thirty percent (30%) of the
area as open green space or playground and at least two (2) parking spaces per
residential unit and adequate off street parking spaces for the staff and
visitors of the facility, as determined by the City Council. The City Council
may reduce the parking requirement as part of the conditional use approval upon
a finding that less parking will meet the needs of the public and the proposed
program.
   C.   Considerations: The Planning Commission and City Council shall consider
the general plan, protection of permitted uses in underlying zones, and the
aesthetics of any proposed building in making its recommendations and/or
approval to any congregate living facility. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-17-4: FEES AND FINANCIAL CAPABILITY:
The applicant for a permit or license to operate a congregate living facility
shall pay the applicable license and permit fees as set by the City Council.
Applicant shall also provide proof of financial capability to ensure timely
restitution to any member of the public suffering damage as a result of
intentional or negligent conduct by members of the staff or residents of the
facility. Proof of financial capability may take the form of insurance, bonds
or financial reserves. Proof of financial capability shall be resubmitted to
the City annually or sooner if significantly changed. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-17-5: EXEMPTIONS:
No congregate living facility shall include facilities which house persons
being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse, persons who have committed violent
crimes, who are not voluntarily residing therein, or who are residing therein
as a part of or in lieu of confinement, rehabilitation or treatment in a
correctional or other facility. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-17-6: STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS:
The Planning Commission and/or City Council may set whatever conditions upon a
conditional use permit to operate a youth home or a residential facility for
persons with a disability or a residential facility for the elderly it deems to
be in harmony with the General Plan and in the best interests of the health,
safety and welfare of the City, including, but not limited to, the following
conditions:
   A.   Impact Study: A community impact study shall be provided by the
applicant as part of the application for the conditional use permit. This study
shall specifically describe the programs provided and evaluate the impact of
the congregate living facility on local schools, the City's economy and
economic resources, the tax revenue of the City, the City's infrastructure,
including sewer concerns, public safety and law enforcement, traffic,
aesthetics, tourism, and neighboring properties and businesses, including the
impact on property values, if any, and the impact of any other uses within or
proposed within the same building to be used as a congregate living facility.
   B.   Distances To Alcohol Sales: A minimum of one thousand feet (1,000')
must be maintained between congregate living facilities and establishments
licensed to sell beer or alcoholic beverages.
   C.   Information Required In Application: The application for business
license shall include the following:
      1.   Proof of cleared background (Department of Criminal Investigations)
checks for all staff that will have direct contact with consumers.
      2.   Written job descriptions, including specific duties and
responsibilities and the minimum level of education, training and work
experience required.
      3.   Business plan.
      4.   References, including educational background, training and relevant
experience of the manager of the facility.
      5.   Educational plan, including a letter from an authorized
accreditation organization stating their intent to accredit the facility's
educational program.
   D.   Supervision Requirements: The facility shall have twenty four (24) hour
per day supervision by trained and qualified personnel, with daytime ratios of
at least one to four (1:4) and evening ratios of at least one to eight (1:8).
   E.   Professional Staff: Staff shall include the following professionals:
      1.   A licensed physician, or consulting licensed physician;
      2.   A licensed psychologist, or consulting licensed psychologist;
      3.   A licensed mental health therapist;
      4.   A licensed advanced practice registered nurse-psychiatric mental
health nurse specialist, or a consulting advanced practice registered nurse-
psychiatric mental health nurse specialist; and
      5.   If unlicensed staff are used, they shall be supervised by a licensed
clinical professional.
   F.   Staff Training: The facility's behavior management policy shall be
provided to all staff, and staff shall receive training relative to behavior
management annually, or more often if needed.
   G.   Adult, Same Sex Supervision: The facility shall provide twenty four
(24) hour supervision of the residents by an adult of the same sex and at least
ten (10) years older than the oldest youth resident.
   H.   Record Disclosure: The facility shall admit only consumers who are
agreeable to a waiver of objection to the disclosure through the house family
or manager of their current juvenile record for purposes of a confidential
report by that family or manager, upon request by the Mayor, as to the identity
and background of any troubled youth in the facility from time to time.
   I.   Number Increase: The number of residents in the facility shall not
increase above the number allowed in the conditional use permit unless an
amendment to the permit is reviewed and approved by the City. Any request for
amendment shall be accompanied by the study described in subsection A of this
section.
   J.   Incident Reporting: The facility shall report to the City on the first
of each month all incidents required to be reported to the Department of Human
Services.
   K.   Escape, Crime Reporting: The facility shall report as quickly as
possible, but not later than within twenty four (24) hours, any escape, violent
incident or crime occurring at the facility. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-17-7: LICENSES, PERMITS, CERTIFICATIONS AND COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Business License Required: To operate a residential facility for
persons with disabilities, as licensed by the Department of Human Services,
Division of Services for Persons With Disabilities, or to operate a residential
facility for the elderly, as licensed by the State Department of Human
Services, or to operate a youth home as licensed by the State Department of
Human Services, the owner or provider shall be required to maintain a valid
business license with the City.
   B.   Residential Facility For Persons With A Disability; State Department Of
Human Services, Utah Division Of Services For People With Disabilities License
Or Certification Required: Applicants must verify, with documentation to the
Planning Commission and City Council, compliance with all applicable
requirements, regulations and standards of the State Department of Human
Services governing the licensing and operation of residential facilities for
persons with a disability. At the time of application for a permit and/or
business license to establish a residential facility for persons with a
disability or within sixty (60) days following approval of a residential
facility for persons with a disability by the City Council, the applicant shall
provide to the City Recorder evidence that the facility is licensed or
certified by the Department of Human Services, Division of Services for People
With Disabilities, or the City shall not issue any business license required to
operate a residential facility for persons with a disability until such
evidence is provided. Failure to provide such evidence shall also be grounds
for the City to initiate proceedings to revoke any valid City approvals for a
residential facility for persons with a disability.
   C.   Residential Facility For The Elderly; State Department Of Human
Services License Or Certification Required: Applicants must verify, with
documentation to the Planning Commission and City Council, compliance with all
applicable requirements, regulations and standards of the State Department of
Human Services governing the licensing and operation of residential facilities
for the elderly. At the time of application for a permit and/or business
license to establish a residential facility for the elderly or within sixty
(60) days following approval of a residential facility for the elderly by the
City Council, the applicant shall provide to the City Recorder evidence that
the facility is licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services or
the City shall not issue any business license required to operate a residential
facility for the elderly until such evidence is provided. Failure to provide
such evidence shall also be grounds for the City to initiate proceedings to
revoke any valid City approvals for a residential facility for the elderly.
   D.   Youth Home; State Department Of Human Services License Or Certification
Required: Applicants must verify, with documentation to the Planning Commission
and City Council, compliance with all applicable requirements, regulations and
standards of the State Department of Human Services governing the licensing and
operation of youth homes. At the time of application for a permit and/or
business license to establish a youth home or within sixty (60) days following
approval of a youth home by the City Council, the applicant shall provide to
the City Recorder evidence that the facility is licensed or certified by the
appropriate department of the State or the City shall not issue any business
license required to operate a youth home until such evidence is provided.
Failure to provide such evidence shall also be grounds for the City to initiate
proceedings to revoke any valid City approvals for a youth home.
   E.   Continued Licensure Or Certification Requirements Of State: Operation
of a residential facility for persons with a disability requires continued
compliance, without interruption, with the licensure Department of Human
Services, Division of Services for People With Disabilities. The responsibility
to certify or license programs or owners or providers which operate residential
facilities for persons with a disability, as well as require and monitor the
provision of adequate services to consumers residing in these facilities, shall
rest with the Department of Human Services, Division of Services for People
With Disabilities. Operation of a residential facility for the elderly requires
continued compliance, without interruption, with the State Department of Human
Services. The responsibility to license programs or entities which operate
residential facilities for the elderly, as well as to monitor the provision of
adequate services to persons residing in those facilities, shall rest with the
Department of Human Services as provided in Utah Code Annotated. Operation of a
youth home requires continued compliance, without interruption, with the State
Department of Human Services. The responsibility to license programs or
entities which operate youth homes, as well as to monitor the provision of
adequate services to persons residing in those facilities, shall rest with the
Department of Human Services as provided in Utah Code Annotated title 62A,
chapter 2.
   F.   Special Provisions For Congregate Living Facilities:
      1.   A permit to operate a congregate living facility, as regulated by
this section shall be:
         a.   Subject to a nontransferable business license; and
         b.   Terminated if at any time it is demonstrated to the City Council,
that:
            (1)   The structure is devoted to a use other than the City
approved use; or
            (2)   The structure fails to comply with the requirements of this
section; or
            (3)   The program has failed to operate in accordance with the
requirements of this section; or
            (4)   The applicant has not obtained and maintained, without
interruption, all licenses from the State required to operate and provided the
City with proof of such licenses. If the license issued by the State expires,
the City business license will automatically become void and the facility must
close.
         c.   Application for reinstatement of a City permit or business
license must be made to the City Council and will be subject to approval by
that body.
      2.   A congregate living facility shall be occupied on a twenty four (24)
hour basis by no more than the maximum number allowed per the International
Building Code for egress requirements, which will include all supervisors and
staff.
      3.   Any conditional use permit for a congregate living facility shall be
for a specified number of individuals.
   G.   License Nontransferable:
      1.   Conditional use permits granted to congregate living facilities
shall expire upon the expiration, revocation or surrender of any City business
license, State license or other regulatory license of the facility. A City
business license to operate a residential facility for persons with a
disability, as authorized by this chapter, is nontransferable. A business
license to operate a residential facility for persons with a disability, as
authorized by this chapter, is nontransferable and shall only be valid to the
owner or provider identified on a valid City business license permit
authorizing the operation of a residential facility for persons with a
disability and identified as the owner or provider as licensed or certified by
the Department of Human Services, Division of Services for People With
Disabilities.
      2.   A business license to operate a residential facility for the
elderly, as authorized by this chapter, is nontransferable and shall only be
valid to the owner or provider identified on a valid City business license
permit authorizing the operation of a residential facility for the elderly and
identified as the owner or provider as licensed or certified by the appropriate
division of the State as required by this section.
      3.   A business license to operate a youth home, as authorized by this
chapter, is nontransferable and shall only be valid to the owner or provider
identified on a valid City business license permit authorizing the operation of
a youth home and identified as the owner or provider as licensed or certified
by the appropriate division of the State as required by this section. (Ord. 19-
07, 9-3-2019)
10-17-8: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Checklists: Anyone desiring to procure a City permit and/or license to
operate a residential facility for the disabled or the elderly, or a youth
home, shall begin the process by completing the congregate living facility
checklist (appendix A), consulting with the City Recorder or the Planning and
Zoning Administrator when necessary. When the checklist has been reviewed and
deemed complete by the City Recorder, the applicant may be placed on the agenda
of the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission.
   B.   Planning Commission Recommendation: The Planning Commission will hear
the applicant's proposal, review the checklist and all required documentation,
and determine whether or not it is in harmony with the City General Plan and in
compliance with this title and State and City standards for granting a
conditional use permit. The Planning Commission shall then make its findings
and recommendation to the City Council, including any specific conditions to be
placed on the permit, in writing.
   C.   City Council Decision: Once the Planning Commission has forwarded
formal written recommendations to the City Council, the applicant may be placed
on the agenda of a regular City Council meeting. The Council may then approve,
modify and approve, or deny the conditional use permit.
   D.   Business License: If the City Council approves a conditional use permit
for a congregate living facility, the applicant may then supply the necessary
documentation and request a business license to operate the facility. (Ord. 19-
07, 9-3-2019)
10-17-9: APPENDIX A - CONGREGATE LIVING FACILITY CHECKLIST:
Before an applicant may be placed on the agenda for the Planning Commission,
the City Recorder must verify that all of the following documentation has been
received by the City:
   A.   Criminal Investigations: Written verification of Department of Criminal
Investigations clearance for the facility's operator and any other persons who
are to have direct contact with minors or vulnerable adults in a congregate
living facility.
   B.   Concept Plan: Concept plan for facility.
   C.   Ownership: Documented proof of ownership of the land, or a valid lease
where the facility is to be located Letter of Intent from the State Department
who will license the facility.
   D.   Curriculum: If the facility provides schooling for minor consumers,
written verification of curriculum approval from the State Office of Education.
If incorporated, applicant must provide proof of active corporation status,
including corporation ownership, from the State Department of Commerce.
   E.   Complaints: Copies from the appropriate licensing department of the
State of any written complaints, including employee grievances, against the
applicant or facility applying for a business license.
   F.   Core Rules: Where appropriate, supply documents which comply with Human
Services Core Rules R501-2-6 and R501-2-7 (information that must be available
for public inspection).
   G.   New Consumer Acceptance Policy: Eligibility and/or intake policy
outlining the reasons a facility would consider accepting new consumers.
   H.   Accreditation: A written statement from State Board of Education or the
National School Accreditation Board verifying accreditation shall be provided.
   I.   License Verification: Verification of licensure (State Department of
Professional Licensing number) for medical personnel, therapists and/or social
workers, and teachers.
   J.   Organization Chart: Organizational chart, including the names of the
applying facility's board of directors. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 18
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
10-18-1: Purpose
10-18-2: Definitions
10-18-3: Subdivision Approval Required
10-18-4: Plat Subdivision: Process Overview And General Requirements
10-18-5: Plat Subdivision: Pre-Application Meeting
10-18-6: Plat Subdivision: Preliminary Subdivision Application
10-18-7: Plat Subdivision: Final Subdivision Application
10-18-8: Exemptions From Plat Requirement (Non-Plat Subdivision)
10-18-9: Vacation Or Amendment Of Subdivision Plat Or Public Street
10-18-10: Boundary Line Adjustment
10-18-11: Parcel Or Lot Consolidation
10-18-12: Record Of Condominium Plat
10-18-1: PURPOSE:
   The purposes of this chapter are to:
   A.   Public Health And Safety: Protect and provide for the public health,
safety, and general welfare of the city.
   B.   Growth And Development Consistent With The General Plan: Guide the
future growth and development of the city in accordance with the general plan.
   C.   Development: Encourage the orderly and beneficial development of land
within the municipality.
   D.   Avoid Conflicts: Protect the integrity of buildings, land, and
improvements, and to minimize the conflicts among the uses of land and
buildings.
   E.   Relationship Between Uses Of Land: Provide a beneficial relationship
between the uses of land, buildings, traffic circulation, and the proper
location and width of streets and building setbacks.
   F.   Standards Of Design: Establish reasonable standards of design and
procedures for subdivisions, condominium plats, plat amendments, and lot line
adjustments, in order to further the orderly layout and use of land; and to
ensure proper legal descriptions and recordation of subdivided land.
   G.   Public Facilities: Ensure that public facilities are available and will
have a sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision.
   H.   Natural Resources: Encourage the wise use and management of natural
resources in order to preserve the integrity, stability, and aesthetics of the
community.
   I.   Rural Development: Continue the rural development and variety of
structural design within residential zones.
   J.   Open Spaces: Provide for open spaces through the most efficient design
and layout of the land, while preserving the density of land as established in
the zoning and subdivision code of the city.
(Ord. 24-25, 12-17-2024)
10-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall be used in the interpretation and construction
of this chapter:
ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE AUTHORITY: An individual, board, or commission,
appointed or employed by a municipality, including municipal staff or a
municipal planning commission. "Administrative land use authority" does not
include a municipal legislative body or a member of a municipal legislative
body.
AFFECTED ENTITY: A county, municipality, special district, special service
district under Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act, school
district, interlocal cooperation entity established under Title 11, Chapter 13,
Interlocal Cooperation Act, specified public utility, property owner, property
owners association, or the Department of Transportation, if the entity's
services or facilities are likely to require expansion or significant
modification because of an intended use of land; the entity has filed with the
municipality a copy of the entity's general or long-range plan; or the entity
has filed with the municipality a request for notice during the same calendar
year and before the municipality provides notice to an affected entity in
compliance with a requirement imposed under this chapter.
LOT: A tract of land, regardless of any label, that is created by and shown on
a subdivision plat that has been recorded in the Office of the Millard County
Recorder.
PARCEL: Any real property that is not a lot.
PLAT: An instrument subdividing property into lots as depicted on a map or
other graphical representation of lands that a licensed professional land
surveyor makes and prepares in accordance with Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-9a-603 or
57-8-13.
RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: A map of a survey of land prepared in accordance with
Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-9a-603, 17-23-17, 17-27a-603, or 57-8-13.
SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be divided
into two (2) or more lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the
installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions.
SUBDIVISION AMENDMENT: An amendment to a recorded subdivision in accordance
with Section 10-9a-608 that vacates all or a portion of the subdivision; alters
the outside boundary of the subdivision; changes the number of lots within the
subdivision; alters a public right-of-way, a public easement, or public
infrastructure within the subdivision; or alters a common area or other common
amenity within the subdivision.
(Ord. 24-25, 12-17-2024)
10-18-3: SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall subdivide any parcel of land in the city except in
compliance with this title.
   B.   No building permit shall be approved for the use of any land or the
construction of any building or structure on a lot or parcel created in
violation of this title, or on a lot in a subdivision created by judicial
decree, until a subdivision plat has been approved and properly recorded as
required by this title. Any license or permit issued in conflict with the
provisions of this title shall be null and void.
   C.   No person shall sell, lease, exchange, encumber or otherwise transfer
or convey any parcel of land which is the result of subdivision of a larger
tract of land unless and until a final plat, for plat subdivisions, or deed,
for non-plat subdivisions, prepared in accordance with the provisions of this
title, shall have been first approved by the land use authority and recorded in
the office of the Millard County Recorder.
   D.   No person shall transfer and no building permit shall be approved for
any parcel or lot if any boundary line adjustment, subdivision amendment, or
consolidation of lots or parcels, affecting such lot or parcel, did not comply
with the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 24-25, 12-17-2024)
10-18-4: PLAT SUBDIVISION PROCESS OVERVIEW AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Intent: This section
10-18-4 provides definitions, standards, and general requirements for platted
subdivisions and shall be applicable to the following sections which address
the plat subdivision process: sections
10-18-4,
10-18-5,
10-18-6 and
10-18-7.
   B.   Definitions: The following definitions shall be used in the
interpretation and construction of this section and the sections that follow
applicable to the platted subdivision process, including sections
10-18-5,
10-18-6 and
10-18-7:
   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE: A body comprised of the city's planning
administrator, city's public works director, city engineer, city attorney, and
Dixie Power representative. Such body, for purposes of subdivision review, does
not include a member of the city's legislative body.
   REVIEW CYCLE:
   Means:
   1.   The subdivider's submittal of a complete subdivision application;
   2.   The municipality's review of that subdivision application;
   3.   The municipality's response to that subdivision application, in
accordance with this section; and
   4.   The subdivider's reply to the municipality's response that addresses
each of the municipality's required modifications or requests for additional
information.
   SUBDIVIDER: A record owner of property, or their agent, who submits an
application to subdivide their property.
   SUBDIVISION APPLICATION: A land use application for the subdivision of land.
   SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PLANS: The civil engineering plans associated with
required infrastructure improvements and municipally controlled utilities
required for a subdivision.
   SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE REVIEW: Review by a municipality to verify that a
subdivision application meets the criteria of the municipality's ordinances.
   SUBDIVISION PLAN REVIEW: A review of the subdivider's subdivision
improvement plans and other aspects of the subdivision application to verify
that the application complies with municipal ordinances and applicable
installation standards and inspection specifications for infrastructure
improvements.
   WATER CONVEYANCE FACILITY: A ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other
watercourse used to convey water used for irrigation or storm water drainage
and any related easement for the ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other
watercourse. “Water conveyance facility” does not mean a ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline or other watercourse used to convey water used for culinary or
industrial water, or any federal water project facility.
   C.   Authority: The administrative land use authority for review of plat
subdivisions shall be the development review committee ("DRC") as defined in
this section.
   D.   Subdivision Application Process Overview:
      1.   Process:
         a.   Prior Legislative Approval: If the application requires
legislative approvals, such as a zone change, annexation, general plan
amendment, street or municipal utility easement vacation, or any other
legislative action, the legislative approval shall be completed prior to
submittal of the preliminary plan application. The legislative body may grant
an approval which approval shall be made contingent upon completion of the
subdivision application process within a reasonable time frame, not to exceed
twelve (12) months.
         b.   Subdivision Approval Process Generally:
            (1)   Subdivider may request a pre-application meeting pursuant to
section
10-18-5;
            (2)   Subdivider shall apply for preliminary subdivision
application approval in compliance with section
10-18-6 which review shall commence upon submission of a complete preliminary
subdivision application, which application shall include the subdivision
improvement plan, and shall follow the review cycle standards; and
            (3)   Upon, or concurrent with, approval of the preliminary
subdivision application, including the subdivision improvement plan, subdivider
shall apply for final subdivision application approval in compliance with
section
10-18-7. The review of such shall commence upon submission of a complete final
subdivision application, and shall follow the review cycle standards.
         c.   City Shall Maintain And Publish: The city shall maintain and
publish a list of the items comprising the complete subdivision application,
including:
            (1)   The application;
            (2)   The owner's affidavit;
            (3)   An electronic copy of all plans in PDF form;
            (4)   The subdivision plat drawings; and
            (5)   A breakdown of fees due upon approval of the application.
   E.   Review Cycle Standards:
      1.   Application Of Review Cycle Periods:
         a.   The review cycle periods apply to subdivision applications for
single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes.
         b.   The review cycle periods do not apply to:
            (1)   Subdivision applications for uses other than single-family
dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes; or
            (2)   Subdivision applications affecting property within identified
geological hazard areas.
         c.   Subdivision applications for uses other than single-family
dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes shall follow the process outlined
in this section
10-18-4, without strict compliance to the review cycle periods and deadlines
with the exception of expiration periods.
      2.   Initial Review Period:
         a.   Complete Subdivision Application: For single-family dwellings,
two-family dwellings, or townhomes that are not located within identified
geological hazard areas, the city has thirty (30) business days after
submission of a complete subdivision application for the initial review. If the
application is not complete, the city shall return the application to the
subdivider and the review cycle shall not commence.
         b.   Subdivision Improvement Plan: For single-family dwellings, two-
family dwellings, or townhomes that are not located within identified
geological hazard areas, the city has forty (40) business days after submission
of a complete subdivision improvement plan for the initial review.
      3.   Second And Subsequent Review Periods: If a subdivider does not
submit a revised subdivision improvement plan within forty (40) business days
after the city requires a modification or correction, the city has an
additional twenty (20) business days, for a total of sixty (60) business days,
to respond to a revised subdivision improvement plan. If the subdivider's
response is not complete, the city shall return the subdivider's response to
the subdivider and the second or subsequent review cycle shall not commence.
      4.   Final Review Period:
         a.   Maximum Number Of Review Cycles: The city may not require more
than (4) four review cycles for a subdivision improvement plan review.
         b.   Failure To Respond: If on the fourth or final review, the city
fails to respond within twenty (20) business days, the city shall, upon request
of the property owner, and within ten (10) business days after the day on which
the request is received:
            (1)   For a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans,
assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-508(5)(d) to
review and approve or deny the final revised set of plans; or
            (2)   For a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review,
advise the subdivider, in writing, of the deficiency in the application and of
the right to appeal the determination to a designated appeal authority.
      5.   City's Response To Submittal:
         a.   The city's response, in each review cycle, must be comprehensive,
i.e., all comments from all departments must be sent to the subdivider in one
document.
         b.   Request For Additional Information Or Modifications.
            (1)   The city may require additional information relating to a
subdivider's plans to ensure compliance with municipal ordinances and approved
standards and specifications for construction or public improvements, and
modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances, applicable
standards or specifications, or do not contain complete information.
            (2)   The city's request for additional information or
modifications to plans shall be specific and include citations to ordinances,
standards, or specifications that require the modifications to subdivision
improvement plans and shall be logged in an index of requested modifications or
additions.
         c.   Corrections Waived; Exceptions: Except as necessary to protect
public health and safety or to enforce state or federal law, a change or
correction not addressed or referenced in the city's subdivision improvement
plan review is waived unless such change or correction is necessitated by the
subdivider's adjustment to a subdivision improvement plan or an update to a
phasing plan that adjusts the infrastructure needed for the specific
development.
      6.   Subdivider's Response To City's Response:
         a.   A subdivider shall provide a written explanation in response to
the municipality's review comments, identifying and explaining the subdivider's
revisions and reasons for declining to make revisions, if any.
         b.   The subdivider's written explanation shall be comprehensive and
specific, including citations to applicable standards and ordinances for the
design and an index of requested revisions or additions for each required
correction.
         c.   If a subdivider fails to address a review comment in the
response, the review cycle is not complete and the subsequent review cycle may
not begin until all comments are addressed.
      7.   Material Change: If a subdivider makes a material change to a
subdivision improvement plan, the city has the discretion to restart the review
process at the first review of the subdivision improvement plan review, but
only with respect to the portion of the subdivision improvement plan that the
material change substantively affects.
(Ord. 24-25, 12-17-2024)
10-18-5: PLAT SUBDIVISION: PRE-APPLICATION MEETING:
   A.   Scheduling: Within fifteen (15) business days after a written request
is made by the subdivider for a pre-application meeting, which request shall
include the information required under subsection (B), the city shall schedule
a pre-application meeting.
   B.   Information Made Available By Subdivider: The subdivider shall include,
with subdivider's request for a pre-application meeting, a concept plan for
city staff review which shall, at a minimum, include the following:
      1.   The general location of the subdivision and the property boundaries
of the proposed subdivision area;
      2.   The topographic contours from available data, e.g. USGS maps;
      3.   The acreage of the entire tract as well as the number of lots and
dimensions and size per lot;
      4.   The current and proposed zoning;
      5.   A brief written statement or oral presentation in sufficient detail
that the intent of the subdivider is clear regarding the proposed use of the
property;
      6.   The feasibility of the anticipated impact, demand and availability
of utilities and utility connections, including water, sewer, and power; and
      7.   Any phasing plan, if applicable.
   C.   Information Made Available By City: At the pre-application meeting, the
city shall provide or have available on the municipal website, the following:
      1.   Copies of applicable land use regulations;
      2.   A complete list of standards required for the project;
      3.   Preliminary and final application checklists; and
      4.   Feedback on the submitted concept plan.
   D.   No Vested Rights: The pre-application meeting, including review and
comments regarding the submitted concept plan, does not create any vested
rights or approval.
(Ord. 24-25, 12-17-2024)
10-18-6: PLAT SUBDIVISION: PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATION:
   A.   Petition: Subdivider shall submit a complete preliminary subdivision
application on a form provided by the city with all the requested information
and necessary attachments. Such petition shall include:
      1.   An owner's affidavit;
      2.   An electronic copy of all plans in PDF format;
      3.   Preliminary plat and subdivision improvement plan drawings;
      4.   Payment of all preliminary plan fees;
      5.   The subdivision improvement plan;
      6.   All other required details, specifications, information, permits,
and other information as detailed in Fillmore city code or regulations by the
applicable jurisdiction; and
      7.   If subdivider received conditional approval for residential multi-
family zoning of subdivider's property, subdivider shall meet the requirements
of section 10-7D-1 et seq. and the executed development agreement.
   B.   Notice And Public Comment:
      1.   The city shall provide notice on the city's website, and to the
following via mail, at the petitioner's cost, at least ten (10) calendar days
before the land use authority may approve the petition:
         a.   Affected entities that provide service(s) to an owner of record
of the portion of the plat that is being vacated or amended; and
         b.   Record owners of property located within three hundred feet
(300') of the property that is the subject of the proposed vacation or
amendment, sent to the mailing address appearing on the rolls of the county
assessor.
      2.   Water Conveyance Facilities: If the location of the proposed
subdivision is within one hundred (100) feet of a water conveyance facility,
the City shall, within twenty (20) calendar days after receipt of the completed
application, notify in writing the Water Conveyance Facility Owner(s) of the
Application and request comments related to the following aspects of the water
conveyance facility: access, maintenance, protection, safety, and any other
issues related.
      3.   The notice shall include:
         a.   A copy of the filed petition or a description of such petition
with a statement that a copy of the filed petition is available to review at
the Fillmore city office; and
         b.   A deadline, in which any comments shall be filed with the city,
of:
            (1)   At least ten (10) calendar days for affected entities and
record owners of property within three hundred feet (300'); and
            (2)   At least twenty (20) calendar days for any water conveyance
facility owner(s).
      4.   Approval Prohibited During Twenty (20) Calendar Day Window: While
the city may provide comments to the subdivider before this twenty (20) day
window is complete, the administrative land use authority shall not grant
approval until at least twenty (20) days after the day on which the city mailed
notice to the affected entities, record owners of property within three hundred
feet (300'), and water conveyance facilities.
      5.   No Public Hearing: Unless otherwise required under state code, no
public hearing shall be held.
   C.   Consideration And Approval:
      1.   Approval: Upon completion of review, pursuant to the review cycle,
as set forth in section
10-18-4(E), if the administrative land use authority finds the subdivider has
completed all requirements addressed during the review cycle and that the
preliminary application, including the preliminary plat and subdivision
improvement plan, complies with the requirements of this title and all adopted
city standards and specifications, then the administrative land use authority
shall approve the preliminary subdivision application, including the
subdivision improvement plan.
      2.   Certificate Of Approval: Upon approval, the city shall prepare a
certificate of written approval. However, no plat shall be signed and recorded
in the Office of the Millard County Recorder until approval of a final
subdivision application.
   D.   Expiration:
      1.   Incomplete Response Or Lack of Response: An application is expired
if, during the review cycle, the subdivider does not reply to the city's
response by submitting a complete response within twelve (12) months.
      2.   Approved Preliminary Application: An approved preliminary
application is expired if the subdivider does not submit a complete final
subdivision application within twelve (12) months of preliminary subdivision
application approval.
      3.   Phased Final Plats: An approved application remains active on
condition that the second and subsequent phases of the final plat are recorded
at least every twenty-four (24) months, unless specifically varied in an
executed development agreement. If a subsequent phase of the final plat is not
recorded within the twenty-four (24) month period, the subdivider must submit a
preliminary subdivision application anew for city approval.
(Ord. 24-25, 12-17-2024)
10-18-7: PLAT SUBDIVISION: FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION:
   A.   Petition:
      1.   Subdivider shall submit a complete final subdivision application, on
a form provided by the city, with all the requested information and necessary
attachments. Such petition shall include:
         a.   An owner's affidavit;
         b.   A final plat (or the first phase of a phased final plat);
         c.   The approved preliminary plat and subdivision improvement plan
drawings;
         d.   An electronic copy of all plans in PDF format;
         e.   Payment of all preliminary plan fees;
         f.   All other required details, specifications, information, permits,
and other information as detailed in Fillmore city code or regulations by the
applicable jurisdiction; and
         g.   If subdivider received conditional approval for residential
multi-family zoning of subdivider's property, subdivider shall meet the
requirements of section
10-7D-1 et seq. and the executed development agreement.
      2.   Phased Final Plats: If subdivider indicated its intention to develop
in phases during the preliminary subdivision application, the city shall
consider separate final subdivision applications for each phase.
      3.   Concurrent Submission:
         a.   The final subdivision application may be submitted concurrently
with the preliminary subdivision application.
         b.   A subdivider may submit concurrent final subdivision applications
if subdivider will be developing phases concurrently and intends such phases to
be approved and recorded concurrently.
      4.   Shall Not Vary: The final subdivision application and subdivision
improvement plans shall not materially vary from the approved preliminary
subdivision application. If the final subdivision application or subdivision
improvement plan materially changes from the approved preliminary subdivision
application, the city has the discretion to require the subdivider to submit a
preliminary subdivision application anew as provided in section
10-18-6.
      5.   Timing: The final subdivision application must be submitted within
twelve (12) months after approval of the preliminary subdivision application.
   B.   Consideration, Approval:
      1.   Approval: Upon completion of review, pursuant to the review cycle,
as set forth in section
10-18-4(E), if the administrative land use authority finds that the final
subdivision application complies with the requirements of this title and all
adopted city standards and specifications, then the administrative land use
authority shall approve the final subdivision application.
      2.   Improvement Completion Assurance: Subdivider shall comply with and
provide improvement completion assurance as provided in title 10, chapter 18,
Article A.
      3.   Signing And Recording Of Plat:
         a.   Prior to the signing and recording of a final plat, the final
plat shall be reviewed by the city attorney and the Office of the Millard
County Recorder.
         b.   Subject to subdivider providing improvement completion assurance,
the administrative land use authority shall forward the final plat to the
legislative body for signature.
         c.   The city, at subdivider's cost, shall record the approved, signed
final plat in the Office of the Millard County Recorder.
(Ord. 24-25, 12-17-2024)
10-18-8: EXEMPTIONS FROM PLAT REQUIREMENT (NON-PLAT SUBDIVISION):
   A.   Non-Plat Subdivision:
      1.   Authority: The land use authority for purposes of review and
approval of a non-plat subdivision is the planning administrator.
      2.   Standards: In lieu of preparing a subdivision plat and proceeding as
set forth in sections
10-18-4,
10-18-5,
10-18-6, and
10-18-7, a subdivider may elect to follow the non-plat subdivision process, as
set forth herein, if the proposed subdivision:
         a.   Is not traversed by the mapped lines of a proposed street as
shown in the general plan and does not require dedication of land for a street
or other public purpose;
         b.   Has been approved by the culinary water authority and the
sanitary sewer authority;
         c.   Is located in a zoned area;
         d.   Conforms to all applicable land use ordinance, including
frontage, width, and area requirements of the zone district in which it is
located or has properly received a variance from the requirements of an
otherwise conflicting and applicable land use ordinance;
         e.   The proposed subdivision would result in buildable lots; or
         f.   The proposed subdivision would result in five (5) or fewer lots.
      3.   Petition:
         a.   Any fee owner, as shown on the last county assessment rolls, of
land within the subdivision that has been laid out and platted shall, in
writing on a form provided by Fillmore City, submit a complete petition for a
non-plat subdivision.
         b.   Such petition shall include:
            (1)   A record of survey map that graphically illustrates the
boundaries of each lot or parcel exempted from the plat requirement;
            (2)   All other required details, specifications, information,
permits, and other information as detailed in Fillmore City Code or regulations
by the applicable jurisdiction.
      4.   Notice And Public Comment:
         a.   The city shall provide notice on the city website and to the
following via mail, at the petitioner's cost, at least ten (10) calendar days
before the land use authority may approve the petition:
            (1)   Affected entities that provide service(s) to an owner of
record of the portion of the plat that is being vacated or amended; and
            (2)   Record owners of property located within three hundred feet
(300') of the property that is the subject of the proposed vacation or
amendment, sent to the mailing address appearing on the rolls of the county
assessor.
         b.   The notice shall include:
            (1)   A copy of the filed petition or a description of such
petition with a statement that a copy of the filed petition is available to
review at the Fillmore City Office; and
            (2)   A deadline of at least ten (10) calendar days in which any
written objections shall be filed with the planning administrator.
         c.   No Public Hearing: Unless otherwise required under state code, no
public hearing shall be held.
      5.   Consideration, Approval, And Recordation:
         a.   Approval:
            (1)   Approval: If the land use authority finds the subdivider has
completed all requirements and such application complies with the requirements
of this title and all adopted city standards and specifications, then the land
use authority shall approve the application and issue a notice of approval.
Such notice of approval shall recite the legal description of each resulting
parcel of property.
            (2)   Notice Of Approval: The city shall prepare a notice of
written approval.
         b.   Recordation: Such notice of approval, along with a deed,
consistent with the descriptions provided in the record of survey, shall be
recorded in the Office of the Millard County Recorder, at the petitioner's
cost.
      6.   Expiration Of Approval: The city approval is only valid upon
recording of the deed subdividing such property, and the city's notice of
approval shall clearly indicate the same. Furthermore, city approval shall
expire one hundred eighty (180) calendar days from the date the city's notice
of approval was signed unless both the city's notice of approval and the
recording of the deed subdividing such property are recorded within that time.
      7.   One Time Process; Deed Restriction: This subsection (A) may be
utilized only once per parcel of property. Parcels of land which are subdivided
as a non-plat subdivision, under this subsection (A), must be deed restricted
with a notation on the documents of conveyance that this one-time election has
been exercised and that the resulting parcels may not be further subdivided
without recordation of an approved subdivision plat.
   B.   Agricultural Exemption From Plat:
      1.   Authority: The planning administrator acts as the land use authority
for property proposed to be subdivided without a plat, as an agricultural
exemption.
      2.   Standards: Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a lot or
parcel resulting from a division of agricultural land is exempt from the plat
requirements of this title if the lot or parcel:
         a.   Qualifies as land in agricultural use under Utah Code Ann. § 59-
2-502;
         b.   Meets the minimum size requirement of applicable land use
ordinances;
         c.   Is not used and will not be used for any nonagricultural purpose;
and
         d.   Meets the requirements under subsection (A)(2)(a)-(e) herein.
      3.   Petition:
         a.   Any fee owner, as shown on the last county assessment rolls, of
land within the subdivision that has been laid out and platted shall, in
writing on a form provided by Fillmore City, submits a complete petition for a
non-plat subdivision.
         b.   Such petition shall include:
            (1)   A record of survey map that graphically illustrates the
boundaries of each lot or parcel exempted from the plat requirement;
            (2)   All other required details, specifications, information,
permits, and other information as detailed in Fillmore City Code or regulations
by the applicable jurisdiction.
      4.   Notice And Public Comment:
         a.   The city shall provide notice on the city website and to the
following via mail, at the petitioner's cost, at least ten (10) calendar days
before the land use authority may approve the petition:
            (1)   Affected entities that provide service(s) to an owner of
record of the portion of the plat that is being vacated or amended; and
            (2)   Record owners of property located within three hundred feet
(300') of the property that is the subject of the proposed vacation or
amendment, sent to the mailing address appearing on the rolls of the county
assessor.
         b.   The notice shall include:
            (1)   A copy of the filed petition or a description of such
petition with a statement that a copy of the filed petition is available to
review at the Fillmore City Office; and
            (2)   A deadline of at least ten (10) calendar days in which any
written objections shall be filed with the planning administrator.
         c.   No Public Hearing: Unless otherwise required under state code, no
public hearing shall be held.
      5.   Consideration, Approval, And Recordation:
         a.   Approval:
            (1)   Approval: If the land use authority finds the subdivider has
completed all requirements and such application complies with the requirements
of this title and all adopted city standards and specifications, then the land
use authority shall approve the application and issue a notice of approval.
Such notice of approval shall recite the legal description of each resulting
parcel of property.
            (2)   Certificate Of Approval:
               (A)   The planning and zoning administrator shall prepare a
certificate of written approval that shall accompany the recording of the
record of survey. For a record of survey to create a valid subdivision a
certificate of written approval must be attached to the document. Unless
approval is obtained and recorded on the property, any metes and bounds
division after the enactment of this chapter shall be deemed null and void, for
the purposes of zoning.
               (B)   The certificate or written approval required herein shall
be in substantially the following form: "The Fillmore City Zoning Administrator
hereby represents and acknowledges that the property described herein is part
of a metes and bounds division of land, i.e., Non-Plat Subdivision, and is not
subject to the requirements for recording a subdivision plat. As such, it is to
be used for agricultural purposes under Utah Code Ann. § 59-2-502, as amended,
only and cannot be used for residential or other development purposes until the
requirements for a Plat Subdivision have been met. The division and use of the
land has been reviewed by Fillmore City staff and has been found to meet the
requirements under City ordinances and State statutes. This approval shall
expire one hundred eighty (180) calendar days from the date of this Certificate
of Approval unless such subdivision of property has been formalized by deed or
other adequate recording instrument."
         b.   Recordation: Such certificate of approval, along with a deed,
consistent with the descriptions provided in the record of survey, shall be
recorded in the Office of the Millard County Recorder, at the petitioner's
cost.
      6.   Expiration Of Approval: The city approval is only valid upon
recording of the deed subdividing such property, and the city's certificate of
approval shall clearly indicate the same. Furthermore, City approval shall
expire one hundred eighty (180) calendar days from the date the city's
certificate of approval was notarized unless both the city's certificate of
approval and the recording of the deed subdividing such property are recorded
within that time.
      7.   Effect Of Use Or Development Of Property For Nonagricultural
Purposes: If a lot or parcel exempted herein is used or developed for a
nonagricultural purpose, the city may require the lot or parcel to comply with
the plat subdivision requirements under sections
10-18-4,
10-18-5,
10-18-6, and
10-18-7.
(Ord. 24-25, 12-17-2024)
10-18-9: VACATION OR AMENDMENT OF SUBDIVISION PLAT OR PUBLIC STREET:
   A.   Intent: In some instances, it becomes necessary to adjust, amend,
vacate, or otherwise modify the dimensions of existing lot lines, subdivision
plats, or public streets. The city expresses its intention to follow Utah Code
Ann. §§ 10-9a-608, 609, and 609.5, as amended, in considering subdivision
amendments, and vacations of subdivisions, public streets, and municipal
utility easements.
   B.   Subdivision Amendment Or Subdivision Vacation: The process for a
subdivision amendment or subdivision vacation shall meet the following
regulations:
      1.   Authority: The development review committee acts as the land use
authority when the proposed adjustment, amendment, or vacation does not include
an adjustment, amendment, or vacation of a public street, right-of-way, or
municipal easement.
      2.   Petition:
         a.   Any fee owner, as shown on the last county assessment rolls, of
land within the subdivision that has been laid out and platted shall, in
writing on a form provided by Fillmore City, submits a complete petition to
have the plat, or any portion of it, vacated or amended as provided in this
section.
         b.   Such petition shall include a prepared plat, in accordance with
Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-603 that:
            (1)   Depicts only the portion of the plat that is proposed to be
amended;
            (2)   Includes a plat name distinguishing the amended plat from the
original plat; and
            (3)   Describes the differences between the amended plat and the
original plat and includes references to the original plat.
      3.   Notice And Public Hearing:
         a.   The city shall provide notice on the city website and to the
following via mail, at the petitioner's cost, at least ten (10) calendar days
before the land use authority may approve the petition:
            (1)   Affected entities that provide service(s) to an owner of
record of the portion of the plat that is being vacated or amended; and
            (2)   Record owners of property located within three hundred feet
(300') of the property that is the subject of the proposed vacation or
amendment, sent to the mailing address appearing on the rolls of the county
assessor.
         b.   The notice shall include:
            (1)   A copy of the filed petition or a description of such
amendment with a statement that a copy of the filed petition is available to
review at the Fillmore City Office; and
            (2)   The date, time, and place of the public hearing, if a public
hearing is required, or if no public hearing is required, a deadline of at
least ten (10) calendar days in which any written objections shall be filed
with the planning administrator.
         c.   A public hearing shall be held within forty-five (45) days after
the petition is filed if any of the following circumstances are true:
            (1)   Any owner within the plat notifies the municipality of their
objection in writing within ten (10) days of mailed notification; or
            (2)   All of the owners in the subdivision, or that portion of the
subdivision that is being vacated or amended have not signed the revised plat.
         d.   A public hearing shall not be held if notice has been given as
provided by this section and the petition seeks to:
            (1)   Join two (2) or more of the petitioner fee owner's contiguous
lots;
            (2)   Subdivide one or more of the petitioning fee owner's lots, if
the subdivision will not result in a violation of a land use ordinance or a
development condition;
            (3)   Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and
an adjoining parcel if the fee owners of each of the adjoining properties join
in the petition, regardless of whether the properties are located in the same
subdivision;
            (4)   On a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an
internal lot restriction imposed by the local political subdivision; or
            (5)   Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing
boundaries or other attributes of lots within the subdivision that are not: (i)
owned by the petitioner; or (ii) designated as a common area.
      4.   Consideration, Approval, And Recordation:
         a.   Consideration And Approval Of Amended Plat: The land use
authority may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing an amended
plat showing the vacation or amendment if the land use authority finds that:
            (1)   There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and
            (2)   No public street or municipal utility easement has been
vacated or amended.
         b.   Recording Of Amended Plat:
            (1)   The land use authority shall ensure that the amended plat
showing the vacation or amendment is recorded in the Millard County Recorder's
Office, at the petitioner's cost.
            (2)   An amended plat, approved and recorded in accordance with
this section, shall vacate, supersede, and replace any contrary provision in a
previously recorded plat of the same land.
         c.   Vacating Ordinance:
            (1)   A legislative body may vacate a subdivision or a portion of a
subdivision by recording in the Millard County Recorder's Office an ordinance
describing the subdivision or the portion being vacated.
            (2)   The recorded vacating ordinance shall replace a previously
recorded plat described in the vacating ordinance.
   C.   The process for vacating a public street, right-of-way, or municipal
utility easement shall meet the following regulations:
      1.   Authority: The legislative body may approve a petition to vacate a
public street, right-of-way, or municipal utility easement in accordance with
this section.
      2.   Petition: A complete petition to vacate some or all of a public
street, right-of-way, or municipal utility easement shall be submitted on a
form provided by Fillmore City, along with the required fee shall be submitted
to the city. Such petition shall include a legal description of the public
street, right-of-way, or municipal utility easement is being requested to be
vacated.
      3.   Notice And Public Hearing:
         a.   The city shall provide notice, at the petitioner's cost, at least
ten (10) calendar days before the land use authority may approve the petition,
as follows:
            (1)   As a class A notice under Utah Code Ann. § 63G-3-102;
            (2)   The city shall mail notice to:
               (A)   Affected entities;
               (B)   Record owners of property located adjacent to the public
street or municipal utility easement between the two nearest public street
intersections;
               (C)   Record owners of property that access by or within three
hundred (300) feet of the public street or municipal utility easement;
               (D)   The Utah Department of Transportation, if a public street
is being requested to be vacated; and
            (3)   The city shall provide notice to operators of utilities and
culinary water or sanitary sewer facilities located within the bounds of the
public street or municipal utility easement sought to be vacated.
         b.   The notice shall include:
            (1)   A copy of the filed petition or a description of such public
street or municipal utility easement being sought to be vacated, with a
statement that a copy of the filed petition is available to review at the
Fillmore City Office; and
            (2)   The date, time, and place of the public hearing.
         c.   A public hearing shall be held in accordance with Utah Code Ann.
§ 10-9-208.
      4.   Consideration, Approval, And Recordation:
         a.   Consideration And Approval: The land use authority may approve
the vacation by adopting an ordinance granting a petition to vacate some or all
of a public street or municipal utility easement if the legislative body finds
that:
            (1)   Good cause exists for the vacation; and
            (2)   Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially
injured by the vacation.
         b.   Recording Plat Or Vacating Ordinance: The legislative body shall
ensure that one or both of the following is recorded in the Millard County
Recorder's Office, at the petitioner's cost:
            (1)   A plat reflecting the vacation; or
            (2)   A vacating ordinance which shall include a legal description
of the public street to be vacated.
(Ord. 24-25, 12-17-2024)
10-18-10: BOUNDARY LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Intent: In some instances, it becomes necessary to adjust property
boundaries between parcels, lots, or parcels and lots. The city expresses its
intention to follow Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-9a-523, 524, and 608, as amended, in
considering property boundary adjustments.
   B.   Land Use Authority: The planning administrator acts as the land use
authority for proposed boundary line adjustments.
   C.   Standards: An application for a lot or parcel line adjustment shall
result in lots or parcels that comply with the following standards:
      1.   Existing structures comply with all applicable regulations in title
10 regarding lot size, lot width, and required setbacks unless modified through
a planned development or when necessary to comply with a finalized development
agreement;
      2.   The resulting lots or parcels do not alter any existing easement
unless the existing easements are included in the application for an
adjustment. If the easement is shown on a recorded plat and is impacted by the
proposed adjustment, a subdivision amendment is required;
      3.   The proposed adjustment does not create any new or increase the
amount of noncompliance with title 10 or does not result in a use expanding to
a portion of a property where the use is not authorized in the applicable land
use tables in title 10;
      4.   The resulting adjustment will not result in more than one principal
building on a single lot unless authorized by title 10;
      5.   The resulting adjustment will not alter any public right of way;
      6.   The resulting adjustment will not create any new lots or parcels;
and
      7.   The proposed adjustment does not place a parcel or lot into
noncompliance with public utility requirements, such as meter standards,
utility placement, shared facilities, and other adopted standards.
   D.   Parcel Boundary Adjustment:
      1.   Process: For adjustments to a property boundary between parcels, the
property owner shall:
         a.   Execute a boundary adjustment through:
            (1)   A quitclaim deed; or
            (2)   Boundary line agreement; and
         b.   Record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement in the
Office of the Millard County Recorder.
      2.   Review By Land Use Authority:
         a.   Criteria For Approval: If neither parcel includes a dwelling
unit, such property boundary adjustment is not subject to review by the land
use authority. If one or more of the parcels includes a dwelling unit, the land
use authority shall review the boundary lot adjustment to ensure compliance
with subsection (C).
         b.   Timing Of Review: The land use authority shall complete the
review within fourteen (14) days after the day on which the property owner
submits the boundary lines agreement for review.
         c.   Deficiencies Or Corrections: Upon a review, if the city
determines the boundary line agreement is deficient or requires additional
information to approve the boundary line agreement, the city shall, within the
fourteen (14) days, send written notice to the property owner that: (i)
describes the specific deficiency or additional information the city requires
to approve the boundary line agreement; and (ii) states that the city shall
approve once the additional information has been provided and any deficiencies
corrected.
         d.   Notice Of Approval: Upon a review, if the city approves the
agreement, the city shall send written notice of the boundary line agreement's
approval to the property owner within the fourteen (14) days.
   E.   Lot Line Adjustments:
      1.   Process: For adjustments to a property boundary where one or more of
the adjoining properties is a lot, the property owner shall:
         a.   Obtain approval from the land use approval after submission of a
completed petition for lot line adjustment, in writing on a form provided by
Fillmore City;
         b.   Submit a petition for an amended plat in accordance with section
10-18-9, if required by state law;
         c.   Execute a boundary adjustment through:
            (1)   A quitclaim deed; or
            (2)   Boundary line agreement; and
         d.   Record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement in the
Office of the Millard County Recorder.
      2.   Review By Land Use Authority:
         a.   The land use authority shall review the boundary lot adjustment
to ensure compliance with subsection (C).
         b.   Notice Of Approval: A notice of lot line adjustment approval
shall be recorded in the office of the Millard County Recorder which: (i) is
approved by the land use authority; and (ii) recites the legal descriptions of
both the original properties and the properties resulting from the exchange of
title. Such notice of approval, along with the approved deed or other
recordable instrument shall be recorded by the petitioner, at the petitioner's
cost.
   F.   Expiration Of Approval: The city approval for lot or parcel line
adjustment is only valid upon recording of the approved deed or other
recordable instrument, and any document of approval issued by the city shall
clearly indicate the same. Furthermore, city approval shall expire one hundred
eighty (180) calendar days from the date the city's notice of approval was
notarized unless both the city's approval document and the approved recordable
instrument are recorded within that time.
(Ord. 24-25, 12-17-2024)
10-18-11: PARCEL OR LOT CONSOLIDATION:
   A.   Land Use Authority: The planning administrator acts as the land use
authority for proposed parcel or lot consolidation.
   B.   Standards: An application for a parcel or lot consolidation shall
result in parcels or lots that comply with the following standards:
      1.   Existing structures comply with all applicable regulations in title
10 regarding lot size, lot width, and required setbacks unless modified through
a planned development or when necessary to comply with a finalized development
agreement;
      2.   The resulting lots or parcels do not alter any existing easement
unless the existing easements are included in the application for an
adjustment. If the easement is shown on a recorded plat and is impacted by the
proposed adjustment, a subdivision amendment is required;
      3.   The proposed adjustment does not create any new or increase the
amount of noncompliance with title 10 or does not result in a use expanding to
a portion of a property where the use is not authorized in the applicable land
use tables in title 10;
      4.   The resulting adjustment will not result in more than one principal
building on a single lot unless authorized by title 10;
      5.   The resulting adjustment will not alter any public right of way;
      6.   The resulting adjustment will not create any new lots or parcels;
and
      7.   The proposed adjustment does not place a parcel or lot into
noncompliance with public utility requirements, such as meter standards,
utility placement, shared facilities, and other adopted standards.
   C.   Parcel Consolidation:
      1.   For consolidation of two (2) or more parcels, the property owner
shall:
         a.   Execute a quitclaim deed; and
         b.   Record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement in the
Office of the Millard County Recorder.
      2.   Review By Land Use Authority: Criteria For Approval: If neither
parcel includes a dwelling unit, such parcel consolidation is not subject to
review by the land use authority. If one or more of the parcels includes a
dwelling unit, the land use authority shall review the consolidation to ensure
compliance with the standards set forth under section
10-18-10(C).
   D.   Lot Consolidation: For consolidation of two (2) or more properties
where one or more of the adjoining properties is a lot, the property owner
shall follow the subdivision amendment process in section
10-18-9 and meet the standards set forth under section
10-18-10(C).
   E.   Consideration And Approval: Recorded Instrument: The instrument shall
clearly indicate that the parcels or lots are to be consolidated into one
parcel or lot and one legal description.
(Ord. 24-25, 12-17-2024)
10-18-12: RECORD OF CONDOMINIUM PLAT:
   Each application for condominium shall comply with the provisions of the
condominium act as set forth in Utah Code Annotated title 57, chapter 8, or any
successor statute enacted in its place.
(Ord. 24-25, 12-17-2024)
ARTICLE A. DESIGN STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
10-18A-1: Governing Provisions
10-18A-2: Lot Standards
10-18A-3: Development Design And Layout
10-18A-4: Construction On Slopes Exceeding Twenty Five Percent
10-18A-5: Landscaping
10-18A-6: Buildings
10-18A-7: Road Layout And Geometry
10-18A-8: Road Grades
10-18A-9: Private Road Maintenance
10-18A-10: Street Names
10-18A-11: Driveways
10-18A-12: Cuts, Fills And Retaining Walls
10-18A-13: Measuring Cut And Fill Heights
10-18A-14: Maximum Slope Grades
10-18A-15: Retaining Walls
10-18A-16: Engineering Geologic Analysis
10-18A-17: Revegetation
10-18A-18: Building Setbacks From Waterways And Flood Hazard Areas
10-18A-19: Utilities
10-18A-20: Completion Of On And Off Site Improvements Prior To The Approval Of
Plats Or Issuance Of Certificates Of Occupancy
10-18A-21: Security For Completion
10-18A-22: Amount Of Security
10-18A-23: Term Of Security/Proof Of Licensing
10-18A-24: Form Of Security
10-18A-25: Payment Of Interest
10-18A-26: Release Of Funds
10-18A-27: Modification Of Plans
10-18A-28: Phased Projects
10-18A-1: GOVERNING PROVISIONS:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this article qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the zone regulations appearing elsewhere in this title. The
current edition of the American Public Works Association (APWA) Manual of
Standard Specifications will also govern construction of infrastructure in the
City. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-2: LOT STANDARDS:
   A.   Area, Dimensions: The minimum area and dimensions of all lots shall
conform to the requirements of the zone district in which the lot is located.
   B.   Access; Private Streets: All lots or parcels created by a subdivision
shall have direct access with frontage on a dedicated street improved to
standards hereinafter required. Private streets shall be permitted only as
recommended by the Planning Commission. Land designated as public right-of-way
shall be separate and distinct from lots adjoining such right-of-way and shall
not be included in the area of such lots.
   C.   Developable Lots Required: All subdivisions shall result in the
creation of lots that are developable and capable of being built upon. A
subdivision shall not create lots and no building permit shall be issued for
any lots that would make building or access impractical due to size, shape,
steepness of terrain, location of watercourses, problems of sewerage or
driveway grades, or other physical conditions, except where such lots are
suitable and dedicated for a common open space, private utility or public
purpose as determined by the Planning Commission.
   D.   Side Lines: The side lines of all lots, so far as possible, shall be at
right angles to each street on which the lot faces, or approximately radial to
the center of curvatures. Exceptions may be made to this requirement where
considerations for solar orientation are involved.
   E.   Corner Lots: Corner lots for residential use shall be planned wider
than interior lots in order to permit conformance with the required front
setback requirements of both streets.
   F.   Boundary Line: A City boundary line shall not divide a lot. Each such
boundary line shall be made on a lot line.
   G.   Lot Numbers: Lot numbers shall begin with the number "1" and shall
continue consecutively through the subdivision with no omissions or
duplications; no block designations shall be used.
   H.   One Dwelling Per Lot: Except as specifically authorized by this title,
not more than one dwelling unit shall occupy any one lot.
   I.   Area Requirements: No area needed to meet the minimum width, yard area,
parking or other requirements of this title for a lot or building may be sold
or leased away from such lot or building for the purpose of installing any kind
of structure.
   J.   Cutting Off Lot Portions: No portion of a lot may be cut off from
another portion of a lot that has been created through a subdivision action.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-3: DEVELOPMENT DESIGN AND LAYOUT:
   A.   Hazardous Site Conditions: The design of the development shall avoid or
fully mitigate hazardous site conditions (unstable slopes, geologic faults or
flood potential, etc.).
   B.   Drainage: Drainage from individual lots shall be coordinated with the
general storm drainage pattern for the area and shall avoid conveying to
adjacent lots runoff flows higher than historic patterns. Post development
flows shall be based on a 10-year twenty four (24) hour design storm if water
is to be detained on site and released at a rate not exceeding the historic
flow.
   C.   Recreation Facilities: Any recreation facilities should be located
central to all residents of the development.
   D.   Open Space Access: All lots should have reasonable access to open
space, trails, park land or recreation facilities that are set aside for either
development use or use by the general public.
   E.   Public Trails: Access to public trails and open space abutting the
property shall be provided.
   F.   Utility Extensions: Utility extensions required for future development
shall be provided. All utility extensions shall be designed in conformance with
the applicable City utility system master plan. Extensions of utility systems
that do not have a completed master plan shall be reviewed for size and
capacity by the City Engineer.
   G.   Maintenance Of Common Facilities: Maintenance of common facilities must
be accomplished through either covenants and a homeowners' association, a
separate maintenance agreement, or some other perpetual agreement.
   H.   Lot Layout: The layout of lots should provide desirable settings for
structures by making use of natural contours, maintaining views, affording
privacy and protection from wind, noise and vehicular traffic.
   I.   Utility Installation Design: Development design should provide for
efficiency in the installation and provision of all public and private
utilities and services.
   J.   Water, Sanitation Facilities: Common water and sanitation facilities
should be located on separate lots commonly owned by the users. (Ord. 19-07, 9-
3-2019)
10-18A-4: CONSTRUCTION ON SLOPES EXCEEDING TWENTY FIVE PERCENT:
Lots or buildings proposed on slopes exceeding twenty five percent (25%)
warrant especially close review to assure that all grading, retaining wall, cut
and fill and road and driveway grade standards will be met (also refer to
sections
10-18A-7,
10-18A-8,
10-18A-11 and
10-18A-16 of this article). (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-5: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Preservation: The design of developments and placement of buildings
should preserve the natural terrain, drainage, existing topsoil, tree
groupings, large individual trees and large rocks.
   B.   Natural Landscape Design: Natural informal landscape design should be
used in the City, rather than formal, geometric design.
   C.   Buffering: Different types of adjacent uses both within and between
developments should be buffered (separated or screened), by extensive free
planting.
   D.   Drought Resistant: Drought resistant plants and landscapes are
encouraged. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-6: BUILDINGS:
   A.   Fire Standpipes: Standpipes complying with IBC shall be required for
all commercial and multi-residential buildings, regardless of the number of
stories.
   B.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be installed in accordance with City
regulations.
   C.   Provisions For Handicapped: Provisions for physically handicapped
persons shall be provided in all new buildings as required by the Americans
With Disabilities Act (ADA).
   D.   Construction Debris Removal: Any building construction on sites shall
provide debris removal sufficient to facilitate the regular clean up and
removal of construction debris from the site. Each site shall be cleaned and
all construction debris removed on a weekly basis. Failure to comply with this
subsection, by allowing debris to accumulate on the premises, may result in the
suspension of building permits, fines or such other appropriate penalties as
the City Council shall direct. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-7: ROAD LAYOUT AND GEOMETRY:
The City Public Works Policy on Streets and Roads are made part of this article
by reference. The design and arrangement and construction of all roads, public
and private, shall be in conformance with the Road Standards, the provisions of
this article and any City Design Guidelines as adopted.
   A.   Arrangement: The arrangement of roads shall provide for the
continuation of major roads between adjacent properties when the continuation
is necessary for the convenient movement of traffic, emergency or maintenance
vehicles, or the efficient provision of utilities.
   B.   Continuation, Alignment: Proposed streets shall be continuous and in
alignment with existing planned or platted streets with which they are to
connect.
   C.   Emergency Access: Roads shall be designed to provide emergency access
and egress for residents, occupants and emergency equipment providing width,
curve radii and strength for emergency and maintenance vehicles used by or
available to the City.
   D.   Traffic Study: Where the potential traffic impacts on the existing
street systems are considered to be great, or in the case of unique
circumstances concerning topography or neat layout, or at the request of the
City, the subdivider may be required to prepare a detailed engineering traffic
study of the road system.
   E.   Intersecting Streets: Proposed streets shall intersect one another as
nearly at right angles as topography and other limiting factors of good design
permit. "T" intersections rather than "cross" intersections shall be used
wherever possible for local streets.
   F.   Terminus From Boundary: Where a road does not extend to the boundary of
the development and its continuation is not required, its terminus should be no
closer than fifty feet (50') from the boundary.
   G.   Reserve Strips: Strips of land reserved to control or restrict access
to perimeter or stubbed roads shall be utilized only where the reserve strip is
deeded to and accepted by the City.
   H.   Right Of Vehicular Access: Lawful right of vehicular access must be
demonstrated before the City will issue a building permit.
I.   Curbs, Gutters, Sidewalks: The installation of curbs, gutters and
sidewalks shall be constructed according to the APWA standards and as
designated in each zoning district, and are required on any existing or
proposed street adjoining a lot on which a building is to be constructed or
remodeled, or on which a new use is to be established. Such curbs, gutters and
sidewalks are required as conditions of building or use permit approval.
   J.   Dead End Streets: Every permanent dead end street shall comply with the
following requirements:
      1.   Not to exceed six hundred fifty feet (650') in total length.
      2.   End at a turnaround area having a radius no less than fifty feet
(50') and an asphalt surface.
      3.   Temporary dead end streets, intended as access to future development
parcels, shall be a minimum of one lot depth in length (or as determined by the
Planning Commission) and shall meet all of the other requirements for permanent
dead end streets set forth above.
      4.   Driveways, mailboxes, fire hydrants and all other obstructions at
such turnaround areas shall be designed in such a way as to provide an area for
piling snow.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019; amd. Ord. 23-09, 6-6-2023)
10-18A-8: ROAD GRADES:
   A.   Intersections, Switchbacks: Intersections and switchbacks shall not
exceed an eight percent (8%) grade.
   B.   Roads, Streets: No public or private roadway or street shall exceed an
eight percent (8%) grade, except that grades up to twelve percent (12%) for
public or private roadways and streets may be allowed by the Planning
Commission upon review and finding that all of the following conditions are
met:
      1.   No more than ten (10) residential units are served by the over ten
percent (10%) section, or the lots have separate, emergency access that does
not exceed ten percent (10%).
      2.   For roadways of ten percent (10%) or greater grade, the applicant
shall stake the centerline and both edges in the field for the inspection of
the City Engineer to assure full compliance with this subsection.
      3.   Roadways and streets exceeding a twelve percent (12%) grade shall
not be permitted. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-9: PRIVATE ROAD MAINTENANCE:
A means of perpetual maintenance must be demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the Planning Commission before a private road may be approved. (Ord. 19-07, 9-
3-2019)
10-18A-10: STREET NAMES:
   A.   Continuing Streets: Each street that is a continuation of, or an
approximate continuation of, any existing dedicated street shall be given the
name of such existing street. When any street forms a portion of a proposed
street it shall be surveyed, opened, widened or improved and given the same
name.
   B.   Newly Created Streets: The names of newly created streets shall not
duplicate or nearly duplicate the names of any streets in the City or in
adjacent areas of the County.
   C.   Compass Direction: Any named street shall also have the proper compass
direction coordinate as approved by the Public Works Department and/or City
Engineer.
   D.   Historical Names: Subdividers are encouraged to do an investigation of
local history regarding the names and references to geological and historical
figures located in the subdivision and, wherever possible, incorporate the
historical names and references into the names and designations of streets.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-11: DRIVEWAYS:
   A.   Length, Grade: No driveway shall exceed one hundred fifty feet (150')
in length and/or fifteen percent (15%) in grade.
   B.   Width: Driveways serving single-family dwellings shall be a minimum of
twelve feet (12') wide. Driveways serving two (2) residential dwellings shall
be a minimum of fifteen feet (15') wide. No driveway shall serve more than two
(2) residences. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-12: CUTS, FILLS AND RETAINING WALLS:
   A.   Scope: Because of the dramatic visual impact of cuts, fills and
retaining walls in a desert environment such as the City, and the public safety
factors that may arise with significant cuts and fills in unsuitable soils,
design plans for cuts, fills and retaining walls shall conform to the following
criteria and other applicable sections of this article.
   B.   Grade: No cuts or fills will be allowed on slopes with grades exceeding
forty percent (40%).
   C.   Cut Height: Unretained cuts that exceed a two to one (2:1) slope shall
not exceed three feet (3') in height.
   D.   Fill Height: Unretained fills may not exceed twelve feet (12') in
height pursuant to section
10-18A-13, "Measuring Cut And Fill Heights", of this article.
   E.   Retaining Walls: No single retaining wall or retaining system may
exceed twelve feet (12') in height and/or forty feet (40') in length; retaining
systems less than twelve feet (12') may exceed forty feet (40').
   F.   Terraced Cuts: Up to three (3) terraced cuts may be created under a
terraced cuts retaining system, so long as each wall is separated by a minimum
six foot (6') setback (measured from face to face) for visual relief and
revegetation. The total maximum height for cuts retained under a terraced
retaining system shall not exceed eighteen feet (18'). (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-13: MEASURING CUT AND FILL HEIGHTS:
Cuts and/or fills shall be measured vertically from the natural grade at the
lowest point of disturbance to natural grade at the highest point of
disturbance. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-14: MAXIMUM SLOPE GRADES:
Unretained cut end fill slopes shall be no steeper than two feet (2')
horizontal to one foot (1') vertical, except that cuts in bedrock materials,
the stability of which is verified by a geologist and/or soils engineer with
demonstrated expertise, may be steeper as approved by the City Engineer. (Ord.
19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-15: RETAINING WALLS:
All retaining walls and/or approved retaining systems shall be constructed of
decorative materials (i.e., textured surfaces, colored or tinted materials) and
should be designed to blend into and enhance the natural desert environment and
must be approved by the Building Department before excavation permits shall be
granted. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-16: ENGINEERING GEOLOGIC ANALYSIS:
An engineering geological report shall be prepared by a registered geologist or
engineer at the preliminary plan stage of the subdivision to demonstrate that
the hillside above any proposed cut will remain stable after the proposed cut/
fill and retaining system if any, has been completed. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-17: REVEGETATION:
   A.   Time Limit: All unretained cut and fill slopes must be naturalized and
revegetated within one year after the start of construction.
   B.   Unretained Cuts, Fills; Plan Submitted: Unretained cuts and fills
should be naturalized by rounding edges, placing boulders in natural fashion
and planting native plants, including trees, brush and ground cover, to match
surrounding areas. A landscape/revegetation plan shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission for review with the cut/fill design plans.
   C.   Retaining Systems: All retaining systems shall incorporate planter
spaces and shall require native revegetation. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-18: BUILDING SETBACKS FROM WATERWAYS AND FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
   A.   No building, either residential or commercial, shall be permitted
within six (6) vertical feet and one hundred twenty five (125) horizontal feet,
whichever is greater, of the existing flow line of any river, creek, stream or
other waterway, measured at right angles to the centerline of the drainage
course, or within any discernable floodplain, except upon the granting of a
conditional use permit for such development. The vertical calculation specified
herein shall be applied to the elevation of the top of a building's foundation
wall.
   B.   The applicant shall show the location of the 100-year floodplain as
designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-
2019)
10-18A-19: UTILITIES:
   A.   Construction: All utility connections and lines shall be installed
underground. Before any installations are covered, material and service must be
inspected and approved by the City building inspector. During the construction
period, temporary power poles and lines shall be allowed within the boundaries
of the construction project; however, such poles and lines must be taken down
within thirty (30) days after the final certificate of occupancy for the
project is granted.
   B.   Easements: All utilities shall be placed within public road rights-of-
way or specific rights-of-way or easements, free of legal encumbrances.
Multiple use on given easements is encouraged. The final plat shall note all
easements. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-20: COMPLETION OF ON AND OFF SITE IMPROVEMENTS PRIOR TO THE APPROVAL OF
PLATS OR ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Policy: In order to protect buyers of condominiums, subdivision
projects and other property in the City against purchasing property on which
the site improvement work is incomplete and may not be completed, and to
protect the public at large from dangerous and undesirable conditions that
result from unfinished site improvements, such as erosion, flooding and blowing
dust, it is the policy of the City that no plat will be approved (when a plat
is required) and that no certificate of occupancy will be issued (when plats
are not required) on any building project within the City limits unless and
until the site improvement work is completed or the developer of the property
has provided adequate security to assure timely completion of the improvements
when weather permits.
   B.   Detailed Site Plans: A detailed site plan showing the location and
nature of drainage work, grade changes, retaining walls and landscaping,
together with any trails, paths or walkways, shall be submitted to the building
inspector prior to issuance of an occupancy permit. Site improvements shall be
completed pursuant to this article and as shown in the detailed site plan.
   C.   Construction According To Approved Plans: No plat will be approved and
no certificate of occupancy will be issued unless that project and all required
site improvements have been constructed in accordance with the plans approved
by the building inspector and on which the building permit is issued, except as
specified in section
10-18A-21, "Security For Completion", of this article. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-21: SECURITY FOR COMPLETION:
In the event that buildings on the property are completed before other required
on site improvements are completed, and the site improvements cannot be
completed simultaneously with the completion of the building due to weather or
other conditions beyond the control of the developer (excluding financial
inability to perform) or as it relates to subdivisions, in order to record a
final plat prior to completion of off site improvements, the City may grant
final plat approval or issue the certificate of occupancy for all or part of
the project prior to the completion of site improvements; provided, that all of
the following conditions are met:
   A.   Building Compliance, Safety, Access: The building or buildings, or
portions thereof, on the property to be platted or occupied have been
constructed in accordance with the approved plans for those buildings, and are
in full compliance with applicable Building and Fire Codes, and are completed
to the extent that only exterior site improvement work remains unfinished and
the building inspector determines that occupancy of the buildings, or portions
thereof, prior to completion of required on and off site improvements, is safe,
and that access for emergency vehicles is adequate with the site improvements
unfinished.
   B.   Subdivisions: In regard to subdivisions, the building inspector
approves all final construction plans, a development agreement has been
approved by the City Attorney and executed by the owner/developer and the
developer posts adequate security for the benefit of the City and the public to
ensure completion of the site improvements in full compliance with the approved
plans within two (2) years from the date of plat approval (if required) or one
year from the date of issuance of the certificate of occupancy, whichever
occurs first. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-22: AMOUNT OF SECURITY:
The amount of the security to be posted by the developer is be determined by
the City Council and shall be equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the amount
reasonably estimated by the City Engineer as being necessary to complete
remaining on and off site improvements as shown on the approved plans. In the
event that the developer disputes the cost estimate of the City Engineer, the
developer may prove lower construction cost by providing binding contracts
between the developer and the contractor or subcontractor appropriate to
perform the required work at a stated, fixed price. A full performance bond,
insuring performance by the subcontractor or contractor, must support these
contracts. Bid proposals are not satisfactory for this purpose. If the
contracts submitted are acceptable in form, the amount of security required
shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the total contract price of all such
contracts submitted, plus the estimated reasonable cost of performing work not
covered by the contracts. Specifications in such contracts shall be
sufficiently clear to identity the work called for under the contract. The
amount of security required for single-family homes shall be the reasonable
estimated cost of construction of any retainage and drainage, and the estimated
cost of landscaping to the extent necessary to hold soil in place. (Ord. 19-07,
9-3-2019)
10-18A-23: TERM OF SECURITY/PROOF OF LICENSING:
All public improvements required under this article shall be installed by a
contractor or subcontractors licensed by the State. Such license is for the
work to be performed, and the contractor and subcontractors must provide copies
of their licenses. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-24: FORM OF SECURITY:
Such security arrangement shall be one of the following types as dictated by
the City:
   A.   Bond: A bond with a surety company licensed to do business in the
State.
   B.   Letter Of Credit: An irrevocable letter of credit with a Federally
insured financial institution.
   C.   Cashier's Check: A cashier's check made payable only to the City.
   D.   Trust, Escrow: A trust or escrow account with a Federally insured
financial institution designating the City as beneficiary. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-
2019)
10-18A-25: PAYMENT OF INTEREST:
Any interest accruing on escrowed funds shall, unless expended for completion
of site improvements required, inure to the benefit of the developer and not to
the City. The City shall not be required to pay interest to the developer on
any escrow for this purpose. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-26: RELEASE OF FUNDS:
The City shall relinquish funds held or security posted for the purpose of
paying for site improvement work performed according to the plans as that work
is completed. The City shall release funds equal to the actual cost of
performing the work as the work progresses, minus ten percent (10%). Upon
satisfactory completion of all required site improvement work, as determined by
the City Engineer, all funds shall be immediately released to the developer.
(Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-27: MODIFICATION OF PLANS:
A developer may request modifications to plans covering site improvement work
by submitting revised plans to the City for review and action, and final
action. If the modification of the plans increases the cost of required site
improvements, the developer, to cover the increased costs, must provide
additional security. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
10-18A-28: PHASED PROJECTS:
Site improvements applicable to each phase of a phased project or development
shall be completed or security for completion provided as each phase is
constructed and either plated or occupied. Site improvements or other phases of
the project shall be completed or security offered as those phases are
completed. (Ord. 19-07, 9-3-2019)
CHAPTER 19
TEMPORARY USES
SECTION:
10-19-1: Purpose
10-19-2: Permitted Temporary Uses
10-19-3: Specific Use Regulations
10-19-4: Application and Approval
10-19-5: Sales Tax
10-19-1: PURPOSE:
The following regulations are provided to accommodate uses that are temporary
or seasonal in nature while protecting the health, safety, and welfare of
Fillmore City residents. Any use which does not meet the requirements of this
Chapter shall be treated as a permanent land use. (Ord. 23-13, - -2023)
10-19-2: PERMITTED TEMPORARY USES:
Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, certain uses may be permitted on a
temporary basis when approved by the City. Temporary uses may include, but are
not limited to:
   A.   Large-scale special events, such as art shows, car shows, carnivals,
circuses, concerts, and outdoor entertainment limited to commercial,
industrial, and public quasi-public zones.
   B.   Farmers’ markets, swap meets, flea markets, or similar events limited
to commercial, industrial, agricultural, and public quasi-public zones.
   C.   Christmas tree sales lots, limited to commercial, industrial,
agricultural, and public quasi-public zones.
   D.   Fireworks stands, limited to commercial and public quasi-public zones.
   E.   Yard and garage sales.
   F.   Political rallies.
   G.   Seasonal fruit, vegetables, and flower stands.
   H.   Storage of shipping containers during construction of a home. (Ord. 23-
13, - -2023)
10-19-3: SPECIFIC USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Yard and garage sales:
      1.    Number permitted: No more than five (5) days per calendar year per
location
      2.   Location: Shall be conducted by residents of the premises on which
the yard sale is located and shall not extend over a public sidewalk or right-
of-way
   B.   Shipping containers: Storage containers greater than one hundred twenty
(120) square feet, but less than three hundred (300) square feet are allowed
during the construction phase of a project. This use shall be allowed when a
building permit for new construction or alteration is approved. This use is of
a temporary nature and includes the following standards:
      1.   Number Permitted: No more than two (2) containers on any one
property.
      2.   Occupancy Permit Required: Building permit for the construction
project requires an occupancy permit. The occupancy permit shall be withheld
until the containers are removed.
      3.   Removal: The containers shall be removed within ten (10) days of
completion of the project. Failure to remove the containers may result in
termination of utility services.
   C.   Farmers’ markets, swap meets, flea markets.
      1.   Records: The permit holder shall maintain records of each seller or
participant with a booth or area in each swap meet session/event. Such records
shall include the seller’s name, address, and contact information.
      2.   Compliance of Participants: The owner (permit holder) will be
required to see that all entities or persons bartering, exchanging, or selling
goods or otherwise participating in the swap meet shall meet all terms of the
administrative conditional use permit for the swap meet.
      3.   Conditions of Operation, Business License, Collection of Taxes: The
owner (permit holder) will be required to see that all entities or persons
bartering, exchanging, or selling goods at the swap meet comply with all
conditions of operation for the swap meet, obtain needed business licenses, and
are collecting applicable taxes related to their operations.
      4.   Plan Required: The owner (permit holder) shall file a plan with the
City showing the location of individual booths, stalls, or areas, and also show
parking areas and traffic flow for the swap meet. The owner’s plan shall
provide adequate space for individual booths and provide for safe traffic flow
and parking.
      5.   Booth Signage: Each individual booth may have a sign showing the
name of the business and the products sold. Such sign shall be located on the
participant’s booth and shall meet applicable requirements of this title for
the type of sign displayed.
      6.   Event Signage: Any other signs, other than booth signage, shall
advertise the entire event and meet the requirements of the sign regulations.
The owner/applicant of the event shall obtain necessary permits from the City
for signs advertising the entire event.
      7.   Area Maintained: The area where the event is held shall be
maintained in a neat and orderly condition. Trash shall be picked up during and
after the event and deposited in appropriate trash containers.
      8.   Sanitary Facilities: The owner of the event shall provide adequate
bathroom and sanitary facilities on site.
      9.   Location Considerations: The following shall be considered by the
City regarding the appropriateness of the event’s location:
         a.   The site’s proximity to residences, schools, hospitals, and other
noise-sensitive areas.
         b.   The potential adverse impacts on traffic circulation and
pedestrian safety.
         c.   The site’s proximity to other similar events, to avoid over-
concentration of facilities.
         d.   The site’s proximity to any business processing or handling
hazardous materials on site.
         e.   Any entrepreneurial temporary stand operated by a minor for the
purpose of selling food or drink is exempted from these regulations, provided
the business or operation does not employ any adults. (Ord. 23-13, - -2023)
10-19-4: APPLICATION AND APPROVAL:
The City may approve the temporary use application, provided each of the
following, in addition to any specific use regulations, are met. Any use shall
not begin, including any associated work onsite, until a complete application
has been submitted and has obtained approval.
   A.   The proposed use is listed as a permitted temporary use.
   B.   All applicable permits are obtained, including city, county, state, and
federal permits.
   C.   The proposed use will not create traffic hazards or other unsafe
conditions in the area. If the City determines traffic control is required, a
traffic control plan shall be detailed in the application, and traffic control
shall be provided at the expense of the applicant.
   D.   The applicant shall include a site plan providing sufficient off-street
parking to accommodate the use on-site. Only on-street parking directly
abutting the parcel on which the use is located can be used to satisfy the
parking requirement.
   E.   The proposed use shall not require security officers. If the city
determines that extra security is required, the applicant will be responsible
to obtain additional security, which may require additional expense by the
applicant.
   F.   The proposed use shall occupy the site for a period not to exceed
thirty (30) days, unless otherwise stated herein or on the application, with
the following exceptions:
      1.   Christmas tree lots shall not exceed forty (40) days.
      2.   Seasonal fruit, vegetable, and flower stands shall not exceed one
hundred fifty (150) days.
      3.   Shaved ice stands may operate between the 1st day of May through the
last day of September (150 days). Removal of all shaved ice facilities shall
occur within two (2) weeks of the end of operation. The applicant shall
indicate on the application the intended length of operation.
   G.   The applicant shall have sufficient liability insurance for the
requested use or event.
   H.   The applicant shall provide for, at the applicant’s expense, the
restoration of the site to its original condition, including clean-up and
replacement of facilities as may be necessary.
   I.   The applicant includes written and signed acknowledgment and approval
from the property owner if other than the applicant, which includes the
intended use, location, date, and duration.
Any person aggrieved or affected by a decision of the City Staff, or designee,
in denying a temporary use permit may appeal to the City Council in writing
within ten (10) days after notice of the decision is given. The decision of the
City Council shall be final. (Ord. 23-13, - -2023)
10-19-5: SALES TAX:
   All temporary uses are responsible for the appropriate sales taxes in
accordance with State and Federal law.
(Ord. 23-13, - -2023)
CHAPTER 20
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
SECTION:
10-20-1: Purpose
10-20-2: General Requirements
10-20-3: Specific Requirements-Internal Accessory Dwelling Units
10-20-4: Specific Requirements-External Accessory Dwelling Units
10-20-5: Permit Process
10-20-6: Owner Occupancy Determination
10-20-7: Non-Conforming ADU’s
10-20-8: Violations
10-20-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is established to conserve and protect the residential character
of neighborhoods, maintain desirable, attractive, and safe places to live, and
protect investments in our communities. (Ord. 23-16, 11-21-2023)
10-20-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
An accessory dwelling unit (“ADU”) may be either internal or external. An
internal ADU is defined as a living area within a single-family dwelling. An
external ADU is defined as a living area within an accessory structure or
detached garage on the same parcel as a single-family dwelling.
The following regulations are for ADU’s generally, and apply to both internal
and external ADU’s:
   A.   Zone: An ADU shall be permitted in all zones that permit detached
single family dwellings. A mobile home shall not qualify as a detached single-
family dwelling for purposes of establishing an ADU.
   B.   Permits: An ADU permit shall be obtained before the owner may rent out
an ADU. A separate building permit shall be obtained for any modification to
the structure.
   C.   Number: Only one (1) ADU shall be permitted on any legal zoning lot and
shall be subordinate in size and scale to the primary dwelling.
   D.   Lot Area Requirements: An ADU shall not be permitted on lots under 6000
sq. feet.
   E.   Appearance: The ADU shall not alter the appearance of the structure
from that of a single-family dwelling. Any addition or exterior improvement
shall be similar in character to the existing dwelling.
   F.   External Connection: An ADU shall have its own dedicated external
connection. Access through a garage shall not qualify as the required external
connection.
   G.   Occupancy: Owner occupancy of the single-family dwelling shall be
required to establish and maintain an ADU. An owner’s temporary absence shall
not relieve this requirement. Owner occupancy requires primary residency of at
least 50% of ownership on property title. Occupancy in the single-family
dwelling shall be one family as defined in Fillmore City Code while occupancy
in the ADU shall be no greater than four (4) adults, regardless of family
status.
   H.   Second Kitchens. The ADU and the single-family dwelling shall each have
no more than one (1) kitchen.
   I.   Required Improvements: Curb, gutter, and sidewalk along the frontage of
the parcel shall be installed and maintained. If a curb, gutter, or sidewalk is
in a state of disrepair, it shall be repaired or replaced prior to the issuance
or renewal of an accessory apartment permit.
   J.   Utilities: Existing utility laterals and service connections will need
to be inspected and upgraded as deemed necessary by the utility provider.
Establishment of an ADU does not authorize an additional utility meter. The
property shall have no more than one (1) meter for each utility service. An ADU
is not permitted on property served by a failing septic system or utility
connections that are insufficient to support the ADU. Installation of any new
utilities is subject to imposition of applicable impact fees.
   K.   Addresses: The single-family dwelling and the ADU shall have
independent addresses assigned by the city. These addresses shall be clearly
visible from a public street. It is the responsibility of the property owner to
install and maintain visible address placards.
   L.   Parking: Four (4) total off-street parking spaces are required to
establish and maintain a single-family residence with an ADU, as restricted by
Utah State Code. Parking spaces may be in tandem. No more than one side yard
may be utilized for parking. The parking spaces shall:
      1.   Be hard surfaced and accessed by a hard surfaced driveway,
      2.   Be served by the same drive approach, with no more than one curb cut
permitted in order to prevent the appearance of a duplex,
      3.   Not be located closer to the front lot line than the dwelling unless
the parking space leads to covered parking,
      4.   Serve the same address if two parking spaces are in tandem, tandem
spaces shall not be more than two vehicles in depth, and continuously be
available for parking and not obstructed by storage or other items.
   M.   Conformance with Fillmore City Code. A violation of any Fillmore City
Code may result in denial, suspension, or revocation of an ADU application or
permit.
   N.   Duration and Severance. An ADU permit is only valid for the duration of
ownership of the applicant and does not run with the land. The ADU shall
terminate whenever owner occupancy is not maintained or when an owner occupant
elects to discontinue using the living space as an ADU. If an accessory
apartment is denied, revoked, or discontinued, and the ADU address shall be
removed from the structure.
   O.   Recordation. A Notice of Present Condition outlining the permitted use
of the accessory dwelling on the property shall be recorded with the Millard
County Recorder’s Office prior to issuance of the permit. After the notice is
recorded, the City shall provide a copy of the notice to the property owner.
(Ord. 23-16, 11-21-2023)
10-20-3: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS: INTERNAL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
The following shall apply to internal ADU’s, in addition to the general
requirements:
   A.   Location: The internal ADU shall be located inside the single-family
dwelling.
   B.   Access: The internal ADU shall have its own exterior entrance. To
preserve the appearance of a single family dwelling, the exterior entry into an
internal ADU shall be located only on the side or rear of the structure.
   C.   Interior Connection: While an interior connection is not required for
purposes of zoning, this may be prudent for purposes of fire and building
codes. In such cases, a door with a lock or deadbolt is an appropriate form of
connection. (Ord. 23-16, 11-21-2023)
10-20-4: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS: EXTERNAL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
The following shall also apply to external ADU’s, in addition to the general
requirements:
   A.   Location: The external ADU shall only be permitted on a property where
the primary dwelling is a single family dwelling.
   B.   Distance From Primary Dwelling: The external ADU shall be detached from
the primary dwelling and shall be located at least ten feet (10') from the
primary structure.
   C.   Location and Setback: The accessory structure shall be located in
either the rear or side yard, with no less than a ten foot (10') setback from
the rear and side lot lines, unless the accessory structure is located at the
front yard setback of an adjacent corner lot, in which case, the side yard
setback to the nearest side lot line must be at least fifteen feet (15').
   D.   Height: The accessory structure height may not exceed twenty-four feet
(24') to the mid-point for a sloped roof and twenty feet (20') to the cornice
for a flat roof.
   E.   Size: An external ADU shall not exceed nine hundred (900) square feet
in floor area. An external ADU may be located in an accessory structure that
also serves another use, such as parking or storage. In no case shall the total
floor area of the accessory structure exceed fifteen hundred (1500) square
feet.
   F.   Access: The external ADU shall have its own exterior entrance and have
a paved pedestrian access from the street to the ADU front door. The pedestrian
access shall be clearly marked as the entrance for that address.
   G.   Utilities: Any property not currently connected both water and sewer is
required to connect to municipal water and sewer prior to obtaining a permit
for a external ADU. Retiring of any septic system shall meet all County health
department policies and regulations. (Ord. 23-16, 11-21-2023)
10-20-5: PERMIT PROCESS:
To obtain an ADU permit, an applicant shall:
   A.   Submit a completed application and:
      1.   A site plan showing the location of the single-family dwelling
structure and any accessory structures. The site plan shall include dimensions,
setbacks, distance between the single-family dwelling and any accessory
building, location of utility meters, and location and dimensions of parking
spaces.
      2.   A floor plan labeling the rooms, egress windows and their
dimensions, ADU, interior connection (if applicable), and exterior entrances.
      3.   Payment of the application fee as shown in the fee schedule.
   B.   Complete and pass a building inspection to ensure compliance with this
Chapter, building and fire codes, and any other applicable ordinances.
   C.   Install an address placard displaying the assigned address for the ADU.
   D.   The property owner shall sign the Notice of Present Condition
establishing the ADU, which the City will record on the property. The notice
shall:
      1.   Describe the primary dwelling
      2.   State that the primary dwelling contains either an internal or
external accessory dwelling unit
      3.   State that the internal or external accessory dwelling unit may only
be used in accordance with the City’s land use regulations. (Ord. 23-16, 11-21-
2023)
10-20-6: OWNER OCCUPANCY DETERMINATION:
Owner occupancy status shall be determined as follows:
   A.   A determination of owner occupancy may be rebutted by documentation
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Administrator that shows the individual(s)
claiming homeowner occupancy is (or are) an owner occupant. An owner occupant
possesses at least 50% ownership and has a bona fide intent to establish and
maintain primary residency in the dwelling. Documentation may include loan
documents, title, tax returns, residency status, driver’s license, insurance
statements, rental agreements, and any other documentation indicating proof of
ownership and primary residency.
   B.   Once staff has made a final determination of owner occupancy status, an
applicant may appeal to the Appeal Authority. (Ord. 23-16, 11-21-2023)
10-20-7: NON-CONFORMING ADU’s:
Any ADU legally established prior to this ordinance shall obtain an ADU permit
and shall not be denied a permit due to inability to satisfy a provision of
this Chapter if that provision was not required by the ordinance in effect at
the time of legal establishment. The property owner has the burden of proof
that the property was both legally established and has been maintained as an
ADU since the date of establishment. The inquiry to determine legal
establishment shall be met by the preponderance of the evidence based on
information such as: the zoning designation and any overlays at the time of
establishment, the applicable zoning ordinance, building permits, any rental
records, affidavits, utility records, city and county records, tax records, and
any other information indicating prior use and/or legal establishment. (Ord.
23-16, 11-21-2023)
10-20-8: VIOLATIONS:
The intention of the ADU ordinance is to provide an economic incentive to
support homeowner occupancy while also providing affordable housing to renters.
The intention is not to create duplex or twin home developments. Violations of
the ADU ordinance shall be as follows:
   A.   Any violation of this Chapter may result in up to a Class C
Misdemeanor.
   B.   In addition to the criminal penalty listed above. Fillmore City may
hold a lien against the property.
      1.   Fillmore City will provide written notice of the violation(s). The
notice shall include a description of the specific violation and give the
property owner to cure the violation within 30 days. The notice shall be mailed
to the property owner of record and/or anyone designated to receive notice on
behalf of the property owner of record and be posted on the property.
      2.   The property owner shall have the right to a hearing, if the
property owner files a written objection within 14 days after the day in which
the notice of violation is post-marked or posted on the property.
      3.   The City will then hold a hearing in accordance with Title 52,
Chapter 4 Open and Public Meetings Act to conduct a review and determine
whether the specific violation(s) described in the written notice of violation
has occurred. The property owner shall be notified in writing of the date, time
and location of the hearing no less than 14 days before the hearing is to be
held.
      4.   If at the hearing the City Council determines the specific violation
occurred, the City may impose a lien in an amount of up to $100 for each day of
violation after the day on which the opportunity to cure the violation expires.
      5.   The written notice of lien shall be filed with the Millard County
Recorder describing the specific violation(s) and that the City provided the
property owner 30 days to cure and that the property owner failed to cure the
violation(s).
(Ord. 23-16, 11-21-2023)
CHAPTER 21
FENCING
SECTION:
10-21-1: Purpose
10-21-2: Fencing Development Standards
10-21-3: General Requirements
10-21-4: Wildlife Fencing
10-21-5: Electric Fencing
10-21-6: Fencing To Exclude Wildlife
10-21-7: Razor Wire Fencing
10-21-8: Permits
10-21-1: PURPOSE:
To provide for the correct placement and type of fences, promote orderly
development of fences, and minimize conflict between property owners regarding
fences, the City has enacted this chapter. (Ord. 24-01, 2-6-2024)
10-21-2: FENCING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Fencing in all zones shall meet the general requirements in Table 10-18-2, as
outlined for the respective zone. If a “P” is listed for the respective zone
and fence type, that specific fence type is permitted, subject to the
requirements of this chapter. If an “x” is listed, that specific fence type is
not permitted.
TABLE 10-21-2
FENCING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS TABLE1
  A-1 RR R-2 M H GC CC- 1 HC I OR P/QP
TABLE 10-21-2
FENCING DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS TABLE1
               A-1    RR     R-2    M H  GC    CC- 1 HC    I   OR      P/QP
Clear Vision   25'    25'    25'    25'  25'   25'   25'   25' 25'     25'
         Front 3'     3'     3'     3' 2                   3'  3'      3'
Setbacks Side                                              3'  3'      3'
         Rear
               3'                                              3'      4'
               solid  3'     3'                                solid   solid
               or 6'  solid  solid                   None      or 6'   or 6'
Maximum  Front if 75% or 6'  or 6'  6'   Non e Non e or 8' 8'  if 75%  if 75%
Height         open   if 75% if 75%                  if        open or open or
               or 8'  open   open                    razor     8' if   8' if
               if                                              razor   razor
               razor
        Side  8'     6'     6'     6'   8'          8'    8'  6'      6'
        Rear  8'     6'     6'     6'   8'          8'    8'  6'      6'
Livestock      P      P      P      x    x     x     x     P   x       P
Animal
Electric       P      P      x      x    x     x     x     P   x       P
Razor or       P      x      x      x    x     x     P     P   P       P
Barbed
 
1   Subject to other Title 10 standards and requirements, including overlay
requirements
2   For any side that borders a public street
(Ord. 24-01, 2-6-2024)
10-21-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any fence or wall shall not be constructed within five (5) feet of a
fire hydrant. If construction of a fence or wall requires a notch to
accommodate a fire hydrant, the fence shall be installed at a forty-five (45)
degree angle beginning at least three (3) feet from the hydrant and angling
outward to avoid a ninety (90) degree corner on the fence or wall that may
result in the kinking of a fire hose.
   B.   A fence or wall shall not restrict access to utility meters, electrical
devices, and other utility facilities and adequate clearance to electrical
utility boxes shall be provided. If fencing or walls restrict access, a cut-out
of five (5) feet is required.
   C.   For any corner lot, any fence with a permitted height higher than that
permitted in the clear vision requirement, shall be at least seventy (70)
percent open within the clear vision area.
   D.   Fences or walls shall not be used for advertising except for athletic
fences or one (1) sign to advertise the name and address of an onsite business.
   E.   Except for specific fence types listed in Fencing Table 10-18-2,
fencing and wall material is limited to wood, chain link, vinyl, brick, steel,
or equivalent decorative fencing and wall types.
   F.   Unless a good neighbor fence or a double-sided fence is installed, the
finished side of the constructed fence must face out, and the unfinished side,
or support side, of the fence must face in.
   G.   Electric fences shall have a minimum setback of twenty-five (25) feet
from a front, or front and side if a corner lot, as well as from any additional
public right of way.
   H.   In order to promote public safety and avoid danger to pedestrians,
bicyclists, and other drivers, any fence adjoining or adjacent to a driveway or
access shall either:
      1.   Terminate no less than twenty (20) feet from the closer of (a) the
end of the driveway or access or (b) the front property line, platted street,
or existing curb or edge of a street;
      2.   Be at least seventy (70) percent open; or
      3.   Be at a maximum height of four (4) feet. (Ord. 24-01, 2-6-2024)
10-21-4: LIVESTOCK FENCING:
   A.   Any livestock fence shall be designed for the type of livestock being
contained, the species of big game present, their abundance, the reasonable
anticipated occurrence of daily and/or seasonal movement, and the presence of
young animals. Livestock fences are not permitted where no livestock are
lawfully present and require the fence to be contained.
   B.   For pasture fences primarily on deer range, a barbed or woven-wire
fence shall not exceed 42 inches in height. The space between the top 2 strands
shall have a minimum of ten (10) inches, with a preferred space of twelve (12)
inches.
      1.   If cattle are present, a 4-Wire Cattle Fence having three barbed
wires, with the top no higher than 42 inches high, and a smooth bottom wire at
least 16 inches above the ground.
      2.   If sheep are present, a 4 Wire Sheep Fence with a top wire no higher
than 38 inches and a smooth bottom wire at least 10 inches above the ground is
suggested.
      3.   If both cattle and sheep are present, a 4 Wire Sheep/Cattle Fence
may be constructed with a top wire at 38 inches provided there is at least ten
(10) inches of clearance between the top two wires and the bottom smooth wire
height of ten (10) inches is maintained.
      4.   Woven Wire Sheep Fence: In lieu of the above standards, a Woven Wire
Sheep Fence may be installed with a total height not to exceed 38 inches, using
26 inch woven wire and 2 strands of barbed wire above the woven wire, 10 inches
apart.
      5.   A Let Down Fence design is permitted in any wildlife fence.
   C.   In zones where electric, razor, or barbed fencing is not permitted,
wildlife fencing shall not be constructed out of such materials. (Ord. 24-01,
2-6-2024)
10-21-5: ELECTRIC FENCING:
   A.   Electric fencing is only permitted for lawful keeping of cattle on a
deer range and the owner can demonstrate that the fence is necessary to
containing the cattle. In this situation, a two, three, or four wire electric
fence may be installed. A minimum 10 inch spacing between a hot and ground wire
is required.
      1.   For two-wire electric fences, a ground wire at 20 inches and a hot
wire at 30 inches are required. All fences should use 0.74 to 1 inch diameter
and 48 inch tall solid fiberglass line posts spaced at 50 to 60 foot intervals.
      2.   For three-wire electric fences, a hot wire at 22 inches, a ground at
32 inches, and a hot at 42 inches of height are required. All fences should use
0.74 to 1 inch diameter and 60 inch tall solid fiberglass line posts spaced at
50 to 60 foot intervals.
      3.   For four-wire electric fences, a hot-ground-hot-hot wire
configuration is used with spacing of 22-32-42-52 inches. All fences should use
0.74 to 1 inch diameter and 72 inch tall solid fiberglass line posts spaced at
50 to 60 foot intervals.
   B.   Warning signs must be placed along the fence line to warn of the
existence of an electric fence. (Ord. 24-01, 2-6-2024)
10-21-6: RAZOR OR BARBED WIRE FENCING:
   A.   A razor wire or barbed wire fence is permitted solely for tow yards,
manufacturing and other industrial uses, publicly owned facilities, and outdoor
storage as part of a business, when the use is located in a zone that permits
razor or barbed wire fencing. It shall not be permitted for any other use.
   B.   Any razor or barbed wire fencing, excluding for agricultural use as
outlined herein, shall be no closer than six (6) feet from the ground.
   C.   Concertina wire is prohibited except for at the top of fences
surrounding publicly owned facilities. (Ord. 24-01, 2-6-2024)
10-21-7: FENCING TO EXCLUDE WILDLIFE:
   A.   Where fencing is needed to prevent damage from wildlife, an eight (8)
foot woven wire fence or an eight (8) foot wire slant fence is permitted. An
applicant seeking to install a woven wire or wire slant fence shall be located
in a zone that permits razor wire or barbed wire fences, have livestock
lawfully on the property, and demonstrate the need to have the woven or wire
fence protecting from wildlife. This fencing is not permitted in the front.
(Ord. 24-01, 2-6-2024)
10-21-8: PERMITS:
To ensure compliance, a property owner may elect to have the City review their
plans for a proposed fence before installation. However, the applicant bears
the burden of identifying location or property lines and getting a survey to
confirm accuracy of location in installation. The City will not confirm
location or accuracy of property lines. (Ord. 24-01, 2-6-2024)
CHAPTER 22
RESERVED
CHAPTER 23
HOME OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
10-23-1: Purpose
10-23-2: Process
10-23-3: Application And Standards
10-23-4: Continuing Obligation
10-23-5: Prohibited Uses
10-23-6: Day Care Services
10-23-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is:
   A.   To provide minimum standards for the establishment and operation of
home occupations within a dwelling in any zone.
   B.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the city and its residents.
   C.   To support small local businesses by providing a location to start and
operate a small business within a dwelling on a limited basis. For business
owners seeking to grow their business, the intention is that once the business
grows it will be relocated to the appropriate zoning district.
All home occupations shall be secondary and incidental to the residential use
and shall comply with the standards of the Fillmore City Code and all
applicable state and federal statutes and regulations. The use should be
conducted so that neighbors, under normal conditions, would not be aware of the
existence of the home occupation. (Ord. 23-14, 6-18-2024)
10-23-2: PROCESS:
To assure compliance with the provisions of this chapter and to protect the
character of residential neighborhoods within Fillmore City, a home occupation
permit shall be obtained from Fillmore City before a dwelling is used for
business purposes.
   A.   The permit shall not be issued unless the applicant has demonstrated
that they will meet all of the conditions and requirements listed herein and in
applicable state and federal statutes and regulations and the applicant has
agreed in writing to comply with all said conditions.
   B.   Any home occupation that requires approval from another governing
agency shall obtain approval from that agency and provide written documentation
of that approval to the city before a home occupation permit can be issued.
(Ord. 23-14, 6-18-2024)
10-23-3: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS:
Each application for a home occupation permit shall include the business
owner's agreement to meet each of the following requirements:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Each applicant for a home occupation shall submit a complete
application form provided by the city together with a site plan indicating the
portion of the home that will be used for the home occupation.
      2.   The applicant for a home occupation permit shall reside in the
residence for which the permit is being sought. If the applicant for a home
occupation is not the property owner of record, the applicant shall present
permission, in writing, from the property owner to conduct the business
activities proposed.
      3.   The home occupation shall not cause a demand for municipal or
utility services or any other community facilities in excess of normal
residential use.
      4.   No more than one (1) home occupation shall be active per residence
unless the applicant can demonstrate to the city that the additional home
occupation will not impact the residential nature of the area and does not
create any additional stress or impact on the neighborhood.
      5.   Inspection during reasonable hours by city officials may occur as
needed to assure compliance with these regulations.
      6.   The home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
use of the dwelling for residential purposes.
      7.   The exterior of the dwelling shall not be altered to accommodate or
promote the business. The residence shall maintain the general character and
appearance of a residential dwelling and shall not unreasonably disturb the
peace and quiet of the neighborhood. Noise from a home occupation shall not
exceed sixty (60) decibels as measured from any neighboring property.
      8.   While some interior space may be utilized for the home occupation,
the dwelling must maintain, at a minimum, a kitchen, dining area, bathroom,
living room, a bedroom, and the minimum required off-street parking.
      9.   The area used for the home occupation shall not exceed twenty-five
(25%) percent of the dwelling square footage nor fifty (50%) percent of the
floor area of any garage or outbuilding in which the use is conducted.
      10.   Outdoor storage is not permitted. Incidental storage may be located
inside the dwelling unit, garage, or fully enclosed accessory structure, but
such storage shall be limited to four hundred (400) square feet of floor area.
      11.   The home occupation shall not publicly display goods or
merchandise. The sale of commodities shall be limited to items produced on the
premises or items that are incidental to the service provided (e.g., a
beautician selling hair care products to clientele).
      12.   Signs shall be limited to an identifying sign, such as the business
name, not to exceed six (6) square feet in size. The sign needs to be attached
to the dwelling. Freestanding yard signs and other signs not attached to the
dwelling are not permitted.
      13.   Public entrance to the home occupation from the outside shall be
the same entrance normally used by the residing family except when required
otherwise by regulation of the State Health Department or other public agency
or to satisfy the International Building Code or when the city determines that
the proposed home occupation entrance is more practicable for the public than
the front door.
      14.   Except for daycares and preschools, onsite employment is limited to
the residents who reside in the dwelling. This does not prohibit the business
from having additional employees who live and work exclusively off-premises.
   B   Traffic, Patrons, And Vehicles:
      1.   Except for vehicular traffic generated pursuant to section 10-23-
3B.3. and 10-23-6, the home occupation shall not generate business-related
vehicular traffic in excess of three (3) vehicles per hour.
      2.   No visitors in conjunction with the home occupation shall be
permitted between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) p.m. and seven o’clock (7:
00) a.m.
      3.   Promotional meetings for the purpose of selling merchandise, taking
orders, or conducting training shall not be held more than once per month.
      4.   No parking or storage of any vehicle in excess of twelve thousand
(12,000) pounds in gross vehicle weight shall be permitted.
      5.   No more than one (1) vehicle (including trailers or other equipment)
may include any type of advertisement for the business, such as the business
name or logo.
      6.   Vehicles, trailers, or other equipment may not be used primarily for
the purpose of advertising the home occupation at the site of the residence.
      7.   No deliveries by semi-truck are permitted. Receipt or delivery of
merchandise, goods, or equipment shall be limited to passenger vehicles and
other vehicles typically employed in residential deliveries and shall not cause
a frequency of delivery or receipt in excess of normal residential delivery or
receipt.
      8.   All vehicles, including customer, client, and employee vehicles must
be provided off-street parking onsite. (Ord. 23-14, 6-18-2024)
10-23-4: CONTINUING OBLIGATION:
   A.   All home occupations shall be operated in compliance with the
conditions here and shall satisfy all applicable federal, state, and local
laws, which may include building and fire codes, and the Americans with
Disabilities Act, among others. If a permit or approval is required by another
regulatory body having jurisdiction, such must be obtained and provided to the
city prior to receiving a permit from the city.
   B.   The home occupation permit shall be valid for a period of one (1) year
from the date of issuance. The permit shall be renewed prior to expiration and
shall include all applicable renewal fees to be paid.
   C.   Home occupation permits are reviewable upon written complaint to the
city.
   D.   Failure to comply with Fillmore City Code and policies, applicable
state and federal statutes and regulations, and the requirements of any other
regulatory body having jurisdiction, shall result in revocation if the
violations are not rectified within two (2) weeks, or shorter if the city
determined it is a matter of public health or safety. (Ord. 23-14, 6-18-2024)
10-23-5: PROHIBITED USES:
Home occupations shall be conducted in a manner that will not negatively affect
the health, safety, or general welfare or the general character of the zoning
district. Accordingly, the following business activities are not permitted as
home occupations:
   A.   Mortuary;
   B.   Animal hospital;
   C.   Kennel or stable;
   D.   Clinic;
   E.   Medical, dental, or other healthcare services;
   F.   RV service;
   G.   Junkyard, wrecking yard, or impound yard;
   H.   Auto repair service (engine and auto-body), vehicle painting, vehicle
lube and tune-up;
   I.   Major appliance repair (washers, refrigerators, stoves, etc.);
   J.   Car wash;
   K.   Adult-oriented business;
   L.   Scarification and tattoo parlor, which shall not include cosmetic
procedures, such as laser treatments and microblading;
   M.   Tanning and hot tubs;
   N.   Massage;
   O.   Storage or sale of fireworks;
   P.   Storage or sale of any hazardous materials, as defined by local, state,
or federal guidelines, or of any materials that could have a negative impact on
the public utility systems; or
   Q.   Any other use the city determines to jeopardize the health, safety, and
welfare of city residents. The decision to deny an application under this
provision, for a use not specifically prohibited above, may be appealed to the
city council to determine the impact on health, safety, and welfare and any
mitigating measures that can be taken. (Ord. 23-14, 6-18-2024)
10-23-6: DAYCARE AND PRESCHOOL SERVICES:
In addition to all applicable regulations herein, Daycare services shall meet
the following standards. Daycare services that are non-income producing are
exempt from licensing requirements.
   A.   The number of children allowed at each daycare location shall be in
accordance with state statutes and regulations.
   B.   The daycare or preschool owner shall provide a license from the State
of Utah, including a background check, and from the Utah Department of Health,
before a business license can be issued.
   C.   Any daycare with greater than eight (8) children shall provide a site
plan indicating the location of day care services, bathrooms, outdoor play
areas, and parking and vehicle circulation.
   D.   Any daycare with greater than eight (8) children shall have all outdoor
play areas fenced with six (6) foot high fencing.
   E.   In addition to any employee(s) who lives on-site, a daycare or
preschool may have one (1) employee who lives off-site.
   F.   All daycare and preschool facilities shall follow all state and federal
statutes and regulations for operating a daycare or preschool including, but
not limited to, requirements for outdoor playtime.
   G.   All daycare and preschool facilities shall follow all state and federal
statutes and regulations generally.
(Ord. 23-14, 6-18-2024)
CHAPTER 24
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-24-1: Specific Definitions
10-24-2: Administration And Classification
10-24-3: General Requirements
10-24-4: Specific Requirements
10-24-5: Exceptions
10-24-6: Location Standards
10-24-7: Special Purposes
10-24-8: Non-Conforming Signs
10-24-9: Sign Matrix
10-24-1: SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this title, shall be
construed as defined in this chapter:
A-FRAME SIGN: A sign constructed with two (2) sides attached at the top to
allow the sign to stand in an upright position.
AWNING SIGN: A sign painted, printed, or placed on any portion of a cloth or
fabric covering as an awning placed over a doorway or window to protect from
weather elements.
BANNER SIGN: A temporary sign made of fabric or any non-rigid material with no
enclosing framework.
BILLBOARD SIGN: A freestanding sign on industrial, commercial, or residential
property that directs attention to a business, product, or service not offered
on that same property.
BUILDING FACE: The visible outer surface of the main exterior wall of a
building. The area of the face of the building shall be the total area of such
surface, including the area of doors and windows that open into a surface.
CAMPAIGN SIGN: A temporary sign used by candidates running for political and
elected offices and signs with political purposes.
CANOPY SIGN: See Marquee Sign.
ERECT: To build, construct, place, relocate, enlarge, substantially alter,
attach, suspend, paint, post, or display. Normal maintenance, including
refinishing, is not included in this definition, provided the sign copy is not
changed or altered.
EXTERNALLY LIGHTED SIGN: A sign made legible in the absence of daylight by
devices which reflect or project light upon it.
FREESTANDING SIGN: See Pole Sign.
FRONTAGE: The length of the sides along the street or any other principal
public thoroughfare, but not including such length along an alley, watercourse,
railroad, street, or thoroughfare with no permitted access.
HEIGHT OF SIGN: The height of a sign is the vertical distance measured from the
ground plane to the top of the materials that incorporate the sign.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs, or
outlines illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes.
MARQUEE (OR CANOPY) SIGN: A marquee (or canopy) sign shall mean and include any
roofed structure attached to and supported by a building and projecting over
public property.
MONUMENT SIGN: A sign six (6') feet or less in height which is flush to the
ground with low-intensity light fixtures only.
NAMEPLATE SIGN: A sign indicating the name or names of the person(s) or entity
(ies) legally occupying the premises.
NON-CONFORMING SIGN: Any advertising structure or sign which was lawfully
erected and maintained prior to such time as it came within the purview of this
chapter and any amendments thereto, and which fails to conform to all
applicable regulations and restrictions of this chapter.
OFF-PREMISE SIGN: Any sign which advertises products, services, or business
establishments which are not located, conducted, manufactured, or sold upon the
same premises on which the sign is erected or otherwise affixed.
ON-PREMISE SIGN: Any sign which advertises products, services, or business
establishments which are located, conducted, manufactured, or sold upon the
same premises on which the sign is erected or otherwise affixed.
POLE SIGN: A sign affixed in or upon the ground supported by one or more
structural members, with air space between the ground and the bottom of the
sign face.
PROJECT SIGN: A freestanding sign for multiple tenant projects.
PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign attached to a building or structural wall and
extending horizontally outward from such wall more than twenty-four (24)
inches.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A temporary sign indicating that property or any portion
thereof is available for sale, lease, or rent.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign that is erected upon or over the roof or over a parapet of
any building.
SIGN: Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, emblems, devices, designs, pictures, trade names, or trademarks by
which anything is made known, used to designate an individual, firm,
association, corporation, profession, business, service, a commodity or product
whether placed on the ground, rocks, trees, stumps, or other natural objects,
or on a building, wall, roof frame, support, fence, or other man-made
structure, which are visible from any public street, public highway, or public
road right-of-way. For the purpose of this title, the word "sign" does not
include the flag, pennant, or insignia of any nation, state, city, or other
political unit, or a non-profit organization.
Further, it shall not include any official notice issued by any court, public
body, or officer, or directional warning or information sign or structure
required or authorized by law.
SIGN AREA: The area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding the
minimum frame and supports. In computing sign area, only one side of a back-to-
back or double-faced sign shall be computed when signs are parallel or diverge
from a common edge by an angle of not more than ten degrees (10°). For signs
that do not have a frame or a separate background, the sign area shall be
computed on the basis of the least rectangle, triangle, or circle large enough
to frame the display. Sign areas in the shape of a sphere, prism, cylinder,
cone, pyramid, square, or other such shape shall be computed as one-half (1/2)
of the total surface area.
SIGN STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected supporting a sign, which
requires locations on or below the ground or attached to something having a
location on or below the ground.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign, banner, pennant, valance, or advertising display
constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard, or
other light materials, with or without frames, intended to be displayed out of
doors for a short period of time. Temporary signs are restricted to ten (10)
days before the event and two (2) days after, or a maximum of forty-eight (48)
days per year.
WALL SIGN (OR FLAT SIGN): A sign with messages or copy erected parallel to and
attached to or painted to the outside wall of a building.
(Ord. 25-02, 7-1-2025)
10-24-2: ADMINISTRATION AND CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   The planning and zoning administrator is hereby authorized and directed
to enforce all provisions of this title. All signs which require the issuance
of a sign and building permit shall be inspected by the city at all reasonable
times during or after construction.
   B.   Every sign erected or proposed to be erected within Fillmore City shall
be classified by the planning and zoning administrator in accordance with the
specific definitions of signs contained in this chapter. Any sign that does not
clearly fall within one (1) of the classifications shall be placed in the
classification that the sign, in view of its design, location, and purpose,
most clearly approximates in the opinion of the planning and zoning
administrator. If the sign does not approximate any of the permitted signs, the
sign shall not be permitted.
(Ord. 25-02, 7-1-2025)
10-24-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   The following general requirements shall apply to all signs and outdoor
advertising structures erected within the City of Fillmore unless otherwise
provided in this title.
   A.   No person shall erect, alter, or relocate any sign or outdoor
advertising structure within the City of Fillmore without first obtaining a
sign permit from the city.
   B.   No sign shall be designed for the purpose of emitting sound, smoke, or
steam.
   C.   No sign shall be placed, whether permanent or temporary, within the
clear vision area as defined in
10-2-1 of this code unless the sign is a banner or wall sign affixed to and
flush with an existing fence or wall.
   D.   Except as provided in 10-19-6, no person shall paint, mark or write on,
post or otherwise affix any hand-bill, poster, advertisement, notice or sign of
any kind or sort to or upon any sidewalk, crosswalk, curb, curbstone, park
strip, street lamp post, hydrant, fence, tree, shrub, tree stake or guard,
railroad trestle, electric light or power or telephone or telegraph or trolley
wire pole, or wire appurtenance thereof or upon any lighting system, public
bridge, drinking fountain, lifesaving equipment, street sign or traffic sign.  
(Ord. 25-02, 7-1-2025)
10-24-4: SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS:
   Each sign shall meet the respective conditions:
   A.   A-Frame Sign:
      1.   An A-frame sign shall be temporary and movable. The sign shall be
either:
         a.   Removed between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and six
o’clock (6:00) A.M.; or
         b.   Placed outside for no longer than two (2) weeks.
      2.   Only one A-frame sign is permitted per fifty (50) feet of frontage
on a public street.
      3.   The sign shall not exceed four (4) feet in height and sixteen (16)
square feet on each of the two sign faces.
      4.   An A-frame sign shall not block any portion of a public sidewalk or
road unless, for sidewalks only, a minimum of five (5) feet of unobstructed
passing width of sidewalk is maintained.
      5.   The sign shall be at least ten (10) feet from any intersection and
outside the clear vision area.
   B.   Awning Sign: An awning sign is a type of projecting sign and shall meet
the projecting signs standards in addition to the following:
      1.   The vertical measurement of the front of the sign shall not exceed
three (3) feet.
      2.   Shall project a maximum of four (4) feet and shall not project above
the roofline of the building to which it is attached.
      3.   The entire area of an awning sign shall be backed by the building
face.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c3e367ae308acf915db0d4d684c55fe9213c1262/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2995.png]
   C.   Banner Sign:
      1.   A new business located in the GC, CC, HC, I-1, OR, or PQ zones shall
be permitted to erect an on-premise temporary banner for not more than ninety
(90) days from the first day of opening.
      2.   Existing businesses may erect temporary on-premise banners for not
longer than thirty (30) working days in any given six (6) month period for any
special events or promotions.
      3.   The city may erect temporary banners and attach special signs to
city owned lampposts for the advertising of special events and holidays that
benefit the community as a whole. These banners may be draped over a public
right-of-way when approved by the city council. No banner shall be placed in a
manner that will be a public nuisance or hinder the safe movement of traffic or
pedestrian walkways, as determined by the city council.
      4.   Installation height to be reviewed by staff for safety and
visibility. Maximum installation height allowed is twenty-five (25') feet.
Banners over a walkway shall not be less than ten (10') feet high and not less
than eighteen (18') feet over public streets, alleys, and parking areas.
      5.   Except for banners allowed under subsection (c) above, the maximum
size of banners shall be three (3) by six (6) feet.
      6.   No other banner signs shall be permitted.
   D.   Billboard Sign:
      1.   All billboard signs over thirty-two (32) sq ft in area shall be
located at least one thousand (1,000) linear feet apart.
      2.   All billboards shall have a setback of at least twenty-five (25)
feet from any property line.
      3.   Along Main Street, signs shall not exceed two hundred fifty (250) sq
ft in area.
      4.   In the Industrial (I-1) and Highway Commercial (HC-1) Zone, signs
shall not exceed five hundred (500) sq ft in area.
      5.   Maximum installation height is twenty-five (25) feet.
      6.   Installation height shall be reviewed for safety and visibility.
Illumination affecting traffic, trails, or uses on adjacent property shall be
oriented away or shielded through the use of landscaping.
      7.   Permitted location for billboards are located on the Zone Map.
      8.   Billboards are allowed in the Agricultural (A-1) zone only along the
I-15 corridor within one thousand (1,000) feet of I-15. Such billboards may be
illuminated with up to 24-hour illumination and shall follow the regulations in
this chapter for externally lighted signs.
      9.   A billboard shall not be illuminated if it is located within five
hundred (500) feet of an existing structure used as any type of residential
dwelling unless the illuminated face is oriented away from the dwelling.
      10.   No illumination of billboards outside of the Agricultural (A-1)
Zone's I-15 corridor shall be permitted.
      11.   Each outdoor advertising structure shall be limited to one (1) sign
face, except that two (2) sign faces may be permitted when said faces are
mounted back to back with faces in parallel plans at distances not exceeding
(4) feet apart; or that two (2) sign faces may also be permitted when said
faces are mounted in a "V" configuration, provided that said faces are attached
on end and have a maximum distance of thirty (30) feet apart at the other end.
      12.   All billboards shall meet the requirements of the Utah Outdoor
Advertising Act.
   E.   Externally Lighted Sign:
      1.   Any lighting for an externally lighted sign shall be oriented
downward and shall have full cutoff light shielding. Partial cutoff lighting,
such as cutoff and semi-cutoff, shall not be permitted.
      2.   Light sources shall not be positioned in a way that they are visible
from any public road, sidewalk, or trail.
      3.   The correlated color temperature shall be kept at three thousand
(3,000) kelvin or lower.
      4.   Illuminance shall be kept no greater than twenty (20) footcandles
per meter squared.
      5.   Uniformity (the ratio of maximum to minimum light level) shall be
4.0 or less.
      6.   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, all signs may be
illuminated, unless otherwise restricted by zone; however, no sign may utilize:
         a.   An exposed incandescent lamp with an external reflector without a
sun screen or comparable diffusion;
         b.   Any exposed incandescent lamp in excess of fifteen (15) watts
unless a screen is attached; or
         c.   Any revolving beacon light.
   F.   Illuminated Sign:
      1.   Flashing shall be limited to sequential, chasing, or subdued color
change. No intense strobe-type flashing will be permitted.
      2.   Rotation shall be limited to eight (8) revolutions per minute.
      3.   Lights may not be used within seventy-five (75') feet of a
residence, apartment, hotel, motel, or other residential structure.
      4.   An illuminated sign may not emit in the direction of any window used
as part of a residence, apartment, hotel, motel, or other residential structure
within two hundred (200) feet. If the sign is angled away and the light is
shielded, no additional distance beyond seventy-five (75) feet is required.
      5.   Illuminance shall be kept low. To allow visibility of the sign, the
amount of permitted illuminance depends on the amount of ambient lighting
generally found in the area. For properties located between 900 South and 700
North, the maximum permitted footcandles per meter squared is forty (40). Due
to the rural nature of areas outside those boundaries, any sign located outside
that area shall have a maximum illuminance of twenty (20) footcandles per meter
squared.
      6.   Internally lit signs shall have an opaque background which does not
allow a light source to permeate the surface. Contrasting letters or logos
shall be used.
      7.   Electronic message display signs must have an automatic dimmer to
reduce sign intensity after dark.
      8.   The sign shall not cause glare or be intensely lighted at dark so
that it creates a nuisance or hazard to vehicle traffic, pedestrians, or
neighboring residential properties.
   G.   Marquee (Or Canopy) Sign: A marquee or canopy is a type of projecting
sign and shall meet the projecting signs requirements in addition to the
following:
      1.   Sign copy and corporate logos shall not exceed thirty percent (30%)
of the any face of the canopy.
      2.   Changeable copy is not allowed on canopy/marquee signs except for
theaters or similar public assembly uses.
      3.   Signs painted on or affixed to canopies which are part of the
building shall be considered part of the total allowed area of wall signs and
projecting signs for the walls from which the canopy projects.
      4.   Signs with a changeable copy (read boards) located on marquees of
theaters or similar public assembly uses may combine the total allowable area
for all building faces as permitted for wall signs in this title so long as
there are no wall signs placed upon building faces other than the face to which
the marquee is attached.
   H.   Monument Sign:
      1.   Maximum height of six (6) feet.
      2.   Flush to the ground with either no light fixtures or low-intensity
light fixtures only.
      3.   Only one sign per five hundred (500') feet of frontage allowed.
      4.   The maximum sign area is sixty-four (64) square feet.
      5.   Multi-tenant projects shall include a space for each tenant.
   I.   Nameplate Sign:
      1.   No more than one (1) per business pedestrian entrance.
      2.   Sign shall be affixed to a wall and has a maximum sign area of two
(2) square feet per sign.
   J.   Pole Sign:
      1.   A maximum of one (1) pole sign may be permitted for each parcel.
      2.   The maximum height of the sign shall be determined by zone and
proximity to I-15.
 
Zone  Maximum Height Height if within 1,320 ft. of I-15
A     40' on-premise 20'
GC    90' on-premise 60'
HC    90' on-premise 60'
LI    40'            0'
P/Q-P 20'            0'
 
      3.   The maximum sign face area is one hundred (100) square feet.
      4.   Each pole sign shall include a landscaping planter box of at least
forty (40) square feet, shall be completely landscaped and maintained with a
mix of attractive vegetation or landscaping otherwise approved by the city.
      5.   The sign shall be at least one hundred (100) feet from any residence
unless the residence is located within a commercial or industrial zoning
district.
      6.   Any lighting shall be downward-facing and fully shielded to prevent
light pollution.
      7.   Sign lighting shall not be permitted within two hundred (200) feet
of any residence and shall be turned off between the hours of ten o’clock (10:
00) P.M. and six o’clock (6:00) A.M. when the sign is within five hundred (500)
feet of any property used for residential purposes.
   K.   Project Sign: A project sign shall only apply for multiple tenant
projects of at least two (2) acres.
      1.   No more than one (1) project sign per project.
      2.   Maximum height of thirty (30) feet with a maximum sign face area of
three hundred (300) square feet.
      3.   No other pole or freestanding signs (except A-Frame signs) are
permitted for the project.
      4.   If additional space is needed to advertise each tenant, a monument
sign may be erected on the project premises.
   L.   Projecting Sign: Any sign attached to a building or structural wall and
extending horizontally outward from such wall more than twenty-four (24). The
bottom of the sign shall be at least nine (9) feet above grade level.
      1.   Signs painted on or affixed to canopies that are freestanding shall
be considered part of the total allowable area of freestanding signs for that
use.
      2.   In the General Commercial (GC), Highway Commercial (HC), and
Industrial (I-1) zones, each separate building may utilize one projecting sign,
subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The maximum size allowed is twenty (20) square feet, or as
otherwise determined by the available frontage of the lot; whichever is less.
         b.   The sign may not project out from the plane of the building more
than four (4) feet.
         c.   The sign may not exceed the height of the building facade.
         d.   For buildings with multiple tenants, the owner shall decide what
portion of the projecting sign will be allotted to each tenant.
         e.   The projecting sign will be included in the total allowable sign
area per lot, as defined by this chapter.
         f.   All other provisions of this chapter must be met, including
lighting requirements, motion/animation requirements, height, and clearance
requirements, etc.
   M.   Roof Sign:
      1.   Only one (1) roof sign is permitted per building.
      2.   The sign shall be placed on the pitch of the roof and below the roof
peak.
      3.   A roof sign maximum size shall be one hundred (100) square feet.
      4.   Sign supports shall not be visible from a public street or sidewalk.
   N.   Special Event Sign: Any sign for a special event or temporary use shall
be limited to forty-five (45) days unless otherwise specified in the ordinance.
   O.   Wall Sign:
      1.   The sign shall not extend more than twenty-four (24) inches from the
wall.
      2.   Only one (1) wall sign allowed per building face.
      3.   Only low-intensity light fixtures are permitted. Lighting shall be
downward-facing and shielded toward the sign.
      4.   The maximum size of the sign face shall be fifteen (15) percent of
the building face, not to exceed five hundred (500) square feet.
      5.   The sign shall not extend above the roof line.
(Ord. 25-02, 7-1-2025)
10-24-5: EXCEPTIONS:
   This chapter shall not apply to signs used exclusively for:
   A.   The display of official notices used by any court or public body or
official, or the posting of notices by any public officer in the performance of
a duty, or by any person giving legal notice.
   B.   Directional, warning, or information signs of a public or semi-public
nature, directed and maintained by an official body or public utility.
   C.   Barber poles not to exceed six (6) feet in height, located on private
property and bearing no advertising copy or message.
   D.   Any sign of a non-commercial nature when used to protect the health,
safety, or welfare of the general public.
   E.   Any official flag, pennant, or insignia of any nation, state, city, or
other political unit.
   F.   Any signs and elements of commercial signs that convey only time,
temperature, or weather conditions, provided that the sign does not convey any
commercial or other messaging.
   G.   Campaign signs for the purpose of announcing the candidacy of any
person or persons seeking public office, provided that such signs shall be
removed within ten (10) days following the election. However, campaign signs
shall not be placed on any publicly owned property and shall receive the
permission of the private property owner prior to placement.
   H.   Streamers and pennants provided that the streamers and pennants are
kept in good repair, free from torn or frayed lines or pennants. Streamers and/
or pennants in poor repair shall be removed immediately upon the request of
Fillmore City or be subject to the penalties of this chapter.
(Ord. 25-02, 7-1-2025)
10-24-6: LOCATION STANDARDS:
   The following restrictions shall apply to all signs:
   A.   Except for A-Frame signs, no sign shall be erected in such a manner
that any portion of the sign or its support will extend over a public or
private walkway with a minimum vertical clearance of less than ten (10) feet.
   B.   No sign shall extend over an adjoining property line without providing
to the city written permission of the adjoining owner.
   C.   No sign shall be erected, altered, or relocated so as to interfere with
or restrict access to a window, fire escape, or required exit.
   D.   No sign or sign structure will be permitted which constitutes a safety
hazard.
(Ord. 25-02, 7-1-2025)
10-24-7: SPECIAL PURPOSE SIGNS:
   In addition to any other permitted sign(s), signs for special purposes set
forth in this section shall be permitted as provided herein:
   A.   Directional Signs: On-premise directional signs may be erected for the
purpose of facilitating or controlling the efficient or safe movement of
pedestrians or vehicles on or into private property and shall be located on the
properties to which they pertain. No such sign shall exceed six (6) square
feet.
   B.   Real Estate Signs: Signs advertising real estate for sale or an open
house for a home for sale may be placed on private property in all districts
with the consent of the owner, lessee, or occupant. The signs may state the
name of the person or firm sponsoring the open house. The signs shall not
exceed (6) square feet. Real estate signs shall not require a zoning or
building permit.
   C.   Signs For Churches: In all zones, a church may erect:
      1.   One (1) wall sign on the premises to identify the name of the
organization and announce activities thereof. A wall sign shall not exceed an
area of thirty-two (32) square feet and may be mounted upon a freestanding,
ornamental masonry wall. The sign shall not obstruct the vision of a corner
lot.
      2.   One monument on-premise sign.
   D.   Signs Advertising New Development: One (1) development promotional sign
may be placed on the premises of each subdivision, planned residential
development, condominium, or other type of construction project. The
promotional sign may have an area of thirty-two (32) square feet. One (1) on-
premise sign shall be permitted per entrance or access to a development with a
maximum of four (4) development signs per development. Two (2) directional
signs may be located off-site to contain only the name and direction of any
subdivision or planned residential development. The signs may have a maximum
area of twelve (12) square feet each and shall not be located in the right-of-
way of any public street. All signs shall be removed within thirty (30) days of
the sale of all lots or dwelling units in the development.
   E.   Signs for children's seasonal entrepreneur projects, such as the
selling of lemonade, shall not be regulated by this code except that they are
to be on-premise signs and shall not be placed on or over a public way.
   F.   Temporary Uses: In all zones that allow temporary uses as a permitted
or conditional use, the temporary use shall be permitted to install one on-
premise sign to identify the business and indicate the type of business being
conducted providing the following provisions are satisfied:
      1.   The permitted sign is to be an on-premise freestanding sign.
      2.   The sign shall not project over a public way, sidewalk, or parking
surface.
      3.   A freestanding sign shall not be more than three feet (3') high.
      4.   The sign area shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet.
      5.   The sign shall not be an animated/illuminated sign or contain any
flashing lights or moving parts.
   G.   Garage Sales: Any sign advertising a garage sale shall not be placed on
or over a public way and shall be removed within twenty-four (24) hours of the
conclusion of the garage sale.
(Ord. 25-02, 7-1-2025)
10-24-8: NON-CONFORMING SIGNS:
   All signs that have been made non-conforming by the adoption of provisions
contained within this chapter shall be subject to the following regulations:
   A.   Any sign or portion thereof declared unsafe by the city must be
restored to a safe condition or removed within thirty (30) days of written
notice of the unsafe condition.
   B.   A non-conforming sign shall not be reconstructed, raised, moved,
placed, extended, or enlarged unless said sign is changed so as to conform to
all provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Non-conforming signs which have been allowed to deteriorate or which
have been damaged by fire, explosion, acts of God, acts of the public enemy, or
damaged by any other cause to the extent of more than sixty (60) percent of its
assessed value shall if repaired or rebuilt, be repaired, or built in
conformity with the regulations of this chapter or shall be removed.
(Ord. 25-02, 7-1-2025)
10-24-9: SIGN MATRIX:
   The following signs are permitted (P), as outlined below. The top row
represents the respective zone. If the sign is not listed as (P) in the
respective zone in the chart or elsewhere in Fillmore City Code, then it is not
permitted.
Chapter 6 Agricultural
Sign Type     Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General
                                                              Restrictions
                                                              Must be set back
A-frame sign          X                                       10' from the
                                                              intersection.
                                                              Installation
                                                              height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
Banner sign   X                   3' x 6'      3'             and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
                                                              Off-premises
                                                              permitted in the
                                                              I- 15 corridor
                                                              for 1,000'. See
                                                              the Zone Map for
                                                              allowed areas.
                                                              Installation
Billboard             X                                       height 25'
                                                              maximum. 24-
                                                              hour
                                                              illumination of
                                                              billboards along
                                                              the I-15
                                                              corridor is
                                                              permitted.
                                                              Must be removed
Campaign sign X                                               10 days
                                                              following the
                                                              election.
Constructi on                                                 Installation
sign          X                   4' x 8'      4'             height 4'
                                                              maximum.
                                                              Low-intensity
Flat or wall  X                   39 sq. ft.   7'             light fixtures
sign                                                          only. One sign
                                                              per building.
                                                              One sign per
                                                              500' of
                                                              frontage. Low-
                                                              intensity light
                                                              fixtures only.
                                                              Installation
Monument sign X                   39 sq. ft.   6'             height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
                                                              and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
Nameplate     X                   2' x 3'      2'
                                               25' or on
                                               premise s      Same
Pole signs            X                        exceptio n of  restrictions as
                                               40' if within  Billboard signs.
                                               1,320' of the
                                               I-15 corridor.
Real estate   X                   3' x 6'      3'
sign
 
Chapter 7 Rural Residential
Sign Type Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General Restrictions
Sign Type     Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General
                                                              Restrictions
                                                              Installation
                                                              height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
Banner sign   X                   3' x 6'      3'             and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
                                                              Must be removed
Campaign sign X                                               10 days
                                                              following the
                                                              election.
Constructi on                                                 Installation
sign          X                   4' x 8'      4'             height 4'
                                                              maximum.
                                                              Low-intensity
Flat or wall  X                   39 sq. ft.   7'             light fixtures
sign                                                          only. 1 sign per
                                                              building.
                                                              1 sign per 500'
                                                              of frontage.
                                                              Low- intensity
                                                              light fixtures
                                                              only.
                                                              Installation
Monument sign X                   39 sq. ft.   6'             height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
                                                              and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
Nameplate     X                   2' x 3'      2'
Real estate   X                   3' x 6'      3'
sign
 
Chapter 7 Article B Residential 2
Sign Type Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General Restrictions
Sign Type     Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General
                                                              Restrictions
                                                              Installation
                                                              height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
Banner sign   X                   3' x 6'      3'             and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
                                                              Must be removed
Campaign sign X                                               10 days
                                                              following the
                                                              election.
Constructi on                                                 Installation
sign          X                   4' x 8'      4'             height 4'
                                                              maximum.
                                                              Low-intensity
Flat or wall  X                   39 sq. ft.   7'             light fixtures
sign                                                          only. 1 sign per
                                                              building.
                                                              1 sign per 500'
                                                              of frontage.
                                                              Low- intensity
                                                              light fixtures
                                                              only.
                                                              Installation
Monument sign X                   39 sq. ft.   6'             height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
                                                              and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
Nameplate     X                   2' x 3'      2'
Real estate   X                   3' x 6'      3'
sign
 
Chapter 8 Article A General Commercial
Sign Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Maximum Area Maximum General
                                                          Height  Restrictions
Sign Type    Allowed Administrative Conditional Maximum Maximum   General
                                                Area    Height    Restrictions
                                                                  Must be set
A-frame sign                        X                   6'        back 10' from
                                                                  intersection.
Awning sign  X
                                                                  Installation
                                                                  height to be
                                                                  reviewed by
                                                                  staff for
                                                                  safety and
Banner sign  X                                  3' x 6' 3'        visibility.
                                                                  Maximum
                                                                  installation
                                                                  height
                                                                  allowed is
                                                                  25'.
                                                                  See Zone Map
                                                                  for allowed
                                                                  areas. All
                                                                  signs over 32
                                                                  sq. ft. shall
                                                                  not be less
                                                500 sq.           than 1,000
                                                ft.               lineal feet.
                                                250 sq.           Installation
Billboards                          X           ft. in  25'       height to be
                                                certain           reviewed by
                                                areas             staff for
                                                                  safety and
                                                                  visibility.
                                                                  Maximum
                                                                  installation
                                                                  height
                                                                  allowed is
                                                                  25'.
                                                                  Must be
Campaign                                                          removed 10
sign         X                                                    days
                                                                  following the
                                                                  election.
Construction                                                      Installation
sign         X                                  4' x 8' 4'        height 4'
                                                                  maximum.
                                                Not to            Low-
                                                exceed            intensity
Flat or wall X                                  30% of            light
sign                                            each              fixtures
                                                buildin           only.
                                                g wall.
                                                                  1 sign per
                                                                  500' of
                                                                  frontage. Low
                                                                  intensity
                                                                  light
                                                                  fixtures
                                                                  only.
                                                                  Installation
Monument     X                                  39 sq.  6'        height to be
sign                                            ft.               reviewed by
                                                                  staff for
                                                                  safety and
                                                                  visibility.
                                                                  Maximum
                                                                  installation
                                                                  height
                                                                  allowed is
                                                                  25'.
Nameplate    X                                  2' x 3' 2'
                                                        60' or on
                                                        premis es
                                                        excepti   Same
                                                        on of 90' restrictions
Pole sign                           X                   if within as
                                                        1,320' of Billboards.
                                                        I-15
                                                        corrido
                                                        r.
Real estate  X                                  3' x 6' 3'
sign
                                                                  Size to be
                                                                  reviewed by
                                                                  staff for
Special              X                                            safety and
event sign                                                        visibility.
                                                                  Allowed for
                                                                  45 consecutiv
                                                                  e days only.
                                                                  Minimum
                                                                  height of
                                                                  display area
                                                                  be at least
                                                                  8' above the
                                                                  ground.
                                                                  Frontage
                                                                  100'. Be a
                                                                  minimum of at
                                                                  least 500'
                                                                  apart from
                                                                  nearest
                                                                  digital sign.
                                                                  Not be
                                                                  erected
Digital                                         60 sq.            between 900
marquee                             X           ft.     14'       South and 700
illuminated                                                       North Street.
                                                                  Not overhang
                                                                  public
                                                                  property or
                                                                  public right-
                                                                  of- way. Be
                                                                  set back a
                                                                  minimum of 5'
                                                                  from side and
                                                                  rear property
                                                                  lines. Not be
                                                                  erected in
                                                                  the clear
                                                                  vision area
                                                                  of a corner
                                                                  lot.
 
Chapter 8 Article B Highway Commercial
Sign Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Maximum Area Maximum General
                                                          Height  Restrictions
Sign Type    Allowed Administrative Conditional Maximum Maximum   General
                                                Area    Height    Restrictions
                                                                  Must be set
                                                                  back 10'
A-frame sign                        X                   6'        from
                                                                  intersectio
                                                                  n.
Awning sign  X
                                                                  Installation
                                                                  height to be
                                                                  reviewed by
                                                                  staff for
                                                                  safety and
Banner sign  X                                  3' x 6' 3'        visibility.
                                                                  Maximum
                                                                  installation
                                                                  height
                                                                  allowed is
                                                                  25'.
                                                                  See Zone Map
                                                                  for allowed
                                                                  areas. All
                                                                  signs over
                                                                  32 sq. ft.
                                                                  shall not be
                                                                  less than
                                                500 sq.           1,000 lineal
                                                ft.               feet.
Billboards                          X           250 sq.           Installation
                                                ft. in            height to be
                                                certain           reviewed by
                                                areas.            staff for
                                                                  safety and
                                                                  visibility.
                                                                  Maximum
                                                                  installation
                                                                  height
                                                                  allowed is
                                                                  25'.
                                                                  Must be
                                                                  removed 10
Campaign     X                                                    days
sign                                                              following
                                                                  the
                                                                  election.
Construction                                                      Installation
sign         X                                  4' x 8' 4'        height 4'
                                                                  maximum.
                                                Not to            Low-
                                                exceed            intensity
Flat or wall X                                  30% of            light
sign                                            each              fixtures
                                                buildin           only.
                                                g wall.
                                                                  1 sign per
                                                                  500' of
                                                                  frontage.
                                                                  Low
                                                                  intensity
                                                                  light
                                                                  fixtures
                                                                  only.
Monument                                        39 sq.            Installation
sign         X                                  ft.     6'        height to be
                                                                  reviewed by
                                                                  staff for
                                                                  safety and
                                                                  visibility.
                                                                  Maximum
                                                                  installation
                                                                  height
                                                                  allowed is
                                                                  25'.
Nameplate    X                                  2' x 3' 2'
                                                        60' or on
                                                        premis es
                                                        excepti   Same
                                                        on of 90' restrictions
Pole sign                           X                   if within as
                                                        1,320' of Billboards.
                                                        I-15
                                                        corrido
                                                        r.
Real estate  X                                  3' x 6' 3'
sign
                                                                  Size to be
                                                                  reviewed by
                                                                  staff for
Special                                                           safety and
event sign           X                                            visibility.
                                                                  Allowed for
                                                                  45
                                                                  consecutiv e
                                                                  days only.
                                                                  Minimum
                                                                  height of
                                                                  display area
                                                                  be at least
                                                                  8' above the
                                                                  ground.
                                                                  Frontage
                                                                  100'. Be a
                                                                  minimum of
                                                                  at least
                                                                  500' apart
                                                                  from nearest
                                                                  digital
                                                                  sign. Not be
                                                                  erected
                                                                  between 900
Digital                                                           South and
marquee                             X           60 sq.  14'       700 North
illuminated                                     ft.               Street. Not
                                                                  overhang
                                                                  public
                                                                  property or
                                                                  public
                                                                  right-of-
                                                                  way. Be set
                                                                  back a
                                                                  minimum of
                                                                  5' from side
                                                                  and rear
                                                                  property
                                                                  lines. Not
                                                                  be erected
                                                                  in the clear
                                                                  vision area
                                                                  of a corner
                                                                  lot.
 
Chapter 9 Article A Light Industrial
Sign Type Allowed Administrative Conditional Maximum Area Maximum General
                                                          Height  Restrictions
Sign Type    Allowed Administrative Conditional Maximum  Maximum General
                                                Area     Height  Restrictions
                                                                 Must be set
A-frame sign                        X                    6'      back 10' from
                                                                 intersection.
Awning sign  X
Banner sign  X                                  3' x 6'
                                                                 Installation
                                                                 height to be
                                                                 reviewed by
                                                                 staff for
                                                                 safety and
Billboards   X                                  3' x 6'          visibility.
                                                                 Maximum
                                                                 installation
                                                                 height
                                                                 allowed is
                                                                 25'.
                                                                 See Zone Map
                                                                 for allowed
                                                                 areas. All
                                                                 signs over 32
                                                                 sq. ft. shall
                                                                 not be less
                                                                 than 1,000
                                                                 lineal feet.
                                                500 sq.          Installatio n
Billboards                          X           ft.      25'     height to be
                                                                 reviewed by
                                                                 staff for
                                                                 safety and
                                                                 visibility.
                                                                 Maximum
                                                                 installation
                                                                 height
                                                                 allowed is
                                                                 25'.
                                                                 Must be
Campaign                                                         removed 10
sign         X                                                   days
                                                                 following the
                                                                 election.
Construction                                                     Installation
sign         X                                  4' x 8'  4'      height 4'
                                                                 maximum
                                                Not to
                                                exceed           Low-intensity
Flat or wall X                                  30% of           light
sign                                            each             fixtures
                                                building         only.
                                                wall
                                                                 1 sign per
                                                                 500' of
                                                                 frontage.
                                                                 Low-
                                                                 intensity
                                                                 light
                                                                 fixtures
Monument/                                                        only.
free                                            39 sq.           Installatio n
standing     X                                  ft.      6'      height to be
sign                                                             reviewed by
                                                                 staff for
                                                                 safety and
                                                                 visibility.
                                                                 Maximum
                                                                 installation
                                                                 height
                                                                 allowed is
                                                                 25'.
Nameplate    X                                  2' x 3'  2'
                                                                 Same
Pole sign                           X                    40'     restrictions
                                                                 as
                                                                 billboards.
Real estate  X                                  3' x 6'  3'
sign
                                                                 Minimum
                                                                 height of
                                                                 display area
                                                                 be at least
                                                                 8' above the
                                                                 ground.
                                                                 Frontage
                                                                 100'. Be a
                                                                 minimum of at
                                                                 least 500'
                                                                 apart from
                                                                 nearest
                                                                 digital
                                                                 marquee sign.
                                                                 Not be
                                                                 erected
Digital                                         60 sq.           between 1400
marquee                             X           ft.      14'     South and
illuminated                                                      1100 North
                                                                 Street. Not
                                                                 overhang
                                                                 public
                                                                 property or
                                                                 public right-
                                                                 of- way. Be
                                                                 set back a
                                                                 minimum of 5'
                                                                 from side and
                                                                 rear property
                                                                 lines. Not be
                                                                 erected in
                                                                 the clear
                                                                 vision area
                                                                 of a corner
                                                                 lot.
 
Chapter 10 Office Residential
Sign Type Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General Restrictions
Sign Type     Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General
                                                              Restrictions
                                                              Must be set back
A-frame sign          X                        6'             10' from
                                                              intersection.
Awning sign   X
                                                              Installation
                                                              height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
Banner sign   X                   3' x 6'      3'             and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
                                                              Must be removed
Campaign sign X                                               10 days
                                                              following the
                                                              election.
Construction                                                  Installation
design        X                   4' x 8'      4'             height 4'
                                                              maximum.
                                                              Low-intensity
Flat or wall  X                   39 sq. ft.   7'             light fixtures
sign                                                          only. 1 sign per
                                                              building.
                                                              1 sign per 500'
                                                              of frontage.
                                                              Low-intensity
                                                              light fixtures
                                                              only.
                                                              Installation
Monument sign X                   39 sq. ft.   6'             height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
                                                              and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
Nameplate     X                   2' x 3'      2'
Real estate   X                   3' x 6'      3'
sign
 
Chapter 11 Public/Quasi-Public
Sign Type Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General Restrictions
Sign Type     Allowed Conditional Maximum Area Maximum Height General
                                                              Restrictions
                                                              Installation
                                                              height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
Banner sign   X                   3' x 6'      3'             and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
                                                              Must be removed
Campaign sign X                                               10 days
                                                              following the
                                                              election.
Construction                                                  Installation
sign                  X           4' x 8'      4'             height 4'
                                                              maximum.
                                                              Low-intensity
Flat or wall  X                   39 sq. ft.   7'             light fixtures
sign                                                          only. 1 sign per
                                                              building.
                                                              1 sign per 500'
                                                              of frontage.
                                                              Low-intensity
                                                              light fixtures
                                                              only.
                                                              Installation
Monument sign X                   39 sq. ft.   6'             height to be
                                                              reviewed by
                                                              staff for safety
                                                              and visibility.
                                                              Maximum
                                                              installation
                                                              height allowed
                                                              is 25'.
Nameplate     X                   2' x 3'      2'
                                                              Installation
                                                              specifications
                                                              to be reviewed
                                                              by staff for
                                                              safety and
Pole sign     X                   20' x 8'5"   20'            visibility. Such
                                                              sign must comply
                                                              with the Clear
                                                              Vision Area. May
                                                              include
                                                              changeable
                                                              message signs.
Real estate   X                   3' x 6'      3'
sign
                                                              Size to be
                                                              reviewed by
Special event                                                 staff for safety
sign          X       X                                       and visibility.
                                                              Allowed for 45
                                                              consecutive days
                                                              only.
 
(Ord. 25-02, 7-1-2025)
 
