GARFIELD COUNTY, UTAH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2024-2, passed 3-11-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component codes,
titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Garfield
County Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary, and
usual sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK. The Clerk of Garfield County.
      COMMISSION. The Garfield County Commission.
      COUNTY. Garfield County, Utah.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads, and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver, and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      STATE. The State of Utah.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a section or amendment stating that the provisions of a
chapter, subchapter, or section are severable as provided in division (B) above
does not affect the operation of division (B) above with respect to that
chapter, subchapter, or section.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the
Commission refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department,
officer, agency, authority, or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority, or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday, or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture, or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture, or
liability.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (UCA §             )
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see UCA §             
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this code for which
another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be subject
to the fines, imprisonment or other penalties that apply to a conviction of a
class B misdemeanor pursuant to UCA § 76-3-301(1)(d) or, if the violation would
constitute a class C misdemeanor, then the lesser class C fines pursuant to UCA
§ 76-3-301(1)(e), imprisonment or other penalties. If the violation would
constitute an infraction, then the person shall be subject to the lesser fines
or other penalties for such an infraction pursuant to UCA § 76-3-205.
       (2)   Any firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be subject to the fines, imprisonment or other penalties which apply to a
conviction of a class B misdemeanor pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302(3) or, if the
violation would constitute a class C misdemeanor, then the lesser class C fines
pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302(4) or other penalties. If the violation would
constitute an infraction, then the firm or corporation shall be subject to the
fines or other penalties for such an infraction pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302(4).
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
    (C)   If a penalty for a violation of an ordinance includes any possibility
of imprisonment, the county shall, under UCA § 78B-22-301, provide for indigent
defense services, as that term is defined in UCA § 78B-22-102.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
31.   COUNTY ORGANIZATION
      
32.   FINANCES
      
33.   COUNTY ELECTIONS
CHAPTER 30: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Adoption of International Urban Wildland Interface Code
   
30.002   Disposal of property
   
30.003   District boundaries
   
30.004   Special Service District
Taking of Property
   
30.015   Policy considerations
   
30.016   Definition
   
30.017   Guidelines advisory
   
30.018   Review of decision
   
30.019   Reviewing guidelines
   
30.020   Results of review
Government Records
   
30.035   Findings
   
30.036   Purpose
   
30.037   Definitions
   
30.038   Public right of access
   
30.039   Public records
   
30.040   Privacy rights
   
30.041   Classification of records
   
30.042   Written requests for records
   
30.043   Fees
   
30.044   Appeals
   
30.045   Accommodations for disabled
   
30.046   Amendments or corrections
   
30.047   Disciplinary action
   
30.048   County Records Officer
   
30.049   Records maintenance procedures
   
30.050   County archives
   
30.051   Non-verbal or non-written formats
   
30.052   Justice Court records
Electronic Records
   
30.065   Definitions
   
30.066   Records available for purchase
   
30.067   Use of records
   
30.068   Distribution of purchased records
   
30.069   Third party notices
   
30.070   Records provided “as is”
   
30.071   County not liable for damages
   
30.072   Use of records for commercial purposes prohibited
   
30.073   Rights of county
Conflicts of Interest
   
30.085   Disclosure of conflict required
   
30.086   Members to recuse themselves
   
30.087   Comment from member allowed
   
30.088   Suspension of regulations
 
   
30.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL URBAN WILDLAND INTERFACE CODE.
   The county hereby adopts the International Urban Wildland Interface Code,
with the amendments identified in R652-122 of the Utah Administrative Code as
currently set forth or as amended in the future by the Division of Forestry,
Fire, and State Lands, unless specifically excepted by amendment to the
ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 10-12-2006)
§ 30.002 DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever it is deemed by a majority vote of the County Commission that
any property owned by it, whether real or personal, is excess property no
longer needed by the county, it may be disposed of in the manner herein
provided.
   (B)   Having declared specific county property to be excess, the County
Commission may dispose of such property by cash sale, financed sale, trade, or
lease upon such terms as may be deemed appropriate.
   (C)   Notice of any proposed disposal shall be advertised in a county-wide
newspaper for at least two weeks prior to the actual disposal as herein
permitted.
(Ord. 1980-2, passed 3-10-1980)
§ 30.003 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The following described precincts for the Board of Education of the County
School District, with their respective areas and boundaries, be, and they are
hereby, established.
   (A)   Precinct No. 1. All of the area within the incorporated limits of
Panguitch City, bounded by Main Street on the West, the Panguitch City limits
on the East, the Panguitch City limits on the North, and the Panguitch City
limits on the South; and also within the area beginning at a point common to
the Panguitch City limits on the North and the East side of U.S. Highway 89;
thence Northeasterly along the East side of said Highway 89 to the North
boundary line of Garfield County; thence East along the North boundary to the
point where it intersects the boundary line of the Dixie National Forest;
thence Southeasterly along said forest boundary line to its intersection with
Utah Highway 12; thence West along the North side of said Highway 12 to its
junction with U.S. Highway 89; thence continuing Westerly to the point of
intersection of the boundary line of the Dixie National Forest with the
Panguitch Lake Road; thence Northeasterly along the East side of the Panguitch
Lake Road to the South Panguitch City limits; thence East along said South City
limits to the Southeast corner of the Panguitch City limits; thence North along
the East Panguitch City limits to the Northeast corner of the Panguitch City
limits; thence West along the North Panguitch City limits to the point of
beginning.
   (B)   Precinct No. 2. All of the area within the incorporated limits of
Panguitch City, bounded by Main Street on the East, the Pangutich City limits
on the West, the Panguitch City limits on the North, and the Panguitch City
limits on the South; and also within the area beginning at a point common to
the Panguitch City limits on the South and the West side of the Panguitch Lake
Road; thence Southwesterly along said Road to its intersection with the
boundary line of the Dixie National Forest; thence Southerly along the said
forest boundary line to the point where it intersects the South boundary line
of Garfield County; thence West along said South boundary line to the Southwest
corner of Garfield County; thence Northerly along the West boundary line of
Garfield County to the Northwest corner of Garfield County; thence East along
the North boundary line of Garfield County to the point where it intersects
U.S. Highway 89; thence Southwesterly along the West side of said highway 89 to
the North Panguitch City limits; thence West along said North City limits to
the Northwest corner of the Panguitch City limits; thence South along the West
Pangutich City limits to the Southwest corner of the Panguitch City limits;
thence East along the South Panguitch City limits to the point of beginning.
   (C)   Precinct No. 3. All of the area within the incorporated limits of
Escalante Town and also within the area beginning at the point of intersection
of Utah State Highway 12 and the Hole-in-the-Rock Road; thence Southeasterly
along the North and East sides of said Road to the point of its intersection
with the South boundary line of Garfield County; thence West along said South
boundary line to a point due South of the Southwest corner of the Dixie
National Forest Boundary line; thence due North to said Southwest corner of the
said Dixie National Forest boundary line; thence Northwesterly along said
forest boundary line to its intersection with the boundary line of Bryce Canyon
National Park; thence Northeasterly along said forest boundary line to its
intersection with the North boundary line of Garfield County; thence East along
said North boundary line to the Escalante-Bicknell Road; thence Southerly along
the West side of said Road to the point of its intersection with the Hell’s
Backbone Road; thence Easterly along said Road to the point of its intersection
with Utah State Highway 12; thence Southwesterly along the West and North sides
of said Highway 12 to the point of beginning.
   (D)   Precinct No. 4. All of the area within the incorporated limits of
Tropic, Cannonville, and Henrieville Towns; and also within the area beginning
at the point of intersection of the Bryce Canyon National Park boundary line
with the boundary line of the Dixie National Forest; thence Southeasterly along
said forest boundary line to its Southwest corner; thence due South to a point
of intersection with the South boundary line of Garfield County; thence West
along said South boundary line to the point of its intersection with the West
boundary line of Bryce Canyon National Park; thence Northeasterly along said
National Park Boundary Line to the Northern point of its intersection with the
boundary line of the Dixie National Forest; thence West and North along said
forest boundary line to the point of its intersection with Utah State Highway
12; thence Westerly along the South side of said Highway 12 to the point of its
intersection with the Tom Best Spring Road; thence Northeasterly along the
South and East sides of said Road to the point of its intersection with the
Antimony Road; thence North along the East side of the Antimony Road to Widtsoe
Junction; thence East along the South side of said Road to the boundary line of
the Dixie National Forest; thence Southwesterly along said forest boundary line
to the point of beginning.
   (E)   Precinct No. 5. All of the unincorporated areas of Garfield County not
heretofore described in Precincts 1 through 4, inclusive, including the Ticaboo
and Hite areas, and all of the area within the incorporated limits of Antimony,
Boulder, and Hatch Towns.
(Ord. 1982-1, passed 6-14-1982)
§ 30.004 SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   The definitions set forth in § 11-23-2 of the Act shall have the same
meaning when used in this section unless the content hereof clearly indicates a
contrary meaning.
   (B)   A special service district shall be established pursuant to law,
which, upon establishment, shall be named and known as “Garfield County Ticaboo
Special Service District No. 1” (herein called “the District”).
   (C)   The proposed District shall include the area of the Ticaboo Townsite,
§ 16 of Township 36 South, Range 11 East, S.L.M.
   (D)   The proposed District shall be empowered to and shall have the
authority to provide any or all of the following services within the territory
of the District as and to the extent they are deemed necessary or desirable by
the governing body thereof: water supply and delivery; and sewerage collection
and disposal. These services may be provided through facilities or systems
acquired for that purpose through construction, purchase, gift, or condemnation
or any combination of the foregoing means, or by any other means available to
special service districts as provided by law. The acquisition of facilities,
systems, and property may include the appurtenances thereof and may be for
partial or joint ownership interests therein.
   (E)   Upon establishment of the District, the governing authority of the
county or the governing authority of the District, as appropriate, may levy
taxes annually on all taxable property within the District and may by
resolution or ordinance impose and collect periodic fees or charges to pay for
all or a part of the services, systems, commodities, or facilities to be
provided by the District. All taxes levied for the District shall be properly
authorized in accordance with the Act and shall be in addition to all other
taxes levied by the county or by any other public corporation, district, or
political subdivision in which the District is located. The governing authority
of the District shall have the authority to adopt such regulations as are
necessary to assure the proper collection and enforcement of all fees and
charges imposed.
   (F)   A public hearing is hereby called and set on the creation and
establishment of the District. Said public hearing shall be held on October 10,
1978 , at the hour of 10:00 a.m. at the regular meeting place of the Board of
County Commissioners, in the Garfield County-Panguitch City Courthouse,
Panguitch, Utah. All interested persons may attend this hearing at which time
and place the Board will give consideration to all protests which may have been
filed and shall hear and consider all interested persons desiring to be heard.
The hearing may be continued from time to time.
   (G)   Upon adoption of this section, the County Clerk shall give notice of
the intention of the county to establish the District. Said notice shall be
given by publication of which shall be not less than 21 days nor more than 35
days before the hearing date specified in division (F) above. Upon publication
of this section, as provided above, the following heading shall be placed
hereon: NOTICE OF THE INTENTION OF GARFIELD COUNTY, UTAH, TO ESTABLISH A
SPECIAL SERVICE DISTRICT. When so published, this section, in its entirety,
shall be considered to be the notice of intention required by § 11-23-7 of the
Act, containing:
      (1)   A description of the boundaries of the District, as set forth in
division (C) above;
      (2)   A general description of the types of services proposed to be
provided within the District, as set forth in division (D) above;
      (3)   A statement regarding the levying of taxes within the District and
the imposition of fees and charges to pay for the services to be provided, as
set forth in division (E) above;
      (4)   The designation of a time and place for a public hearing on the
establishment of the District, as set forth in division (F) above; and
      (5)   Such other information concerning the proposed District as is
contained in this section.
   (H)   (1)   Upon establishment of the proposed District, it shall be a
separate body politic and corporate and a quasi-municipal public corporation
distinct from the county, with all of the rights, powers, and authority now or
hereafter granted to special service districts by the Act and other applicable
laws.
      (2)   In accordance with the Act, the Board of County Commissioners, as
it is comprised from time to time, shall be and act as the governing authority
of the District and shall supervise and control all of the activities thereof.
The Act also permits the governing authority to delegate to an elective or
appointive administrative control board or to designated officers or employees
the authority to perform the activities functions and operations of the
District.
   (I)   No part of the proposed District described herein is included within
the boundaries of any city or town now existing, and no territory of the
District is included within the boundaries of any improvement district or other
special service district of the county.
   (J)   The Board may, by resolution adopted at the time of establishment of
the District, create an administrative control board in accordance with § 11-
23-24(1) of the Act. The Administrative Control Board shall consist of three
persons, each of whom shall be a qualified elector of the District, and each of
whom shall be appointed by the Board. The Administrative Control Board will be
initially appointed by the Board. The Administrative Control Board will be
initially appointed for terms of office in accordance with § 11-23-24(5) of the
Act.
   (K)   At the public hearing, for which provision is made in division (F)
above, or at any time prior thereto, and in accordance with § 11-23-9 of the
Act, protests against the establishment of the District or the furnishing of
specified types of services within the District may be made orally or in
writing by any interested person. Any protest made may be withdrawn by the
protestant at any time before the Board of County Commissioners establishes or
abandons the proposed District.
   (L)   In accordance with §§ 11-23-9 and 11-23-11 of the Act, if persons
constituting and consisting of over 50% of the qualified voters of the
qualified voters of the territory proposed to be included within the District
file written protests within 15 days after the conclusion of the public hearing
specified in division (F) above against the establishment of the District or
against the specified types of services to be provided within the District, the
Board shall, in the former instance, abandon the proposed establishment of the
District or against the specified types of services to be provided within the
District, the Board shall, in the former instance, abandon the proposed
establishment of the District and in latter instance, eliminate those types of
services objected to from the resolution finally establishing the District. Any
person who has filed a written protest within the time specified in § 11-23-11
and whose property has been included within the District, notwithstanding such
protest, may apply as provided in the Act to the District Court of the county
for a review of these actions of the Board in establishing the District.
   (M)   The officers and employees of the county are hereby authorized and
directed to take all action necessary or appropriate to effectuate the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 1978-5, passed 9-5-1978)
TAKING OF PROPERTY
§ 30.015 POLICY CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   There is an underlying policy in the county, strongly favoring careful
consideration of matters involving constitutional taking of property, in
fairness to the owner of private property bringing the claim and in view of the
uncertainty and expense involved in defending law suits alleging such issues.
At the same time, the legitimate role of government in lawfully regulating real
property must be preserved and the public’s right to require the dedication or
exaction of property consistent with the constitution.
   (B)   Consistent with this policy, the Board of County Commissioners hereby
adopt a procedure for review of actions that may involve the issue of a
constitutional taking. These provisions are to assist county government in
considering decisions that may involve constitutional takings.
   (C)   This subchapter is further intended and shall be construed to
objectively and fairly review claims by citizens that a specific county
government action requires payment of just compensation, yet preserve the
ability of the county to lawfully regulate real property and fulfill its other
duties and functions.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 30.016 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING. 
      (1)   Actions by the county involving the physical taking or exaction of
private real property that might require compensation to a private real
property owner because of:
         (a)   The Fifth or Fourteenth Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States:
         (b)   Article I, § 22, of the Utah Constitution; and
         (c)   Any court ruling governing the physical taking or exaction of
private real property by a government entity.
      (2)   Actions by the county involving the physical taking or exaction of
private real property is not a CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING if the physical taking or
exaction:
         (a)   Bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest;
and
         (b)   Is roughly proportionate and reasonably related, on an
individualized property basis, both in nature and extent, to the impact of the
proposed development on the legitimate government interest.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 30.017 GUIDELINES ADVISORY.
   The guidelines adopted and decisions rendered pursuant to the provisions of
this subchapter are advisory only, and shall not be construed to expand or
limit the scope of county’s liability for a constitutional taking. The
reviewing body or person shall not be required to make any determination under
this subchapter except pursuant to §
30.018.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 30.018 REVIEW OF DECISION.
   (A)   Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a
constitutional taking of private real property shall request a review of a
final decision of any county officer, employee, board, commission, or council.
   (B)   The following are specific procedures established for such a review.
      (1)   The person requesting review must have obtained a final and
authoritative decision from the county agency involved in the disputed
decision.
      (2)   Within 30 days from the date of the final decision that gave rise
to the concern that a constitutional taking has occurred, the person requesting
the review shall file in writing, in the office of the County Clerk, a request
for review of that decision. A copy shall also be filed with the County
Attorney.
      (3)   Within ten days of receipt of the notice requesting review, the
County Commission, or an individual, or body designated by the County
Commission, shall set a date and time to review the decision that gave rise to
the claim of constitutional taking.
      (4)   In addition to the written request for review, the applicant must
submit, prior to the date of the review, the following in writing:
         (a)   Name of the applicant requesting review;
         (b)   Name and business address of current owner of the property, form
of ownership, whether sole proprietorship, for-profit or not-for-profit
corporation, partnership, joint venture or other, and if owned by a
corporation, partnership, or joint venture, name, and address of all principal
shareholders or partners;
         (c)   A detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there
has been a constitutional taking;
         (d)   A detailed description of the property taken;
         (e)   Evidence and documentation as to the value of the property
allegedly taken, including the date and cost of the property at the time the
property was acquired by the current owner. This should include any evidence of
the value of that same property before and after the alleged constitutional
taking and the name of the party from whom purchased, including the
relationship, if any, between the person requesting a review and the party from
whom the property was acquired;
         (f)   A statement concerning the nature of the protectable interest
claimed to be affected, such as, but not limited to, fee simple ownership,
leasehold interest;
         (g)   Terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of
a full or partial interest in the property in the three years immediately
preceding the date of review;
         (h)   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose,
including financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the
three years immediately preceding the date of review;
         (i)   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for
the three years immediately preceding the date of review;
         (j)   All information concerning current mortgages or other loans
secured by the property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current
interest rate, remaining loan balance and term of the loan, and other
significant provisions, including but not limited to, the right of purchasers
to assume the loan;
         (k)   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the three years immediately preceding the date
of review;
         (l)   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the
petitioner within the three years immediately preceding the date of review
concerning feasibility of development or utilization of the property;
         (m)   For income producing property, itemized income and expense
statements from the property for the three years immediately preceding the date
of review;
         (n)   Information from a title policy or other source showing all
recorded liens or encumbrances affecting the property; and
         (o)   The County Commission or its designee may request additional
information reasonably necessary, in its opinion, to arrive at a conclusion
concerning whether there has been a constitutional taking.
      (5)   An application for review shall not be deemed “complete” or
“submitted” until the reviewing body/official certifies to the applicant, in
writing, that all the materials and information required in division (B)(4)
above have been received by the county. The reviewing body/official shall
promptly notify the applicant of any incomplete application.
      (6)   At the review hearing, the County Commission or the individual or
body designated by it, shall hear all the evidence related to and submitted by
the applicant, the county, and/or any other interested party.
      (7)   A final decision on the review shall be rendered within 14 days
from the date the complete application for review has been received by the
County Clerk. The decision of the County Commission or its designee shall be
rendered in writing to the applicant and the officer, employee, board,
commission, or council that rendered the final decision that gave rise to the
constitutional takings claim.
      (8)   If the County Commission fails to hear and decide the review within
14 days, the decision appealed from shall be presumed to be approved.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 30.019 REVIEWING GUIDELINES.
   (A)   In conducting its review of the decision on the alleged constitutional
takings claim, the County Commission shall review the facts and information
presented by the applicant to determine whether or not the action by the county
constitutes a constitutional taking as defined in this subchapter.
   (B)   In doing so, it shall consider:
      (1)   Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real
property bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest;
      (2)   Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action
taken by the county; and
      (3)   Whether the property and exaction taken is roughly proportionate or
reasonably related, on an individual property basis, both in nature and extent,
to the impact caused by the activities that are the subject of the decision
being reviewed.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 12-12-1994)
§ 30.020 RESULTS OF REVIEW.
   After completing the review, the County Commission or other reviewing body
shall make a determination regarding the above issues and, where determined to
be necessary and appropriate, shall make a recommendation to the officer,
employee, board, commission, or council that made the decision that gave rise
to the constitutional takings claim.
(Ord. 1994-2, passed 12-12-1994)
GOVERNMENT RECORDS
§ 30.035 FINDINGS.
   The Board of County Commissioners hereby finds the following.
   (A)   It is in the best interests of the county and the citizens thereof,
and essential for the administration of county government, to maintain and
preserve accurate governmental records; to provide ready access to records
which are defined by law as open to the public; to maintain the security of
records which are defined by law as non-public; and to ensure the preservation
of vital and historically valuable records.
   (B)   The records of the county government agencies are a resource
containing information which:
      (1)   Allows government programs to function;
      (2)   Provides officials with a basis for making decisions and ensuring
continuity with past operations; and
      (3)   Permits citizens to research and document matters of personal and
community importance; this resource must be systematically and efficiently
managed.
   (C)   It is the policy of the county that all governmental records, which
are defined by applicable state statute and case law as public records, shall
be made available to citizens within a reasonable time after request and at a
reasonable cost as set forth in this subchapter.
   (D)   The county recognizes public policy interest in allowing the
government to restrict access to certain records, as specified in the
Government Records Access and Management Act and this subchapter, for the
public good.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.036 PURPOSE.
   In enacting this subchapter, it is the purpose and intent of the Board of
County Commissioners to provide, in accordance with the Government Records
Access and Management Act (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”), UCA Title 63,
Chapter 2 (1953), as amended, a subchapter acknowledging and complying with the
Act and providing for its application in the county. County agencies shall
comply with the provisions of this subchapter and with the Act, and shall also
comply with other federal and state statutory and regulatory record-keeping
requirements.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.037 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Government Records Access and Management Act, UCA §§ 63-2-1 et seq.
(1953), as amended.
   AGENCY. Any office, department, division, section, staff office, board,
committee, or other division of the county government, any public or private
entity or person which contracts with the county to provide goods or services
directly to the county, or any private, non-profit entity that receives funds
from the county.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE PROGRAM. The series of instructions or statements that
permit the functioning of a computer system in a manner designed to provide
storage, retrieval, and manipulation of data from the computer system, and any
associated documentation, manuals, or other source material explaining how to
operate the software program. SOFTWARE does not include the original data or
record which is manipulated by the software.
   CONTROLLED RECORDS. Those defined as controlled under the provisions of this
subchapter and in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
   DATA. Individual entries (for example, birth date, address, and the like) in
records.
   DESIGNATE or DESIGNATION. To give an initial or primary classification to a
record or record series indicating the likely classification that a majority of
such records or record series would be given if classified.
   DISPOSE. To destroy, or render irretrievable or illegible, a record or the
information contained in it by any physical, electronic, or other means
including unauthorized deletion or erasure of electronically recorded audio,
visual, non-written formats, data processing, or other records.
   NON-PUBLIC RECORDS. Those records defined as private, controlled, or
protected under the provisions of this subchapter and of the Act.
   PRIVATE RECORDS. Those records classified as private under the provisions of
this subchapter and of the Act.
   PROTECTED RECORDS. Those records classified as protected under the provision
of this subchapter and the Act.
   PUBLIC RECORDS. Those records which have not been classified as non-public
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and the Act.
   RECORD.
      (1)   All books, letters, documents, papers, maps, plans, photographs,
films, cards, tapes, recordings, or other documentary materials, and electronic
data regardless of physical form or characteristics, prepared, owned, used,
received, or retained by the county where all the information in the original
is reproducible by some mechanical, electronic, photographic, or other means.
      (2)   RECORD does not mean:
         (a)   Temporary drafts or similar materials prepared for the
originator’s personal use or prepared by the originator for the personal use of
a person for whom he or she is working;
         (b)   Materials that are legally owned by an individual in his or her
private capacity;
         (c)   Materials to which access is limited by the laws of copyright or
patent, unless owned by the county;
         (d)   Junk mail or commercial publications received by the county or
by an officer or employee of the county;
         (e)   Books and other materials that are catalogued, indexed, or
inventoried and contained in the collections of county libraries open to the
public, regardless of physical form or characteristics of the material;
         (f)   Personal notes or daily calendars prepared by any county
employee for personal use or the personal use of a supervisor, or such notes,
calendars, or internal memoranda prepared for the use of an officer or agency
acting in a quasi-judicial or deliberative process or pursuant to matters
discussed in a meeting closed pursuant to the state’s Open Meetings Act; or
         (g)   Proprietary computer software programs, as defined above, that
are developed or purchased by or for the county for its own use.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.038 PUBLIC RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   (A)   Members of the public shall have the right to see, review, examine,
and take copies, in any format maintained by the county, and subject to §
30.999(B), of all county governmental records designated as “public” under the
provisions of this subchapter and of the Act and any policies and procedures
developed hereunder.
   (B)   The county has no obligation to create a record or record series in
response to a request from a member of the public, if the record requested is
not otherwise regularly maintained or kept.
   (C)   When a record is temporarily held by a custodial county agency,
pursuant to that custodial agency’s statutory and ordinance functions, such as
records storage, investigation, litigation, or audit, the record shall not be
considered a record of the custodial agency for the purposes of this
subchapter. The record shall be considered a record of the agency or agencies
which usually keeps or maintains that record and any requests for access to
such records shall be directed to that agency or agencies, rather than the
custodial agency, pursuant to procedures established by the county.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.039 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Public records shall be those county records as defined in the Act,
UCA § 63-2-201 (1953), as amended, as public. Public records shall be made
available to any person. All county records are considered public unless they
are expressly classified otherwise in accordance with policies and procedures
established by this subchapter and the Act or are made non-public by the Act or
other applicable law.
   (B)   Private records shall be those county records classified as “private”,
as defined in the Act, UCA § 63-2-302 (1953), as amended, and as classified and
defined in procedures established pursuant to this subchapter and in accordance
with the Act. Private records shall be made available to the following persons:
the subject of the record, the parent or legal guardian of a unemancipated
minor who is the subject of a record, the legal guardian of an incapacitated
individual who is the subject of the record, any person who has a power of
attorney or a notarized release dated not more than 90 days prior to the
request from the subject of the record or his or her legal representative, or
any person in possession of a legislative subpoena or a court order issued by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Controlled records shall be those county records classified as
“controlled”, as defined in the Act, UCA § 63-2-303 (1953), as amended, and as
classified and defined in procedures established in this subchapter and in
accordance with the Act. Controlled records shall be made available to a
physician, psychologist, or licensed social worker who submits a notarized
release dated not more than 90 days prior to the request, from the subject of
the record or any person presenting a legislative subpoena or a court order
signed by a judge of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Protected records shall be those county records classified as
“protected”, as defined in the Act, UCA § 63-2-304 (1953), as amended, and as
classified and defined in procedures established in this subchapter and in
accordance with the Act. Protected records shall be made available to the
person who submitted the record, to a person who has power of attorney or
notarized release dated not more than 90 days prior to the request from any
persons or governmental entities whose interests are protected by the
classification of the record, or to any person presenting a legislative
subpoena or a court order regarding the release of the information and signed
by a judge of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   Under circumstances set out by the Act, it may be appropriate to
disclose non-public county records to persons other than those set out in this
section. The determination to so release records shall be at the discretion of
the Department Director or elected official or designee, consistent with the
Act, and upon the advice of the Attorney.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.040 PRIVACY RIGHTS.
   (A)   The county recognizes and upholds the personal right of privacy
retained by persons who may be the subject of governmental records. The county
also recognizes that the Act and state case law establish a presumption that
governmental records will generally be considered open and public, with certain
specific exceptions. In circumstances where a record’s public or non-public
status is not specifically established by the Act or another statute, by this
subchapter, or by policies established or designations made under this
subchapter, the public’s right to access and the record subject’s right of
privacy must be compared. The county shall not release any records when to do
so would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, in
accordance with the Act and procedures established by this subchapter. Under
certain circumstances and procedures established by this subchapter, certain
items of data may be rendered nonpublic, although other items of data in the
record, or the record itself, may be classified as public.
   (B)   The county may, in the discretion of the head of the department of the
agency responding to a request for records, notify the subject of a record that
a request for access to the subject’s record has been made.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.041 CLASSIFICATION OF RECORDS.
   All county records and record series, of any format, shall be evaluated,
designated, classified, and scheduled for retention according to the provisions
of the Act and this subchapter. The county may designate or redesignate or
clarify or reclarify records or data at any time and is not required to
classify a particular record or item of data until access thereto is requested.
Any records or record series generated in the future shall also be so
designated, classified, and scheduled for retention. Records designation,
classification, and scheduling for retention shall be conducted under the
supervision of and proposed schedules submitted to the County Records Officer
who shall be assisted by a Records Classification and Retention Review
Committee consisting of the Records Officer or designee and the head of the
county department in charge of the record in question, or his or her designee.
Assistance may be requested from the County Attorney as needed. Designation,
classification, and retention scheduling forms and guidelines shall be prepared
and promulgated by the Records Officer.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.042 WRITTEN REQUESTS FOR RECORDS.
   (A)   Under circumstances in which a department is not able to immediately
respond to a records request, the requester shall fill out and present to the
department a written request on forms provided by the county. The date and time
of the request shall be noted on the written request form and all time frames
provided under this subchapter shall commence from that time and date.
Requesters of non-public records shall adequately identify themselves and, if
applicable, their status when requesting access to non-public records.
   (B)   A department may respond to a request for a record by approving the
request and providing the records, denying the request, or such other
appropriate response as may be established by policies and procedures. If a
written request is denied in whole or in part, the agency should provide a
notice of denial to the requester. The denial notice shall include the reasons
for the denial and information regarding the appeals process and such other
information as may be required by this subchapter and the Act.
   (C)   (1)   An agency shall respond to a written request for a record as
soon as reasonably possible, but no later than ten business days after
receiving the request or five business days after receiving a request if the
requester satisfactorily demonstrates that a expedited response time primarily
benefits the public at large, rather than the requester individually. A
requester seeking records for publication or broadcast purposes is presumed to
be acting primarily for the benefit of the public at large.
      (2)   The following extraordinary circumstances shall justify a
department’s failure to timely respond to a written readiest for a record, ten
business days and shall extend the time for response thereto to that time
reasonably necessary to respond to the request, as determined by the department
head. Extraordinary circumstances shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
         (a)   The department, another department, or some other governmental
entity is currently and actively using the record requested;
         (b)   The record requested is for a voluminous quantity of records or
requires the department to review a large number of records or perform
extensive research to locate the materials requested;
         (c)   The department is currently processing a large number of records
requests or is subject to extraordinary seasonal work loads in the processing
of other work;
         (d)   The release of the record involves legal issues that require an
agency to seek legal counsel for analysis of applicable laws;
         (e)   The request involves extensive editing to separate public data
in a record from that which is not public; or
         (f)   Providing the information requested requires computer
programming or other format manipulation.
      (3)   When a timely response cannot be made to a record request, the
agency shall notify the register that it cannot immediately approve or deny the
request because of one of the extraordinary circumstances listed above, and
provide an explanation of the circumstances and an estimate of the time
required to respond to the request. If the agency fails to provide the
requested record within the estimated time, that failure shall be considered a
denial of the request.
   (D)   The failure or inability of a department to respond to a request for a
record within the time frames set out herein, or the department’s denial of
such a request, shall give the requester the right to appeal as provided by
this subchapter.
   (E)   Any county record which is subject to litigation, criminal
investigation, or audit or has been requested in accordance with this
subchapter and the Act, that is disposable by approved retention schedule, may
not be disposed of until the litigation or audit has been resolved or the
request is granted and fulfilled, or 60 days after the request is denied if no
appeals are filed, or 60 days after all appeals are completed, pursuant to the
appeals provision of this subchapter.
   (F)   In response to a request for access, an agency may redesignate or
reclassify the record or segregate data in the requested record in accordance
with this subchapter and the Act.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.043 FEES.
   (A)   An agency may charge a reasonable fee to cover its actual cost of
duplicating a record or compiling a record in a form other than that maintained
by the agency.
   (B)   An agency may fulfill a record request without charge and is
encouraged to do so when it determines that:
      (1)   Releasing the record primarily benefits the public rather than a
person;
      (2)   The individual requesting the record is the subject of the record;
and
      (3)   The requester’s rights are directly implicated by the information
in the record, and the requester is impecunious.
   (C)   Fee policies adopted by the county shall be consistent with this
section.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.044 APPEALS.
   (A)   Persons aggrieved by the county’s classification of a record or by an
agency’s response to a record request may request and be granted an initial
administrative appeal of that grievance, in accordance with county policies. An
initial administrative appeal may be made, at the requester’s option, to a
hearing board convened pursuant to such policies.
   (B)   A written notice of appeal shall be filed with the director of the
involved agency, who shall immediately notify the County Clerk. The County
Clerk shall institute the initial convening of the appeals hearing within ten
business days after the date the written notice of appeal is received.
   (C)   The County Clerk shall send a written notice by certified mail of the
date and location of the hearing to the requester, and notice to members of the
Board of County Commissioners and the director of the involved agency. The
hearing shall be conducted in accordance with policies adopted by the County
Commission and with the state’s Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   Failure of the Board of County Commissioners to issue a written
decision within five days after conclusion of the hearing grants to the
requester the right to carry the appeal to the District Court.
   (E)   The appeal of a decision of the Board of County Commissioners may be
made to the District Court, in accordance with the Act and the state’s Rules of
Civil Procedure.
   (F)   The appellant shall set forth in writing the nature and date of the
request, attaching a copy of the request for, if available, and setting out the
basis and legal authority for the request.
   (G)   The decisions of the Board of County Commissioners regarding access to
or classification of records shall be forwarded to the County Records Officer
for corrective action including any reclassification or designation of data or
records which may be necessitated by the appellate decision.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.045 ACCOMMODATIONS FOR DISABLED.
   Reasonable accommodations regarding access to governmental records shall be
provided to persons with disabilities in accordance with policies developed
under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.046 AMENDMENTS OR CORRECTIONS.
   Records held by the county may be amended or corrected as needed. Requests
for amendments, corrections, or other changes shall be made in writing to the
department having custody of the records and setting forth, with specificity,
the amendment or correction requested and the reason for the changes. When an
amendment or correction of a government record is made, as a general rule, both
the original record and the amended or corrected record shall be retained,
unless the nature of the record indicates otherwise or as may be provided by
policies and procedures adopted under the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.047 DISCIPLINARY ACTION.
   (A)   A county employee or other person having lawful custody of county
records, who knowingly refuse to permit access to records in accordance with
the Act and this subchapter, or who knowingly permit access to non-public
records knowing that such access is prohibited, or who knowingly, without
authorization or legal authority, disposes of, alters, or removes records or
allows other persons to do so in violation of the provisions of the Act, this
subchapter, or other law or regulation may be subject to criminal prosecution
and disciplinary action, including termination.
   (B)   In accordance with the Act, neither the county nor any of its
departments, officers, or employees shall be liable for damages resulting from
the release of a record where the requester presented evidence of authority to
obtain the record, even if it may be subsequently determined that the requester
had no such authority.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.048 COUNTY RECORDS OFFICER.
   (A)   There shall be appointed a County Records Officer to oversee and
coordinate records access and management and county archives activities. The
Records Officer shall make annual reports of records services activities to the
Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Each department of county government shall appoint a Records
Representative to assist with and be directly responsible for the
implementation of this subchapter. Regular training shall be provided under the
direction of the Records Officer to Agency Records Representatives.
   (C)   The Records Officer shall develop and provide records management
maintenance and access standards, policies, and procedures, as approved by the
Board of County Commissioners to govern and implement the provisions of the Act
and this subchapter. Copies of any rule or policy promulgated under this
subchapter shall be forwarded by the County Records Officer to the state’s
Division of Archives within 30 days after its effective date. Any department’s
internal policies regarding records management and access shall be consistent
with this subchapter and state law.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.049 RECORDS MAINTENANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Records maintenance procedures shall be developed to ensure that due
care is taken to maintain and preserve county records safely and accurately
over the long term. The Records Officer shall be responsible for monitoring the
application and use of technical processes in the creation, duplication, and
disposal of county records, and they shall monitor compliance with required
standards of quality, permanence, and admissibility pertaining to the creation,
use, and maintenance of records. Policies and regulations regarding types and
formats of papers, inks, electronic media, and other records and information
storage media, materials, equipment, procedures, and techniques shall be
developed and promulgated, subject to the approval of the Board of County
Commissioners.
   (B)   All county records which constitute an intellectual property right
shall remain the property of the county unless federal or state legal authority
provides otherwise. All other records shall be the property of the state.
Property rights to county may not be permanently transferred from the county
records to any private individual or entity, including those legally disposable
obsolete county records. This prohibition does not include the providing of
copies of county records for release or distribution under this subchapter. All
record disposal shall be conducted in accordance with policies and procedures.
   (C)   Custodians of any county records shall, at the expiration of their
terms of office, appointment, or employment, deliver custody and control of all
records kept or received by them to their successors, supervisors, or to the
County Records Officer.
   (D)   All records which are in the possession of any county department
shall, upon termination of activities of such department, be transferred to any
successor department, or to the county archives, provided that such transfer is
consistent with the formal provisions of such termination.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.050 COUNTY ARCHIVES.
   It is the responsibility of the section to receive, store, and preserve
county agency records and other materials and to store and to provide
reasonable access thereto as may be calculated to accurately and safely
maintain county records over a long term in compliance with this subchapter and
the Act.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.051 NON-VERBAL OR NON-WRITTEN FORMATS.
   (A)   The county retains and reserves to itself the right to use any type of
non-verbal or non-written formats for the storage, retention, and retrieval of
government records, including, but not limited to, audio tapes, video tapes,
micro-forms, and any type of computer, data processing, imaging, or electronic
information storage or processing equipment or systems, which are not
prohibited by state statute, and which do not compromise legal requirements for
record storage, retrieval, security, and maintenance, to store and maintain
county records. All computerized and non-written format records and data which
are properly classified in accordance with the Act and this subchapter shall be
made available to a requester, in accordance with this subchapter and the Act.
   (B)   The methods of access to records in non-written formats or data
processing systems shall be as determined appropriate by the department head of
the department maintaining the records, considering all circumstances. Access
may include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   By using a county computer terminal or other viewing or listening
device to retrieve data directly from the terminal screen or device; provided,
however, that due regard shall be exercised to ensure that any non-public
records will not be accessed, retrieved, or displayed on the device and that
records are not erased or damaged;
      (2)   By providing paper or “hard” copies of record printouts or by
providing magnetic tapes, disks, or other means of electronic storage
containing the non-written format or data processing system records; or
      (3)   By the use, where appropriate, of remote terminals which have
access to county computer, data processing, or electronic information systems
pursuant to a formal two-party contract permitting such remote terminal access
and provided that due regard shall be exercised to ensure that non-public
records will not be available by remote terminal access.
   (C)   Computer software programs are not considered a record. Software
programs shall not be subject to disclosure under this subchapter or the Act,
including copyrighted software and other copyrighted materials which have been
purchased by or licensed to the county and software and other materials which
have been copyrighted by the county.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
§ 30.052 JUSTICE COURT RECORDS.
   Records activities of the County Justice Court system shall comply with and
be governed by § 63-2-702 of the Act.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995)
ELECTRONIC RECORDS
§ 30.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL PURPOSES. The sale of electronic format for profit through
distribution and/or resale, by electronic or other means, including, but not
limited to, online subscription, internet distribution, or other means
hereafter devised.
   ELECTRONIC FORMAT. Any format or delivery system of data images, plats, or
other work product of the county is electronically transmitted format,
including, but not limited to, DVDs, CDs, tape, internet media, and all other
methods hereinafter developed together with corresponding documentation,
associated media, printed materials, online or electronic documentation, and
all updates or upgrades that are provided to purchasers.
   RECORDS. Any documents, papers, data images, plat, or other recorded
instruments made of record in and maintained by the County Recorder.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 1-22-2007)
§ 30.066 RECORDS AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE.
   (A)   The county will agree to sell to purchasers the records in the
electronic format for the purchase price set forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   Tax parcel/ownership plats for the county delivered via compact disc
in dwg. or .tif format.
 
Complete Set                                                                      $200
   Bi-yearly update subscription rate (available only to consecutive quarterly $50 per
subscribers)                                                                      quarter
                                                                                  $10 set
                                                                                  up
   Custom plat sets on CD                                                      charge
                                                                                  plus $2
                                                                                  per
                                                                                  image
Subdivision dedication plats for the county delivered via DVD, SIRE indexed
   Complete set                                                                $200
                                                                                  $10 set
                                                                                  up
   Update subscription rate, upon request (not a complete set, new plats only) charge
                                                                                  plus $2
                                                                                  per
                                                                                  image
 
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 1-22-2007)
§ 30.067 USE OF RECORDS.
   Upon payment of the purchase price as set forth in §
30.066(B), the purchasers shall be entitled to use the electronic format and
the records contained therein for in-house business purposes but shall not be
altered in any way or use the electronic format or the records contained
therein for any commercial purposes.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 1-22-2007)
§ 30.068 DISTRIBUTION OF PURCHASED RECORDS.
   Purchasers, in addition, may not distribute in any form any record or
electronic format in any country prohibited by the United States Export
Administration Act and the regulations thereunder. This provision extends to
and includes users of internet web-based services.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 1-22-2007)
§ 30.069 THIRD PARTY NOTICES.
   (A)   The electronic format may contain elements, component software, and
the like, provided by a third party, which may require additional notices and/
or additional conditions and terms.
   (B)   Such third party notices must be secured from any such third party and
are not the responsibility of the county either as to content or limitations
contained therein.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 1-22-2007)
§ 30.070 RECORDS PROVIDED “AS IS”.
   (A)   The records and electronic format are provided to purchasers on an “as
is” basis. The county does not guarantee the fitness of the records for any
public or private purpose, nor shall it be liable for any damage, loss, or
injury purchasers may suffer from any errors, omissions, or untimely data entry
contained in the records.
   (B)   The county does not warrant that the records of electronic format are
error free or will operate on a particular system or will operate without
interruption. In addition, no oral or written information or advice given by
the county, its officers, representatives, agents, or employees shall create a
warranty or guarantee of any kind.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 1-22-2007)
§ 30.071 COUNTY NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGES.
   The county, its agents, or employees shall not be liable to purchasers or
any third party for any indirect special incidental punitive or consequential
damages (including, but no limited to, damages for the inability to use
equipment or access data, loss of profits, business interruption, or the likes)
arising out of the use of or the inability to use the records or electronic
format.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 1-22-2007)
§ 30.072 USE OF RECORDS FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   Any use of the electronic format or records by purchasers for commercial
purposes will constitute a violation of this subchapter. Upon breach of this
subchapter, purchasers will agree to destroy or return all copies of the
electronic format to the county.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 1-22-2007)
§ 30.073 RIGHTS OF COUNTY.
   The county reserves to itself all rights in the electronic format not
specifically granted to purchasers.
(Ord. 2007-1, passed 1-22-2007)
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
§ 30.085 DISCLOSURE OF CONFLICT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each officer who is a member of the County Commission, Planning
Commission, Service District, or any other public body of the county, including
all boards and commissions, is required to disclose to that body a conflict of
interest prior to consideration, in any public meeting or hearing before such
public body, of any action on a matter in which the officer has a conflict of
interest. For purposes of this subchapter, a conflict of interest exists if the
officer or his or her parent, sibling, other member of the same household, a
client, or employer meets one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Is required to disclose a conflict of interest as required and
defined by the Act in UCA § 17-16a-3; however, notwithstanding the provisions
of said Act, the following provisions shall also apply;
      (2)   Has an ownership interest in a business having matters under proper
consideration before the public body;
      (3)   Has an ownership interest in a piece of property for which zoning,
conditional use, or development approvals are under consideration; or
      (4)   Represents as an agent, provides a professional service, or is a
paid advisor to an individual or organization with matters under consideration
before the public body.
   (B)   Each officer with a conflict of interest, as defined above, shall be
required to disclose such conflict to the public body on which that officer
participates prior to consideration of the matter. Officers with a conflict of
interest may not attempt to influence other public officers or appointed staff
outside of the meeting.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 7-28-2014)
§ 30.086 MEMBERS TO RECUSE THEMSELVES.
   An officer on the County Commission, Planning Commission, or other public
body of the county who is required by §
30.085 to disclose a conflict of interest shall recuse himself or herself from
participating in, commenting on, or voting on the matter in which such conflict
exists. If the officer insists on voting, his or her vote shall be recorded in
the minutes as an abstention. In determining whether a vote is tied or a matter
is adopted, the abstention vote shall be treated as if the member were absent
from the meeting.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 7-28-2014)
§ 30.087 COMMENT FROM MEMBER ALLOWED.
   A public officer with a conflict of interest, as defined above, may attend
meetings of other public bodies of which he or she is not a member and at which
the matter creating the conflict is considered. Such an officer may speak on
the matter under consideration, only after first declaring a conflict of
interest and explaining the nature of the conflict.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 7-28-2014)
§ 30.088 SUSPENSION OF REGULATIONS.
   Any provision of this subchapter that are more restricted than those of the
Act may be suspended by the County Commission, Planning Commission, or other
board, commission, or committee of the county if the body hears the nature of
the conflict of interest and a two-thirds majority of the remaining body
assembled agree by affirmation vote that said conflict of interest under this
subchapter should not prohibit conflicted officer from participation,
commenting, and voting during the meeting, and such a vote shall suspend the
prohibiting provision.
(Ord. 2014-2, passed 7-28-2014)
§ 30.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Knowing violation of §§
30.035 through
30.052 is a Class B misdemeanor, punishable as set forth in the State Criminal
Code.
   (C)   Any officer who shall intentionally fail to disclose a potential
conflict as defined in §
30.085 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor offense in accordance with UCA § 17-
16a-10, for which violation that officer shall be subject to removal from
office and/or dismissal from county employment pursuant to the Act.
(Ord. 1995-1, passed 1-9-1995; Ord. 2014-2, passed 7-28-2014)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY ORGANIZATION
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Bond for officers
   
31.002   Insurance for employees
   
31.003   Consolidation of County Sheriff and County Constable
   
31.004   County Attorney
   
31.005   Consolidation of County Commissioner and County Surveyor
Protection Area Advisory Board
   
31.020   Title
   
31.021   Definitions
   
31.022   Protection Area Advisory Board established
   
31.023   Appointment of Board members
   
31.024   Term in office; removal of members
   
31.025   Officers of Protection Area Advisory Board
   
31.026   Quorum and rules of operation
   
31.027   Minimum size for protection areas
   
31.028   Fees for accepting and processing proposals
   
31.029   Filing procedure
Library Board of Directors
   
31.040   Members
   
31.041   Officers
   
31.042   Officers’ duties
   
31.043   Meetings
   
31.044   Committees
   
31.045   Delegated powers and duties
   
31.046   Responsibilities of the Library Director
Boundary Commission
   
31.060   Responsibilities of the Commission
   
31.061   Commission members
   
31.062   Appointment of members
   
31.063   Commission terms
   
31.064   Vacancies
   
31.065   Chairperson
   
31.066   Staff
   
31.067   Expenses
   
31.068   Quorum and action
   
31.069   Meetings
   
31.070   Disqualification of Commission member and alternative members
   
31.071   Conflict of law
Council on Aging
   
31.085   Council established
   
31.086   Purpose, duties, and responsibilities
   
31.087   Organization
   
31.088   Budget
County Economic Development Board
   
31.100   Name, purpose and specific purpose
   
31.101   Membership
   
31.102   Meetings of members
   
31.103   Member responsibilities and term
   
31.104   Officers
   
31.105   Conflict of interest
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 BOND FOR OFFICERS.
   (A)   In the matter of prescribing the amount of bond the various county and
precinct officers shall execute, the Board of County Commissioners do ordain as
follows.
   (B)   The officers elect for the county and the various precincts for the
year 1899 and 1900 shall give bond with good and sufficient sureties for the
faithful performance of their duties in the following sums to wit:
      (1)   County Clerk: $2,500;
      (2)   County Recorder: $2,500;
      (3)   County Surveyor: $1,000;
      (4)   County Sheriff: $2,500;
      (5)   County Treasurer: $8,000;
      (6)   County Assessor: $1,500;
      (7)   County Attorney: $2,500;
      (8)   Each Justice of the Peace: $250; and
      (9)   County Constable: $250.
(Ord. 4, passed - -)
§ 31.002 INSURANCE FOR EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners hereby finds and concludes that it will be
the best interests of the county, its officers, and its employed, that
sickness, disability, and death benefit insurance, for which provisions are
made in UCA § 49-3-2 (1953), should be established, maintained, and secured for
such insurance coverage from an insurance company which has been duly approved
by a resolution of the Board of Commissioners, in a corporation duly authorized
to do business and to write insurance, including sickness, disability, and
death benefit insurance in the state, which authority, coverage, and insurance
shall continue until further ordinance of the Board of Commissioners, or until
the County Board of Commissioners shall by duly approved resolution approve the
securing of said insurance from a different insurer.
   (B)   All county officers and employees covered by existing insurance shall
from the effective date of the passage of this ordinance and the passage of a
resolution approving another insurer be covered by insurance as issued by the
newly approved insurer, in a corporation duly authorized to do business and to
write insurance, including sickness, disability, and death benefit insurance in
the state, and new officers and employed qualifying under the aforesaid
provisions of law shall be similarly covered and insurance shall be provided in
accordance with the provisions of UCA § 49-3-2 (1953), upon such terms and
conditions as the Board of Commissioners shall direct. Appropriate payroll
deductions, where necessary to assess whatever portion, if any, of the costs of
such insurance, may be payable by officers and employees, shall be made by the
County Clerk and County Auditor, and contributions to the payment of said
premiums to be made by the county, shall continue to be contributed and paid by
the Clerk and Auditor.
(Ord. 1968-1, passed 8-12-1968)
§ 31.003 CONSOLIDATION OF COUNTY SHERIFF AND COUNTY CONSTABLE.
   Under the authority of UCA § 17-16-3 (1953), as amended, the offices of
County Sheriff and County Constable are hereby consolidated under the office of
County Sheriff. From and after the effective date of this section, all of the
duties, powers, and responsibilities devolving upon the office of County
Constable shall be carried out by the County Sheriff.
(Ord. 1978-1, passed 1- -1978)
§ 31.004 COUNTY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is as follows:
      (1)   To recognize the right of the qualified voters of the county to
elect a County Attorney as required by § 10 of Article VIII of the state’s
Constitution;
      (2)   To recognize the legal as well as practical problems which arise
under § 17-18-4 and more particularly UCA § 78-51-25 (1953), as amended,
prohibiting the unlicensed practice of law within the state;
      (3)   To recognize the ever increasing complexity of county government
and the attendant duties, both civil and criminal, of the County Attorney;
      (4)   To ensure insofar as possible that the various county officials and
county law enforcement officers will at all times be able to obtain competent
and sound legal advice from the County Attorney’s office;
      (5)   To ensure that the prosecution of criminal cases within the county
and the prosecution or defense of civil cases to which the county is a party
will proceed in the manner and with the competent legal representation that is
required to protect the public interest, safety, property, and general welfare;
and
      (6)   To encourage fiscal responsibility in fixing the annual budget of
the County Attorney and to ensure that such sums as are budgeted will be
expended to the best advantage in obtaining maximum legal services for moneys
spent.
   (B)   Salary. Commencing with the year 1979, and following the general
election of November, 1978, the annual salary budget of the County Attorney’s
office may be expended for the County Attorney and one or more deputies, as
approved by the County Commission, subject, however, that the salary of any
County Attorney who is not a member of the Utah State Bar Association and duty
licensed to practice law within the state, shall not exceed the sum of $12 per
year.
   (C)   Expenses. Commencing with the year 1979, and following the general
election of November, 1978, the annual expanse budget of the County Attorney’s
office may be expended for such purposes as are authorized by law and as
approved in the said budget, subject, however, to the provision that amounts
budgeted for travel, telephone, conventions, seminars, and the like, shall be
expended in conjunction with the work of the duly licensed attorney in the
County Attorney’s office, whether he or she be the elected County Attorney or
an appointed deputy.
(Ord. 1978-2, passed 5-8-1978)
§ 31.005 CONSOLIDATION OF COUNTY COMMISSIONER AND COUNTY SURVEYOR.
   (A)   The office of County Commissioner of the present Commission whose term
expires at noon on the first Monday in January, 1973, and the office of County
Surveyor are hereby consolidated.
   (B)   This consolidation shall not increase the remuneration presently
received by the aforesaid Commissioner under his or her present salary as such
Commissioner.
(Ord. 1970-1, passed 4-13-1970)
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA ADVISORY BOARD
§ 31.020 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as Garfield County Protection Area Ordinance.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 31.021 DEFINITIONS.
   This subchapter shall be interpreted using the definitions provided in the
Agriculture, Industrial, or Critical Infrastructure Materials Protection Areas
Act (UCA § 17-41-101).
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 31.022 PROTECTION AREA ADVISORY BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   A Protection Area Advisory Board is hereby established for the county
pursuant to UCA § 17-41-201 to perform the duties set out in UCA § 17-41-201 or
any later amendment or enactment of that section.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 31.023 APPOINTMENT OF BOARD MEMBERS.
   The Board of County Commissioners shall appoint five members to the
Protection Area Advisory Board established under §
31.022. The Board members shall be appointed by resolution from among the
members of the Boards of Supervisors of the conservation districts located in
the county, namely, the Upper Sevier Conservation District and the Canyonlands
Conservation District.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 31.024 TERM IN OFFICE; REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Each member appointed to the Protection Area Advisory Board shall serve on
said Board until expiration of that member’s respective term on the
Conservation District Board of Supervisors. The Board of County Commissioners
may remove and replace any Advisory Board member for cause or for failure to
perform the required duties.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 31.025 OFFICERS OF PROTECTION AREA ADVISORY BOARD.
   The members of the Protection Area Advisory Board shall select a
Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, and Secretary. The Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson shall be selected from among the members of the Protection Area
Advisory Board. The Secretary may be either a member of the Advisory Board or a
county employee. The selection of a county employee to serve as Secretary must
be approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 31.026 QUORUM AND RULES OF OPERATION.
   Any three members of the Protection Area Advisory Board shall constitute a
quorum of that Board. All actions of the Board, except to adjourn a meeting at
which there is not a quorum present, must be made in a meeting at which a
quorum is present. Any actions of the Protection Area Advisory Board must be
approved by at least three members of that Board. All meetings shall be
conducted in accordance with the state’s Open and Public Meetings Act. The
Protection Area Advisory Board may adopt such additional rules of operation as
it deems necessary to govern its affairs.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 31.027 MINIMUM SIZE FOR PROTECTION AREAS.
   Pursuant to UCA § 17-41-301(4), or any later amendment or enactment of that
section, at least five continuous acres must be included in each protection
area established within the county.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 31.028 FEES FOR ACCEPTING AND PROCESSING PROPOSALS.
   Any person or persons filing a proposal to create a protection area pursuant
to UCA Title 17, Chapter 41 shall pay a fee at the time of filing. The amount
of the fee shall be established by resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 31.029 FILING PROCEDURE.
   All proposals to create protection areas within the county shall be filed in
the office of the County Clerk. All proposals must be accompanied by the filing
fee established by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 1997-2, passed 5-12-1997; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-23-2023)
LIBRARY BOARD OF DIRECTORS
§ 31.040 MEMBERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of UCA § 9-7-502, as amended, the County
Library Board of Directors shall consist of not less than five and not more
than nine Directors chosen from the citizens of the county and based upon their
fitness for the office.
   (B)   Only one Director of the Board may be a member of the County
Commission at any one time.
   (C)   All Directors shall be appointed by the county executive with the
advice and consent of the County Commission. Appointments to the Board shall be
made before the first day of July of each year in which an appointment is
necessary.
   (D)   Directors shall be appointed to serve for four-year terms, or until
their successors are appointed and shall not serve more than two consecutive
terms.
   (E)   The terms of Directors shall be staggered so that approximately one-
fourth of the Board is selected each year.
   (F)   Any appointed Board Director may resign from such position by
providing written notification to the Chair of such resignation. The Chair
shall thereupon notify the county executive of such resignation.
   (G)   Vacancies created by resignations, death, removal, or otherwise shall
be filled for the duration of the unexpired term in the same manner as the
original appointment.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-12-2004)
§ 31.041 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Officers of the Board shall be Chair, Vice Chair, and Secretary. They
shall be elected by the Board at its December meeting and their term of office
shall be for one year beginning January 1.
   (B)   The County Treasurer shall have legal custody of all library funds and
shall act as the Treasurer of such funds.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-12-2004)
§ 31.042 OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   (A)   The Chair of the Board shall preside at all Board meetings, authorize
calls for any special meetings, and generally perform the duties of a presiding
officer.
   (B)   The Vice-Chair shall preside in the Chair’s absence and perform such
other duties as requested by the Chair.
   (C)   The Chair of the Board shall sign or countersign all official Board
documents and where appropriate recommend approval by the county executive or
County Commission. The Chair shall arrange staff to act as Clerk of the Board
for the purpose of actual minute taking and maintaining official records of
Board actions.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-12-2004)
§ 31.043 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall have no less than four regular meetings during a
calendar year with the quorum present, whether corporal or by means of
electronic equipment, for the purpose of discussing or acting upon a matter or
matters. For this purpose, a quorum consists of that number of Board Directors
that represents 51% or more of the total number of Board Directors appointed at
the time.
   (B)   The Board shall have at least one annual meeting held in the last
quarter of each year.
   (C)   Special meetings may be called at any time by the Chair, providing
notice thereof is given to the public and all trustees at least 24 hours in
advance.
   (D)   If the Board Director who is a member of the County Commission is
unable to attend any Board meeting, then that Director may designate an
alternate to act in that Director’s place.
   (E)   If the member of the County Commission who is a Director of the Board
has designated an alternate to act in that Director’s stead, at any or all
Board meetings, then that alternate’s presence shall count as a Board Director
for purposes of meeting a quorum or voting.
   (F)   Meetings shall comply with all requirements of state law including,
but not limited to, the state’s Open and Public Meetings Act.
   (G)   Records of all Board meetings shall be kept, managed, classified, and
disclosed as required by county ordinance and state law, including, but not
limited to, the Government Records Access and Management Act.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-12-2004)
§ 31.044 COMMITTEES.
   Ad hoc committees for the study and/or investigation of issues or other
library matters may be appointed by the Chair to serve until the completion of
the work for which they were established.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-12-2004)
§ 31.045 DELEGATED POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Subject to compliance with federal laws, state laws, and county
ordinances and policies.
   (B)   The Board is hereby granted responsibility to:
      (1)   Cooperate with Panguitch City, Kane County, Piute County, and the
State Library Division, pursuant to the provisions of UCA § 9-7-509, as
amended, in providing county library services;
      (2)   Establish policies for the operation, maintenance, and care of the
library;
      (3)   Purchase, lease, exchange, or sell land; purchase, lease, exchange,
sell, or construct buildings for the benefit of the library; and purchase,
lease, exchange, or sell personal property for the benefit of the library;
      (4)   Establish policies for collections and information resources; and
      (5)   Establish rules to exclude from the use of the library any person
who willfully violates library rules or state laws or county ordinances.
   (C)   The Board shall:
      (1)   Recommend to the county executive and the Director of the State
Library Division a competent person to act as Library Director (“librarian”) to
have immediate charge of the county library system with those duties specified
in a job description approved by the Board and county executive;
      (2)   Establish and revise library policies in cooperation with the
Library Director, subject to consistency with state and federal law and county
ordinance and policies, and review by the County Attorney’s office;
      (3)   Work cooperatively with county executive, County Commission,
Library Director, library staff, other county staff, and others in the
community to provide excellent library service;
      (4)   Encourage citizen involvement in the development of long range
plans for the improvements of library services and facilities;
      (5)   Hear and resolve relevant library issues brought to the Board;
      (6)   Make an annual report to the county executive on the condition and
operation of the library, including a financial statement;
      (7)   Submit an annual report to the State Library Board;
      (8)   Recommend to the county executive the removal of any Director of
the Board for misconduct or neglect of duty; and
      (9)   Furnish to the county executive and County Commission, in writing,
and prior to the time required by law to levy county taxes, an estimate of the
amount of moneys necessary to establish, equip, and maintain the library, and
to provide library services during the next ensuing fiscal year.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-12-2004)
§ 31.046 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LIBRARY DIRECTOR.
   The Library Director shall:
   (A)   Serve as Executive Officer for the Board;
   (B)   Be responsible for the administration of the county library system
under the policies adopted by the Board and the county;
   (C)   Recommend such policies and procedures to the Board that will promote
the efficiency of the library and improve services to its patrons;
   (D)   Be accountable to the county executive in complying with library
policy, county-wide policy, county ordinances, and state and federal laws;
   (E)   Be responsible for the maintenance and operation of properties
belonging to the county for its library system;
   (F)   Submit regularly and timely reports to the Board on the progress,
activities, and finances of the library;
   (G)   Ensure the appropriate receipt of non-tax income collection and
expenditure of all county library funds; and
   (H)   Performs other duties as established in the Director’s official job
description.
(Ord. 2004-1, passed 1-12-2004)
BOUNDARY COMMISSION
§ 31.060 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   The County Boundary Commissions is hereby established and is charged with
carrying out duties and responsibilities as provided for in the UCA §§ 10-2-409
through 10-2-412.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 31.061 COMMISSION MEMBERS.
   The Boundary Commission shall be comprised of the following members:
   (A)   County representatives. Two members who are elected “county officers”
which includes any county officers who are elected to office by a vote of
county residents;
   (B)   Municipal representatives. One member who is an elected municipal
officer for the City of Panguitch, and one elected municipal officer for the
Town of Escalante; and
   (C)   Residents. Three members who are residents of the county, none of whom
is a county or municipal officer.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 31.062 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The Boundary Commission shall be appointed as described by the requirements
contained in UCA §§ 10-2-409 through 10-2-409.5 and described hereafter:
   (A)   County representatives. Two members who are elected “county officers”
shall be appointed by the county legislative body;
   (B)   Municipal representatives. The municipal officers shall be appointed
by the Municipal Selection Committee in accordance UCA §§ 10-2-409 through 10-
2-409.5; and
   (C)   Residents. Three residents of the county shall be appointed by the
four other members (county and municipal representatives) of the Boundary
Commission as provided for in UCA § 10-2-409.2(a)(iii).
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 31.063 COMMISSION TERMS.
   The terms of the offices shall be accordance with UCA § 10-2-410. The terms
of county and municipal representatives shall coincide with the term of their
elected office in the county or municipality.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 31.064 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies on the Commission shall be filled for the remaining unexpired term
of the vacating member and shall be appointed in accordance with this
subchapter and UCA §§ 10-2-409 through 10-2-409.5
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 31.065 CHAIRPERSON.
   The election of the Chair shall conform to UCA § 10-2-410.3(a)-(b) and
described hereafter. The members of the Boundary Commission shall elect a Chair
from its membership. To be eligible for consideration as the Chair the
Commissioner must have a term that does not expire for at least two years prior
to being elected Chair. The term of the Chair shall be for two years.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 31.066 STAFF.
   The Commission’s Office and Community Development Department will serve as
staff to assist with the organization of meetings and to maintain minutes.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 31.067 EXPENSES.
   Any expense related to the Boundary Commission shall be governed by UCA §
10-2-412.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 31.068 QUORUM AND ACTION.
   The majority of the Commission constitutes a quorum, and Commission action
requires the majority vote of the Commission.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 31.069 MEETINGS.
   Commission shall meet at least once annually, as required by state code, and
as determined by the Chairperson. Meetings shall be in compliance with the Open
Meeting Act, UCA Title 52, Chapter 4.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 31.070 DISQUALIFICATION OF COMMISSION MEMBER AND ALTERNATIVE MEMBERS.
   The disqualification of a Commission member and the use of an alternate
member of the Commission shall occur in accordance with UCA § 10-2-412.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-14-2015)
§ 31.071 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   Notwithstanding language contained in this subchapter, the controlling
language in cases of conflict with the state code shall be the language
contained in the state code.
(Ord. 2015-3, passed 9-14-2015)
COUNCIL ON AGING
§ 31.085 COUNCIL ESTABLISHED.
   Due to the great interest in the county in improving developing,
coordinating, and strengthening all programs concerned, with a rapidly
increasing aged and aging population and to more fully utilize the potential of
our older citizens; their skills, their wisdom, and their experience; the Board
of Commissioners hereby create a County Council on Aging, hereafter referred to
as the Council on Aging.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 5-13-1974)
§ 31.086 PURPOSE, DUTIES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The purpose of the Council on Aging includes:
   (A)   Serve as the successor to all functions of diverse groups left without
authorization, at the formation of the Council on Aging;
   (B)   To promote and develop programs to interest and provide for the
welfare of senior citizens;
   (C)   To cooperate with the state’s Division of Aging and also both public
and private companion agencies on the state and national levels to more
effectively meet the needs of and provide opportunities for older persons;
   (D)   To integrate the activities of such other groups with the kindred aims
of providing opportunities for senior adults of volunteer or paid service to
the community and to their fellow men and women, and for opportunities in
educational, recreational, and social pursuits;
   (E)   To be aware of and interested in the aspects and needs of the aging,
to promote appropriate public relations endeavors, and to coordinate activities
and fiscal management; and
   (F)   To seek out resources at the local, state, and national level to
provide services to the aging adult.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 5-13-1974)
§ 31.087 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Council on Aging shall consist of nine regular voting members
representing the different groups or agencies (public or private) associated
with services to older people such as Family Services (Welfare), Health,
Education, Community Action, Community Services Council, Churches, Extension
Service, and the like) with at least two members being lay citizens past age
59. Ex-officio members without vote shall be the area directors (supervisors)
of senior citizens’ programs.
   (B)   (1)   Voting members shall be appointed by the County Commission, by
resolution (or minute entry), who may follow the recommendations of the Council
on Aging. Appointments shall be made to be effective January 1 of each year.
Vacancy appointments will be for the balance of the terms for which the
appointment was made.
      (2)   Appointments are to be staggered as follows:
         (a)   Three members appointed for one year: ending January 1, 1975;
         (b)   Three members appointed for two years: ending January 1, 1976;
         (c)   Three members appointed for three years: ending January 1, 1977;
and
         (d)   Thereafter, all replacement terms for three years.
      (3)   Officers, to serve as the executive committee, to be selected from
among the Council on Aging and appointed by the County Commission consists of
the following: (term of office, one year and not to exceed three consecutive
terms.)
         (a)   Chairperson;
         (b)   Vice Chairperson #1; and
         (c)   Vice Chairperson #2.
      (4)   Members of the Council on Aging shall meet regularly once each
month or in special session as called by the Chairperson and are to be
uncompensated except that they may be reimbursed for actual expense incurred on
behalf of the Council on Aging. Secretarial services for the Council shall be
provided by the Secretary of the County Senior Citizen Programs.
      (5)   Any member of the Council on Aging may be removed by the Commission
for cause. Any member missing more than three meetings without cause shall be
considered removed.
      (6)   Program personnel shall serve by approval of the Council on Aging.
The Council shall provide job specifications (qualifications-description) for
all positions. However, no positions shall be created or appointment made
thereto for which monetary compensation for services is to be awarded, without
the consent and approval of the Board of County Commissioners first having been
obtained.
         (a)   The Council on Aging may hire “Area Directors” to administer and
coordinate approved programs in the county.
         (b)   The Council on Aging may hire a Secretary-Bookkeeper (or
secretarial and bookkeeping services will be provided by a county court house
employee on a regular basis) and other necessary personnel.
         (c)   The Area Director shall fill positions and develop and provide
opportunity for volunteer services by qualified senior citizens as much as
possible.
         (d)   The Area Directors shall work in close operation with the
Council on Aging.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 5-13-1974)
§ 31.088 BUDGET.
   (A)   A budget shall be established annually by the County Commissioners, on
recommendations from the County Council on Aging, it being the desire of all
concerned that this Council on Aging be independent and self-sufficient insofar
as possible and subject only to a minimum of control and supervision of the
County Commission.
   (B)   Moneys collected and expended shall be accounted for annually by the
Council on Aging and shall be audited by the County Auditor before approval of
the succeeding year’s budget.
(Ord. 1974-1, passed 5-13-1974)
COUNTY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BOARD
§ 31.100 NAME, PURPOSE AND SPECIFIC PURPOSE.
   (A)   Name. The name of this organization shall be the “Garfield County
Economic Development Board” (the “CED Board”).
   (B)   CED purpose. This Board is organized exclusively to further the
economic development, workforce opportunities and business services across the
county. The CED Board will liaise with the newly formed Rural County Grant
Program (“RCGP”), created by Utah SB 0095 (Economic Development Amendments,
2020), which mandates that for each rural county to apply, they must have a CED
Board in place.
   (C)   Specific purpose. The RGCP shall be overseen by the Rural Partnership
Board and administered by the Office of Rural Development. The CED Board shall
assist and advise the County Commission on:
      (1)   Applying for a grant under the RCGP;
      (2)   What projects should be funded by grant money provided to the
county under RCGP; and
      (3)   Preparing reporting requirements for monies received by the county
under RCGP.
(Ord. 2020-7, passed 5-11-2020; Ord. 2020-10, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 31.101 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Eligibility for membership.
      (1)   The County Commission shall appoint members of the CED Board in
line with UCA § 17-54-104 of Utah SB 0095, which states that each CED Board
shall be composed of at least the following members:
         (a)   A county representative;
         (b)   A representative from a municipality in the county;
         (c)   A workforce development representative;
         (d)   A private sector representative; and
         (e)   A member of the public who lives in the county.
      (2)   Note, additional members can be added at the county’s discretion,
but are not mandatory. Members are appointed by the County Commission, but
applications shall be open to any current resident, property owner, business
operator or employee of the county. In appointing members of the CED Board, the
county encourages and supports equal opportunities.
   (B)   Non-voting members. The county Economic Development Director shall
serve on the Board as a non-voting member, but shall assist the CED Board and
the Board of Garfield County Commissioners in their decision making. The Board
of Garfield County Commissioners may also designate a member of the Commission
to sit on the CED Board as a non-voting member. In addition, a Garfield County
staff member may be assigned to keep the minutes for the meetings and post them
in accordance with the Open and Public Meetings Act (UCA Title 52, Chapter 4).
   (C)   Candidate qualifications. With the exception of the workforce
development representative, CED Board candidates shall be a resident and
registered voter of the county with experience or knowledge in economic
development or tourism, knowledge of county and local issues, a good listener,
ability to communicate and be analytical.
   (D)   Rights of members. Each member shall be eligible to appoint one voting
representative to cast the member’s vote in association elections.
   (E)   Resignation and termination. Any member may resign by filing a written
resignation with the Board. A member can have their membership terminated by
the County Commission.
(Ord. 2020-7, passed 5-11-2020; Ord. 2020-10, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 31.102 MEETINGS OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the members shall be held
monthly, at a time and place designated by the Board chair. The purpose of the
regular meeting is to provide input and direction to county economic
development and the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Annual meetings. An annual meeting of the members shall take place in
the month of September, the specific date, time and location of which will be
designated by the chair. At the annual meeting, the members shall elect
officers, receive reports on the activities of the association and determine
economic priorities for consideration in the coming year.
   (C)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called by the chair or a
simple majority of the Board members.
   (D)   Notice of meetings. Electronic notice of each meeting shall be given
to each voting member not less than two days prior to the meeting. The Board
will also follow the Open and Public Meetings Act (UCA Title 52, Chapter 4),
which mandates that notice and agendas of public meetings be available to the
public.
   (E)   Quorum. A quorum for a meeting shall consist of at least 60% of the
active membership. The presence, in person or via teleconference, of a majority
of current members of the Board shall be necessary at any meeting to constitute
a quorum to transact business, but a lesser number shall have power to adjourn
to a specified later date without notice.
   (F)   Voting. All issues to be voted on shall be decided by a simple
majority of those present at the meeting in which the vote takes place.
(Ord. 2020-7, passed 5-11-2020; Ord. 2020-10, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 31.103 MEMBER RESPONSIBILITIES AND TERM.
   (A)   Member responsibilities. All applications for the RCGP shall be
received, reviewed and voted on the members of the CED Board. Applications that
are approved will be submitted to the Office of Rural Development in
collaboration with the Rural Partnership Board in accordance with SB 0095 and
Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative Rulemaking Act. The Board will ensure
that approved grants meet eligibility and reporting criteria for a rural county
to receive grant money under SB 0095 subsection (4)(b), including relevant
submission forms, reporting requirements, and deadlines. The Board will not
recommend more than $800,000 of aggregate grant awards annually and will work
with county leaders to prioritize applicants that:
      (1)   Align with existing priorities defined in the county’s economic
development plan;
      (2)   Are consistent with local economic development priorities as
defined in the county’s general plan and other relevant economic development
documents;
      (3)   Demonstrate clear economic need;
      (4)   Utilize local or in-kind resources in combination with the grant;
      (5)   Have evidence that jobs will be created; and
      (6)   Have evidence that there will be a positive return on investment.
   (B)   Reporting responsibilities. On or before September 1 of each year, if
the county has received a grant under the RCGP in the previous 12 months, the
Board shall provide a written report to the Rural Partnership Board that
describes:
      (1)   The amount of grant money the county has received;
      (2)   How grant money has been distributed by the county, including what
companies or entities have utilized grant money, how much grant money each
company or entity has received, and how each company or entity has used the
money;
      (3)   An evaluation of the effectiveness of awarded grants in improving
economic development in the county, including the number of jobs created,
infrastructure that has been created, and capital improvements in the county;
      (4)   How much matching money has been utilized by the county and what
entities have provided the matching money; and
      (5)   Any other reporting, auditing, or post-performance requirements
established by the Office of Rural Development in collaboration with the Rural
Partnership Board under Subsection (6) in SB 0095. Note, county staff may be
appointed to assist with the creation of reporting documents.
   (C)   Tenure, requirements, and qualifications. 
      (1)   Newly appointed representatives from the municipalities in the
county shall serve an initial one-year term. All other newly appointed CED
Board members who have not served before shall serve an initial two-year term.
At the conclusion of the initial terms, the County Commission may decide to
retain the members for additional terms or appoint new members.
      (2)   Each member of the Board of Directors shall attend at least 75% of
the meetings of the Board per year. Failure to attend at least 75% of the
meetings, either in person or via videoconferencing, may result in a forfeiture
of said member’s seat on the Board.
      (3)   To remain in good standing, CED Board members must attend regularly
scheduled meetings in compliance with the following guidelines:
         (a)   A CED Board member that is absent for more than 25% of the
regular scheduled meetings in a year, without being excused for official county
or excusable business, shall be automatically dismissed from the CED Board.
Meetings that are changed or rescheduled after the official dates have been
posted for the year do not apply towards attendance requirements.
         (b)   A CED member may attend a regularly scheduled meeting via
electronic means and by notifying the Board chair at least 12 hours prior to
the meeting in question, which would also allow the member the ability to
garner the necessary information for the CED member to use to call in. This
will be effective only if there is a quorum present at the anchor location.
         (c)   A CED member must be present at each meeting through at least
three-quarters of the scheduled agenda to constitute a presence.
         (d)   Appointments for municipalities can send approved city/town
representation in their place. Approved city/town representation include: City
Manager, City/Town Council, City/Town employee or the respective Mayor.
      (4)   A dismissed CED member remains eligible to apply for a CED vacancy.
      (5)   Members of the CED Board shall not, as individuals, direct the
appointment to or removal from the county Economic Development Office of any
employee, nor interfere with the duties or performance of any county employee
including the Director.
      (6)   Except when acting on county business in a regular CED meeting or
as a member of an authorized committee, CED members have no privileges beyond
those of other citizens to records, materials or produced items that belong to
the county economic development.
   (D)   Forfeiture. Any member of the CED Board who fails to fulfill any of
his or her requirements as set forth in this subchapter by shall automatically
forfeit his or her seat on the Board.
   (E)   Vacancies. Whenever any vacancy occurs in the CED Board, it shall be
filled without undue delay by the County Commission.
(Ord. 2020-7, passed 5-11-2020; Ord. 2020-10, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 31.104 OFFICERS.
   The officers of this Board shall be the chair and vice-chair. All officers
must have the status of active members of the Board.
   (A)   Chair. The chair shall preside at all meetings of the membership and
have the following duties:
      (1)   He or she shall preside at all meetings of the Board; and
      (2)   He or she shall ensure any ongoing reporting requirements are met
with the Office of Rural
Development and Rural Partnership Board in collaboration with County Officials.
   (B)   Vice-chair. The vice-chair shall be vested with all the powers and
shall perform all the duties of the chair during the absence of the latter.
   (C)   Election of officers. Officers will be sought on a volunteer basis and
may be appointed by majority vote of the Board.
   (D)   Removal of officer. The Advisory Board with the concurrence of 75% or
three-quarters of the members voting at the meeting may remove any officer of
the Board of Directors and elect a successor for the unexpired term. No officer
of the Board of Directors shall be expelled without an opportunity to be heard
and notice of such motion of expulsion shall be given to the member in writing
20 days prior to the meeting at which motion shall be presented, setting forth
the reasons of the Board for such expulsion.
   (E)   Vacancies. The Board shall also be responsible for nominating persons
to fill vacancies which occur between annual meetings, including those of
officers. The persons so elected shall hold membership or office for the
unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred.
(Ord. 2020-7, passed 5-11-2020; Ord. 2020-10, passed 6-22-2020)
§ 31.105 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the conflict of interest policy is to protect
this CED Board and its members from approving grants that might benefit the
private interest of a Board member. This policy is intended to supplement but
not replace any applicable state and federal laws governing conflict of
interest applicable to governmental organizations.
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPENSATION. Includes direct and indirect remuneration as well as gifts
or favors that are not insubstantial.
      FINANCIAL INTEREST.
         (a)   A person has a financial interest if the person has, directly or
indirectly, through business, investment or family:
            1.   An ownership or investment interest in any entity with which
the CED Board is considering an application, transaction or arrangement;
            2.   A compensation arrangement with the CED Board or with any
entity or individual with which the CED Board has a transaction or arrangement;
or
            3.   A potential ownership or investment interest in, or
compensation arrangement with, any entity or individual with which the CED
Board is negotiating a transaction or arrangement.
         (b)   A FINANCIAL INTEREST is not necessarily a conflict of interest.
Under the provisions of this section, a person who has a FINANCIAL INTEREST may
have a conflict of interest only if the appropriate governing board or
committee decides that a conflict of interest exists.
      INTERESTED PERSON. Any Board member who has a direct or indirect
financial interest, as defined above, is an interested person.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   Duty to disclose. In connection with any actual or possible
conflict of interest, an interested person must disclose the existence of the
financial interest and be given the opportunity to disclose all material facts
to the Board considering the proposed transaction or arrangement.
      (2)   Determining whether a conflict of interest exists. After disclosure
of the financial interest and all material facts, and after any discussion with
the interested person, he or she shall leave the governing board or committee
meeting while the determination of a conflict of interest is discussed and
voted upon. The remaining Board or committee members shall decide if a conflict
of interest exists.
      (3)   Procedures for addressing the conflict of interest.
         (a)   An interested person may make a presentation at the governing
board or committee meeting, but after the presentation, he or she shall leave
the meeting during the discussion of, and the vote on, the transaction or
arrangement involving the possible conflict of interest.
         (b)   After exercising due diligence, the governing board or committee
shall determine whether the organization can obtain with reasonable efforts a
more advantageous transaction or arrangement from a person or entity that would
not give rise to a conflict of interest.
         (c)   If a more advantageous transaction or arrangement is not
reasonably possible under circumstances not producing a conflict of interest,
the governing board or committee shall determine by a majority vote of the
disinterested directors whether the transaction or arrangement is in the CED
Board’s best interest, for its own benefit, and whether it is fair and
reasonable. In conformity with the above determination, it shall make its
decision as to whether to enter into the transaction or arrangement.
   (D)   Violations of the conflicts of interest policy.
      (1)   If the governing board or committee has reasonable cause to believe
a member has failed to disclose actual or possible conflicts of interest, it
shall inform the member of the basis for such belief and afford the member an
opportunity to explain the alleged failure to disclose.
      (2)   If, after hearing the member’s response and after making further
investigation as warranted by the circumstances, the governing board or
committee determines the member has failed to disclose an actual or possible
conflict of interest, it shall take appropriate disciplinary and corrective
action.
(Ord. 2020-7, passed 5-11-2020; Ord. 2020-10, passed 6-22-2020)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCES
Section
Funds
   
32.01   Public Land Corner Preservation Fund
FUNDS
§ 32.01 PUBLIC LAND CORNER PRESERVATION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Public Land Corner Preservation Fund
account. All moneys collected pursuant to the ordinance codified herein shall
be deposited with the County Treasurer and credited to the Public Land
Preservation Fund.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed a fee of $20 for filing survey maps in the
County Surveyor’s office as required per UCA § 17-23-17. All moneys collected
under this division (B) shall be deposited with the County Treasurer and
credited to the Public Land Preservation Fund.
(Ord. 2015-4, passed 10-26-2015)
CHAPTER 33: COUNTY ELECTIONS
Section
Campaign Financial Disclosure
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Filing of disclosure reports
   
33.04   Time of filing
   
33.05   Contents of financial reports
   
33.06   Public information
 
   
33.99   Penalty
CAMPAIGN FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
§ 33.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Campaign Financial Disclosure chapter is to establish
certain campaign financial disclosure requirements for candidates for county
office and for candidates for local school board office who reside in Garfield
County, Utah in accordance with UCA Title 17, Chapter 16, Part 6.5.
(Ord. 2022-5, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   This chapter shall be interpreted using the definitions codified in UCA
Title 17, Chapter 16, Part 6.5 and Garfield County Code except for, in addition
to, or as modified by the following:
   CANDIDATE. Any person who files a declaration of candidacy for an elective
office of the county, or receives contributions, or makes expenditures or
consents to another person receiving contributions or makes expenditures, with
a view to bringing about such person’s election to office, or causes on their
behalf, any written material or advertisement to be printed, published,
broadcasted, distributed or disseminated which indicates an intention to seek
such office.
   CONTRIBUTION. Monetary and nonmonetary contributions such as in-kind
contributions and contributions of tangible things but shall not include
personal services provided without compensation by individuals volunteering
their time on behalf of a candidate.
   EXPENDITURE. A purchase, payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit or
gift of money or anything of value made for the purpose of influencing the
nomination or election of a candidate.
(Ord. 2022-5, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 33.03 FILING OF DISCLOSURE REPORTS.
   Each candidate for elective offices shall file with the County Clerk, dated,
signed and sworn, financial reports which comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-5, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 33.04 TIME OF FILING.
   The reports required by this chapter shall be filed as follows:
   (A)   Candidates at a primary election shall file the required report 14
days before the primary election and candidates eliminated at a primary
election shall file the required report 30 days after the primary election.
   (B)   Candidates at a general election shall file the required report 14
days before the general election and 30 days after the general election.
(Ord. 2022-5, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 33.05 CONTENTS OF FINANCIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   Report requirements. The report filed 14 days before the general
election shall include:
      (1)   For each contribution:
         (a)   A list of each contribution of more than $50 received by the
candidate;
         (b)   The name of the donor of the contribution, if known;
         (c)   The amount of the contribution; and
         (d)   An aggregate total of all contributions of $50 or less received
by the candidate.
      (2)   For each expenditure:
         (a)   The name of the recipient; and
         (b)   The amount of the expenditure.
   (B)   Candidate reporting requirements.
      (1)   A candidate for county office or local school board office shall:
         (a)   Not deposit or mingle any contributions received in a personal
or business account;
         (b)   Deposit all contributions in a separate campaign account in a
financial institution; and
         (c)   Include, on a financial report filed in accordance with this
chapter, a contribution deposited in or an expenditure made from an account:
            1.   Since the last financial report was filed; or
            2.   That has not been reported under a statute or ordinance that
governs the account.
      (2)   A candidate for county office who receives a contribution that is
cash or a negotiable instrument, exceeding $50, and is from a donor whose name
is unknown, shall, within 30 days after receiving the contribution, disburse
the amount of the contribution to:
         (a)   The Treasurer of the State or the Treasurer of Garfield County
for deposit into the State's or Garfield County's General Fund; or
         (b)   An organization that is exempt from Federal income taxation
under Section 501(c)(3), Internal Revenue Code.
(Ord. 2022-5, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 33.06 PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   The statements required by this chapter shall be public documents and shall
be available for public inspection and copying during regular county business
hours.
(Ord. 2022-5, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any candidate who fails to comply with this chapter is guilty of an
infraction.
(Ord. 2022-5, passed 3-14-2022)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER
      
52.   UNDERGROUND WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   On-site container requirement
   
50.02   Illegal dumping
   
50.03   Stop work order
   
50.04   Exception
Landfill Regulations
   
50.15   Landfill rates
   
50.16   Exceptions
   
50.17   Fee changes
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 ON-SITE CONTAINER REQUIREMENT.
   Individuals and businesses subject to building permit requirements shall
have an on-site container for construction/demolition waste materials that
shall be capable of containing waste generated on site.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 5-29-2007)
§ 50.02 ILLEGAL DUMPING.
   (A)   It is a violation of this subchapter to place construction/demolition
waste generated at a site in the county subject to a building permit in a
county dumpster established for household and commercial waste.
   (B)   It is a violation of this subchapter to place construction/demolition
waste generated outside of the county in any county collection device.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 5-29-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 STOP WORK ORDER.
   The County Building Inspector is authorized to issue a stop work order for
projects that fail to comply with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 5-29-2007)
§ 50.04 EXCEPTION.
   Bagged and tied construction/demolition waste with a density less than 50
pounds per cubic foot that is generated in a residential establishment that is
not subject to a building permit can be placed in the county’s household/
commercial dumpsters. No construction/demolition waste longer than three feet
in any dimension can be placed in county dumpsters.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 5-29-2007) Penalty, see §
50.99
LANDFILL REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 LANDFILL RATES.
   Landfill rates will be assessed as follows.
   (A)   A fee of $60 annually for primary and secondary residents for
properties with residential structures;
   (B)   A fee consistent with 2016 property values for commercial land and
buildings (0.10%) will be assessed with a minimum of $60 annually; and
   (C)   Centrally assessed properties with a physical presence in the county
will be assessed a fee of $120 per office location.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 50.16 EXCEPTIONS.
   Entities not producing waste will not be charged a fee. Residents who
qualify for low income abatement (up to the midpoint) will not be assessed the
landfill fee.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 50.17 FEE CHANGES.
   (A)   Fees will remain constant annually unless new construction adds to the
value of the property.
   (B)   The Commission reserves the right to reduce, increase, or maintain the
fees based on the needs of the county.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 4-25-2016)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §§
50.01 to
50.03 is punishable as a Class C misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2007-4, passed 5-29-2007)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER
Section
   
51.01   Monthly charge
   
51.02   Hook-up fees
   
51.03   Monthly charge subject to change
   
51.04   Minimum charge
   
51.05   Failure to pay; penalty
   
51.06   Termination of services
§ 51.01 MONTHLY CHARGE.
   The monthly charge for water and sewer services furnished by the Garfield
County Ticaboo Special Service No. 1 shall be no less than $30 per month per
connection.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 51.02 HOOK-UP FEES.
   Prior to the rendering of any services by the Service District, hook-up fees
of $1,000 per residential lot ($500 for water and $500 for sewer), $250 per
mobile home or trailer lot ($125 for water and $125 for sewer), $5,000 per
multi-family lodging ($2,500 for water and $2,500 for sewer), or $1,000 per
other commercial lot ($500 for water and $500 for sewer) shall be paid to the
Service District.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 51.03 MONTHLY CHARGE SUBJECT TO CHANGE.
   The Board of Trustees of the Garfield County Ticaboo Special Service
District No. 1 may, by resolution or amendment to this chapter, provide for a
higher monthly charge as it may appear necessary to pay the bonded indebtedness
or other obligation of the Service District.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 51.04 MINIMUM CHARGE.
   Under no conditions may that monthly charge be less than what is required to
pay the principal and interest on the bonds funding the facilities, the
operation and maintenance of the facilities, and the establishment and
maintenance of appropriate reserve funds while those bonds are outstanding.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 51.05 FAILURE TO PAY; PENALTY.
   Should recipients of water and sewer facilities furnished by the Garfield
County Ticaboo Special Service District No. 1 fail to pay the fees and charges
herein imposed when due, a penalty of 50% of the amount due shall be assessed.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 12-10-1979)
§ 51.06 TERMINATION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   If non-payment for services is not remedied within 30 days of the
original due date, services shall be terminated. Notice to this effect shall be
given within 14 days after the due date, and thereafter, no further notice
shall be required prior to the termination of services.
   (B)   If non-payment for services is not remedied within 30 days of the
original due date, the business manager of the Service District shall certify
the delinquency to the County Treasurer and Assessor. Delinquent fees and
charges together with applicable interest shall, immediately upon
certification, become a lien on the delinquent premises on a parity with and
collected at the same time and in the same manner as general county taxes that
are a lien on the premises.
   (C)   Interest on delinquent fees and charges shall be at the rate of 8% per
annum, and shall commence for the date of certification, as provided in
division (B) above.
(Ord. 1979-1, passed 12-10-1979)
CHAPTER 52: UNDERGROUND WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Wastewater disposal system boundaries
   
52.03   Wastewater disposal system regulations
   
52.04   Proximity
   
52.05   Existing operations - nonconforming uses
   
52.06   Appeals
   
52.07   Permits and fees
   
52.08   Enforcement
   
Appendix A: Utah Administrative Code, Title R317 - Water Quality
   
Appendix B: Underground Wastewater Disposal System Boundaries
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   This chapter shall be interpreted using the definitions provided in the Utah
Administrative Code, Title R317 - Water Quality (See Appendix A), except for,
in addition to, or as modified by the following:
   ONSITE DRINKING WATER SYSTEM.  For the purposes of this chapter, ONSITE
DRINKING WATER SYSTEM shall mean any underground well located on the same lot
or parcel as the underground wastewater system or proposed development.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 10-10-2022; Ord. 2024-2, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 52.02 BOUNDARIES.
   This chapter, upon its adoption, shall establish wastewater disposal system
boundaries within the unincorporated areas of Garfield County, Utah designating
the geographic areas where certain requirements for wastewater disposal shall
be imposed. (See
Appendix B).
   (A)   John's and Emery Valley.
   (B)   Panguitch Lake.
   (C)   Sevier River and Mammoth Creek Subdivisions.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 10-10-2022; Ord. 2024-2, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 52.03 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   John’s and Emery Valley. Underground wastewater disposal systems
within the John's and Emery Valley boundary shall meet the minimum standards:
      (1)   Minimum lot size for new subdivision applications submitted after
adoption of this chapter by the Board of Garfield County Commissioners:
         (a)   Commercial developments: 10 acres.
         (b)   Residential developments: 6 acres.
         (c)   Developments with shared or offsite wastewater systems approved
by the local health department or the State of Utah Department of Environmental
Quality (DEQ) shall meet the minimum lot or parcel area requirements of the
Garfield County Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Maximum Total Inorganic Nitrogen (TIN) treatment level shall be 2.5
m/L certified by an engineer licensed in the State of Utah and a construction
permit shall be authorized by the local health department or State of Utah DEQ
for the proposed system before issuance of any associated building permits.
         (a)   Treatment levels may be achieved by the underground wastewater
disposal system effluent, lot or parcel size or any combination thereof.
      (3)   If the minimum standards outlined in this section for underground
wastewater disposal systems cannot be met, a different wastewater disposal
system shall be required, or the development shall be terminated.
   (B)   Panguitch Lake. Underground wastewater disposal systems within the
Panguitch Lake boundary shall meet the minimum standards:
      (1)   Minimum lot or parcel size:
         (a)   Public/shared drinking water system: 0.5 acres.
         (b)   Onsite drinking water system: 1.0 acres.
      (2)   Maximum Total Inorganic Nitrogen (TIN) treatment level shall be 30
m/L certified by an engineer licensed in the State of Utah and a construction
permit shall be authorized by the local health department or State of Utah DEQ
for the proposed system before issuance of any associated building permits.
      (3)   If the minimum standards outlined in this section for underground
wastewater disposal systems cannot be met, a different wastewater disposal
system shall be required, or the development shall be terminated.
   (C)   Sevier River and Mammoth Creek Subdivisions. Underground wastewater
disposal systems within the Sevier River boundary shall meet the minimum
standards:
      (1)   Due to the small lot sizes, evident wetlands and proximity to the
waters of the state, this section shall apply to the following subdivisions:
         (a)   Sevier River.
            1.   Hidden River Estates.
            2.   The Hercules Subdivision.
            3.   Sevier River Estates.
            4.   Upper Sevier Subdivision.
         (b)   Mammoth Creek.
            1.   Mammoth Creek Community.
            2.   Bonanza Estates.
      (2)   Minimum lot size:
         (a)   Public/shared drinking water system: 0.5 acres.
         (b)   Onsite drinking water system: 1.0 acres.
      (3)   Maximum Total Inorganic Nitrogen (TIN) treatment level shall be 30
m/L certified by an engineer licensed in the State of Utah and a construction
permit shall be authorized by the local health department or State of Utah DEQ
for the proposed system before issuance of any associated building permits.
      (4)   If the minimum standards outlined in this section for underground
wastewater disposal systems cannot be met, a different wastewater disposal
system shall be required, or the development shall be terminated.
   (D)   Other unincorporated areas of Garfield County. Underground wastewater
disposal systems located within all other unincorporated areas of Garfield
County shall meet the minimum standards of Garfield County, the local health
department and/or the State of Utah DEQ.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 10-10-2022; Ord. 2024-2, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 52.04 PROXIMITY.
   (A)   No underground wastewater disposal system shall be located, placed or
installed within 100 feet of any water of the state without written approval
from the local health department and/or the State of Utah.
   (B)   No underground wastewater disposal system shall be located, placed or
installed within 100 feet of any existing underground water well.
   (C)   All new commercial wells shall be drilled and grouted to a minimum
depth of 100 feet.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 10-10-2022; Ord. 2024-2, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 52.05 EXISTING OPERATIONS - NONCONFORMING USES.
   State law and the Garfield County Code shall govern the establishment,
restoration, reconstruction, extension, alteration, expansion, or substitution
of any approved nonconforming wastewater disposal system use and any approved
noncomplying structure related to such use.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 10-10-2022; Ord. 2024-2, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 52.06 APPEALS.
   Appeals from land use decisions made under this chapter shall be governed by
the Garfield County Code and state law.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 10-10-2022; Ord. 2024-2, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 52.07 PERMITS AND FEES.
   From the effective date of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator, Building
Official, or any other officer or department of the county may not grant any
license or permit for the use of any land or the construction or alteration of
any building or structure on a tract of land which would be in violation of the
provisions of this chapter until an associated wastewater system application
has been submitted, reviewed and approved as required by this chapter and state
law. Any license or permit issued in conflict with such provisions shall be
null and void.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 10-10-2022; Ord. 2024-2, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 52.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person who is found guilty of violating any part of this chapter, either
by failing to do those acts required herein or by doing a prohibited act, is
guilty of an infraction. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate violation. Nothing in this section is
intended nor shall be construed as limiting methods of enforcement available to
Garfield County under the Garfield County Code or state law.
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 10-10-2022; Ord. 2024-2, passed 3-11-2024)
Appendix A: The County follows Utah Administrative Code, Title R317 - Water
Quality
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 10-10-2022)
Appendix B: Underground Wastewater Disposal System Boundaries
   For specific parcel data please visit or contact the Garfield County
Planning Department.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef2a0ce09c7429740724a71826e6d11a3d2a537/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2024.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef2a0ce09c7429740724a71826e6d11a3d2a537/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2026.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef2a0ce09c7429740724a71826e6d11a3d2a537/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2028.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef2a0ce09c7429740724a71826e6d11a3d2a537/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2030.png]
 
(Ord. 2022-12, passed 10-10-2022; Ord. 2024-2, passed 3-11-2024)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   DRIVING REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: DRIVING REGULATIONS
Section
Off-Highway Vehicles
   
70.01   Designation of roads for off-highway vehicles
   
70.02   Compliance with all traffic laws
   
70.03   Operation of vehicles on highways
   
70.04   Registration
   
70.05   Vehicle equipment requirement
   
70.06   Prohibited uses
   
70.07   Exception
   
70.08   Map amendments
Collision with Animals
   
70.20   Purpose
   
70.21   Definitions
   
70.22   Conflict of law
   
70.23   Application
   
70.24   Compensation for owner
   
70.25   Judicial review
 
   
70.99   Penalty
OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
§ 70.01 DESIGNATION OF ROADS FOR OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The county does hereby designate only those roads shown on the map
attached to the ordinance codified herein as open for public travel for OHVs
(defined as all snowmobiles, motorcycles, all terrain Type I vehicles, and all
terrain Type II vehicles).
   (B)   The map, described as “Garfield County OHV Ordinance Route Map”, is
maintained by the County Commission and may be changed, modified, or amended
from time to time by the county.
   (C)   OHVs operated in compliance with this subchapter on county roads
designated as open are street legal public traffic.
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 4-9-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see UCA § 41-22-2
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH ALL TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Any person operating an off-highway vehicle is subject to all of the
provisions of UCA Title 41, Chapter 22, as amended, which include, but are not
limited to, the following.
   (A)   No person under eight years of age will be allowed to operate an OHV
on the county road system.
   (B)   OHV operators between the age of eight through 15 must possess an OHV
education certificate issued by the state’s Division of Parks and Recreation.
   (C)   All operators 16 years and older must possess a valid driver’s license
or OHV education certificate.
   (D)   All riders under 18 years of age must wear a properly fitting, safety
regulated helmet.
   (E)   No person under 12 years of age may operate an OHV on any county Class
B road that is part of the system unless in the company of someone at least 18
years of age with a valid driver’s license or having an OHV education
certificate in possession, and must be no further away from that person than
verbal communicating distance at any time.
   (F)   No person under 14 years of age may operate on any asphalt surfaced,
major collector county road that is part of the system unless in the company of
someone at least 18 years of age having a valid driver’s license or having an
OHV education certificate in possession, and must be no further away than
verbal communicating distance at any time.
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 OPERATION OF VEHICLES ON HIGHWAYS.
   No person may operate an off-highway vehicle upon any street or highway not
designated as open to off-highway vehicle use, except:
   (A)   When crossing a street or highway and the operator comes to a complete
stop before crossing, proceeds only after yielding the right-of-way to oncoming
traffic and crosses at a right angle;
   (B)   When loading or unloading any off-highway vehicle from a vehicle which
shall be done with due regard for safety and at the nearest practical point of
operation; and
   (C)   When an emergency exists during any period of time and at those
locations when operation of conventional motor vehicles is impractical or when
the operation is directed by a peace officer or other public authority.
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 REGISTRATION.
   All vehicles operated on the OHV road system must comply with one of the
following:
   (A)   Safety inspected and licensed by the state’s Division of Motor
Vehicles;
   (B)   Registered as an OHV by the state’s Division of Motor Vehicles; or
   (C)   Registered in another state that offers reciprocal operating
privileges to state residents.
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 VEHICLE EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENT.
   An off-highway vehicle shall be equipped with:
   (A)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
vehicle under normal operating conditions;
   (B)   Headlights and taillights when operated between sunset and sunrise;
and
   (C)   A noise control device.
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   No person shall operate an OHV over 25 mph on the county road system.
   (B)   All traffic and other safety laws and rules apply to operation of off-
highway vehicles, including the prohibited use of said vehicles while under the
influence of alcohol or drugs (UCA § 41-6-44), and violations of such laws and
regulations shall be subject to penalties under state law.
   (C)   No person may operate an off-highway vehicle in connection with acts
of vandalism, harassment of wildlife or domestic animals, burglaries, other
crimes, damage to the environment which includes excessive pollution of air,
water, or land, abuse of the water shed, impairment of plant or animal life, or
excessive noise.
   (D)   No person shall operate or accompany a person operating an OHV upon
privately owned land of any other person, firm, or corporation without
permission from the owner, or person in charge.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to remain on private land upon request
of the owner or person in charge to leave the properties.
      (2)   This section does not apply to prescriptive easements.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to tear down, mutilate, or destroy any
sign, sign boards, or other notice, including those which regulate trespassing
for purposes of operating an OHV; or to tear down, deface, or destroy any fence
or other enclosure or any gate or bars belonging to such fence or enclosure.
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 4-9-2007) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 EXCEPTION.
   This designation is not intended to include roads on private property,
unless those roads are part of the county road system.
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 4-9-2007)
§ 70.08 MAP AMENDMENTS.
   Affected land management entities shall be notified in writing 30 days prior
to any effective date for changes made to the county OHV ordinance route map.
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 4-9-2007)
COLLISION WITH ANIMALS
§ 70.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish compensation for damages to
livestock caused by collision with motor vehicle(s).
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 70.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLOSED RANGE. Area(s) with livestock where the road right-of-way is fenced.
   COLLISION. The accident(s) between the motor vehicle(s) and the livestock,
sometimes referred to herein as a MOTOR VEHICLE/LIVESTOCK COLLISION.
   DAMAGE. Injury to or loss of livestock.
   DRIVER. The person(s) who legally own or operate the motor vehicle(s)
involved in a motor vehicle/livestock collision, whether or not such legal
owner(s) or operator are covered by auto insurance for such collision.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes cattle, horses, mules, donkeys, sheep, goats, or pigs.
   OPEN RANGE. Area(s) with livestock where the road right-of-way is not
fenced.
   OWNER. The legal owner(s) of the livestock whether or not such legal owner
(s) are covered by auto insurance liability coverage for a motor vehicle/
livestock collision.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 70.22 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   This subchapter shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of
covenants, agreements, other ordinances, or laws, but shall prevail
notwithstanding such provisions which are less restrictive.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 70.23 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Subject to the limitations of division (B) below, this subchapter
shall apply to vehicle/livestock collisions in open range areas in the county.
For the purposes of this subchapter, OPEN RANGE AREAS shall be classified as:
public and/or private lands within the unincorporated areas of the county
without fencing, where livestock may roam freely and drift onto any road moving
to or from their accustomed ranges.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to any motor vehicle/livestock
collision that occurs in:
      (1)   Incorporated areas in the county;
      (2)   Unincorporated areas in the county that do not fit the definition
of open range areas under division (A) above; or
      (3)   Unincorporated areas of the county that do fit the definition of
open range areas under division (A) above, but where a motor vehicle/livestock
collision involved livestock that escaped an enclosure.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 70.24 COMPENSATION FOR OWNER.
   (A)   In the case of any motor vehicle/livestock collision in an open range
area of the county, not otherwise limited by division §
70.23(A), where the motor vehicle causes damage to livestock, the motor vehicle
driver(s) shall fully compensate the owner for the fair market value of the
damages. To obtain this compensation, the owner shall:
      (1)   File an accident report with the County Sheriff’s office no later
than 14 days after the livestock damage(s) are discovered;
      (2)   In cases where the driver’s identity and contact information are
known, hand deliver or mail to the driver (mailing to be postmarked by the
fourteenth day) a copy of the accident report and a request for compensation no
later than 14 days after the livestock damage(s) are discovered, or no later
than 14 days after date the owner learns the identity and contact information
of the driver, whichever triggering date is later; and
      (3)   In cases where the driver has auto liability insurance coverage,
and the identity of the driver and the driver’s contact information are known
to the owner, and the identity and contact information of the driver’s auto
liability insurance policy are known to the owner, the owner shall ensure that
a claim is filed with the driver’s insurance company no later than 14 days
after the livestock damage(s) are discovered, or no later than 14 days after
date the owner learns the identity and contact information of the driver and
the name and contact information of the driver’s auto insurance policy,
whichever triggering date is later.
   (B)   In cases where the elements and conditions of division (A) above are
satisfied, the driver of the motor vehicle shall, within 30 days after notice
is given under division (A)(1) above, pay the livestock owner fair market value
for damages caused by the collision.
   (C)   In the event that the collision took place in accordance with the
provisions listed in §
70.23(B), the motor vehicle driver shall not be required to compensate the
livestock owner for damages.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 70.25 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed or interpreted to preclude or
limit the right of the owner or the driver to petition a court of law for
judicial orders, reviews, declarations, or other judicial relief regarding any
motor vehicle/livestock collision in the county.
(Ord. 2020-1, passed 1-27-2020)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of helmet, age, or education requirements of §§
70.01 to
70.08 are punishable as infractions.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified in law, any other violation of the terms
of §§
70.01 to
70.08 shall be punishable as a Class C misdemeanor
(Ord. 2007-3, passed 4-9-2007)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I: SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle on any county road or highway at a
speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and having
regard to the actual and potential hazards then existing. In every event, speed
shall be so controlled as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person,
vehicle, or other conveyance on or entering the highway in compliance with the
legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle upon a highway, street, or road, upon
meeting or overtaking any school bus which has stopped on a highway, street, or
road for the purpose of receiving or discharging any school children, and when
such school bus is displaying alternating flashing red light signals visible
from the front or rear, shall bring such vehicle to a stop immediately before
reaching said school bus and shall not proceed until said flashing signals
cease operation. The driver of a vehicle upon a highway with roadways separated
by a dividing section need not stop upon meeting or passing a school bus which
is upon the other roadway.
   (C)   (1)   Where no special hazards exist, the following speed shall be
lawful, but any speed in excess of said limits shall be prima facie evidence
that the speed is not reasonable or prudent and that it is unlawful:
         (a)   Twenty mph when passing a school building or the grounds thereof
during school recess or while children are going or leaving school during
opening and closing hours;
         (b)   Twenty-five mph in any business or residential district;
         (c)   In excess of any speed limit declared applicable upon specified
streets or areas by express ordinance of this county when signs are in place
giving notice thereof;
         (d)   Fifty-five mph in other locations during the daytime; and
         (e)   Fifty mph in such other locations during the nighttime. DAYTIME
means from one-half hour before sunrise to one-half hour after sunset.
NIGHTTIME means at any other hour.
      (2)   Special hazards exist on the county road which encircles Panguitch
Lake, and that, therefore, the road is declared to run through a business or
residential district, except as otherwise posted, and the following specific
speed restrictions shall apply:
         (a)   Twenty mph shall be the speed limit where the road passes the
Rustic Lodge, which speed limit shall be clearly marked and posted; and
         (b)   Fifteen mph shall be the speed limit where the road passes the
Beaver Dam Lodge, which speed limit shall be clearly marked and posted.
      (3)   The speed limit on the county road leading from Panguitch Lake up
Parowan Canyon shall be 25 mph, except where the road passes the Deer Trail
Café, where the speed limit shall be 20 mph, which latter speed limit shall be
clearly marked and posted.
      (4)   The driver of every vehicle shall, consistent with the requirements
of division (A) above, drive at any appropriately reduced speed when
approaching and crossing an intersection or railway grade crossing, when going
around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon any narrow
or winding roadway, and when hazards exist with respect to pedestrians or other
traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions.
      (5)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such slow speed as to
impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when
reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law.
      (6)   No person shall engage in any vehicle speed contest or exhibition,
or in any vehicle acceleration contest or exhibition on any street or alley,
and no person shall aid or abet any such vehicle speed contest or exhibition or
acceleration contest or exhibition on any street or alley.
      (7)   No person shall, for the purpose of facilitating, aiding, or
inducing any vehicle speed contest or exhibition, or vehicle acceleration
contest or exhibition, in any manner obstruct or place any barricade or
obstruction or assist or participate in placing any such barricade or
obstruction upon any street or alley.
      (8)   The speed limit on the county road leading from the Panguitch Lake
- Cedar Breaks Highway down the Mammoth Creek Drainage, known as U.S. Forest
Service Road #20068, shall be 30 mph, except where the road passes through the
Mammoth Creek Subdivision, or any other subdivision or residential area, where
the speed limit shall be 25 mph, which latter speed limit shall be clearly
marked and posted.
(Ord. 1976-2, passed 7-12-1976; Ord. 1977-3, passed 10-17-1977) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
92.   CEMETERY
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Aggressive Canines/Wolves
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Posting notice required
   
90.03   Maintaining control over animal
   
90.04   Animals that are not under private ownership
Dogs
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Running at large prohibited
   
90.17   Female in heat
   
90.18   Strays
   
90.19   Nuisances
   
90.20   Vicious animals - special provisions
   
90.21   Dog pound
   
90.22   Impounding
   
90.23   Redemption of impounded dogs
   
90.24   Interference with impounding prohibited
   
90.25   Appeals
Livestock
   
90.40   No trespass without a fence
   
90.41   Definition
   
90.42   Sharing costs
   
90.43   Change in use of property
Wild Animals
   
90.55   Predator control
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Concentrated animal feeding operations, see
Chapter 156
AGGRESSIVE CANINES/WOLVES
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGGRESSIVE BEHAVIOR. Includes, but is not limited to, killing, fighting,
biting, attacking, chasing, destruction of property or animals, or any other
activity which would cause a reasonable and/or prudent individual to experience
fear.
   AGGRESSIVE CANINE. Any canine that has at least one-two hundred fifty sixths
but not more than one-sixteenth wolf blood by pedigree.
   POSTED. In Residential, Commercial, Forest Recreation, Agricultural, and
Industrial Zones, POSTED shall mean installation of signs legible from 100 feet
stating “Beware of Dog” or other similarly worded message. Signs shall be
posted on physical barriers to the animal and to which the public has access.
In Wildlife and Multiple Use Zones, POSTED shall mean installation of signs
legible from 300 feet stating “Beware of Dog” or other similarly worded
message. Signs shall be placed along the boundary of the aggressive canine/wolf
designated habitat at intervals not exceeding 300 feet and to which the public
has access.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. The owner of the animal, the owner of private property
who knowingly allows the aggressive canine/wolf be located on said property,
the public land manager/official who authorizes the release or presence of any
aggressive canine/wolf, and any governmental staff, employee, volunteer, and/or
agent that participates in the release of said animal on public lands.
   UNDER THE CONTROL OF. 
      (1)   Includes inside a structure, building, fence, cage, or secured to a
fixed anchor which prevents the animal from access to property utilized by the
public. The animal must be subject to physical constraints prohibiting its
presence in areas available to the public.
      (2)   UNDER THE CONTROL OF in areas available to the public means:
         (a)   Within a cage or vehicle which prevents the animal from contact
with the public; or
         (b)   Muzzled, on a leash secured by a responsible party and under the
physical control of the responsible party.
      (3)   UNDER THE CONTROL OF means the animal is in a location which
prevents the aggressive canine/wolf from contact with individuals and/or
private property. Sighting of an uncontrolled aggressive canine/wolf and/or
damage to property by an aggressive canine/wolf constitutes failure to be UNDER
THE CONTROL OF the responsible party. Presence of the animal outside the
designated restrictions also constitutes failure to be UNDER THE CONTROL OF the
responsible party.
   WOLF. Any animal having more than one-sixteenth wolf blood by pedigree.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-12-2015)
§ 90.02 POSTING NOTICE REQUIRED.
   The responsible party/parties shall have properties used by any aggressive
canine/wolf posted as defined above.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 MAINTAINING CONTROL OVER ANIMAL.
   The responsible party/parties shall be liable for all activities associated
with the behavior of the aggressive canine/wolf. The aggressive canine/wolf
shall be under the control of the responsible party at all times. Failure to
keep the aggressive canine/wolf under control of the responsible party shall be
punishable as described below. The aggressive canine/wolf shall not enter the
county until posting and any required jurisdictional agreement has been
completed.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-12-2015) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 ANIMALS THAT ARE NOT UNDER PRIVATE OWNERSHIP.
   An aggressive canine/wolf that is not under private ownership shall only be
present on public lands for which a land manager has sole and exclusive
jurisdiction and responsibility as defined by established law. For public lands
that have concurrent, partial, or proprietary jurisdiction, written permission
from all levels of government shall be obtained prior to the presence of any
aggressive canine/wolf that is not under private ownership.
(Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-12-2015)
DOGS
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his or her immediate family either by leash, cord, chain,
or otherwise.
   DOG. Any male, female, or spayed female dog of any age.
   IMPOUNDED. Having been received into the custody of the pound or into the
custody of any authorized agent or representative of the county.
   OWNER. When applied to the proprietorship of a dog, means any person or
persons, firm, association, or corporation owning, keeping, or harboring a dog.
   POUND. An animal shelter, lot, premises, or buildings maintained by or
authorized or employed by the county for the confinement or care of dogs seized
either under the provision of this subchapter or otherwise.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that has bitten a person without provocation or a dog
that has a known propensity to attack or bite human beings.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 6-12-1995; Ord. 2022-10, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 90.16 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of any dog to permit such
dog to run at large.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an owner of a dog to permit such dog to go
upon or be upon the private property of any person without the permission of
the owner or person entitled to the possession of such private property.
   (C)   The owner of any dog running at large shall be deemed in violation of
this section regardless of the precautions taken to prevent the escape of the
dog and to prohibit it from running at large.
   (D)   Any dog running at large in violation of the provisions of this
section is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a menace to the public health
and safety. The dog may be impounded and/or the owner may be penalized as
provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 6-12-1995; Ord. 2022-10, passed 7-26-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 FEMALE IN HEAT.
   The owner of a female dog in heat shall cause such dog to be penned or
enclosed in such a manner as to preclude other dogs from attacking such female
dog or being attracted to such female dog so as to create a public nuisance.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 6-12-1995; Ord. 2022-10, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 90.18 STRAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor or keep within the county any
lost or strayed dog. Whenever any dog shall be found which appears to be lost
or strayed, it shall be the duty of the finder to notify the County Sheriff who
shall impound for running at large contrary to the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 6-12-1995; Ord. 2022-10, passed 7-26-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19 NUISANCES.
   No person, persons, firm, or corporation shall own, keep, or harbor any dog
which by loud, continued, or frequent barking, howling, yelping, or by noxious
or offensive odors shall annoy, disturb, or endanger the health and welfare of
any person or neighborhood.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 6-12-1995; Ord. 2022-10, passed 7-26-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 VICIOUS ANIMALS - SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own and possess a vicious dog
within the county. Whenever a prosecution for this offense is commenced under
this section, the dog so involved may not be redeemed, pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter, while awaiting final decision of the court as to
the disposition to be made of such dog.
   (B)   Upon the trial of any offense under this subchapter, the court may,
upon conviction and in addition to the usual judgment of conviction, order the
poundmaster or other authorized personnel of the county to put the dog to death
or may order such other disposition of the dog as will protect the inhabitants
of the county.
   (C)   In the interest of public health, safety, and welfare, any Sheriff’s
officer or designated animal control officer may enter the premises of any
person or entity in order to take possession and control of any dog which such
officer reasonably believes to be injured, diseased, fierce, dangerous, or
vicious, for the purpose of impoundment, and other appropriate treatment
authorized by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 6-12-1995; Ord. 2022-10, passed 7-26-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21 DOG POUND.
   The County Commission may contract any individual, municipality, adjoining
county or with a private enterprise for the purpose of providing suitable
premises and facilities to be used by the county as the dog pound. It shall be
maintained in some convenient location and shall be sanitary and so operated as
to properly feed, water, and protect the dogs from injury.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 6-12-1995; Ord. 2022-10, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 90.22 IMPOUNDING.
   It shall be the duty of a Sheriff’s officer or other designated animal
control officer to apprehend any dog found running at large, or which is
otherwise in violation of this subchapter, and to impound such dog in the pound
or some other suitable place.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 6-12-1995; Ord. 2022-10, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 90.23 REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   (A)   Any dog, other than a vicious dog, as defined herein, may be redeemed
and taken from such pound by the owner or by any other authorized person upon
paying any associated fines. Impounded dogs shall be redeemed no later than two
weeks. Any impounded dog not redeemed within two weeks after impounding shall
be placed for adoption.
   (B)   An impounding fee plus the fee for care of the dog shall apply to the
first and second times that any particular dog is impounded. On the third time
such dog is impounded, it shall be placed for adoption and the owner may be
found guilty of an infraction.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 6-12-1995; Ord. 2022-10, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 90.24 INTERFERENCE WITH IMPOUNDING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, delay, interfere with, or
obstruct the Sheriff, or any of the deputies while engaging in capturing,
securing, or taking to the dog pound any dog or dogs liable to be impounded, or
to break open or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise
the breaking open of any dog pound or other vehicle used for the collecting or
conveying of dogs to the dog pound.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 6-12-1995; Ord. 2022-10, passed 7-26-2022) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 APPEALS.
   Appeals from land use decisions made under this subchapter shall be governed
by the Garfield County Code and state law.
(Ord. 2022-10, passed 7-26-2022)
LIVESTOCK
§ 90.40 NO TRESPASS WITHOUT A FENCE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person, firm, or corporation shall be
entitled to collect damages, and no court in this state shall award damages for
any trespass of livestock on farms, subdivisions, or other private property, or
land belonging to the United States of America or the state, and used for
grazing purposes in the county, if such land at the time of such trespass shall
not have been enclosed by a legal fence properly maintained, unless said
damaged owner had offered to share the cost of a fence with the owner of whose
livestock has trespassed, and the latter has refused to participate in the cost
of said fence.
(Ord. 1997-3, passed 6-9-1997)
§ 90.41 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LEGAL FENCE. For the purpose of §
90.40, a fence with not less than four horizontal barriers consisting of wires,
boards, poles, or other fence material in common use in the neighborhood with
posts set no more than 16 feet apart. The lower barrier shall not be more than
18 inches above the ground and the space between any two barriers shall not be
more than 12 inches, and the height of the top barrier must be at least 48
inches above the ground, unless otherwise approved by the county.
(Ord. 1997-3, passed 6-9-1997)
§ 90.42 SHARING COSTS.
   The cost of construction of a legal fence as between the adjoining land
owners or users shall be divided equally. The cost of maintenance thereafter
shall also be shared equally, unless said fence is damaged or destroyed by the
neglect or intentional act of one land owner or use, in which case, the person
damaging or destroying said fence shall be solely responsible for repairs.
(Ord. 1997-3, passed 6-9-1997)
§ 90.43 CHANGE IN USE OF PROPERTY.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions or section of this subchapter, when one
adjoining land owner changes the use of his or her real property from
agricultural use to any other use, said land owner shall bear the sole cost and
responsibility for erection of a new fence or repair of an existing fence
sufficient to ensure that livestock on adjoining lands are prevented from
entering his or her real property.
(Ord. 1997-3, passed 6-9-1997)
WILD ANIMALS
§ 90.55 PREDATOR CONTROL.
   (A)   The county maintains all rights and authority to protect its interest
on public land, and grazing on public land by livestock and wildlife, by
controlling predators as it deems necessary.
   (B)   The following tools, methods, and techniques shall be maintained for
use on all land within the boundaries of the county for the control of
predators:
      (1)   Trapping;
      (2)   Shooting;
      (3)   M-44s;
      (4)   Aerial hunting;
      (5)   Denning;
      (6)   Calling and shooting;
      (7)   Guard dogs;
      (8)   Guard llamas;
      (9)   Snaring;
      (10)   Frightened agents;
      (11)   Herd dogs; and
      (12)   Any other new development deemed prudent by the County Commission.
   (C)   The County Commission strictly denies the right of any entity to
transplant predators; such as, wolves, into the county without its majority
consent.
(Ord. 1992-1, passed - -)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the requirements listed in §§
90.01 through
90.04 is a criminal offense as follows:
      (1)   Each sign failed to be posted is a Class C misdemeanor subject to a
maximum penalty of 90 days in jail and $750 fine;
      (2)   Failure to have the animal under the control of the responsible
party is a Class B misdemeanor subject to a maximum penalty of six months in
jail and $1,000 fine; and
      (3)   Bringing an aggressive canine/wolf onto public areas in violation
of §§
90.01 through
90.04 is a Class B misdemeanor subject to a maximum penalty of six months in
jail and $1,000 fine.
   (C)   Any person who violates §§
90.16 through
90.29 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
punished by a term of imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed six months
and/or a fine which shall not exceed $1,000, or both such fine and
imprisonment.
(Ord. 1995-4, passed 6-12-1995; Ord. 2015-1, passed 1-12-2015)
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Glamping
   
91.01   Short title and purpose
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Location and use
   
91.04   Area and modifying regulations
   
91.05   Glamping application
Remote Yurts
   
91.20   Short title
   
91.21   Purpose
   
91.22   Definition
   
91.23   Compliance with regulations
Recreational Use of Federal Land
   
91.35   Short title
   
91.36   Purpose
   
91.37   Definitions
   
91.38   Camping and parking
   
91.39   Sanitation
   
91.40   Roadways and vehicles
   
91.41   Animals
   
91.42   General use
   
91.43   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
   
Appendix B: Glamping Unit Inspection Checklist
Cross-reference:
   Campgrounds, see
Chapter 114
GLAMPING
§ 91.01 SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as the “Glamping Ordinance.”
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish regulations for the use
of commercial glamping developments regarding permitting, licensing, building
safety and fire hazard mitigation.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GLAMPING. A shorthand term for glamourous camping. For the purposes of this
subchapter GLAMPING shall be used to describe canvas or membrane-covered frame
structures located in areas that offer outdoor camping experiences with
amenities such as beds, electricity, heat and indoor plumbing usually not used
when camping traditionally.
   GLAMPING UNIT. A canvas or membrane-covered frame structure designed to be
used or occupied for commercial, transient or recreational purposes. GLAMPING
UNIT structures include, but are not limited to: tents, yurts, teepees, covered
wagons, and the like.
   GLAMPGROUND. An area consisting of more than one glamping unit.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular portable unit including but not limited to
travel trailers, tent camper trailers, truck campers, motor homes or other
vehicles with or without motive power designed and/or constructed to travel on
public thoroughfares in accordance with provisions of the Utah Vehicle Code and
designed for human habitation.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. An area of land where spaces are rented
commercially to one or more owners or users of recreational vehicles or travel
trailers. May also be referred to as Recreational Coach Park.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 91.03 LOCATION AND USE.
   (A)   Glamping units.
      (1)   No glamping unit as herein defined shall be located, used, or
occupied for permanent residential living purposes under any circumstance.
      (2)   Glamping shall be a permitted use in Commercial zoning districts
and a conditional use in Multiple Use and Resort Recreation zoning districts.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles. For the purposes of this subchapter,
recreational vehicles used or occupied for commercial purposes shall not be
classified as glamping or a glamping unit. No occupied recreational vehicle
shall be allowed for commercial purposes except in designated campgrounds or
recreational vehicle parks.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 4-26-2021; Ord. 2022-8, passed 6-27-2022; Ord. 2023-9,
passed 10-9-2023)
§ 91.04 AREA AND MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the requirements of this subchapter, all glamping units and
sanitary facilities shall be subject to the requirements of the applicable
local or State Health Department. In addition, all glamping units and sanitary
facilities shall meet the requirements of the Garfield County Climatic and
Geographic Design Criteria (see
Appendix A).
   (A)   Glampgrounds. Glampgrounds shall contain no more than ten units per
acre and no more than 100 units total. The remaining land not consumed by
glamping units, roads or parking shall be set aside for undeveloped open space,
parks, playgrounds or service areas for the common use and enjoyment of
occupants of the development.
   (B)   Glamping units.
      (1)   Setbacks. Glamping units shall meet the setbacks outlined in the
table below.
 
Glamping Unit Setbacks
Front yard Side Yard Rear Yard Glamping Units
30 feet    10 feet   10 feet   10 feet
 
      (2)   Square footage.
         (a)   Minimum: 70 sq. ft. habitable space per International Building
Code (IBC).
         (b)   Maximum: 1,000 sq. ft. habitable space per IBC.
      (3)   Foundations and platforms. Foundations and platforms shall be
engineered and comply with local building code.
      (4)   Potable water. Potable water systems are required and shall comply
with state and local requirements.
      (5)   Wastewater. Wastewater systems shall comply with Garfield County,
the local Health Department and/or Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ).
      (6)   Solid waste. Glampgrounds shall have not less than one 8-cubic yard
covered dumpster for every 20 glamping units or portion thereof. All solid
waste shall be disposed at an authorized disposal facility.
      (7)   Parking. Each glamping unit shall have at least one 10 feet by 20
feet parking space. All parking shall be off-street. Glampgrounds with group
sites shall have adequate overflow parking as deemed necessary by the Planning
Commission.
      (8)   ADA compliance. Glampgrounds shall have not less than one glamping
unit and sanitary facility readily accessible to and usable by individuals with
disabilities, for every 25 glamping units or portion thereof. The glamping
units and sanitary facilities for said individuals with disabilities shall
comply with the most recent version of the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA) Standards for Accessible Design.
   (C)   Sanitary facilities.
      (1)   Setbacks. Sanitary facilities shall meet the setbacks outlined in
the table below.
 
Sanitary Facility Setbacks
Front yard Side Yard Rear Yard Glamping Units
30 feet    10 feet   10 feet   10 feet
Sanitary Facilities shall be not located more than 200 feet from any one
glamping unit.
   
      (2)   Health Department. All sanitary facilities shall comply with the
requirements of the applicable state or local Health Department.
   (D)   Emergency services.
      (1)   Interior access. Interior access roads shall have a roadway width
of not less than 20 feet and shall be looped or contain a turn-a-round of not
less than 45-foot radius. Surfacing shall be all-weather. Road design features
shall comply with American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials for Resource Roads.
      (2)   Exterior access. All glampgrounds shall be accessed by a state
highway, public road, Class B or Class C local road.
   (E)   Fire protection.
      (1)   At a minimum, glamping units shall conform to the standards listed
in the Glamping Unit Inspection Checklist (See
Appendix B).
      (2)   Water storage and fire hydrants shall comply with state and local
requirements.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 91.05 GLAMPING APPLICATION.
   (A)   An overall plan for development of a glampground or glamping unit
shall be submitted to the Garfield County Building Official and Planning
Department for review. The plan shall be drawn to a scale no smaller than one
inch to 40 feet. At least one electronic copy or hard copy of the plan shall be
submitted.
   (B)   The plan shall show:
      (1)   The topography of the site when required, represented by contours
shown at not greater than two-foot intervals;
      (2)   The proposed layout of all streets, parking spaces, glamping units,
sanitary facilities and other applicable structures;
      (3)   Proposed reservations for parks, playgrounds and open spaces;
      (4)   Detailed landscaping and utility plan, including location of water,
septic, electrical and gas lines, and fire hydrants if applicable; and
      (5)   Any other data the Building Official or Planning Department may
require.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 4-26-2021)
REMOTE YURTS
§ 91.20 SHORT TITLE.
This subchapter shall be known as the “Remote Yurt Compliance Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 5-26-2020)
§ 91.21 PURPOSE.
   These regulations require remote yurts to comply with the following:
   (A)   The State Construction Code;
   (B)   The State Fire Code;
   (C)   The Water Quality Act; and
   (D)   Local regulations.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 5-26-2020)
§ 91.22 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REMOTE YURT. A membrane-covered frame structure that:
      (1)   Is no larger than 710 square feet;
      (2)   Is not used as a permanent residence;
      (3)   Is located in an unincorporated county area that is not zoned for
residential, commercial, industrial, or agricultural use;
      (4)   Does not have plumbing or electricity;
      (5)   Is set back at least 300 feet from any river, stream, lake, or
other body of water; and
      (6)   Registers with the local Health Department.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 5-26-2020)
§ 91.23 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   A remote yurt may not be constructed in the unincorporated areas of the
county, unless said remote yurts comply with the following:
   (A)   UCA § 15A-1-204, the State Construction Code;
   (B)   Notwithstanding UCA § 15A-5-104, the State Fire Code;
   (C)   Notwithstanding UCA § 19-5-125, Title 19, Chapter 5, Water Quality
Act, rules made under that chapter;
   (D)   The local Health Department’s jurisdiction over on-site wastewater
disposal; and
   (E)   Any other applicable local rules and regulations.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 5-26-2020)
RECREATIONAL USE OF FEDERAL LANDS
§ 91.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Recreational Use of Federal Lands
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 91.36 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes minimum standards to:
   (A)   Reduce damage and stress on natural resources located on federal,
state or local lands in the county, including impacts to local wildlife,
vegetation, soil and cultural resources;
   (B)   Reduce potential conflict between recreational users and increase the
enjoyment of lands in the county;
   (C)   Assist authorized law enforcement officers to make and enforce
regulations that protect and promote lands in the county; and
   (D)   Provide for public safety and secure and promote the public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and the peace and quiet of all users of
lands within the county.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 91.37 DEFINITIONS.
   Definitions for recreational activities shall be consistent with federal,
state and local definitions for lands on which the recreational activity takes
place. Visitors shall inform themselves of site-specific requirements.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 91.38 CAMPING AND PARKING.
   (A)   Campfires. Consistent with rules and regulations promulgated by the
federal government, state or the county, or unless authorized by permit, no
person shall:
      (1)   Ignite or maintain a wood-burning fire outside of a firepan,
fireplace, grill or ring that is either established or provided for that
purpose;
      (2)   Ignite or maintain a wood-burning fire in an area where appropriate
signage prohibits campfires;
      (3)   Leave a fire unattended or fail to completely extinguish a fire not
in use, except to report it if it has spread beyond control;
      (4)   Resist or interfere with the efforts of firefighter(s) to
extinguish a fire;
      (5)   Enter an area which is closed by a fire prevention order; or
      (6)   Perform any act restricted by a fire prevention order.
   (B)   Camping. Consistent with rules and regulations promulgated by the
federal government, state or the county, or unless authorized by permit, no
person shall:
      (1)   Camp outside of authorized areas in designated campgrounds;
      (2)   Camp in areas where dispersed camping is prohibited;
      (3)   Build, install or otherwise create new campsites on federal, state
or local lands in the county not authorized for that use;
      (4)   Occupy or otherwise use a campsite occupied by or reserved for
another person;
      (5)   Camp in areas posted as closed to camping (including “no camping”
signs), including archaeological sites and historic sites;
      (6)   Occupy a campsite in:
         (a)   Designated campgrounds:
            1.   With more people or vehicles than permitted or posted;
            2.   Without payment of required fees; or
            3.   For a longer period of time than permitted by applicable
federal, state or local law.
         (b)   Dispersed camping areas:
            1.   With more people or vehicles than authorized; or
            2.   For a longer period of time than permitted by applicable
federal, state or local law.
      (7)   Interfere with a lawful occupant or use.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 7-13-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39 SANITATION.
   (A)   Human waste. In areas so designated by federal, state or local rules,
permits and regulations, no person shall dump or otherwise deposit human waste,
or wastewater contaminated by fecal matter, on federal, state or local lands in
the county except in an authorized facility. In said areas, all persons are
required to carry out solid human waste and must possess and utilize an
authorized facility that allows for proper disposal.
   (B)   Trailer refuse or waste. No person shall drain, dump or otherwise
deposit refuse or waste, including greywater and oil, from any trailer or other
vehicle on federal, state or local lands in the county, except in receptacles
provided for such use.
   (C)   Cleaning and washing. No person shall clean fish, game, clothing or
household articles at any outdoor hydrant, pump, faucet, fountain or restroom
water faucet not authorized for that use.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 7-13-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.40 ROADWAYS AND VEHICLES.
   UCA §§ 41-22-1 et seq. (Off-Highway Vehicles) and 41-6a-101 et seq. (Traffic
Code), as amended, shall govern the general operation, use and parking of
vehicles on federal, state or local lands in the county. In the event of
conflict, state statute shall control.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 91.41 ANIMALS.
   (A)   Restraint and care, generally. County Ordinance no. 1995-4, County
Ordinance no. 2015-1 and UCA §§ 76-9-3 et seq., as amended, shall govern the
restraint and care of animals on federal, state or local lands in the county.
In the event of conflict, state statute shall control.
   (B)   Hitching or tying animals. No person shall hitch or tie an animal to
any tree, shrub, vehicle or improvement, including structures, on federal,
state or local lands in the county that causes unauthorized damage or blocks or
restricts foot or vehicular traffic.
   (C)   Nuisance animals.
      (1)   Nuisance animal means any animal(s) that: molests passersby or
passing vehicles; attacks other animals; trespasses on private property; is
repeatedly at large or not under restraint, damages private or public property;
or barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous or untimely manner.
      (2)   Vicious dogs and wolves, as defined by County Ordinance no. 2015-1,
are hereby considered nuisance animals.
      (3)   On federal, state or local lands in the county, no person shall:
         (a)   Maintain a nuisance animal without proper confinement or
muzzling; or
         (b)   Fail to restrain a nuisance animal.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 7-13-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.42 GENERAL USE.
   (A)   If prohibited by rules and regulations promulgated by the federal
government, state or the county, or unless authorized by permit, no person
shall:
      (1)   Cut wood for any purpose;
      (2)   Gather firewood in an area where appropriate signage prohibits such
activity.
      (3)   Collect, for commercial purposes, any of the following:
         (a)   Commonly available renewable resources such as flowers, berries,
nuts, seeds, cones and leaves;
         (b)   Nonrenewable resources such as rock and mineral specimens,
common invertebrate and plant fossils, and semi-precious stones;
         (c)   Petrified wood; or
         (d)   Mineral materials.
      (4)   Gather petrified wood in areas prohibited by federal, state or
local rule.
   (B)   On federal, state or local lands in the county, no person shall
willfully deface, disturb, remove or destroy:
      (1)   Any personal property or structures, or any scientific, cultural,
archeological or historic resource, natural object or area; or
      (2)   Plants or their parts, soil, rocks or minerals or cave resources,
except as otherwise authorized by rule, regulation, permit or written
agreement.
   (C)   On federal, state or local lands in the county, except as otherwise
posted or permitted, no person shall operate or use any audio device such as a
radio, television, musical instrument, generator, motorized equipment or other
noise producing device in a manner that makes unreasonable noise that disturbs
other visitors.
   (D)   On federal, state or local lands in the county, no person shall:
      (1)   Bicycle, rollerblade, roller skate, skateboard or operate a vehicle
or electric assisted bicycle on any trail prohibited or posted for that
purpose;
      (2)   Block, restrict or otherwise interfere with the normal use of any
trail;
      (3)   Operate a vehicle or bicycle off designated trails, unless lands
are authorized for that purpose; or
      (4)   Operate an electric assisted bicycle on a trail posted or
designated for non-motorized use unless specifically permitted by federal,
state or local regulation.
   (E)   On federal, state or local lands in the county, and as determined by
an authorized officer, no person shall cause a public disturbance or create a
risk to other persons by engaging in activities including but not limited to
the following:
      (1)   Making noise that exceeds the requirements of this subchapter;
      (2)   Creating a hazard or nuisance as otherwise defined by the
requirements of this subchapter; or
      (3)   Refusing to disperse when directed to do so by an authorized law
enforcement officer.
   (F)   Unless authorized by federal, state or local rule, regulation, permit
or written agreement, no person shall leave personal property unattended for
more than 48 hours on federal, state or local lands in the county. Personal
property left unattended for more than 48 hours shall be subject to disposition
under federal, state and local law.
   (G)   No person shall interfere, tamper with or otherwise vandalize any
improvements on federal, state or local lands in the county, including sewage
facilities, fee deposit tubes, signage, fencing, landscaping, structures and
accessory improvements.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 7-13-2020) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Attorney may initiate legal action, civil or criminal, requested
by the County Commission or Sheriff to abate any condition that exists in
violation of this subchapter. In addition to other penalties imposed by a court
of competent jurisdiction, any person(s) found guilty of violating this
subchapter shall be liable for all expenses incurred by the county.
(Ord. 2020-12, passed 7-13-2020)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who is found guilty of violating §§
91.20 through
91.23, either by failing to do those acts required herein or by doing a
prohibited act, is guilty of an infraction. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate violation.
   (C)   Except where state statute punishes a violation under §§
91.38 through
91.42 as an infraction, any person who is found guilty of violating these
sections, either by failing to do those acts required herein or by doing a
prohibited act, is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor punishable by a maximum
sentence of up to six months in jail and a maximum fine of $1,000. Each day
such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate violation.
(Ord. 2020-8, passed 5-26-2020; Ord. 2020-12, passed 7-13-2020)
APPENDIX A: CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
GROUND SNOW LOAD: Based on elevation, minimum 40-pound load
WIND SPEED: 90 MPH, 3 second gusts at 115 mph
SEISMIC DESIGN CATEGORY:
   •   Area West of Henrieville: SITE CLASS D
   •   Area East of Henrieville: SITE CLASS C
   •   Area 30 Miles East of Boulder: SITE CLASS B
WEATHERING PROBABILITY: Severe, Exposure C
FROST LINE DEPTH: 33"
TERMITE INFESTATION: Moderate to Heavy
WINTER DESIGN TEMPERATURE: Salt Lake City 8. Recommend 3 for Garfield County.
ICE BARRIER UNDERLAYMENT REQUIRED: Yes, required per IRC R-703.1, R-703.08
Uniform Building Standards Act Rules, RI 56-56-711 (2).
FLOOD HAZARDS: Per Garfield County Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance including
any amendments thereafter. Shall also comply with the most current adopted
International Building & Residential Code.
AIR FREEZING INDEX: 923 to 2084 (100 year 99%)
MEAN ANNUAL TEMPERATURE: 40.1 to 53 degrees Fahrenheit.
MINIMUM FOOTINGS: 9 inches thick by 20 inches wide.
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 4-26-2021)
APPENDIX B: GLAMPING UNIT INSPECTION CHECKLIST
   The following list includes the most common violations of Glamping Units.
Other life safety violations discovered by the Building Inspector will be
presented to the applicant in the Inspection Report.
[ ]   One operable smoke detector in each bedroom, in the major living areas,
and on each floor (the major living area can count for the detector on that
floor) IRC 314.
[ ]   An operable carbon monoxide detector on each floor installed per the
manufacture’s specifications, when gas appliances are utilized in the structure
IRC 314.
[ ]   Gripable hand railing (1-1/4 inches to 2 inches) on all staircases IRC
311.7.8.
[ ]   GFCI plugs are required within 6 feet of all sinks/baths/toilets and all
exterior outlets IRC E3902.
[ ]   Sleeping rooms must meet current International Residential Code (IRC)
requirements for egress IRC R3111.
[ ]   Each Glamping Unit shall have at least one operable fire extinguisher.
[ ]   Trash shall not be left stored within public view, except in proper
containers for the purpose of collection by an authorized waste hauler on
scheduled trash collection days.
INSPECTION CONTACT INFORMATION
GARFIELD COUNTY BUILDING INSPECTOR, JARED WOOLSEY
Office Address: 55 South Main, Panguitch, UT 84759 | Garfield County Courthouse
| Building Department
Mailing Address: Jared Woolsey | Garfield County | P.O. Box 77, Panguitch, UT
84759
Email Address: jared.woolsey@garfield.utah.gov
Office Phone: (435) 676-1111
GARFIELD COUNTY PLANNER, KADEN FIGGINS
Office Address: 55 South Main, Panguitch, UT 84759 | Garfield County Courthouse
| Planning Department
Mailing Address: Kaden Figgins | Garfield County | P.O. Box 77, Panguitch, UT
84759
Email Address: kaden.figgins@garfield.utah.gov
Office Phone: (435) 676-1157
(Ord. 2021-3, passed 4-26-2021)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERY
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Burials prohibited outside established cemetery
   
92.03   Exception for immediate family
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ESTABLISHED CEMETERY. Include any cemetery operated and maintained under the
authority of a cemetery maintenance district established under UCA §§ 17A-2-201
et seq., and also including cemeteries which are established on the date of the
ordinance codified herein at Widtsoe and Spry, County of Garfield, State of
Utah.
   HUMAN REMAINS. An intact human body, whether embalmed or unembalmed, and
does not include ashes from a body that has been cremated.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. Includes husband and wife and their children.
   INTERMENT. Includes burial of human remains whether or not such remains are
contained inside a vault, casket, or other container, under the soil of any
parcel of real property.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 7-8-2002)
§ 92.02 BURIALS PROHIBITED OUTSIDE ESTABLISHED CEMETERY.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person to cause or permit human remains to be interred or buried on any
land lying outside the boundaries of an established cemetery in the county.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 EXCEPTION FOR IMMEDIATE FAMILY.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the prohibition contained in §
92.02, immediate family members of a deceased person interred on lands lying
outside an established cemetery prior to the effective date of this chapter may
be interred on the same parcel as the member of the immediate family previously
interred. A person who wishes to be so interred or if deceased, an authorized
representative of the decedent, shall first obtain a permit from the County
Planning Commission at least 30 days prior to the date of interment.
   (B)   In order to obtain a burial permit from the County Planning
Commission, the applicant shall strictly comply with and observe the following
requirements.
      (1)   At least 30 days prior to the interment, the entire private burial
plot shall be surveyed by a licensed surveyor.
      (2)   An official plat of the private burial lot shall be prepared by a
licensed surveyor and shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
      (3)   A new deed to the property upon which the private cemetery lot is
located shall be prepared and shall contain a restrictive covenant requiring
that the private cemetery plot shall continue in perpetuity and shall be
maintained as a cemetery by all subsequent owners of said real property.
      (4)   A safe, all-weather access road over and across the property to the
burial plot shall be built and a provision inserted in the deed to the property
requiring that said access shall be perpetually maintained in such condition
that it can be easily traversed in all seasons by an ordinary passenger car.
      (5)   The applicant shall obtain from the Health Department a certificate
indicating that the proposed burial plot is located more than 100 feet from any
culinary water source.
      (6)   The human remains shall be contained within a casket approved by a
licensed funeral director and inside a vault approved by a licensed funeral
director.
      (7)   Human remains shall be buried at a depth of at least six feet below
ground level.
      (8)   Each private cemetery plot shall be completely enclosed by a fence
which is at least 36 inches high.
      (9)   The applicant shall submit a burial application fee in the amount
of $50.
(Ord. 2002-1, passed 7-8-2002)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Acceptance
   
93.03   Abandonment
   
93.04   Scope of right-of-way
   
93.05   Unreasonable interference with adjacent lands
   
93.06   Public comment
   
93.07   Interference with roads prohibited
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCEPTANCE, ACCEPTANCE OF A RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF A HIGHWAY
OVER PUBLIC LANDS, NOT RESERVED FOR PUBLIC USES, or ACCEPTED. One or more of
the following acts prior to October 21, 1976:
      (1)   By the county or person with the intention of creating a public
highway over public lands;
         (a)   Construction or maintenance of a highway;
         (b)   Inclusion of the right-of-way in a state, county, or municipal
road system, plat, description, or map of county roads;
         (c)   Expenditure of any public funds on the highway; or
         (d)   Execution of a memorandum of understanding or other agreement
with any other public or private entity or an agency of the federal government
that recognizes the right or obligation of the county to construct or maintain
the highway or a portion of the highway.
      (2)   Use by the public for the period required by UCA § 27-12-89 or
prior state law; or
      (3)   Any other act consistent with state or federal law indicating
acceptance of a right-of-way.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any physical act which creates a new road bed or highway for
use by the public according to the available or intended mode of
transportation, including foot, horse, vehicle, or other mode, including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   Removing vegetation;
      (2)   Moving obstructions, including rocks, boulders, and outcroppings;
      (3)   Filling low spots;
      (4)   Maintenance over several years;
      (5)   Creation of an identifiable route by use over time; and
      (6)   Other similar activities.
   HIGHWAY. Includes:
      (1)   Any road, street, trail, or other access or way that is open to the
public to come and go at will, without regard to how or by whom the way was
constructed or maintained; and
      (2)   Appurtenant land and structures, including road drainage ditches,
back and front slopes, cut and fill slopes, turnouts, rest areas, and other
areas that facilitate use of the highway by the public. HIGHWAY includes
pedestrian trails, horse paths, livestock trails, wagon roads, jeep trails,
logging roads, homestead roads, mine-to-market roads, alleys, tunnels, bridges,
and all other ways and their attendant access for maintenance.
   MAINTENANCE. Any physical act of upkeep of a highway or repair of wear or
damage whether from natural or other causes, including, but not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Vertical and horizontal alignment alterations to meet applicable
safety standards;
      (2)   Widening an existing road or flattening of shoulders or side slopes
to meet applicable safety standards;
      (3)   Grooming and grading of the previously constructed road surface;
      (4)   Establishing and maintaining the crown with materials gathered
along the road;
      (5)   Filling ruts;
      (6)   Spot filling with the same or improved materials;
      (7)   Leveling or smoothing washboards;
      (8)   Clearing the roadway of obstructing debris;
      (9)   Cleaning culverts including head basins and outlets;
      (10)   Resurfacing with the same or improved materials;
      (11)   Installing, maintaining, and repairing and replacing rip rap;
      (12)   Maintaining drainage;
      (13)   Maintaining and repairing washes and gullies;
      (14)   Installing, maintaining, repairing, and replacing culverts as
necessary to protect the existing surface from erosion;
      (15)   Repairing washouts;
      (16)   Installing, maintaining, repairing, and replacing marker posts;
      (17)   Installing, maintaining, and repairing water crossings;
      (18)   Installing, maintaining, repairing, and replacing cattle guards;
      (19)   Installing, maintaining, repairing, and replacing road signs;
      (20)   Repair, stabilization, and improvement of cut and fill slopes;
      (21)   Application of seal coats; and
      (22)   Snow removal.
   PUBLIC LANDS NOT RESERVED FOR PUBLIC USES. Any federal lands not shown as
reserved for public use on maps published by the Bureau of Land Management
prior to October 21, 1976.
   R.S. 2477 RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHT-OF-WAY. A right-of-way for a highway
constructed in this county on public lands not reserved for public uses and
accepted by the county prior to October 21, 1976.
   SERVIENT. The estate underlying the highway.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 5-8-2000)
§ 93.02 ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   The county hereby finds that the following rights-of-way were accepted
as public highways across public lands prior to October 21, 1976: as shown on
highlighted BLM Surface Management Status Maps for Beaver (1983 edition),
Panguitch (1984 edition), Loa (1982 edition), Escalante (1991 edition),
Hanksville (1982 edition), and Hite Crossing (1982 edition).
   (B)   The county shall not be deemed to consent or have consented to the
exchange of any R.S. 2477 right-of-way unless a formal written resolution
specifically so stating has been passed at a duly called public meeting of the
County Commission. No employee or agent of the county has been given authority
to abandon waive or exchange any R.S. 2477 right-of-way and any prior action by
any employee or agent purporting to take any such action was void when taken
unless:
      (1)   In the case of exchange, later ratified by formal written
resolution as provided herein; or
      (2)   In the case of abandonment or waiver, action has been taken in
accordance with the procedures in UCA §§ 72-3-108, 72-5-105, and 72-5-305, in
which case the right-of-way reverts to the state.
   (C)   The failure to include any right-of-way in division (A) above is not
intended as evidence that said right-of-way was not accepted pursuant to R.S.
2477. The identification of R.S. 2477 rights-of-way in division (A) above may
be amended from time to time as evidence establishing the perfection of any
R.S. 2477 right-of-way becomes available.
   (D)   Where an R.S. 2477 right-of-way has been perfected through public use,
the failure by the county to conduct mechanical maintenance of said right-of-
way shall not affect in any way the status of said right-of-way as a highway
accepted by the public pursuant to R.S. 2477.
   (E)   The omission of any right-of-way from any plat, description, or map of
county roads or highways, whether required by state law or otherwise, shall not
be deemed a failure to accept the grant offered under R.S. 2477.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 5-8-2000)
§ 93.03 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Abandonment of any R.S. 2477 right-of-way shall take place only in
accordance with the procedures in UCA § 72-3-108.
   (B)   If any R.S. 2477 right-of-way is abandoned by the county, the right-
of-way shall revert to the state.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 5-8-2000)
§ 93.04 SCOPE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The scope of the R.S. 2477 right-of-way is that which is reasonable
and necessary to ensure safe travel for all uses that occurred before October
21, 1976.
   (B)   The scope of the R.S. 2477 right-of-way includes the right to widen
the highway as necessary to accommodate the increased travel associated with
all uses that occurred before October 21,1976, up to, where applicable,
improving a highway to two lanes so travelers can safely pass each other.
   (C)   Unless otherwise established by formal action taken by the County
Commission, the width of an R.S. 2477 right-of-way used for vehicular travel
may not be less than the setback standards for wilderness boundaries along
existing roads as described in Bureau of Land Management regulations.
   (D)   The safety standards established by the state’s Department of
Transportation apply to all determinations of safety on R.S. 2477 rights-of-way
used for vehicular travel.
   (E)   The county will design and conduct construction and maintenance
activities so as to minimize impacts on the adjacent lands, consistent with
applicable safety standards.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 5-8-2000)
§ 93.05 UNREASONABLE INTERFERENCE WITH ADJACENT LANDS.
   (A)   The county and the owner of the servient estate shall exercise their
rights without unreasonably interfering with one another.
   (B)   In furtherance of this:
      (1)   The county shall design and conduct construction and maintenance
activities so as to minimize impacts on adjacent lands, consistent with
applicable safety standards;
      (2)   The county shall perform maintenance in pursuant to applicable
state law in accordance with its discretion; no notice to the servient estate
owner is required prior to performance of such maintenance;
      (3)   Construction or maintenance with the scope of the right-of-way
which will result in significant new disturbance of servient land shall be
performed after notice to the servient land owner; the county may accept and
take into account comments from servient land owners in any design feature or
construction method which may result in unnecessary or undue degradation or
derogation of the servient lands or significantly impact resource values which
are not necessarily subject to the right-of-way; and
      (4)   The County Sheriff is hereby authorized to take any action
necessary to prevent unreasonable interference with the county’s exercise of
its rights by the owner of the servient estate.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 5-8-2000)
§ 93.06 PUBLIC COMMENT.
   (A)   It is in the best interests of the county and the public that facts
and legal issues relevant to the county’s management of its rights-of-way
accepted under R.S. 2477 be raised in a timely manner and it is a fundamental
principle of due process and fairness that any person having knowledge relevant
to such facts or issues bring them to the attention of the county.
   (B)   Inclusion of any proposed action on the agenda for a duly called
public meeting of the County Commission shall be deemed notice to the public
for all purposes under this resolution.
   (C)   Any factual or legal issue not brought to the attention of the county
by presentation at the public meeting where action is proposed or authorized to
be taken or by written comments filed within five days of said meeting shall be
deemed waived by any party in later proceedings, whether in a court of law or
otherwise.
   (D)   The procedures of this section are applicable to any finding by the
county that it has accepted an R.S. 2477 right-of-way, in this or any other
resolution.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 5-8-2000)
§ 93.07 INTERFERENCE WITH ROADS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and intentionally close,
unreasonably interfere with, barricade, erect signs, or otherwise obstruct any
county road, highway, or R.S. 2477 right-of-way, without prior written
authorization of the Board of County Commissioners.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 5-8-2000)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
93.07 shall constitute a Class B misdemeanor, punishable by up to a maximum of
six months in the county jail, a maximum fine of $1,000, or both such
imprisonment and fine.
(Ord. 2000-2, passed 5-8-2000)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   Nuisance defined
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 NUISANCE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Includes:
      (1)   Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and whatever renders
soil, air, water, or food impure or unwholesome is declared to be a NUISANCE
and unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person either as an owner, agent, or
occupant to create, or aid in creating or contributing to, or maintaining a
nuisance.
      (2)   Specifically, NUISANCES include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Befouling water in any springs, streams, well, or water source
supplying water for culinary purposes; and
         (b)   Discharging or placing any offensive water, liquid waste, or
refuse of any kind into any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash,
natural watercourse, ditch, canal, or any vacant property, except at officially
designated refuse collection or waste water disposal sites.
      (3)   The types of NUISANCES above stated shall be deemed in addition to
and in no way a limitation of the nuisances subject to this chapter.
(Ord. 1978-5A, passed 6-12-1978) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
94.01 shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor for each offense and shall be
punished with a maximum term of imprisonment in the county jail of 90 days and
a maximum fine of $299, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1978-5A, passed 6-12-1978)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
      
112.   ALCOHOL
      
113.   BUSINESS TAXES
      
114.   CAMPGROUNDS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Applications
   
110.03   Cost of license
   
110.04   Information on license
   
110.05   Display of license
   
110.06   Nontransferable
   
110.07   Denial or revocation of license
   
110.08   Separate license for each location
   
110.09   Multiple businesses at one location
   
110.10   Businesses already licensed in the state
   
110.11   Definitions
   
110.12   Term of license
   
110.13   Operation with expired license
   
110.14   Temporary license
   
110.15   Licenses in unincorporated areas
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
110.30   Cannabis farms prohibited
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A license is required for any person to transact, engage in, or carry on any
business in the county.
   (A)   Every business license issued shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Type of business activity;
      (2)   Location of business;
      (3)   County assigned business license number;
      (4)   License expiration date.
   (B)   Every business license shall be displayed in a conspicuous place of
the building, room or office of the place where the business is carried on.
   (C)   Business licenses are not transferable.
   (D)   A business license may be revoked or denied by the County Commission
for:
      (1)   The failure of the licensee or applicant to comply with the
requirements of this or any other county ordinance, or with the requirements of
any state law;
      (2)   Unlawful activities conducted or permitted on the premises where
the business is conducted;
      (3)   Unwillingness to remit applicable sales taxes: TC62S (Sales Tax),
TC62F (Restaurant Tax), and/or TC-62R (Transient Room Tax); or
      (4)   Any other violation of this chapter, other applicable county
ordinance or state or federal law.
   (E)   A separate license must be obtained for each separate place of
business in the county.
   (F)   Wherever any person is engaged in two or more businesses within the
same location in the county, such person shall not be required to obtain a
separate license for conducting each of such businesses, but shall be issued
one license which shall specify on its face all of such businesses.
   (G)   Where two or more persons conduct separate businesses at the same
location, each shall obtain a license for their respective business.
   (H)   Business licenses shall be valid for a period of one year, and shall
expire on December 31 of each year.
   (I)   The County Clerk may issue temporary business licenses may be issued
by the County Clerk upon staff approval and payment of the temporary business
license application fee as outlined in the Garfield County Fee Resolution.
      (1)   County Commission approval shall not be required for temporary
business license applications.
      (2)   Persons operating temporary businesses must have a temporary
license at the location of their business.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019; Ord. 2022-11, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 110.02 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for a business license shall include the following
information:
      (1)   General applicant information;
      (2)   General business information, including applicable sales tax
license numbers acquired from the Utah State Sales Tax Commission; and
      (3)   Payment of the business license application fee as outlined in the
Garfield County Fee Resolution.
   (B)   Upon staff approval, the County Clerk shall add the business license
application to the agenda for the next regularly scheduled County Commission
meeting.
   (C)   The County Commission shall consider each application individually. If
the Commission rejects any application, it must state its reason for doing so
with particularity in a letter to the applicant. If the Commission accepts any
application, the County Clerk may issue a business license to the applicant
upon receipt of the business license fee.
   (D)   The approval of a business license application by the County
Commission shall be the final authorization for said entity to conduct
business. No business license shall be approved by the County Commission until
all other applicable approvals have been granted. Applicable approvals include,
but shall not be limited to: other county departments, local or state health
departments, state or federal agencies, other permits or licenses, etc.
   (E)   Renewals for a business license shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Prior 12-month Utah Sales Tax Payment Confirmations for applicable
sales tax license numbers: TC-62S, TC-62F, and/or TC-62R (the applicant may
redact (black out) payment amounts); and
      (2)   Payment of the business license renewal fee as outlined in the
Garfield County Fee Resolution.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019; Ord. 2022-11, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 110.03 COST OF LICENSE.
   The cost of a business license shall be $40.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.04 INFORMATION ON LICENSE.
   Every license issued shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name of the business;
   (B)   The place where such business is to be carried on;
   (C)   The term of the license, including both the date the license commences
and the date it expires; and
   (D)   The nature of the business to be carried on.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.05 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every business required to be licensed shall display the business license in
a conspicuous place upon the wall of the building, room, or office of the place
where the business is carried on.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.06 NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Business licenses are not transferable.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.07 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A business license may be revoked or denied by the County Commission
because of:
      (1)   The failure of the licensee or applicant to comply with the
requirements of this subchapter or any other county ordinance, or with the
requirements of any state law;
      (2)   Unlawful activities conducted or permitted on the premises where
the business is conducted; and
      (3)   Unwillingness to remit applicable sales taxes: TC62S; TC62F; and/or
TC-62R.
   (B)   Prior to the revocation of a license, and prior to the denial of an
application for renewal of a license, the licensee-applicant shall be given
notice that the County Commission intends to revoke or deny the business
license and the reasons for that intention. A hearing shall be held between ten
and 30 days from the time of the notice, either at a regular or special meeting
of the County Commission, to consider the matter. The licensee-applicant shall
have the right to hear the evidence, present his or her own evidence, cross-
examine those present, and be represented by counsel. These provisions do not
apply to the denial of an application for a business from a business which has
not been previously licensed by the county.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.08 SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH LOCATION.
   A separate license must be obtained for each separate place of business in
the county. A warehouse is not considered a separate place of business.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.09 MULTIPLE BUSINESSES AT ONE LOCATION.
   (A)   Wherever any person is engaged in two or more businesses within the
same location in the county, such person shall not be required to obtain a
separate license for conducting each of such businesses, but shall be issued
one license which shall specify on its face all of such businesses. If
individual businesses require separate sales tax license numbers and filings,
the required information in §
110.02 will be required for all businesses on this application.
   (B)   Where two or more persons conduct separate businesses at the same
location, each shall obtain a license for his or her business.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.10 BUSINESSES ALREADY LICENSED IN THE STATE.
   No license fee shall be required of a business paying a license fee
elsewhere in the state if that business does not maintain a place of business
within this county.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. All activities engaged in within this county carried on for the
purpose of gain or economic profit, except farming and ranching operations.
Wholesale operations are also excluded if no place of business is maintained in
the county.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Each separate location maintained or operated within this
county from which business activity is conducted or transacted.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019; Ord. 2022-11, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 110.12 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Business licenses shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of
issuance.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.13 OPERATION WITH EXPIRED LICENSE.
   Any business operating with an expired business license shall be considered
as operating with no license at all.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.14 TEMPORARY LICENSE.
   Temporary business licenses may be issued by the County Clerk at the cost of
$15 for one day or $25 for one week. No approval is required by the County
Commission. Persons operating temporary businesses must have a temporary
license at the location of their business.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019)
§ 110.15 LICENSES IN UNINCORPORATED AREAS.
   (A)   All businesses currently operating in the unincorporated areas of the
county must be licensed according to the terms of this subchapter by February
1, 2019.
   (B)   If operating a temporary business that requires sales tax, said
business will be required to provide all applicable information in §
110.02(A).
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 110.30 CANNABIS FARMS PROHIBITED.
   Pursuant to the S.3042 Agricultural Improvement Act of 2018, the county
elects to prohibit all cannabis farms and establishments within its boundaries,
with the exception of hemp cultivation for medicinal use. For the purposes of
this subchapter, HEMP shall be defined as cannabis with less than 0.3%
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC).
(Ord. 2019-7, passed 8-12-2019)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who is found guilty of violating any part of §§
110.01 through
110.15, either by failing to do those acts required herein or by doing a
prohibited act, is guilty of a Class B Misdemeanor. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate violation.
Nothing in this section is intended nor shall be construed as limiting the
methods of enforcement available to Garfield County under the Garfield County
Code or State law. If a business license has not been approved by the County by
March 1 of the current year, any penalties shall relate back to January 1 of
the current year. A lien will be recorded on the business' real property for
any outstanding penalties.
   (C)   A person or business violating §
110.30 shall be punished in accordance with UCA § 58-37- 8, unless a different
penalty is expressly provided in §
110.30.
(Ord. 2018-3, passed 3-11-2019; Ord. 2019-7, passed 8-12-2019; Ord. 2022-11,
passed 7-26-2022)
CHAPTER 111: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
Section
Short-Term Rentals
   
111.01   Title
   
111.02   Purpose
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Building inspection required
   
111.05   Conditional use permit and business license required
   
111.06   Fees
   
111.07   Authorized agent or representative
   
111.08   Sale or transfer of property
   
111.09   Maintenance standards
   
111.10   Access requirements
   
111.11   Parking regulations
   
111.12   Required posting
   
111.13   Prevention of noise, nuisance, or trespass
   
111.14   Appeals
Commercial Aviation Activities
   
111.25   Definitions
   
111.26   Requirements to engage in commercial aviation activities
Wood Products
   
111.40   Authorization required to remove wood products from land
   
111.41   Information required for permit
   
111.42   Permit forms
   
111.43   Permit to be in individual’s possession
Dance Halls
   
111.55   License required
   
111.56   Hours of operation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Short-Term Rental Inspection Checklist
   
Appendix B: Dwelling Unit Rental Comparison Table
   
Appendix C: Short-Term Rental Classification Flowchart
SHORT-TERM RENTALS
§ 111.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Short-Term Rental Ordinance."
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 111.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish regulations for the use of
privately-owned dwelling units as short-term rentals to protect residents'
quality of life, building safety for the occupants, ensure proper collection
and remittance of taxes, and to address nuisances, parking, trespassing, and
other potential negative impacts relating to short-term rentals.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   This subchapter shall be interpreted using the definitions provided in UCA §
17-27a and the Garfield County Zoning Ordinance except for, in addition to, or
as modified by the following:
   LOCAL CONTACT PERSON. The person designated by the owner or the manager, for
the purpose of:
      (1)   Responding to complaints regarding the condition, operation or
conduct of occupants of the short-term rental; and
      (2)   Taking remedial action to resolve any such complaints.
   MANAGER. The owner or the designated agent or representative of the owner
who is responsible for compliance with this subchapter.
   OWNER. The person(s) or entity(ies) that hold(s) legal and/or equitable
title to the real property being operated, legally or not, as a short-term
rental.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL (STR). A dwelling unit, or any portion thereof, being used
for transient accommodation purposes, including but not limited to, single-
family dwellings, multiple family dwellings, accessory dwelling units (ADU's),
or any other dwelling unit for a period typically less than 30 consecutive
days. Additionally, any dwelling unit that is listed on any accommodation
website including but not limited to Airbnb, Vrbo, HomeAway, Trip Advisor,
etc.; is hereby considered a SHORT-TERM RENTAL and shall be subject to the
regulations set forth in this subchapter, even if the STR is rented out for a
period longer than 30 days.
   TRANSIENT. Occupancy of a dwelling unit for not more than 30 days.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 111.04 SHORT-TERM RENTAL BUILDING INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   An inspection for compliance with the regulations set forth in §§
111.09 through
111.011 and the current International Building Code shall be performed at the
short-term rental property by the Building Official or, if approved by the
Building Official, a third-party inspector prior to approval of the conditional
use permit, if applicable, and business license.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT AND BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Short-term rentals shall be a permitted use in Commercial and Resort
Recreation zoning districts a conditional use in the following zoning
districts:
      (1)   Agricultural;
      (2)   Forest Recreation;
      (3)   Residential; and
      (4)   Residential Estates.
   (B)   Short-term rentals shall be limited to one per parcel and may be
approved as the main dwelling unit or the accessory dwelling unit, but not
both.
   (C)   No dwelling in any zoning district shall be occupied or used as a
short-term rental until the owner has obtained an approved:
      (1)   Short-term rental inspection from the County Building Official;
      (2)   Conditional use permit from the Planning Commission, if applicable;
and
      (3)   Business license from the County Commission.
   (D)   Any short-term rental shall have its own unique transient room and
sales and use tax numbers from the State of Utah. The owner or manager of any
short-term rental shall collect and remit all transient room and sales and use
taxes by the end of the year. Appropriate documentation shall be provided from
the accommodation platform (Airbnb, Vrbo, etc.) certifying that the correct
sales and use and transient room taxes have been collected and remitted on
behalf of the owner of the short-term rental. The county shall suspend all
permits and licenses for short-term rentals more than one year past due on
applicable taxes until the owner has paid all applicable taxes.
   (E)   If a manager or individual is managing more than one short-term rental
property in Garfield County, a separate inspection, conditional use permit, if
applicable, business license shall be required for each short-term rental
property in Garfield County, in addition to the business license required for
the manager (i.e., property management company).
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2022-6, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2024-1,
passed 3-11-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 FEES.
   Appropriate fees shall be charged for short-term rental inspections,
conditional use permit applications, business license applications and renewals
and any other services required by this subchapter. Such fees shall be
established by the County Commission and shall be referred to in the Garfield
County Fee Resolution.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 111.07 AUTHORIZED MANAGER OR LOCAL CONTACT PERSON.
   (A)   Designation. An owner may designate a manager or local contact person
to be held responsible for compliance with the requirements of this subchapter
on behalf of the owner. Notwithstanding this division, the owner shall not be
relieved from any responsibility or liability for noncompliance with any
applicable law, rule or regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy of the
subject short-term rental, regardless of whether such noncompliance was
committed by the owner, manager, local contact person or the occupants of the
owner's short-term rental.
   (B)   Availability. While a short-term rental is occupied or open for
business, the manager and/or local contact person shall be readily available
for the purpose of responding to complaints regarding the condition, operation
or conduct of occupants of the short-term rental.
   (C)   Responsibility for guest’s conduct. The manager and/or local contact
person shall use reasonably prudent business practices to ensure that the
occupants of the short-term rental do not create unreasonable noise or
disturbances, engage in disorderly conduct, or violate any applicable law, rule
or regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy of the short-term rental.
   (D)   Response to complaint. The manager and/or local contact person shall,
upon notification that any occupant of the short-term rental has created
unreasonable noise or disturbances, engaged in disorderly conduct, or committed
violations of any applicable law, rule or regulation pertaining to the use and
occupancy of the short-term rental, respond within one hour to halt or prevent
recurrence of such conduct.
   (E)   Failure to respond. Upon failure of the manager or local contact
person to respond to calls or complaints in one hour regarding the condition,
operation or conduct of occupants of the short-term rental, the manager shall
receive written notice from the county. If the owner, manager, or local contact
person fail to respond to the complaints and or written notification from the
county, the County Commission may consider revocation of the conditional use
permit and/or business license in a public meeting.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 SALE OR TRANSFER OF PROPERTY.
   In the event of a sale or other transfer of any property containing a
dwelling licensed as a short-term rental the purchaser or transferee of the
property shall be required to amend the conditional use permit and/or business
license within 30 days of the date of purchase or transfer. In the event that
the purchaser or transferee fails to make necessary amendments within said 30
days, the license will be forfeited, and the owner shall be required to re-
apply for all appropriate inspections, permits and licenses.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 BUILDING STANDARDS.
   At a minimum, any dwelling unit permitted as a short-term rental shall
conform to the standards listed in the Short-Term Rental Inspection Checklist
(See
Appendix A).
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No short-term rental shall be located, occupied, or permitted more
than one mile off any asphalt or chip sealed public roadway unless the private
drive is in equal or greater condition as the public roadway.
   (B)   Short-term rentals operating in areas with limited winter access shall
not accept bookings when access to the short-term rental property is
questionable or inaccessible.
   (C)   Any owner of a short-term rental who violates this section shall be
assessed a $1,000 fine if the county is called to retrieve a stuck or stranded
guest who was attempting to access a short-term rental on a road that has been
temporarily closed, not yet been plowed, or for any other reason is not
accessible to standard vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.11 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The owner or manager of any short-term rental shall ensure appropriate off-
street parking is provided in accordance with the following:
   (A)   Unless specifically approved by adjacent property owners, off street
parking shall be provided on the same lot or parcel as the short-term rental;
and
   (B)   The number of vehicles allowed for the occupants of a short-term
rental shall be restricted to the number of off-street parking spaces provided
by the owner.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 111.12 REQUIRED POSTING.
   The following information shall be posted in a conspicuous location inside
any short-term rental:
   (A)   A copy of the short-term rental business license;
   (B)   The name and phone number of the owner, local contact person and/or
manager and local emergency contact information;
   (C)   The location of all fire extinguishers and emergency exits;
   (D)   A map showing property boundaries and parking spaces;
   (E)   The maximum occupancy of the dwelling unit and number of vehicles
allowed;
   (F)   Trash pick-up day, if applicable, and rules and regulations pertaining
to leaving or storing trash on the exterior of the property; and
   (G)   A list of all rules for the specific short-term rental, if applicable.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.13 PREVENTION OF NOISE, NUISANCE, OR TRESPASS.
   The owner or manager shall ensure occupants of the short-term rental do not:
   (A)   Create noises that by reason of time, nature, intensity, or duration
are out of character with noises customarily heard in the surrounding areas;
   (B)   Disturb the peace of surrounding properties by shouting, fighting,
playing of loud music, racing of cars or off highway vehicles on streets, or
engaging in outside recreational or other activities after 10:00 p.m. and
before 10:00 a.m.;
   (C)   Interfere with the privacy or trespass onto surrounding properties;
and
   (D)   Allow pets or animals to create incessant noise, roam the streets
without an owner present, trespass on neighboring properties or create any type
of mess that is not cleaned up by the owner of the pet or animal.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.14 APPEALS.
   Any person or entity aggrieved by a decision of any County Official or staff
member regarding the provisions of this subchapter shall have the right to
appeal such decision to the County Commission if a written request for an
appeal is filed with the County Clerk's Office within ten days of verification
that the aggrieved person or entity has been made aware of the decision.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 2024-1, passed 3-11-2024)
COMMERCIAL AVIATION ACTIVITIES
§ 111.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL AVIATION ACTIVITIES. Those activities which involve the sale of
aviation related services and products to the general public and shall include:
      (1)   The maintenance and servicing of aircraft, which right shall
include, but not be limited to, overhauling, rebuilding, repairing, inspection,
and securing of licensing of same, and the purchase and sale of parts,
equipment, and accessories therefor;
      (2)   The long-term storage of aircraft in the county hangar or in
premises leased by the county to the operator;
      (3)   The operation of a shuttle service in which customers are picked up
at Bryce Canyon Airport, shuttled to other locations by way of separate ground
or air transportation, and returned to Bryce Canyon Airport for a fee;
      (4)   The operation of a school for the instruction of the general public
in flying and navigation;
      (5)   The operation of charter and charter air-taxi services operating
under FAR Part 135, or similar regulations;
      (6)   The cleaning and maintenance of all aircraft inclusive of
interiors, exteriors, and related components;
      (7)   Administrative and or business offices relative to operations and/
or business of operator;
      (8)   The sale of aviation fuel or other fuel;
      (9)   Car rental business; and
      (10)   Other aviation or aviation associated business with prior written
permission of the county.
   OPERATOR. A person engaged in commercial aviation activities.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, syndicate, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 3-14-1994)
§ 111.26 REQUIREMENTS TO ENGAGE IN COMMERCIAL AVIATION ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in commercial aviation
activities at the Bryce Canyon Airport without first obtaining the following at
the sole cost and expense of the operator, and without filing copies of the
same with the county:
   (A)   A fixed base operation lease agreement or fixed base operation
franchise agreement from the county;
   (B)   A comprehensive third-party public liability insurance policy covering
injury to persons and property, including owned and non-owned aircraft and
vehicles, products liability, and such other coverage necessary to protect the
county, in an amount set by the county for each commercial aviation activity;
and
   (C)   Licenses as necessary to conduct said commercial aviation activity
from the appropriate federal and state licensing agencies, including, but not
limited to, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Interstate Commerce
Commission, the state’s Public Service Commission, the state’s Department of
Transportation, and the state’s Department of Public Safety.
(Ord. 1994-1, passed 3-14-1994) Penalty, see §
111.99
WOOD PRODUCTS
§ 111.40 AUTHORIZATION REQUIRED TO REMOVE WOOD PRODUCTS FROM LAND.
   It shall be unlawful and punishable as herein defined for any person to cut,
transport, or possess forest and woodland wood products without prior written
authorization from the owner of the land, including federally owned lands, from
which the forest and woodland wood products are to be removed, or his or her
authorized representative.
(Ord. 1978-3, passed 5-31-1978) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.41 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR PERMIT.
   The prior written authorization required herein shall be in the form of a
written permit, which shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following
information:
   (A)   Date of permit;
   (B)   Name and address of permittee;
   (C)   Description of forest product:
      (1)   Species; and
      (2)   Product (saw logs, poles, posts, Christmas trees, ornamentals, fuel
wood, and the like).
   (D)   Description of lands from which product will be taken (legal and
geographic);
   (E)   Expiration date;
   (F)   Signature of administrator or land owner of federal lands and the
respective addresses of same; and
   (G)   Signature of permittee.
(Ord. 1978-3, passed 5-31-1978)
§ 111.42 PERMIT FORMS.
   Said permits for private land owner use shall be provided by the county to
the County Clerk and to the County Sheriff’s Department, including all
deputies. The U.S. Forest Service, State Division of Forestry and Fire Control,
and the U.S. Bureau of Land Management will provide their own permit forms
containing the information described in §
111.41.
(Ord. 1978-3, passed 5-31-1978)
§ 111.43 PERMIT TO BE IN INDIVIDUAL’S POSSESSION.
   The holder of a permit shall be required to have said permit in his or her
possession whenever he or she is engaged in the cutting, processing, or
transportation of the forest and woodland wood products designated in said
permit.
(Ord. 1978-3, passed 5-31-1978)
DANCE HALLS
§ 111.55 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association, copartnership, or
corporation to engage in the business of operating a dance hall, dance resort,
dance pavilion, or cabaret within the limits of the county, outside of
incorporated cities and towns, without first having procured a license therefor
from the County Board of Commissioners, as hereinafter provided. A separate
license shall be required for each place where dancing is permitted, and the
license shall at all times be conspicuously displayed in the place to which it
shall refer or for which it shall be issued. The annual license fee for either
of the aforementioned places where dancing is permitted shall be $250 and shall
become effective January 1 and expire December 31 of the same year.
(Ord. 41, passed 7-3-1950) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.56 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dance or for any person, firm,
association, copartnership, or corporation engaged in the business or
businesses as aforesaid, to conduct or carry on or permit any dances or dancing
therein between the hours of 1:30 a.m. any day of the week (other than Sunday)
to 8:00 a.m. that same day; and between the hours of 12:00 midnight Saturday of
any Saturday and 8:00 a.m. of the following Monday, providing that two or more
of the said County Commissioners may suspend the operation of this section
relating to closing hours on weekdays for a period of not more than six hours,
by filing a written order of such suspension with the County Clerk, and having
a copy thereof served upon the Sheriff at least one day before the said order
is to take effect.
(Ord. 41, passed 7-3-1950) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   When the county determines a short-term rental may be operating
without first obtaining the requirements set forth in §§
111.01 through
111.014, the Planning Department shall send a certified letter to the owner of
real property describing the requirements of §§
111.01 through
111.14 along with a formal request to come into compliance;
      (2)   If the owner of real property fails to respond to, or act upon, the
first notice within 30 days of certified delivery, a second notice shall be
sent from the County Attorney informing the owner of the fines and penalties
that shall be imposed if operation of the short-term rental continues without
county authorization;
      (3)   Upon failure to respond to the second notice within 14 days of
certified delivery, the owner shall be guilty of a Class C Misdemeanor and
shall be subject to a separate fine of $100 per day until all applicable
documentation is submitted and fees are paid in full to the county. A lien will
be recorded on the real property for any outstanding penalties;
      (4)   Any owner or manager of a short-term rental located within the
unincorporated areas of Garfield County who, having first obtained the required
approvals of §§
111.01 through
111.14 thereafter operates or permits operation of said short-term rental in
violation of the terms and provisions of §§
111.01 through
111.14 may be guilty of an infraction, and may be punished by a fine of up to
$750 for each such violation.
      (5)   In the event of any violation of §§
111.01 through
111.14 committed by an owner, manager, local contact person or occupant of the
short-term rental, the County Commission shall discuss said violation(s) in a
public meeting and take action, including possible fines or revocation of the
conditional use permit, if applicable, and business license for the short-term
rental.
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
111.25 through
111.26 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine in an amount not less than $1,000, or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
   (D)   Persons violating §§
111.40 through
111.43 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and subject to a fine in an
amount not to exceed $299, or imprisonment in the county jail for a term not to
exceed six months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (E)   Any person, persons, firm, association, copartnership, or corporation
or licensee violating §§
111.55 or
111.56 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
in any sum not to exceed $300 or six months in the county jail, or both such
fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 41, passed 7-3-1950; Ord. 1978-3, passed 5-31-1978; Ord. 1994-1, passed
3-14-1994; Ord. 2019-9, passed 10-14-2019; Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021; Ord.
2024-1, passed 3-11-2024)
APPENDIX A: SHORT-TERM RENTAL INSPECTION CHECKLIST
   The following list includes the most common violations on STR Inspections.
Other life safety violations discovered by the Building Inspector will be
presented to the applicant in the STR Inspection Report.
[ ]   One operable smoke detector in each bedroom, in the major living areas,
and on each floor (the major living area can count for the detector on that
floor) IRC 314.
[ ]   An operable carbon monoxide detector on each floor installed per the
manufacturer’s specifications, when gas appliances are utilized in the
structure IRC 314.
[ ]   Gripable hand railing (1 1/4 inches to 2 inches) on all staircases IRC
311.7.8.
[ ]   GFCI plugs are required within 6 feet of all sinks/baths/toilets and all
exterior outlets IRC E3902.
[ ]   Sleeping rooms must meet current International Residential Code (IRC)
requirements for egress IRC R3111.
[ ]   Each Short-Term Rental Unit shall have at least one operable fire
extinguisher.
[ ]   Trash shall not be left stored within public view, except in proper
containers for the purpose of collection by an authorized waste hauler on
scheduled trash collection days.
[ ]   Short-Term Rental unit(s) with more than five (5) sleeping rooms, or the
ability to sleep more than ten (10) occupants, shall receive written approval
from the Garfield County Building Inspector prior to occupancy of the Short-
Term Rental unit.
[ ]   Required Posting in the Short-Term Rental Unit:
   a.   A copy of the Short-Term Rental Business License.
   b.   The name and phone number of the Owner, Local Contact Person or Manager
and local emergency contact information.
   c.   The location of all fire extinguishers and emergency exits.
   d.   A list of all rules applicable for the specific Short-Term Rental.
   e.   The maximum occupancy of the dwelling unit and the maximum number of
vehicles allowed.
   f.   Trash pick-up day and applicable rules and regulations pertaining to
leaving or storing trash on the exterior of the property.
   g.   A map showing property boundaries and parking spaces.
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021)
APPENDIX B: DWELLING UNIT RENTAL COMPARISON TABLE
 Short-Term Month-to-Month Long-Term
                    Short-Term         Month-to-Month       Long-Term
Min. Length of Stay 30 days or less    At least 30 days     6 months to 1 year
Nightly Rental Fee  $$$                $$                   $
Management Needed   30-40 hours/month  <5 hours/month       <1 hour/month
Business License    Yes                Yes, for commercial  No
                                       use
Conditional Use     Yes, in most Zones Yes, for commercial  No
                                       use
Turnover            High               Medium               Low
Taxes               Income, Business   Income, Business for Income only
                                       commercial use
                    Hospitality for    Residential,
Primary Purpose     commercial use     Hospitality for      Residential only
                                       commercial use
 
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021)
APPENDIX C: SHORT-TERM RENTAL CLASSIFICATION FLOWCHART
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef2a0ce09c7429740724a71826e6d11a3d2a537/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1490.png]
 
(Ord. 2021-2, passed 3-22-2021)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOL
Section
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Definition
   
112.03   Classifications of licenses
   
112.04   Applications
   
112.05   Requirements of licensee
   
112.06   License is nontransferable
   
112.07   License fees
   
112.08   State license required
   
112.09   State law
   
112.10   Location of businesses; hours of operation
   
112.11   Screened enclosures prohibited
   
112.12   Premises to be kept clean
   
112.13   Display of license
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, partnership, or
corporation to engage in the business of the sale of alcoholic beverages at
retail, in containers, or on draft, within the limits of the county, outside of
incorporated cities and towns, without first having procured a license therefor
from the Board of Commissioners, as hereinafter provided. A separate license
shall be required for each place of sale, and the license shall at all times be
conspicuously displayed in the place to which it shall refer, or for which it
shall be issued. All licensees shall comply with the state’s Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act, the rules and regulations promulgated by the state’s Alcoholic
Beverage Control Commission, and the authority of state law.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to employ or permit any person under the age of
21 years to sell, give away, or furnish alcohol within the county, without
direct supervision by an adult on the premises.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986; Ord. 1986-6, passed 9-22-1986) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON, SELL, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, RETAILER, AND WHOLESALER. Has the meaning
given to them and as they are defined in UCA Title 32A, as amended.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986)
§ 112.03 CLASSIFICATIONS OF LICENSES.
   Retail licenses issued hereunder shall have the following classifications.
   (A)   A Class A retail license shall entitle the licensee to sell alcoholic
beverages in the original container, not to be consumed upon the premises.
   (B)   A Class B retail license shall entitle the licensee to sell alcoholic
beverages in a container having the label of the maker thereon, for consumption
on or off of the premises, and to all the privileges granted to the holder of a
Class A retail license.
   (C)   A Class C retail license shall entitle the licensee to sell alcoholic
beverages on draft, for consumption on or off of the premises, and to all of
the privileges granted to holders of both a Class A and a Class B retail
license.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986)
§ 112.04 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be granted hereunder, except upon written
application, under oath, on forms provided by the Board of County
Commissioners, and containing such information as said Board may require, duly
filed with the Board of County Commissioners; and no license shall be granted
by said Board of Commissioners until the applicant shall have filed with the
said Board a bond, with two good and sufficient sureties, or a corporate bond,
in the principal sum of $500 for a Class A retail license, or $750 for a Class
B retail license, or $1,000 for a Class C retail license. All of such bonds
shall be made in favor of the county, and conditioned upon the licensee
operating his or her business, thus licensed, in strict compliance with this
chapter, and with the laws of the state, in such cases made and provided. A
separate bond shall be required to be filed for each place where beer is sold
at retail.
   (B)   Beginning July 1, 1987, no person shall be granted a license to
operate or maintain a trade, profession, or calling, the transaction or
carrying on of which requires a license, within the county, if such person
operates an establishment which as part of its business serves alcoholic
beverages, as defined in UCA § 32A-1-5(1) to the public for consumption on the
premises, unless that person shall show by certificate(s) granted by the
state’s Division of Alcoholism and Drugs that each employee of the business
engaging in the serving, selling, or furnishing of such alcohol on the
premises, has completed the Alcohol Training and Education Seminar, as required
in UCA § 32A-17-3(1).
   (C)   Every new employee hired after the licensee has been licensed in
compliance with division (B) above, who is required to complete this seminar,
shall complete the seminar within six months of commencing employment.
Violation of this section will result in revocation of the license granted
under this chapter, unless compliance with this chapter is completed with two
months of the time that licensee first became aware that such violation
occurred.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986; Ord. 1987-2, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 112.05 REQUIREMENTS OF LICENSEE.
   No license shall be issued to any retailer or wholesaler, except one of good
moral character, a citizen of the United States of America, over the age of 21
years, who has not been convicted of a felony, or of any violation of any law
or ordinance relating to intoxicating liquors, or of drunken driving, or of
keeping a gambling or disorderly house, or who has pleaded guilty or forfeited
his or her bail on a charge of having committed a felony, or of having violated
any such law or ordinance; or to any partnership, any member of which lacks any
of these qualifications; or to any corporation, any director or officer of
which lacks any of these qualifications.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986)
§ 112.06 LICENSE IS NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be used only by the
licensee therein named, and by no other, and only at the premises described in
said license; and shall not be transferable to any other person, partnership,
association, or corporation.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986)
§ 112.07 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   All applications provided for in this chapter shall be accompanied by
the fees hereafter provided, which fees shall be deposited in the County
Treasury, if the license is granted, and returned to the applicant, if denied:
      (1)   For Class A retail license, per annum: $100;
      (2)   For Class B retail license, per annum: $200;
      (3)   For Class C retail license, per annum: $250; and
      (4)   For seasonal license, at the rate of 75% of the amount stated above
for retail licenses.
   (B)   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire December 31, at midnight of
the year of issue; or if a seasonal license for six months, then at the end of
such six-month period, or at the end of the period for which such seasonal
license is issued.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986)
§ 112.08 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, association, partnership, or
corporation to engage in the business of selling alcoholic beverages at
wholesale within the limits of the county, outside of incorporated cities and
towns, without having first obtained a license therefor from the state’s
Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 STATE LAW.
   All licenses shall be required to conform to the provisions of the state’s
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, and it shall be unlawful for any person,
association, partnership, or corporation to sell alcoholic beverages in the
county, in violation of the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, or of this
chapter. The conditions of such licenses are such that they may be revoked or
suspended by the Board of County Commissioners at any time, if any licensee
hereinabove described shall be convicted of any violation of any law of the
state, or any ordinance of the county, relating to the manufacture, sale,
possession, or giving away of alcoholic beverages; or if, in the opinion of the
Board of County Commissioners, the premises are not maintained in a sanitary
condition; or if, in the opinion of the Board of County Commissioners, the
business is conducted in a disorderly manner, the Board of County Commissioners
may revoke or suspend the license of any such licensee.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 LOCATION OF BUSINESSES; HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, dispense, furnish, or
give away alcoholic beverages within 600 feet of any church or school. It shall
be unlawful to sell, dispense, furnish, or give away alcoholic beverages at any
place within the county, outside of corporate limits of incorporated cities and
towns:
      (1)   After 1:00 a.m. and before 10:00 a.m.; and
      (2)   Between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on any election day.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the terms of division (A) above, an establishment
licensed under this chapter, or the under the state’s Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act, may remain open for one hour after the establishment ceases the
sale and service of alcoholic beverages during which time a patron of the
establishment may finish consuming a single serving of beer not exceeding 26
ounces.
(Ord. 2005-1, passed 5-23-2005) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 SCREENED ENCLOSURES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell alcoholic beverages within any screened
enclosure, and the place of selling must be clearly visible from the sidewalk
or roadside, and no frosted glass, vestibules, or other devices shall be used
to obscure the view and prevent visibility.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 PREMISES TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   The licensee’s premises, together with all receptacles, glasses, containers,
or other appointments, must be kept healthfully and scrupulously clean,
sanitary, and wholesome; and are subject to inspection by the Sheriff, County
Physician, and all other Health Officers of the county and the state at any and
all reasonable times.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell, furnish, dispense, or give
away alcoholic beverages unless the license therefor is plainly displayed in a
conspicuous place on the premises of licensee at all times.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, association, partnership, or corporation convicted of violating
any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1986-1, passed 6-16-1986)
CHAPTER 113: BUSINESS TAXES
Section
Sales Tax
   
113.001   Title
   
113.002   Purpose
   
113.003   Sales and use tax
Local Sales and Use Tax
   
113.015   Imposition of tax
   
113.016   Application of tax
   
113.017   Levy and collection of tax
   
113.018   Adoption of state law
   
113.019   Administration
   
113.020   Exemption
Optional County Sales and Use Tax
   
113.035   Title
   
113.036   Statutory authority
   
113.037   Purpose
   
113.038   Imposition-amount
   
113.039   Incorporation of state law
   
113.040   Administration, collection, and distribution
   
113.041   Exemptions
Tourism, Recreation, and Cultural Facilities Tax
   
113.055   Title
   
113.056   Purpose
   
113.057   Definitions
   
113.058   Imposition of tax
   
113.059   Collection of tax
   
113.060   Application of tax revenues
Transient Room Tax
   
113.075   Title
   
113.076   Purpose
   
113.077   Statutes adopted by reference
   
113.078   Transient defined
   
113.079   Tax imposed
   
113.080   Exclusions
   
113.081   Convention Bureau Special Reserve Fund
   
113.082   Contributions and donations permitted
   
113.083   Audits
   
113.084   Remittance of tax
   
113.085   Appeals
Rural Transportation Infrastructure Tax
   
113.090   Imposition of tax
   
113.091   Application of tax
   
113.092   Levy and collection of tax
Tax Collection
   
113.100   Redemption of final sales tax
   
113.101   Preferences
   
113.102   Sale after a lack of redemption
 
   
113.999   Penalty
SALES TAX
§ 113.001 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as “the Sales and Use Tax Ordinance of the
County of Garfield”.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 2-5-1990)
§ 113.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The 48th session of the State Legislature has authorized the counties
and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use tax ordinances imposing
a 1% tax.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to conform the sales and use tax
of the municipality to the requirements of the Sales and Use Tax Act, UCA Title
59, Chapter 12 (1953), as currently amended.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 2-5-1990)
§ 113.003 SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   (1)   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, there is
levied and there shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of
tangible personal property, services, and meals made within the municipality at
the rate of 1%.
      (2)   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other
consumption in this municipality of tangible personal property from any
retailer on or after the operative date of this subchapter at the rate of 1% of
the sales price of the property.
      (3)   For the purpose of this subchapter, all retail sales shall be
presumed to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the
retailer or his or her agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. In the event a retailer
has no permanent place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be as determined under the rules and regulations
prescribed by and adopted by the State Tax Commission. Public utilities as
defined by UCA Title 54 (1953), shall not be obligated to determined the place
or places within any county or municipality where public utilities services are
rendered, but the place of sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such
service allocable to the city shall be as determined by the State Tax
Commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   (B)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Act, all of the
provisions of UCA Title 59, Chapter 12 (1953), as amended, and in force and
affect on the effective date of this subchapter, insofar as they relate to
sales taxes, excepting UCA §§ 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, are hereby
adopted and made a part of this subchapter as through fully set forth herein.
      (2)   Wherever, and to the extent that in UCA Title 59, Chapter 12
(1953), the state is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
this municipality shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this division (B)
(2) shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the municipality for
the word “state” when that word is used as part of the title of the State Tax
Commission, or of the Constitution of the State of Utah, nor shall the name of
the municipality be substituted for that of the state in any section when the
result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the
municipality or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax
Commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of the subchapter.
      (3)   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under UCA § 59-
12-106 (1953), an additional license shall not be required by reason of this
section.
      (4)   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or changed by
which the tax is measured:
         (a)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer of consumer; and
         (b)   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use,
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
tax has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the state, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the Sales and Use Tax Act.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 2-5-1990)
LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX
§ 113.015 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   A local sales and use tax is adopted and imposed upon every retail sale and
use of items listed in UCA § 59-12-103, made within the county, including areas
contained within the cities and towns thereof at the rate of 1% of the purchase
price paid or charged, subject to the exemptions provided for in UCA § 59-12-
104, to fund rural county health care facilities in the county.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 2-14-2000; Ord. 2011-1, passed 2-14-2011)
§ 113.016 APPLICATION OF TAX.
   The moneys generated from the tax imposed under §
113.015 may only be used for the financing of:
   (A)   Ongoing operating expenses of rural county health care facilities; and
   (B)   The acquisition of land for, and the design, construction, equipping,
and furnishing of, rural county health care facilities.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 2-14-2000; Ord. 2011-1, passed 2-14-2011)
§ 113.017 LEVY AND COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   Levied at the same time and collected in the same manner as provided
in UCA § 59-12-2, the Local Sales and Use Tax Act, except that the collection
and distribution of the tax revenue is not subject to UCA § 59-12-205(2).
   (B)   Levied for a period of ten years and may be reauthorized at the end of
the ten-year period by the county legislative body as provided in §
113.015. The terms used in this subchapter shall have the same definitions as
provided in UCA § 41-22-2.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 2-14-2000; Ord. 2011-1, passed 2-14-2011; Ord. 2023-4,
passed 3-27-2023)
§ 113.018 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   The provisions of UCA § 59-12-1, Tax Collection, insofar as they relate to
sale or use tax, are hereby adopted by this reference as if fully set forth
herein, except that the name of the county as the taxing agency shall be
substituted for that of the state where necessary; and that an additional
license is not required if one has been or is issued under UCA § 59-12-106.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 2-14-2000; Ord. 2011-1, passed 2-14-2011)
§ 113.019 ADMINISTRATION.
   The county shall contract, prior to the effective date of the ordinance
codified herein, with the State Tax Commission to perform all functions
incident to the administration or operation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 2-14-2000; Ord. 2011-1, passed 2-14-2011)
§ 113.020 EXEMPTION.
   The sale, storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property,
the purchase price or the cost of which has been subject to sales or use tax
under a sales and use tax ordinance enacted in accordance with state law, by
any county, city, or town in any other county in the state, shall be exempt
from the tax due under this subchapter.
(Ord. 2000-1, passed 2-14-2000; Ord. 2011-1, passed 2-14-2011)
OPTIONAL COUNTY SALES AND USE TAX
§ 113.035 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as “the Optional County Sales and Use Tax”.
(Ord. 1997-4, passed 8-25-1997)
§ 113.036 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   The authority for imposing this tax is derived from of UCA § 59-12-9 (1953),
as amended.
(Ord. 1997-4, passed 8-25-1997)
§ 113.037 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted to provide the county with a source of revenue to
allow the county to more effectively carry out its role as a political and
legal subdivision of the state. The Board of County Commissioners hereby
directs that the provisions of this subchapter be interpreted and constructed
to accomplish this stated purpose.
(Ord. 1997-4, passed 8-25-1997)
§ 113.038 IMPOSITION-AMOUNT.
   In addition to all other taxes imposed, the county does hereby impose and
levy for collection, a sales and use tax of 0.25% upon the sales and uses
described in UCA § 59-12-103(1), subject to the exemptions provided for in UCA
§ 59-12-104. This tax is imposed upon all sales and uses made in the county,
including sales and uses made within the corporate limits of the cities and
towns of the county. Provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to the
provisions of the sales and use tax laws of the state, to which reference is
hereinafter made in this subchapter and which are hereby enacted and made a
part of this subchapter as though fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 1997-4, passed 8-25-1997)
§ 113.039 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with provisions of the County Option Sales and Use Tax Act, all
the provisions of UCA § 59-12-1 (1953), as amended, in force and effect on the
effective date of this subchapter insofar as they relate to the tax imposed by
this subchapter, (with the exception of UCA §§ 59-12-101 and 59-12-119), are
hereby adopted and, by this reference are made a part of this subchapter as
though fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Wherever and to the extent that in UCA § 59-12-1 (1953), as amended,
the state is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the county
shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this division (B) shall be deemed to
require substitution of the name of the county for the word “state” when that
word is used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission, or the
Constitution of the State of Utah, nor shall the name of the county be
substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the county or any
agency thereof, rather than by or against the State Tax Commission in
preforming the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1997-4, passed 8-25-1997)
§ 113.040 ADMINISTRATION, COLLECTION, AND DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   Taxes imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be levied at the same
time and collected in the same manner as provided for in UCA §§ 59-12-201 et
seq. (l953), as amended, except that the revenue derived from the tax is not
subject to the collection and distribution procedures established pursuant to
the provisions of UCA § 59-12-205(2) (1953), as amended. Revenues collected
pursuant to this subchapter shall be distributed in accordance with UCA § 59-
12-902(3) and the rules adopted by the State Tax Commission pursuant to UCA §
59-12-902(3)(d). All revenues so collected shall be revenues of either the
county or of any other county entitled to distribution of the same, pursuant to
the statute.
   (B)   Any records, tax returns, or other information of any person,
corporation, company, or other group or organization subject to the taxes
imposed by this subchapter which relate to the calculation, collection, or
remittance to the State Tax Commission of such taxes shall be subject to
review, inspection, and auditing by the county.
   (C)   The fee charged to the county by the State Tax Commission under UCA §
59-12-206 (1953), as amended, shall be based on the distribution amount
resulting after all the applicable distribution calculations under UCA § 59-12-
902(3) have been made.
(Ord. 1997-4, passed 8-25-1997)
§ 113.041 EXEMPTIONS.
   The sale, storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property
which is exempt from sales or use taxation pursuant to UCA § 59-12-104 (1953),
as amended, is exempt from the application of the optional county sales and use
tax enacted by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1997-4, passed 8-25-1997)
TOURISM, RECREATION, AND CULTURAL FACILITIES TAX
§ 113.055 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as “the Tourism, Recreation, Cultural and
Convention Facilities Tax Ordinance of Garfield County, State of Utah”.
(Ord. 1996-1, passed 2-12-1996)
§ 113.056 PURPOSE.
   At the 1990 General Session, the 48th State Legislature passed a bill
authorizing counties of the state, in addition to other taxes, including sales,
use, and transient room taxes, to impose a tourism, recreation, cultural, and
convention tax not to exceed 1% of all sales of prepared foods and beverages
sold by restaurants. The purpose of this subchapter is to enact and impose such
a tax as a means to foster the development of tourism, recreation, cultural,
and convention facilities in order to further the welfare of the citizens of
the county and the economic growth of the county.
(Ord. 1996-1, passed 2-12-1996)
§ 113.057 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, corporation, limited liability company, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, syndicate, or any group or combination acting as a unit.
   RESTAURANT. Includes any coffee shop, cafeteria, luncheonette, soda
fountain, or fast-food service where food is prepared for immediate
consumption. RESTAURANT does not include any retail establishment whose primary
business or function is the sale of fuel or food items for off-premises, but
not immediate, consumption.
(Ord. 1996-1, passed 2-12-1996)
§ 113.058 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, there is hereby
imposed and levied, and there shall be collected and paid, in addition to any
other taxes, including, but not limited to, the uniform local sales and use tax
and the transient room tax, a tourism, recreation, cultural and convention tax,
not to exceed 1% of all sales of prepared foods and beverages that are sold by
restaurants in county.
   (B)   (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of UCA § 59-12-6 (1953), as amended, all of
the provisions of UCA § 59-12-1 (1953), as amended, tax collection, as amended,
and in force and effect on the effective date of this subchapter, insofar as
they relate to sales of prepared foods and beverages sold by restaurants, as
defined herein, are hereby adopted and made a part of this subchapter as though
fully set forth herein.
      (2)   Wherever, and to the extent that in UCA § 59-12-1 (1953), as
amended, tax collection, as amended, the state is named or referred to as the
taxing agency or entity, the name of the county shall be substituted therefor.
Nothing in this division (B)(2) shall be deemed to require substitution of the
name of the county for the word “state” when that word is used as part of the
title of the State Tax Commission, or of the Constitution of the State of Utah,
nor shall the name of the county be substituted for that of the state in any
section when the result of that substitution would require action to be taken
by or against the county or any agency or department thereof, rather than by or
against the State Tax Commission in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this subchapter.
   (C)   If an annual license has been or is issued to a retailer under UCA §
59-12-106 (1953), as amended, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section.
(Ord. 1996-1, passed 2-12-1996)
§ 113.059 COLLECTION OF TAX.
   (A)   The tax imposed pursuant to this subchapter shall be levied at the
same time and collected in the same manner as provided in the Local Sales and
Use Tax Act, UCA § 59-12-2 (1953), as amended, except that the collection and
distribution of the tax revenue is not subject to the provisions of UCA § 59-
12-205(2) (1953), as amended.
   (B)   Heretofore, the county has entered into an agreement with the State
Tax Commission to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of the uniform sales and use tax ordinance of the county. The Board
of County Commissioners is hereby authorized to enter into such supplementary
agreement with the state’s Tax Commission, as may be necessary to the
collection, administration, and operation of the tax enacted and imposed by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 1996-1, passed 2-12-1996)
§ 113.060 APPLICATION OF TAX REVENUES.
   (A)   Revenues from imposition and collection of the tax herein imposed may
be used for the purposes of financing, in whole or in part, tourism promotion,
and the development, operation, and maintenance of tourist, recreation,
cultural, and convention facilities as defined in UCA § 59-12-602 (1953), as
amended.
   (B)   Taxes imposed under this subchapter may be pledged as security for
bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness incurred by the county under
the provisions of the state’s Municipal Bond Act, as set forth in UCA Title 11,
Chapter 14 (1953), as amended, to finance tourism, recreation, cultural, and
convention facilities.
(Ord. 1996-1, passed 2-12-1996)
TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
§ 113.075 TITLE.
   The ordinance codified in this subchapter shall be known as “the Transient
Room Tax Ordinance of the County of Garfield, State of Utah”.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 113.076 PURPOSE.
   The Board of County Commissioners declare that the ordinance codified in
this subchapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish these
purposes:
   (A)   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that complies with the
requirements and limitations contained in UCA §§ 17-3 and 59-12-3, as amended;
   (B)   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of UCA §§ 17-31 and 59-12-3 (1953), as amended;
   (C)   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that imposes a tax not to
exceed 4.25%, and provide a measure therefor that can be administered and
collected in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practical to the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Tax Commission in
administering and collecting the sales and use taxes of the state; and
   (D)   To adopt a transient room tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will provide funds for the purposes of establishing, financing, and
promoting tourism, recreation, and convention bureaus and such other purposes
as have been authorized by law for the expenditure of transient room taxes, and
for that purpose create, at the discretion of the county, a reserve fund
comprised of any funds collected but not expended during any financial year.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 113.077 STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All applicable provisions of UCA § 17-31 (1953), as amended and UCA § 59-12-
3 (1953), are hereby incorporated herein and made a part of this chapter by
this reference thereto.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 113.078 TRANSIENT DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRANSIENT. Any individual who occupies any suite, room, or rooms in a motel,
hotel, motor court, inn, or similar public accommodation for fewer than 30
consecutive days.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 113.079 TAX IMPOSED.
   (A)   There is hereby levied on all persons, companies, corporations, or
other like and similar persons, groups, or organizations doing business in the
county as motor courts, motels, inns, or like and similar public
accommodations, a transient room tax at the rate of 4.25% of the rent for every
occupancy of a suite, room, or rooms by a transient.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of UCA §§ 17-31 and 59-12-3 (1953), as amended
from time to time, all of the provisions of UCA § 59-12-1 (1953), as amended,
known as the Sales and Use Tax Act, and all of the provisions of UCA § 59-12-2
(1953), as amended, known as the state’s Local Sales and Use Tax Law, are
hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein
to the extent the said provisions are relevant and pertinent to the
administration and the collection of taxes by the county.
   (C)   Wherever, and to the extent that in UCA § 59-12-1 (1953), the state is
named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of the county shall be
substituted therefor. Nothing in this division (C) shall be deemed to require
substitution of the name of the county for the word “state” when that word is
used as part of the title of the State Tax Commission or of the Constitution of
the State of Utah.
   (D)   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under UCA § 59-12-
106 (1953), an additional license shall not be required by reason of this
section, but a copy of such license shall be provided to the county within 30
days after the effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 113.080 EXCLUSIONS.
   There shall be excluded from the rent paid or charged by which the tax is
measured:
   (A)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state or by any
other governmental agency upon a retailer or consumer; and
   (B)   Receipts from the sale or service charge for any food or beverage or
room service charges in conjunction with the occupancy of the suite, room, or
rooms.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 113.081 CONVENTION BUREAU SPECIAL RESERVE FUND.
   For the purposes authorized by this subchapter, there is hereby created a
reserve fund, to be known as the Convention Bureau Special Reserve Fund, which
shall be maintained separate and apart from general and other special funds of
the county, and in which shall be deposited any and all funds collected by
virtue of the tax imposed hereby but not expended during the fiscal year.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 113.082 CONTRIBUTIONS AND DONATIONS PERMITTED.
   The County Commissioners are authorized to accept, on behalf of the county,
funds contributed, donated, or supplied by any person, corporation, other
governmental agency, or from any other source whatever for the purposes
outlined in this subchapter. When such funds are received, they shall be
deposited and used in the same manner as though they were derived from the tax
imposed hereby.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 113.083 AUDITS.
   Any records or other information of any person, corporation, company, or
other group or organization subject to the taxes imposed by this subchapter
which relate to occupancy and occupancy revenues or to the calculation,
collection, or remittance to the county of said taxes shall be subject to
review and inspection by the county. Audits of such records and information or
the supporting records therefor shall be the responsibility of the State Tax
Commission. The records of the State Tax Commission relating to the collection
of sales and use taxes, or tourism, recreation, and convention center taxes on
the same transactions which are the subject of this tax shall be subject to
review and audit as provided in the county’s contract with the State Tax
Commission for the collection of the local sales and use tax and as provided by
law. The taxpayer shall also be subject to such audits and reviews by the State
Tax Commission as are provided for by law.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 113.084 REMITTANCE OF TAX.
   The tax shall be remitted as directed by the county and a tax return filed
on forms provided or approved by the county at such times and with such
frequency as are provided for by state law. All returns filed pursuant hereto
shall accurately identify the locations where the transactions occurred and the
gross sales upon which the tax for each location is computed.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 8-14-2006)
§ 113.085 APPEALS.
   Any party aggrieved by any action of the county relating to the assessment,
calculation, or collection of the tax, including any notice of deficiency
issued, may request a hearing by filing a written request for hearing as
provided by law.
(Ord. 2006-3, passed 8-14-2006)
RURAL TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE TAX
§ 113.090 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   This subchapter hereby imposes a local sales and use tax of 0.25% on every
retail sale and use as described in UCA § 59-12-2 to fund rural transportation
infrastructure located in Garfield County, including incorporated
municipalities.
(Ord. 2023-6, passed 4-24-2023)
§ 113.091 APPLICATION OF TAX.
   The monies generated from the tax imposed by this subchapter may only be
used in the same manner as Class B and Class C road funds distributed in
accordance with UCA § 72-2-108.
(Ord. 2023-6, passed 4-24-2023)
§ 113.092 LEVY AND COLLECTION OF TAX.
   Taxes imposed under this subchapter shall be levied at the same time and
collected in the same manner as provided in UCA § 59-12-2, except that the
collection and distribution of the tax revenue is not subject to UCA § 59-12-
205(2).
(Ord. 2023-6, passed 4-24-2023)
TAX COLLECTION
§ 113.100 REDEMPTION OF FINAL SALES TAX.
   Redemption of the taxes, penalties, and interest on all properties will be
accepted by the County Treasurer up to the time of the final tax sale.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 4-28-1997)
§ 113.101 PREFERENCES.
   (A)   First preference shall be given to all recorded property owners prior
to the time of the sale to redeem the parcel.
   (B)   If the property owner does not redeem the property on the first
preference, second preference shall be given to all lien holders of record, in
the order of their recorded lien on file at the office of the County Recorder,
to redeem the parcel(s).
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 4-28-1997)
§ 113.102 SALE AFTER A LACK OF REDEMPTION.
   (A)   If no redemption is made by the recorded property owner or the
recorded lien holder, the County Auditor shall offer the property to any member
of the public present at the sale for the highest bid for the entire parcel. No
bid shall be less than the amount of taxes, penalties, interest, and
advertising fees. All prospective bidders must register prior to the beginning
of the sale.
   (B)   If the public bids in accordance with the requirements set forth in
division (A) above, and is awarded the property, the new owner has until 5:00
p.m. the day of the sale, to pay the bid price to the County Treasurer. All
payments must be cash or a cashier’s check.
   (C)   Any property not redeemed by the recorded property owner or the
recorded lien holders and not bid on by the public at the time of the final tax
sale, shall be deeded to the county, with a tax deed by the County Auditor, and
shall be recorded at the office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 1997-1, passed 4-28-1997)
§ 113.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
113.001 through
113.003 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine in an amount less than $300 or imprisonment for a
period of not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
113.055 to
113.060 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine in an amount not less than $1,000, or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment.
   (D)   Any person who fails to file any tax return or information required by
§§
113.075 through
113.085, who fails to pay any tax due hereunder, or who fails to timely pay
such tax shall be subject to the imposition of penalties and interest in
accordance with UCA §§ 59-1-401 and 59-1-402 or any successor provision
thereto.
(Ord. 1990-1, passed 2-5-1990; Ord. 1996-1, passed 2-12-1996; Ord. 2006-3,
passed 8-14-2006)
CHAPTER 114: CAMPGROUNDS
Section
   
114.01   Short title
   
114.02   Purpose
   
114.03   Definitions
   
114.04   Health department permit required
   
114.05   Land use applications required
   
114.06   Sale or transfer of property
   
114.07   Campground standards
   
114.08   Parking regulations
   
114.09   Authorized manager or local contact person
   
114.10   Prevention of noise, nuisance or trespass
   
114.11   Appeals
 
   
114.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Utah Administrative Code Rule 392-300 Recreation Camp Sanitation
§ 114.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Campground Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 114.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for the use of
certain privately owned commercial campgrounds in order to protect the health,
safety and welfare of campground occupants and citizens of the county, ensure
proper collection and remittance of applicable taxes and to address negative
impacts relating to noise, parking, traffic, garbage, wastewater disposal,
potable drinking water sources and other common occurrences resulting from
certain types of campgrounds.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   This chapter shall be interpreted using the definitions provided in the Utah
Administrative Code Rule 392-300 Recreation Camp Sanitation (See Appendix A
following this chapter), except for, in addition to, or as modified by the
following:
   LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT.  Unless otherwise designated, the Southwest Utah
Public Health Department.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 114.04 HEALTH DEPARTMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Written approval from the state or local health department shall be required
for potable drinking water and wastewater disposal systems.
(Ord. 2023-3, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 114.05 LAND USE APPLICATIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Conditional use permit. Semi-developed and/or modern campgrounds may
be approved as a conditional use in Multiple Use and Resort Recreation zoning
districts.
   (B)   Zone change. Semi-developed, or modern campgrounds shall be a
permitted use in Commercial zoning districts. An approved zone change shall be
required if the applicable campground is not listed as a permitted use or
approved as a conditional use in its current zoning district.
   (C)   Prohibited use. Primitive and semi-primitive campgrounds for
commercial use shall be prohibited in all zoning districts. No campground shall
be approved in the unincorporated areas of Garfield County without permanent
potable water and wastewater facilities approved by the local or State Health
Department.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 2023-3, passed 3-27-2023)
§ 114.06 SALE OR TRANSFER OF PROPERTY.
   In the event of a sale or other transfer of any property containing a tract
of land licensed as a campground, the purchaser or transferee of the property
shall be required to amend the conditional use permit and business license
within 30 days of the date of purchase or transfer. In the event that the
purchaser or transferee fails to make necessary amendments within said 30 days,
the license will be forfeited and the owner shall be required to re-apply for
all appropriate inspections, permits and licenses.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 114.07 CAMPGROUND STANDARDS.
   (A)   At a minimum, any tract of land permitted as a campground shall
conform to the standards listed in the Recreation Camp Sanitation Rule (See
Appendix A).
   (B)   Semi-primitive campgrounds shall be required to have at least one
vault privy or portable restroom per 15 campsites or portion thereof. Said
facilities shall receive written approval from the Local Health Department
prior to county consideration for land use approval.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 114.08 PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The owner or manager or any campground shall ensure appropriate off-street
parking is provided for its occupants of the campground in accordance with the
following:
   (A)   Unless specifically approved by adjacent property owners, off street
parking shall be provided on the same property as the campground; and
   (B)   The number of vehicles allowed for the occupants of a campground shall
be restricted to the number of off-street parking spaces provided by the owner.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 114.09 AUTHORIZED MANAGER OR LOCAL CONTACT PERSON.
   (A)   Designation. An owner may designate a manager or local contact person
to be held responsible for compliance with the requirements of this chapter on
behalf of the owner. Notwithstanding this subsection, the owner shall not be
relieved from any responsibility or liability for noncompliance with any
applicable law, rule or regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy of the
subject campground, regardless of whether such noncompliance was committed by
the owner, manager, local contact person or the occupants of the owner’s
campground.
   (B)   Manager availability. While a campground is occupied or open for
business, the manager and/or local contact person shall be readily available
for the purpose of responding to questions, comments or complaints regarding
the condition, operation or conduct of occupants of the campground.
   (C)   Manager responsibility for guest's conduct. The manager and/or local
contact person shall use reasonably prudent business practices to ensure that
the occupants of the campground do not create unreasonable noise or
disturbances, engage in disorderly conduct, or violate any applicable law, rule
or regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy of the campground.
   (D)   Manager response to complaint. The manager and/or local contact person
shall, upon notification that any occupant of the campground has created
unreasonable noise or disturbances, engaged in disorderly conduct or committed
violations of any applicable law, rule or regulation pertaining to the use and
occupancy of the campground, respond within one hour to halt or prevent
recurrence of such conduct.
   (E)   Failure to respond. Upon failure of the manager or local contact
person to respond to calls or complaints in one hour regarding the condition,
operation or conduct of occupants of the campground, the manager shall receive
written notice from the county. In the event that the owner, manager or local
contact person fail to respond to the complaints and or written notification
from the county, the County Commission may consider revocation of the owner's
conditional use permit in a public meeting.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 114.10 PREVENTION OF NOISE, NUISANCE OR TRESPASS.
   The owner or manager of any campground shall ensure occupants of the
campground do not:
   (A)   Create noises that by reason of time, nature, intensity or duration
are out of character with noises customarily heard in the surrounding areas;
   (B)   Disturb the peace of surrounding properties by shouting, fighting,
playing of loud music, racing of cars or recreational vehicles on streets or
engaging in outside recreational or other activities after 10:00 p.m and before
9:00 a.m.;
   (C)   Interfere with the privacy or trespass onto surrounding properties;
and
   (D)   Allow pets or animals to create incessant noise, roam the streets
without an owner present, trespass on neighboring properties or create any type
of mess that is not cleaned up by the owner of the pet or animal.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 114.11 APPEALS.
   Any person or entity aggrieved by a decision of the Planning Department,
Planning Commission or any other county office or staff member regarding the
provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal such decision to the
County Commission if a written request for an appeal is filed with the Zoning
Administrator within 14 days of verification that the aggrieved person or
entity has been made aware of the decision.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner who allows occupation of a tract of land as a campground in
Garfield County, as defined herein, without having first obtained the required
approvals of §§
114.04 and
114.05 of this chapter shall:
      (1)   Receive a request from the county to come into compliance;
      (2)   Upon failure to respond to the first request within 30 days,
receive a formal incompliance notice from the County Attorney; and
      (3)   Upon failure to respond to the second notice within 14 days, the
owner may be guilty of a Class C Misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a
fine of up to $750, imprisonment for up to 90 days or any combination thereof
for each such violation.
   (B)   Any owner or manager of a campground in Garfield County who refuses to
cooperate with, or respond to the Building Department, Planning Department,
Clerk's Office or any other county office or staff member after a period of 60
days from the initial notification concerning the provisions of this chapter
may be guilty of a Class C Misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a fine of
up to $750, imprisonment for up to 90 days or any combination thereof for each
such violation.
   (C)   Any owner or manager of a campground in Garfield County who, having
first obtained the required approvals for use of said tract of land as a
campground, thereafter operates or permits operation of said campground in
violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter may be guilty of an
infraction, and may be punished by a fine of up to $750 for each such
violation.
   (D)   In the event of any one violation of this chapter committed by an
owner, manager, local contact person or occupant of the campground, the County
Commission shall discuss said violation(s) in a public meeting and consider
action, including possible fines or revocation of the conditional use permit
and/or business license for the campground in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022)
APPENDIX A: UTAH ADMINISTRATIVE CODE RULE 392-300 RECREATION CAMP SANITATION
R392. Health, Disease Control and Prevention, Environmental Services .
R392-300. Recreation Camp Sanitation.
R392-300-1 Authority and Purpose.
   (1)   This rule is authorized under Sections 26-1-5, 26-1-30 (23), and 26-
15-2.
   (2)   This rule establishes definitions; sets standards for health and
welfare of individuals and for the prevention of the spread of disease in or
from a recreational camp.
R392-300-2. Applicability.
   This rule applies to any person who owns or operates a camp in Utah, unless
specifically exempted. This rule applies to the repair, maintenance, use,
operation, and occupancy of camps or campsites designed, intended for use, or
otherwise used for temporary human habitation in Utah. This rule does not apply
to primitive or backcountry camping.
R392-300-3. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this rule, the following terms, phrases, and words shall
have the meanings herein expressed:
   (1)   “Camp” means any day-use area, primitive camp, modern camp, semi-
developed, or semi-primitive campground.
   (2)   “Day-use area” means an area in which human occupation is limited
specifically to day use, and does not include overnight sleeping
accommodations. A day-use area may include any parcel or tract of land
designated as a recreation park, picnic grounds, or recreational area located
within the confines of an organized recreation camp.
   (3)   “Local health officer” means the health officer of the local health
department having jurisdiction, or designated representative.
   (4)   “Modern camp” means a campground of two or more campsites accessible
by any type of vehicular traffic, and having permanent buildings for sleeping,
a potable water supply under pressure, and food service facilities . Modern
camps may be operated on a seasonal or short-term basis, and may include
privately owned campgrounds such as youth camps, boy or girl scout camps,
mixed-age group camps, summer camps, athletic camps, family group camps, or
camps that are operated and maintained under the guidance, supervision or
auspices of religious, public and private educational, and community service
organizations.
   (5)   “Operator” means a person with ownership or overall responsibility for
managing or operating a camp in the State of Utah.
   (6)   “Plumbing Code” means International Plumbing Code as incorporated and
amended in Title 15A, State Construction and Fire Codes Act.
   (7)   “Primitive “ or “Back-country” means camping in a completely
naturalized wilderness location that is in no way preconditioned for camping,
and where no services or amenities are provided to the camper.
   (8)   “Service building” means a permanent structure located within a camp
that contains toilet, hand sink, or bathing facilities for use by recreation
camp occupants.
   (9)   “Semi-developed” means a campground of two or more campsites where
potable water services are made available. These campsites are accessible by
any type of vehicular traffic and are not furnished with permanent sleeping or
culinary buildings. Roads, trails and campsites are defined, basic facilities
(toilets or privies, tables, fire pits or tent pads) are provided. These camps
include state forest campgrounds , privately owned campgrounds, and youth
camps.
   (10)   “Semi-primitive” means a campground where potable water services are
not available. Rudimentary facilities including vault privies or earthen pit
privies and fire pits are present.
   (11)   “Wastewater” means discharges from all plumbing facilities including,
rest rooms , kitchen, and laundry fixtures either separately or in combination.
R392-300-4. General.
   (1) This rule does not require a construction change in any portion of a
camp if the camp was in compliance with the law in effect at the time the camp
was constructed, except as in R392-300-4 (1) (a).
   (a)   The local heal th   officer may require construction changes if it is
determined the camp or portion thereof is dangerous, unsafe, unsanitary,
health, or property.
   (2)   The operator shall carry out the provisions of this rule.
   (3)   Severability - If any provision of this code, or its application to
any person or circumstance is declared invalid, the application of such
provision to other person or circumstances, and the remainder of this code,
shall not be affected thereby.
   (4)   The operator shall comply with all applicable building, zoning,
electrical, health, fire codes and all local ordinances.
   (5)   Campsites, including day-use areas, shall be constructed to provide
adequate surface drainage, and shall be isolated from any existing or potential
public health hazard or nuisance.
R392-300-5. Water Supply.
   (1)   Potable water supply systems for use by public lodging occupants shall
be designed, installed, and operated according to the requirements set forth
by:
   (a)   Plumbing Code;
   (b)   The Utah Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking
Water under Title R309; and
   (c)   local health department regulations .
   (2)   The operator shall ensure that each day-use area and modern or semi-
developed camp is provided with potable water.
   (a)   Where individual water connections are not provided to camp sites,
common-use water faucets shall be accessible to camp occupants, and located not
more than 300 feet from any camp site.
   (b)   A threaded spigot is prohibited on any water faucet providing potable
water to a camp.
   (c)   The operator shall ensure that the area immediately around a water
faucet (i.e. spigot) is designed to promote surface drainage by using a
constructed drain system such as a gravel pit, subsurface drywell, French
drain, or seepage trench. The operator shall prevent water in this area from
flowing into traffic areas and surface waters, or from pooling, standing, or
becoming stagnant.
   (3)   The operator may be required to sample water systems operated on a
seasonal basis for bacteriologic analysis, as determined by the local health
officer.
   (4)   When a semi-primitive camp is provided with potable water, the
operator shall comply with all requirements of R392- 300-5.
R392-300-6. Wastewater Disposal Requirements.
   (1)   The operator shall make sewer service available to any modern camp or
semi-developed camp.
   (2)   Sewer systems for use by camp occupants shall be designed, installed,
and operated according to the requirements set forth by:
   (a)   Plumbing Code;
   (b)   The Utah Department of Environmental Quality, Division of Water
Quality under Title R317; and
   (c)   local health department regulations.
   (3)   All wastewater shall be discharged to a public sanitary sewer system
whenever practicable.
   (a)   Where connection to a public sewer is not practicable, wastewater
shall be discharged into an approved wastewater disposal system meeting the
requirements of Title R317 , Environmental Quality, Water Quality, and local
health department regulations.
   (b)   The operator shall submit all required plans for the construction or
alteration of a wastewater disposal system in accordance with Title R317 prior
to commencing construction or alteration.
   (4)   Sanitary vault privies or earthen pit privies shall be located,
constructed, and maintained according to the requirements of Rule R 317-560 and
local health department regulation in such a manner that:
   (a)   users do not contact waste matter deposited;
   (b)   access to the privy interior or vault is minimized for flies, insects,
rats, and other animals;
   (c)   surface or ground water cannot enter the vault or pit, either as
runoff or as flood water;
   (d)   the waste material in the privy cannot contaminate a water supply,
stream, or body of water; and
   (e)   odors are minimized both inside and outside the privy structure.
   (5)   The operator shall take measures to ensure that campers do not
defecate or urinate or otherwise dispose of human waste except at designated
privies or toilet facilities.
R392-300-7. Required Plumbing - Modern Camps.
   (1)   The minimum plumbing fixtures to be provided for modern camps shall be
based on 50 percent of the total number of occupants being male and 50 percent
being female, except where the camp is used exclusively by one gender, and
shall be calculated from Table I.
   (a)   Showers and sinks shall be provided with hot and cold potable water.
               TABLE I
      Required Minimum Plumbing Fixtures for Modern Camps
Plumbing Fixtures Ratio of Plumbing Fixtures For Number of Camp Occupants
                  Males Females Both Sexes
Plumbing Fixtures    Ratio of Plumbing Fixtures For Number of Camp Occupants
                     Males Females Both Sexes
Toilets              1:40* 1:25*   --
Sinks                1:35* 1:35*   --
Showers              1:35* 1:35*   --
Drinking Fountains   --    --      1:300*
Service Sink         --    --      1 per service building
Potable Water Faucet --    --      1 per service building
*Or fraction thereof
 
   (2)   Sinks shall be located either in the same room as toilets, or
immediately adjacent to the service building.
   (3)   Urinals may be substituted for up to half of the required number of
toilets for males, provided the urinal is installed in addition to a toilet at
the same location.
   (4)   Service buildings shall be located not less than 15 feet and not more
than 300 feet from any living and camping spaces served, unless integrated into
a permanent building at a modern camp.
   (5)   Soap and toilet tissue in suitable dispensers and waste receptacles
with lids shall be provided in each service building.
   (6)   Clean individual disposable towels shall be provided at each sink.
Alternate hand drying methods approved by the local health officer may be
substituted for individual disposable towels.
   (7)   The operator shall maintain each service building in a clean and
sanitary condition.
R392-300-8. Required Plumbing -- Semi-Developed Camps.
   (1)   For semi-developed camps, the minimum plumbing fixtures to be provided
shall be based on the number of sites, according to Table II.
   (a)   The operator shall calculate the minimum required number of fixtures
according to Table II.
                  TABLE II
      Required Minimum Plumbing Fixtures for Semi -Developed Camps
 
Plumbing Fixtures        Ratio of Plumbing Fixtures Per Number of Camp Sites
Toilets or vault privies 1:15*
Potable Water Faucet     1:15*
*Or fraction thereof
 
R392-300-9. Required Plumbing -- Day Use Areas.
   The minimum plumbing fixtures to be provided for day use areas shall be
calculated from Table III.
 
TABLE III
Required Minimum Plumbing Fixtures for Day Use
Plumbing Fixtures        Ratio of Plumbing Fixtures Per Number of Day Use Sites
Toilets or vault privies 1:15*
Potable Water Faucet     1:15*
*Or fraction thereof
 
R392-300-10. Operation and Maintenance.
   (1)   When tents, or permanent or semi-permanent buildings are provided by
the operator, they shall:
   (a)   be of sound construction;
   (b)   assure adequate protection against the weather;
   (c)   include essential facilities to permit maintenance in a clean and
operable condition;
   (d)   include openable windows or mechanical ventilation; and
   (e)   provide adequate storage for personal belongings.
   (2)   In open bay type sleeping areas containing four or more beds, the
operator shall separate beds by a horizontal distance of at least five feet,
reducible to three feet if beds are alternated head to foot, except in the case
of double stacked bunks, which shall have a minimum horizontal separation of
six feet under all circumstances. If partitions are utilized to preclude face-
to-face exposure between beds, spacing requirements may be modified to a
minimum separation distance of three feet between adjacent beds upon approval
of the local health officer.
   (3)   (a)   Each provided bed, bunk, or cot shall be maintained in a
sanitary condition.
   (b)   Mattresses, mattress covers, quilts, blankets, pillows, pillowcases,
sheets, bedcovers, and other bedding shall be kept clean and in good repair.
   (c)   A sheet shall be provided for each bed, and shall be large enough to
cover the top and all four sides of the mattress.
   (d)   A pillowcase shall be provided for each supplied pillow. Supplied
bedding shall be replaced with clean linen, including sheets and pillowcases,
before new occupant use.
   (4)   All buildings, rooms, and equipment, including furnishings and
equipment in camping areas, and the grounds surrounding them shall be
maintained in a clean and operable condition.
   (5)   Where electric power is available, service buildings shall be provided
with outside lighting to indicate the location and entrance doorways of each.
   (6)   Where necessary, all reasonable means shall be employed to eliminate
or control infestations of vermin, vectors, or pests within all parts of any
camp. This shall include approved screening or other approved control of
outside openings in structures intended for occupancy or food service
facilities.
   (7)   Each modern camp shall be equipped with at least a 24-unit ANSI
compliant first aid kit. The operator shall ensure that each first aid kit is:
   (a)   properly stocked;
   (b)   readily accessible; and
   (c)   conveniently located in critical areas.
   (8)   The operator of a camp with onsite staff shall employ at least one
individual who is adequately trained to render first aid. This individual
should possess at least a certificate of completion of the Basic First Aid
Course as presented by the National Red Cross or its equivalent.
R392-300-11. Food Service.
   When food service is provided for camp occupants, food service, storage, and
preparation shall comply with the FDA Model Food Code as incorporated and
amended in R392-100 and local health department regulations.
R392-300-12. Solid Wastes.
   (1)   The operator shall provide adequate containers to prevent the
accumulation of solid waste in the camp.
   (2)   Solid waste generated at a camp or picnic area shall be stored in a
leak-proof, non-absorbent container, which shall be kept covered with a tight-
fitting lid.
   (3)   All solid wastes shall be disposed with sufficient frequency and in
such a manner as to prevent insect breeding, rodent harborage, or a public
health nuisance.
R392-300-13. Swimming Pool.
   The operator shall comply with Rule R392-302, Design, Construction, and
Operation of Public Pools as well as other local health department regulations
for all pools or spas made available to camp occupants or staff.
R392-300-14. Inspections and Investigations.
   (1) (a)   Upon presenting proper identification, the operator shall permit a
local health officer to enter upon the premises of a camp to perform
inspections, investigations, reviews, and other actions as necessary to ensure
compliance with Rule R392-300.
   (b)   The local health officer may not enter an occupied tent or other
structure designed or intended for temporary human habitation without the
express permission of the occupant except when a warrant is issued to a duly
authorized public safety officer which authorizes the local health officer to
enter, or when the operator and the local health officer determine that there
exists an imminent risk to the life, health, or safety of the occupant.
R392-300-15 Closing or Restricting of Camps or Sites.
   (1)   If a local health officer deems a camp, campsite, or portion thereof
to be an imminent risk to the life, health, or safety of the public, the area
may be closed or its use may be restricted, as determined by the local health
officer.
   (2)   Within a reasonable time as ordered by the local health officer, the
operator shall restrict public access to the impacted area of any camp,
campsite, or portion thereof that has been closed or restricted to use by a
local health officer.
   (3)   It shall be unlawful for an operator to allow any person to occupy a
camp or campsite that has been deemed unfit for human habitation until written
approval of the local health officer is given.
(Ord. 2022-4, passed 3-14-2022)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   WEAPONS
      
131.   PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Weapons prohibited in certain areas
   
130.03   Exception
   
130.04   Prohibited areas
   
130.05   Reckless shooting
Spotlight Usage
   
130.20   Definitions
   
130.21   When spotlighting is allowed
   
130.22   Use of spotlight
   
130.23   Restrictions on spotlighting
   
130.24   Exceptions
   
130.25   Property damage
Second Amendment Sanctuary
   
130.40   Prohibitions; exceptions
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS WEAPON. Any item that in the manner of its use or intended use is
capable of causing death or serious bodily injury. In construing whether an
item, object, or thing not commonly known as a dangerous weapon is a DANGEROUS
WEAPON, the character of the instrument, object, or thing; the character of the
wound produced, if any; and the manner in which the instrument, object, or
thing was used shall be determinative.
   FIREARMS. Includes pistols, revolvers, sawed-off shotguns, or sawed-off
rifles, and/or any device which could be used as a weapon from which is
expelled a projectile by force. More particularly, SHOTGUN is defined as a
weapon designed or redesigned, made or remade, and intended to be fired from
the shoulder and designed or redesigned and made or remade to use the energy of
the explosive in a fixed shotgun shell to fire through a smooth bore either a
number of ball shot or a single projectile for each single pull of the trigger;
and RIFLE is defined as a weapon designed or redesigned, made or remade, and
intended to be fired from the shoulder and designed or redesigned and made or
remade to use the energy of the explosive in a fixed metallic cartridge to fire
only a single projectile through a rifled bore for each single pull of the
trigger.
   PROHIBITED AREA. Any place where it is unlawful to discharge a weapon.
   SAWED-OFF SHOTGUN. A shotgun having a barrel or barrels of less than 18
inches in length or, in the case of a rifle, having a barrel or barrels of less
than 16 inches in length, or any weapon made from a rifle or shotgun (whether
by alteration, modification, or otherwise) if the weapon as modified has an
overall length of less than 26 inches.
(Ord. 1977-4, passed 10-17-1977)
§ 130.02 WEAPONS PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a dangerous weapon or to
discharge a firearm in any prohibited area in the county.
(Ord. 1977-4, passed 10-17-1977) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 EXCEPTION.
   This subchapter does not apply to peace officers acting in the line of duty.
(Ord. 1977-4, passed 10-17-1977)
§ 130.04 PROHIBITED AREAS.
   (A)   With respect to rifles, prohibited areas shall include those areas:
      (1)   Within a 1,000-foot radius of any residence, whether occupied or
not;
      (2)   Within a 1,000-foot radius of any barn, chicken coop, or other
enclosure used for the keeping of animals, whether occupied or not; and
      (3)   Within 1,000 feet of any corral or other fenced area used for the
keeping of animals, which is occupied by animals.
   (B)   With respect to shotguns, prohibited areas shall include those areas:
      (1)   Within a 600-foot radius of any residence, whether occupied or not;
      (2)   Within a 600-foot radius of any barn, chicken coop, or other
enclosure used for the keeping of animals, whether occupied or not; and
      (3)   Within 600 feet of any corral or other fenced area used for the
keeping of animals, which is occupied by animals.
(Ord. 1977-4, passed 10-17-1977)
§ 130.05 RECKLESS SHOOTING.
   Regardless of the distances specified in §
130.04, any person who discharges a firearm in willful or wanton disregard for
the safety of persons or property, is guilty of reckless shooting.
(Ord. 1977-4, passed 10-17-1977) Penalty, see §
130.99
SPOTLIGHT USAGE
§ 130.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. The same meaning as defined in UCA § 41-6a-102.
   SPOTLIGHTING. Throwing or casting the rays of any spotlight, headlight, or
other artificial light on any highway or in any field, woodland, or forest
while having in possession a weapon by which protected wildlife may be killed.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-27-2014)
§ 130.21 WHEN SPOTLIGHTING IS ALLOWED.
   Species that may be taken while spotlighting are limited to coyote, red fox,
striped skunk, raccoon, and/or jack rabbit.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-27-2014)
§ 130.22 USE OF SPOTLIGHT.
   (A)   Any artificial light used to spotlight coyote, red fox, striped skunk,
raccoon, and/or jack rabbit must be carried by the hunter.
   (B)   A motor vehicle headlight or light attached to a motor vehicle may not
be used to spotlight the animal.
   (C)   While hunting with the use of an artificial light, the hunter may not
occupy or operate any motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-27-2014) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.23 RESTRICTIONS ON SPOTLIGHTING.
   (A)   Before being able to spotlight, a person must first obtain a
spotlighting permit from the Sheriff’s office. There is a $20 cost to the
permit; the Sheriff’s office may restrict the number of permits issued. The
cost of the permit is for the administration costs of the permit and will be
retained by the County Sheriff’s office. Permits are valid for 365 days from
when they are obtained. Those individuals in the field with a weapon are
required to possess a spotlighting permit. Hunters are required to have either
a blue card or current small game license in order to purchase a spotlighting
permit. Hunters under the age of 16 may receive a free permit if a legal
guardian purchases a permit at full price.
   (B)   The spotlighting season in the county shall be closed from August 1 to
November 30.
   (C)   Any weapon may be used for spotlighting. Firearms may not have a
caliber larger than .24 and must not be capable of being fired fully automatic.
Expanding bullets must be used. Shotguns and archery tackle are permitted.
   (D)   Spotlighting is not allowed within 600 feet of a residence, city, or
town boundary or a recognized subdivision. Spotlighting is also not allowed
within cultivated areas including pastures, or farm ground in the county, where
livestock or crops may be located, whether crops or livestock are in the
location at the time is irrelevant.
   (E)   Spotlighting is not allowed on private property without permission;
such permission shall be obtained each year from the property owner.
   (F)   Hunters are not allowed to trespass on private property while
spotlighting.
   (G)   Spotlighting may not be done by a person under 18 years of age, unless
accompanied by a person 18 years of age or more and each person must possess a
spotlighting permit.
   (H)   Persons hunting with a spotlight must contact the Sheriff’s office
each day they are hunting and give the following information:
      (1)   Permit number;
      (2)   Approximate location;
      (3)   Approximation of time they will be hunting; and
      (4)   If hunting with more than one person, the permit number of each
hunter must be reported.
   (I)   Hunters will report to the Sheriff’s office within two business days
after the hunt to report the number of predators taken and the location of
each.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-27-2014; Ord. 2019-8, passed 6-24-2019) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A person or his or her agent who is lawfully acting to protect his or
her crops or domestic animals from predation by those animals; or
   (B)   An animal damage control agent acting in his or her official capacity
under a memorandum of agreement with the Division of Wildlife Resources.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-27-2014)
§ 130.25 PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   (A)   Hunters who are found to have caused damages will be solely
responsible for all damages to any and all property damaged.
   (B)   If found to be criminal in nature, the hunters will be charged
criminally and will face prosecution according to state law.
(Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-27-2014)
SECOND AMENDMENT SANCTUARY
§ 130.40 PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)    Prohibitions. Notwithstanding any other law, regulation, rule or
order to the contrary, no agent, department, employee or official of Garfield
County, a political subdivision of the State of Utah, while acting in their
official capacity, shall:
      (1)   Knowingly and willingly, participate in any way in the enforcement
of any unlawful act, as defined in division (B) below, regarding personal
firearms, firearm accessories or ammunition; or
      (2)   Utilize any Garfield County assets, funds or funds allocated by any
entity to Garfield County, in whole or in part, to engage in any activity that
aids in the enforcement or investigation relating to an unlawful act in
connection with personal firearms, firearm accessories or ammunition.
   (B)   Definition.
      (1)   An UNLAWFUL ACT shall consist of any federal or state act, law,
order, rule or regulation, which restricts an individual’s constitutional right
to keep and bear arms, including any federal or state act, law, order, rule or
regulation which bans or effectively bans, registers or effectively registers,
or limits the lawful use of firearms, firearm accessories or ammunition.
      (2)   Any such UNLAWFUL ACT is invalid in Garfield County and shall not
be recognized by Garfield County, shall be considered null, void and of no
effect and this includes, but shall not be limited to the following:
         (a)   Any tax, levy, fee or stamp imposed on firearms, firearm
accessories or ammunition not common to all other goods and services on the
purchase or ownership of those items by citizens;
         (b)   Any registration or tracking of firearms, firearm accessories or
ammunition;
         (c)   Any registration (except for those requirements associated with
the point of sale) or tracking of the owners of firearms, firearm accessories
or ammunition;
         (d)   Any act forbidding the possession, ownership or use of any type
of firearm, firearm accessory or ammunition by citizens of the legal age of 18
and over, other than pursuant to federal law background check requirements for
transfers or purchases through FFL dealers;
         (e)   Any act ordering the confiscation of firearms, firearm
accessories or ammunition from citizens;
         (f)   Any prohibition, regulation and/or use restriction related to
ownership or the constitutionally guaranteed lawful use or carry of firearms;
         (g)   Any prohibition, regulation and/or use restriction regarding the
transportation and/or storage of firearms and/or ammunition;
         (h)   Anyone within the jurisdiction of Garfield County, State of
Utah, accused to be in violation of this section may be sued in the District
Court of the State of Utah for declaratory and injunctive relief, damages and
attorney’s fees. Neither sovereign nor official or qualified immunity shall be
an affirmative defense in cases pursuant to this section.
   (C)   Enforcement. Any peace officer may enforce this section.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The protections provided to citizens by this section do not apply
to persons who have been convicted of felony crimes or who are prohibited from
possessing firearms under federal law and state law by a finding of a court of
competent jurisdiction that such individual is incompetent.
      (2)   This section is not intended to prohibit or affect in any way the
prosecution of any crime for which the use of, or possession of, a firearm is
an aggregating factor or enhancement to an otherwise independent crime.
      (3)   This section does not prohibit individuals in Garfield County from
voluntarily participating in assisting in permitting, licensing, registration
or other processing of applications for concealed carry permits, or other
firearm, firearm accessory or ammunition licensing or registration processes
that may be required by law.
      (4)   This section does not prohibit excise tax on guns and ammunition
remitted for hunting, fishing and other conservation efforts.
(Ord. 2021-4, passed 6-28-2021; Ord. 2021-8, passed 8-23-2021) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every violation of §§
130.01 to
130.05 shall be punishable as a Class B misdemeanor, with a maximum fine of
$299, and a maximum jail term of six months in the county jail, or both such
fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   (1)   Any person violating a provision of §§
130.20 through
130.25 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person found in violation of his or her permit will lose the
privilege of holding a county spotlight permit for a minimum of five years.
Violations will be reported to state wildlife offices.
   (D)   Any civil offense against §
130.40 shall be a Class A misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by
imprisonment up to 364 days, per UCA § 76-3-204 and a maximum fine of $2,500
for an individual and $10,000 for a corporation, per UCA § 76-3-301 and UCA §
76-3-302.
(Ord. 1977-4, passed 10-17-1977; Ord. 2014-1, passed 1-27-2014; Ord. 2021-4,
passed 6-28-2021)
CHAPTER 131: PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
Section
   
131.01   Intent
   
131.02   License required
   
131.03   Conditions for issuing license
   
131.04   Application
   
131.05   Issuance
   
131.06   Revocation
   
131.07   Enforcement
§ 131.01 INTENT.
   It is the purpose of the county to regulate the assesmblage of large numbers
of people, in excess of those normally needing the health, sanitary, fire,
police, transportation, and utility services regularly provided in the county,
in order that the health, safety, and welfare of all persons in the county,
residents and visitors alike, may be protected.
(Ord. 1-71, passed 6-1-1971)
§ 131.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall permit, maintain, promote, conduct, advertise, act as
entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage, or sell or give tickets to an actual
or reasonably anticipated assembly of 1,000 or more people which continues or
can reasonably be expected to continue for 18 or more consecutive hours,
whether on public or private property, unless a license to hold the assembly
has first been issued by the County Commissioners, application for which must
be made at least 30 days in advance of the assembly. A license to hold an
assembly issued to one person shall permit any person to engage in any lawful
activity in connection with the holding of the licensed assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSEMBLY. Includes a company of persons gathered together at any location
at any single time for any purpose.
      PERSON. Includes any individual natural human being, partnership,
corporation, firm, company, association, society, or group.
   (C)   A separate license shall be required for each location in which 1,000
or more people assemble or can reasonably be anticipated to assemble; the fee
for each license shall be $100 for each day.
   (D)   A license shall permit the assembly of only the maximum number of
people stated in the license. The licensee shall not sell tickets to, nor
permit to assemble at, the licensed location more than the maximum permissible
number of people.
   (E)   This chapter shall not apply to any regular established, permanent
place of worship, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium, coliseum, or
other similar permanently established place of assembly for assemblies which do
not exceed by more than 250 people the maximum seating capacity of the
structure where the assembly is held.
   (F)   This chapter shall not apply to government sponsored fairs held on
regularly established fairgrounds, nor to assemblies, required to be licensed
by other ordinances and regulations of the county.
(Ord. 1-71, passed 6-1-1971) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUING LICENSE.
   (A)   Before he or she may be issued a license, the applicant shall first
determine the maximum number of people which will be assembled or admitted to
the location of the assembly, provided that the maximum number shall not exceed
the maximum number which can reasonably assemble at the location of the
assembly in consideration of the nature of the assembly and provided that,
where the assembly is to continue overnight, the maximum number shall not be
more than is allowed to sleep within the boundaries of the location of the
assembly by the zoning or health ordinances of the county.
   (B)   Before he or she may be issued a license, the applicant shall provide
proof that he or she will furnish at his or her own expense before the assembly
commences:
      (1)   A fence completely enclosing the proposed location, of sufficient
height and strength to prevent people in excess of the maximum permissible
number from gaining access to the assembly grounds, which shall have at least
four gates, at least one at or near four opposite points of the compass;
      (2)   Potable water, meeting all federal and state requirements for
purity, sufficient to provide drinking water for the maximum number of people
to be assembled at the rate of at least one gallon per person per day and water
for bathing at the rate of at least ten gallons per person per day;
      (3)   Separate enclosed toilets for males and females, meeting all state
and local specifications conveniently located throughout the grounds,
sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one toilet for every 200 females and at least
one toilet for every 300 males together with an efficient, sanitary means of
disposing of waste matter deposited, which is in compliance with all state and
local laws and regulations; a lavatory with running water under pressure and a
continuous supply of soap and paper towels shall be provided with each toilet;
      (4)   A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste, in compliance with
state and local laws and regulations, sufficient to dispose of the solid waste
production of the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at
least two and one-half pounds of solid waste per person per day, together with
a plan for collecting all such waste at least once each day of the assembly and
sufficient trash cans with tight-fitting lids and personnel to perform the
task;
      (5)   Physicians and nurses licensed to practice in the state sufficient
to provide the average medical care enjoyed by residents of the state for the
maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one physician
for every 1,000 people and at least one nurse for every 1,500 people, together
with an enclosed covered structure where treatment may be rendered, containing
separately enclosed treatment rooms for each physician, and at least one
emergency ambulance available for use at all times;
      (6)   If the assembly is to continue during hours of darkness,
illumination sufficient to light the entire area of the assembly at the rate of
at least five footcandles, but not to shine unreasonably beyond the boundaries
of the enclosed location of the assembly;
      (7)   A free parking area inside of the assembly grounds sufficient to
provide parking space for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the
rate of at least one parking space for every four persons;
      (8)   Telephones connected to outside lines sufficient to provide service
for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one
separate line and receiver for each 1,000 persons;
      (9)   If the assembly is to continue overnight, camping facilities in
compliance with all federal, state, and local requirements sufficient to
provide camping accommodations for the maximum number of people to be
assembled;
      (10)   Security guards, either regularly employed, duly sworn off-duty
peace officers of the state or private guards, licensed in the county
sufficient to provide adequate security for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one security guard for every 750 people;
      (11)   Fire protection, including alarms, extinguishing devices, and fire
lanes and escapes, sufficient to meet all federal, state, and local standards
for the location of the assembly and sufficient emergency personnel to
efficiently operate the required equipment; and
      (12)   A bond, filed with the County Clerk, either in cash or
underwritten by a surety company licensed to do business in the state at the
rate of $1 per person for the maximum number of people permitted to assemble,
which shall indemnify and hold harmless the county or any of its agents,
officers, servants, and employees from any liability or causes of action which
might arise by reason of granting this license, and from any cost incurred in
cleaning up any waste material produced or left by the assembly.
(Ord. 1-71, passed 6-1-1971)
§ 131.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a license to hold an actual or anticipated assembly of
1,000 or more persons shall be made in writing to the County Commission at
least 30 days in advance of such assembly.
   (B)   The application shall contain a statement made upon oath or
affirmation that the statements contained therein are true and correct to the
best knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed and sworn to or affirmed by
the individual making application in the case of an individual, natural, human
being, by all officers in the case of a corporation, by all partners in the
case of a partnership, or by all officers of an unincorporated association,
society, or group or, if there be no officers, by all members of such
association, society, or group.
   (C)   The application shall contain and disclose:
      (1)   The name, age, residence, and mailing address of all persons
required to sign the application by division (B) above and, in the case of a
corporation, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation together with
the name, age, residence, and mailing address of each person holding 10% or
more of the stock of said corporation;
      (2)   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held, together with the name, residence, and mailing address
of the record owner(s) of all such property;
      (3)   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the assembly is to be
held or a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the record owner(s) of all
such property that the applicant has permission to use such property for an
assembly of 1,000 or more persons;
      (4)   The nature or purpose of the assembly;
      (5)   The total number of days and/or hours during which the assembly is
to last;
      (6)   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall permit to
assemble at any time, not to exceed the maximum number which can reasonable
assemble at the location of the assembly, in consideration of the nature of the
assembly, or the maximum number of persons allowed to sleep within the
boundaries of the location of the assembly by the zoning ordinances of the
county if the assembly is to continue overnight;
      (7)   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any;
      (8)   The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of people
permitted to assemble;
      (9)   The plans for fencing the location of the assembly and the gates
contained in such fence;
      (10)   The plans for supplying potable water, including the source,
amount available, and location of outlets;
      (11)   The plans for providing toilet and lavatory facilities, including
the source, number and location, type, and the means of disposing of waste
deposited;
      (12)   The plans for holding, collecting, and disposing of solid waste
material;
      (13)   The plans to provide for medical facilities, including the
location and construction of a medical structure, the names and addresses and
hours of availability of physicians and nurses, and provisions for emergency
ambulance service;
      (14)   The plans, if any, to illuminate the location of the assembly,
including the source and amount of power and the location of lamps;
      (15)   The plans for parking vehicles, including size and location of
lots, points of highway access, and interior roads including routes between
highway access and parking lots;
      (16)   The plans for telephone service, including the source, number, and
location of telephones;
      (17)   The plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities
available and their location;
      (18)   The plans for security, including the number of guards, their
names, addresses, credentials, and hours of availability;
      (19)   The plans for fire protection, including the number, type, and
location of all protective devices including alarms and extinguishers, and the
number of emergency fire personnel available to operate the equipment; and
      (20)   The plans for food concessions and concessioners who will be
allowed to operate on the grounds, including the names and addresses of all
concessioners and their license or permit numbers.
   (D)   The application shall include the bond required in §
131.03(B)(12) and the license fee.
(Ord. 1-71, passed 6-1-1971)
§ 131.05 ISSUANCE.
   The application for a license shall be processed within 20 days of receipt
and shall be issued if all conditions are complied with.
(Ord. 1-71, passed 6-1-1971)
§ 131.06 REVOCATION.
   The license may be revoked by the County Commission at any time if any of
the conditions necessary for the issuing of or contained in the license are not
complied with, or if any condition previously met ceases to be complied with.
(Ord. 1-71, passed 6-1-1971)
§ 131.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by injunction in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   The holding of an assembly in violation of any provisions or condition
contained in this chapter shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be abated
as such.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
131.02 or who violates any condition upon which he or she is granted a license
may be fined not more than $299 or sentenced to six months in the county jail,
or both. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 1-71, passed 6-1-1971)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
      
152.   DRY SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENTS
      
153.   PROTECTION OF CULTURAL RESOURCES
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   ZONING
      
156.   CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Adoption of state building codes
   
150.02   Fee schedule
   
150.03   Smoke shops prohibited
Permit Requirements
   
150.15   Permit necessary
   
150.16   Application
   
150.17   County Building Inspector
   
150.18   Commission to approve or reject application
   
150.19   Approval required to deviate from permit
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF STATE BUILDING CODES.
   All of the statewide building codes, as periodically revised, amended, and
changed, including but not limited to, the Uniform Building Code, the
International Plumbing Code, International Mechanical Code, National Electrical
Code, Uniform Fire Code, and Model Energy Code, are hereby adopted by the
county and incorporated herein by this reference.
(Ord. 1999-1, passed 3-8-1999)
§ 150.02 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Adopted. The schedule of fees below is hereby adopted as the official
county schedule of fees for building permits and inspections of all
construction projects in the county.
   (B)   Fee schedule.
 
Building Permit Fee Schedule
Cost of Building       Permit Fee
Anything built for less than $1,000 will not require a building permit.
$1,000 to $10,000      * $50
$10,000.01 to $100,000 * $50 plus $5 per thousand dollars over $10,000
Over $100,000          * $500 plus $3.50 per thousand dollars over $100,000
In the event additional inspecting, plan checks, or professional services are
required by the County Building Inspector, the cost of such services shall be
paid by the applicant.
* 1% state fee on total
 
(Ord. 1999-1, passed 3-8-1999; Ord. 1999-2, passed 5-24-1999)
§ 150.03 SMOKE SHOPS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      RETAIL TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESS. Has the same meaning as defined in UCA
§ 17-50-333(l)(b), as amended; a commercial establishment in which:
         (a)   The sale of tobacco products amounts for more than 35% of the
total annual gross receipts for the establishment;
         (b)   Food and beverage products, excluding gasoline sales, is less
than 45% of the total annual gross receipts for the establishment; and
         (c)   The establishment is not a licensed pharmacy under state code.
      TOBACCO PARAPHERNALIA. As defined in UCA § 76-10-104.1, as amended, means
any equipment, product, or material of any kind which is used, intended for
use, or designed for use to package, repackage, store, contain, conceal,
ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce a cigar, cigarette, or tobacco in any
form into the human body, excluding matches or lighters, but including:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screen, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material, such
as a cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in the hand;
         (f)   Chamber pipes;
         (g)   Carburetor pipes;
         (h)   Electric pipes;
         (i)   Air-driven pipes;
         (j)   Chillums;
         (k)   Bongs; and
         (l)   Ice pipes or chillers.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. As defined in UCA § 17-50-333c, as amended, to mean any
cigar, cigarette, or electronic cigarette, as well as any product made of or
containing tobacco, including chewing tobacco or any substitute for a tobacco
product, including flavor or additives to tobacco. TOBACCO PRODUCT also
includes TOBACCO PARAPHERNALIA.
   (B)   Prohibition.
      (1)   The establishment and/or operation of a retail tobacco specialty
business is prohibited in all of Panguitch City.
      (2)   Panguitch City shall not issue a business license to any retail
specialty business for use in any zone.
      (3)   The use of a properly obtained business license for the operation
of a retail tobacco specialty business in any zone in Panguitch City is
prohibited.
(Ord. 2017-1, passed 6-26-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 150.15 PERMIT NECESSARY.
   Any person or entity, before building, remodeling, or otherwise structurally
altering any dwelling or other building of any kind, including mobile homes, at
a cost of $1,000 or more, within the unincorporated areas of the county, shall
first obtain a building permit from the County Building Inspector.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 6-16-1986)
§ 150.16 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The party applying for such permit shall first file with the County
Building Inspector an application, on a form authorized and approved by the
county, together with the applicable fee, and shall fully and completely
disclose all information required to complete the same. The amount of such fee
shall be in accordance with §
150.02.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the application, fee, and preliminary approval by the
County Building Inspector, if it appears to the County Building Inspector that
the application complies with all applicable laws and regulations, it shall be
approved.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 6-16-1986)
§ 150.17 COUNTY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   There is hereby created the office of County Building Inspector, which shall
include the following powers, duties, and responsibilities:
   (A)   To enter, at any reasonable time, and without prior notice, upon the
premises of any building where construction, remodeling, or other structural
alteration is taking place, or upon any premises deemed to be unsafe, for
purposes of inspecting the same;
   (B)   To order all work to be stopped on the construction, remodeling, or
structural alteration of any building, when such work is being done in
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter, any applicable law, or
regulation. Work shall not proceed on such premises, after the issuance of a
stop order, without the prior written consent of the County Building Inspector
first had and obtained;
   (C)   To inspect all buildings being constructed, remodeled, or structurally
altered, to determine compliance with all applicable building construction and
safety coded, and to enforce the provisions of the same;
   (D)   To examine all applications for building permits, to determine their
compliance with applicable law, and to review the same with the County
Commission; and
   (E)   To review plans for proposed subdivisions with the County Commission.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 6-16-1986)
§ 150.18 COMMISSION TO APPROVE OR REJECT APPLICATION.
   The County Commission shall have the power to either approve or reject a
building permit application. If the application is rejected, the reason
therefor shall be specified. If it is granted, the permit may be issued upon
payment of the appropriate fee, to be determined according to the authorized
fee schedule established by the county.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 6-16-1986)
§ 150.19 APPROVAL REQUIRED TO DEVIATE FROM PERMIT.
   No material variation from the building permit approved by the County
Commission shall be permitted without the prior written consent of the County
Building Inspector first had and obtained.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 6-16-1986)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person or entity who fails to comply with the provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.19 shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. Each day of non-compliance
shall constitute a separate and distinct violation of §§
150.15 through
150.19 and may be punished accordingly.
(Ord. 1986-2, passed 6-16-1986)
CHAPTER 151: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Concept
   
151.03   Planned unit development permit
   
151.04   Required conditions
   
151.05   Uses allowed
   
151.06   General site plan
   
151.07   Review by the Planning Commission
   
151.08   Scope of Planning Commission action
   
151.09   Construction limitations
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of a planned unit development is to allow for diversification of
uses within a single property or development and to permit more flexibility in
the use of such sites.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 151.02 CONCEPT.
   Planned unit developments are integrated designs for a combination of uses
normally allowed in various zoning districts. In planned unit developments
specific regulations are combined, waived, or varied to allow flexibility of
design and location, in accordance with requirements specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 151.03 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   Planned unit developments may be allowed by recommendation of the County
Planning Commission and approval of the County Commission in any zoning
district. Compliance with the regulations of this chapter in no way excuses the
developer from the applicable requirements of the county zoning and subdivision
ordinances, except as specifically documented and authorized in the approval
process. An applicant shall follow the provisions outlined by the Planning
Commission or its representative.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 151.04 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No planned unit development shall have an area less than that approved
by the Planning Commission as adequate for the proposed uses.
   (B)   All planned unit developments shall be approved by the County
Commission, and plats meeting the requirements of Chapter 152 shall be recorded
in the office of the County Recorder.
   (C)   The development shall be in single or corporate ownership at the time
of approval or the subject of an application filed jointly by all owners of the
property.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall require such arrangements of structures
and open spaces within the site development plan as necessary to assure that
adjacent properties will not be adversely affected.
      (1)   Dwelling unit and land use intensity shall be indicated.
      (2)   Where feasible, lowest height and least intensity of buildings and
uses shall be arranged around the boundaries of the development.
      (3)   Lot area, width, yard, height, density, and coverage regulations
shall comply with the International Building Code and shall be documented on
the site development plan.
      (4)   Residential areas shall comply with Chapters
152 and
156.
   (E)   Preservation, maintenance, and ownership of required open spaces
within the development shall be accomplished by:
      (1)   Dedication of the land as a system, public park, or parkway system;
      (2)   Granting to the county a permanent, open space easement on and over
the said private open spaces to guarantee that the open spaces remain
perpetually in recreational uses, with ownership and maintenance being the
responsibility of an owners association established with articles of
association and by-laws which are satisfactory to the County Commission; or
      (3)   Complying with the provisions of the Condominium Ownership Act (UCA
§ 57-8), which provides for the payment of common expenses for the upkeep of
the common areas and facilities.
   (F)   Landscaping, fencing, and screening within the site shall be presented
to the Planning Commission for recommendation, together with other required
plans for the development.
   (G)   The size, location, design, and nature of signs, if any, and intensity
and direction of area or flood-lighting shall be detailed in application. Night
sky friendly lighting is encouraged.
   (H)   A grading and drainage plan detailing easements, geologic and flood
hazards, shall be submitted to the Planning Commission with the application.
   (I)   Prior to final approval, the planned unit development applicant shall
furnish and file with the County Clerk a surety bond to assure that the actual
construction of proposed public improvements are completed within specified
time frames. The form and bond shall be approved by the Planning Commission,
County Commission, and the County Attorney. Bonds may include, but are not
limited to, insurance, bonds, escrow deposits, irrevocable letters of credit,
or other method approved by the county.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 151.05 USES ALLOWED.
   Subject to review and approval of the Planning Commission, uses allowed in a
planned unit development shall conform to permitted uses allowed in county
zoning districts. For the purposes of this chapter, multiple-family dwellings
may be allowed in residential areas of the planned unit development.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 151.06 GENERAL SITE PLAN.
   Applications shall be accompanied by a general site plan showing:
   (A)   The uses, dimensions, sketch elevations, and locations of proposed
structures;
   (B)   Dimensions and locations of areas to be reserved and developed for
vehicular and pedestrian circulation, parking, public uses such as schools and
playgrounds, landscaping, and other open spaces;
   (C)   Drawings and sketches outlining the general design and character of
the proposed uses and the physical relationship of the uses; and
   (D)   Such other pertinent information, including residential density,
coverage, and open space characteristics, as necessary.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 151.07 REVIEW BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Prior to recommendation of the Planning Commission, the following
provisions shall be met, upon request.
   (B)   Proponents of the planned unit development shall:
      (1)   Demonstrate financial ability to carry out the project;
      (2)   Submit an intended phasing schedule and shall start construction
within one year of approval;
      (3)   Apply for all necessary permitting and shall proceed with
construction in a timely manner in accordance with applicable building codes;
and
      (4)   Complete the construction of approved phases within a reasonable
time from the date construction begins.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 151.08 SCOPE OF PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   In carrying out the intent of this chapter, the Planning Commission shall
consider the following principles.
   (A)   A licensed surveyor shall be used to survey all properties for the
planned unit development.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may recommend or disapprove an application for
a planned unit development. If recommended, the Planning Commission may attach
such conditions as deemed necessary to protect the public interest. The denial
by the Planning Commission of an application for a planned unit development may
be appealed to the County Commission.
   (C)   The County Commission shall review planned unit developments
recommended by the Planning Commission and may approve, deny, or modify to
protect the public interest. County Commission decisions will be final.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 151.09 CONSTRUCTION LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Upon approval of a planned unit development, construction shall
proceed only in accordance with the plans and specifications recommended by the
Planning Commission and shall conform with any conditions of County Commission
approval.
   (B)   Amendments to approved plans and specifications shall be obtained only
by following procedures for an initial planned unit development.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued for any proposed building, structure, or use
within the planned unit development unless such building, structure, or use is
in accordance with the approved development plan and with any conditions
imposed in conjunction with its approval.
(Ord. 2019-4, passed 4-22-2019)
CHAPTER 152: DRY SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENTS
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Applicability
   
152.03   Road and street improvements
   
152.04   Development requirements for dry subdivision lots
   
152.05   Legal nonconforming properties
   
152.06   Appeals
   
152.07   Permits and fees
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   This chapter shall be interpreted using the definitions provided in the
Garfield County Zoning Ordinance, except for, in addition to, or as modified by
the following:
   DRY SUBDIVISION. A recorded subdivision located within the unincorporated
areas of Garfield County without infrastructure improvements made by the
developer. In other words, the subdivision may not include:
      (1)   A public drinking water system;
      (2)   A public wastewater disposal system;
      (3)   Electricity; or
      (4)   Road improvements in certain cases.
   LOCAL HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Southwest Utah Public Health Department.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to any dry subdivision located within the
unincorporated areas of Garfield County, Utah. Additionally, §§
152.03 and
152.04 of this chapter shall apply to any portion of a developed or semi-
developed subdivision without certain infrastructure improvements, unofficial
subdivisions divided by metes and bounds and any tract of land with a total
land area of less than one acre within the unincorporated areas of Garfield
County, Utah.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.03 ROAD AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Unless specifically agreed upon and accepted by the county, it shall
be the responsibility of the subdivision developer to make the initial road
improvements in a subdivision. The roads and streets shall be developed in
accordance with county’s standards. If improved and maintained by the developer
for a period of one year, the county may accept the maintenance
responsibilities thereafter and the developer may dedicate said rights of way
to the county.
   (B)   In the event that road improvements were not made by the developer, it
shall be the responsibility of the land owners to make the initial road
improvements, unless specifically agreed upon and accepted by the county.
Before making any improvements in a county right-of-way, land owners shall
obtain an approved right-of-way encroachment permit from the County Public
Works Director. If improved and maintained by the land owners for a period of
one year, the county may accept the maintenance responsibilities thereafter.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.04 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR DRY SUBDIVISION LOTS.
   (A)   In order to develop lot(s) within a dry subdivision as described in §
152.02 of this chapter, the owner(s) of said property shall:
      (1)   Own a lot or tract of land consisting of at least one acre of land
area per Local Health Department regulations for onsite potable water (well)
and wastewater (septic) systems.
         (a)   If the individual lot or land area is less than one acre, the
owner(s) shall:
            1.   Own or purchase multiple contiguous lots that add up to a land
area of at least one acre; and
            2.   Join the contiguous lots via the subdivision amendment process
consistent with State law and Garfield 1County Code.
         (b)   The Local Health Department and Garfield County may grant
variances or allow exceptions when multiple lots are serviced by a shared well.
      (2)   Own or purchase sufficient water rights approved by the State of
Utah and the Local Health Department for the applicable aquifer in which the
property is located.
      (3)   Meet the requirements of the County Building Official, State of
Utah and the Local Health Department for potable water and either:
         (a)   Drill a private well or
         (b)   Connect to a nearby existing well and provide written approval
to the county for said connection.
      (4)   Meet the requirements of the County Building Official, State of
Utah and the Local Health Department for a wastewater disposal system.
   (B)   Once divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) above of this section have been
completed and prove to be compliant with the requirements of this chapter, the
property owner may apply for building permits and associated land use
applications, if applicable. Developing a lot within a dry subdivision contrary
to divisions (A)(1) through (A)(4) above of this section shall be null and
void.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.05 LEGAL NONCONFORMING PROPERTIES.
   State law and Garfield County Code shall govern the establishment,
restoration, reconstruction, extension, alteration, expansion, or substitution
of any approved nonconforming use and any approved noncomplying structure
related to such use.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.06 APPEALS.
   Appeals from land use decisions made under this chapter shall be governed by
the Garfield County Code and State law.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.07 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permits. From the effective date of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator, Building Official, or any other officer or department of the
county may not grant any license or permit for the use of any land or the
construction or alteration of any building or structure on a tract of land
which would be in violation of the provisions of this chapter until any
required approvals have been granted by the County Commission in accordance
with this chapter.
   (B)   Fees. At the time of filing, a non-refundable application fee shall be
charged, payable to Garfield County, in accordance with the currently adopted
fee resolution by the Garfield County Commission. Any cost or fee incurred by
an applicant to submit a land use application shall be the responsibility of
the applicant.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who is found guilty of violating any part of this chapter shall
be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a fine of up
to $750, imprisonment for up to 90 days or any combination thereof. Each day
such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate violation. Nothing in this section is intended nor shall be construed
as limiting the methods of enforcement available to Garfield County under the
Garfield County Code or State law.
(Ord. 2022-3, passed 3-14-2022)
CHAPTER 153: PROTECTION OF CULTURAL RESOURCES
Section
Protection of Cultural Resources
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Authority
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Prohibited acts and criminal penalties
   
153.05   Permit requirements and exceptions
   
153.06   Application for permits and information collection
   
153.07   Issuance of permits
   
153.08   Terms and conditions of permits
   
153.09   Suspension and revocation of permits
   
153.10   Appeals relating to permits
   
153.11   Relationship to § 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act
   
153.12   Custody of archaeological resources
   
153.13   Determination of resource value and cost of restoration and repair
   
153.14   Confidentiality of archaeological resource information
   
153.15   Public awareness programs
   
153.16   Surveys and schedules
   
153.17   Determination of loss or absence of cultural interest
   
153.18   Procedural information for securing permits
   
153.19   Permit review and disputes
Register of Cultural Resources and Landmarks
   
153.30   Purpose
   
153.31   Authority
   
153.32   Cultural Preservation Commission
   
153.33   Duties of Commission
   
153.34   Cultural Preservation Officer
   
153.35   Officer’s duties
   
153.36   County Register of Cultural Resources
   
153.37   Designation procedures
   
153.38   County Cultural Landmark Register
   
153.39   Designation procedures
   
153.40   Standards for rehabilitation and design guidelines
   
153.41   County Register of Outstandingly Remarkable, Relevant, and Important
Cultural Resources
   
153.42   Designation procedures
   
153.43   Scenery
 
   
153.99   Penalty
PROTECTION OF CULTURAL RESOURCES
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter implements provisions of the Archaeological Resources
Protection Act of 1979, as amended (16 U.S.C. § 470aa-mm), by establishing
uniform definitions, standards, and procedures to be followed by all land
managers/persons in providing protection for cultural resources located on
lands in the county. These regulations enable land managers and local officials
to protect cultural resources, taking into consideration state and federal
statutes, through permits authorizing excavation and/or removal of cultural
resources, through penalties for unauthorized excavation and/or removal,
through provisions for the preservation of cultural resource collections and
data, and through provisions for sharing of information about specific
resources when disclosure would create a benefit to the resource.
   (B)   The chapter does not impose any new restrictions on activities
permitted under other laws, authorities, and regulations relating to mining,
mineral leasing, reclamation, and other multiple uses of the public lands.
   (C)   The chapter establishes a County Register of Cultural Resources, a
County Register of Cultural Landmarks, and establishes procedures for their
use.
   (D)   The chapter establishes criteria for designating cultural resources as
outstandingly remarkable or important - relevant in connection with federal
land management processes and special designation evaluations and creates a
county register of outstandingly remarkable/relevant-important cultural
resources.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.02 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is compatible with existing law which requires that the
federal land managers jointly develop uniform rules and regulations for
carrying out the purposes of federal protection acts.
   (B)   Federal law provides that each federal land manager shall promulgate
such rules and regulations, consistent with the uniform rules and regulations
as may be necessary for carrying out the purposes federal preservation acts.
   (C)   In addition to federal regulations, the State Legislature has
recognized the value and interest of cultural resources to the public. UCA §
17-50-326 authorizes counties to:
      (1)   Preserve, protect, and enhance cultural sites and areas; and
      (2)   Ensure proper development and utilization of lands adjacent to
cultural sites and areas.
   (D)   UCA § 17-50-302 authorizes County Commissions to exercise powers and
perform functions related to the safety, health, morals, and welfare of county
inhabitants.
   (E)   UCA § 17-50-316 authorizes County Commissions to provide for the
protection and the development of historical, cultural, and other resources.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCE. Any material remains of human life or activities
which are at least 100 years of age, and which are of archaeological interest.
      (1)   OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL INTEREST means capable of providing scientific or
humanistic understandings of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and
related topics through the application of scientific or scholarly techniques
such as controlled observation, contextual measurement, controlled collection,
analysis, interpretation, and explanation.
      (2)   MATERIAL REMAINS means physical evidence of human habitation,
occupation, use, or activity, including the site, location, or context in which
such evidence is situated.
      (3)   The following classes of material remains (and illustrative
examples), if they are at least 100 years of age, are of archaeological
interest and shall be considered ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES unless determined
otherwise pursuant to divisions (4) or (5) below:
         (a)   Surface or subsurface structures, shelters, facilities, or
features (including, but not limited to, domestic structures, storage
structures, cooking structures, ceremonial structures, artificial mounds,
earthworks, fortifications, canals, reservoirs, horticultural/agricultural
gardens or fields, bedrock mortars or grinding surfaces, rock alignments,
cairns, trails, borrow pits, cooking pits, refuse pits, burial pits or graves,
hearths, kilns, post molds, wall trenches, and middens);
         (b)   Surface or subsurface artifact concentrations or scatters;
         (c)   Whole or fragmentary tools, implements, containers, weapons and
weapon projectiles, clothing, and ornaments (including, but not limited to,
pottery and other ceramics, cordage, basketry and other weaving, bottles and
other glassware, bone, ivory, shell, metal, wood, hide, feathers, pigments, and
flaked, ground, or pecked stone);
         (d)   By-products, waste products, or debris resulting from
manufacture or use of human-made or natural materials;
         (e)   Organic waste (including, but not limited to, vegetable and
animal remains, coprolites);
         (f)   Human remains (including, but not limited to, bone, teeth,
mummified flesh, burials, and cremations);
         (g)   Rock carvings, rock paintings, intaglios, and other works of
artistic or symbolic representation;
         (h)   Rock shelters and caves or portions thereof containing any of
the above material remains; and
         (i)   Any portion or piece of any of the foregoing.
      (4)   The following material remains shall not be considered of
archaeological interest, and shall not be considered to be ARCHAEOLOGICAL
RESOURCES for purposes of the Act and this part, unless found in a direct
physical relationship with archaeological resources as defined in this section:
         (a)   Paleontological remains; and
         (b)   Coins, bullets, and unworked minerals and rocks.
      (5)   The Commission may determine that certain material remains, in
specified areas of the county, and under specified circumstances, are not or
are no longer of cultural interest and are not to be considered cultural
resources under this chapter. Any determination made pursuant to this division
(5) shall be documented. Such determination shall in no way affect the land
manager’s/person’s obligations under other applicable laws or regulations.
   ARROWHEAD. Any projectile point which appears to have been designed for use
with an arrow.
   CULTURAL RESOURCE. Includes, but is not limited to, any object, building,
structure, site, area, place, activity, record, or manuscript which is
historically or archaeologically significant, or is significant in the
architectural, engineering, scientific, economic, agricultural, educational,
social, political, military, or cultural development of Garfield County.
   INDIAN LAND. Lands of Indian tribes, or Indian individuals, which are either
held in trust by the United States or subject to a restriction against
alienation imposed by the United States, except for subsurface interests not
owned or controlled by an Indian tribe or Indian individual.
   INDIAN TRIBE. As defined in the Act includes:
      (1)   Any Indian tribe, band, nation, other organized group, or community
which is included in the annual list of recognized tribes published in the
Federal Register by the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to 25 C.F.R. part
54; and
      (2)   Any other tribal entity acknowledged by the Secretary of the
Interior pursuant to 25 C.F.R. part 54 since the most recent publication of the
annual list.
   LAND MANAGER. Includes:
      (1)   With respect to any public lands, the secretary of the department,
or the head of any other agency or instrumentality of the United States, having
primary management authority over such lands, including persons to whom such
management authority has been officially delegated;
      (2)   In the case of Indian lands, or any public lands with respect to
which no department, agency, or instrumentality has primary management
authority, such term means the Secretary of the Interior; and
      (3)   The Secretary of the Interior, when the head of any other agency or
instrumentality has, pursuant to § 3(2) of the Act and with the consent of the
Secretary of the Interior, delegated to the Secretary of the Interior the
responsibilities (in whole or in part) in this chapter.
   OUTSTANDINGLY REMARKABLE/RELEVANT-IMPORTANT. Includes rare, unique, or
regionally exemplary. Federal regulation is largely silent on definitions for
OUTSTANDINGLY REMARKABLE/RELEVANT-IMPORTANT values. Minimum standards apply for
cultural resources in Garfield County as described in specific sections of this
chapter.
   PUBLIC LAND. Includes:
      (1)   Lands which are owned and administered by the United States as part
of the National Park system, the National Wildlife Refuge system, or the
National Forest system; and
      (2)   All other lands the fee title to which is held by the United
States, except Indian lands.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, trust, institution,
association, or any other private entity, or any officer, employee, agent,
department, or instrumentality of the United States, or of any Indian tribe, or
of any state or political subdivision thereof.
   REGION OF COMPARISON. Geographical areas comprised of the State of Utah, the
Colorado Plateau, the Four Corners Area, and the traditional lands of the
Anasazi, Paiute, and Navajo tribes.
   SITE OF RELIGIOUS OR CULTURAL IMPORTANCE. A location which has traditionally
been considered important because of a religious event which happened there;
because it contains specific natural products which are of religious or
cultural importance; because it is believed to the be dwelling place of, the
embodiment of, or a place conducive to communication with spiritual beings;
because it contains elements of life-cycle rituals, such as burials and
associated materials; or because it has other specific and continuing
significance in county religion or culture.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.04 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   No person may excavate, remove, damage, or otherwise alter or deface,
or attempt to excavate, remove, damage, or otherwise alter or deface any
cultural or archaeological resource located on public lands or Indian lands
unless such activity is pursuant to a permit issued by the county or exempted
by §
153.05(B).
   (B)   No person may sell, purchase, exchange, transport, or receive any
archaeological resource, if such resource was excavated or removed in violation
of:
      (1)   The prohibitions contained in division (A) above; or
      (2)   Any provision, rule, regulation, ordinance, or permit in effect
under any other provision of federal, state, or local law.
   (C)   No person may destroy, eliminate, diminish, or remove any cultural
resource listed on the County Register of Cultural Resources:
      (1)   In violation of any rule, regulation, ordinance, or permit in
effect under any other provision of federal, state, or local law; and
      (2)   Without approval of the county.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person proposing to excavate and/or remove archaeological
resources from lands in the county, and to carry out activities associated with
such excavation and/or removal, or proposing to destroy, eliminate, diminish,
or remove any cultural resource listed on the County Register of Cultural
Resources shall apply to the county for a permit for the proposed work, and
shall not begin the proposed work until a permit has been issued. The county
may issue a permit to any qualified person, subject to appropriate terms and
conditions, provided that the person applying for a permit meets conditions in
§§
153.07(A) and
153.08(A).
   (B)   Exceptions include the following.
      (1)   No permit shall be required under this chapter for any person
conducting activities on lands in the county under other permits, leases,
licenses, or entitlements for use, when those activities are exclusively for
purposes other than the excavation and/or removal of archaeological resources,
even though those activities might incidentally result in the disturbance of
archaeological resources. General earth-moving, excavation, road work, mining,
or drilling conducted under a permit or other authorization shall not be
construed to mean excavation and/or removal as used in this part. This
exception does not, however, affect the person’s responsibility to comply with
other authorities which protect archaeological resources.
      (2)   No permit shall be required under this chapter for any person
collecting for private purposes any rock, coin, bullet, or mineral which is not
an archaeological resource, provided that such collecting does not result in
disturbance of any archaeological or cultural resource.
   (C)   Persons carrying out official agency duties under a federal/state land
manager’s direction, associated with the management of archaeological
resources, need not follow the permit application procedures if the federal/
state land manager has obtained a permit for such activities for resources
within his or her boundary. However, the federal/state land manager shall
ensure that permit provisions are met if activities affect any cultural
resource listed on the County Register of Cultural Resources.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.06 APPLICATION FOR PERMITS AND INFORMATION COLLECTION.
   (A)   Any person may apply to the county for a permit to excavate and/or
remove archaeological resources from or to impact cultural resources in the
county and to carry out activities associated with such actions.
   (B)   Each application for a permit shall include:
      (1)   The nature and extent of the work proposed, including how and why
it is being conducted, proposed time of performance, location maps, and
proposed outlet for public written dissemination of the results;
      (2)   The name and address of the individual(s) proposed to be
responsible for conducting the work and carrying out the terms and conditions
of the permit, institutional affiliation, if any, and evidence of education,
training, and experience in accord with the minimal qualifications listed in §
153.07(A)(1);
      (3)   Evidence of the applicant’s ability to initiate, conduct, and
complete the proposed work, including other permits issued for the work,
evidence of logistical support and laboratory facilities;
      (4)   Where the application is for the excavation and/or removal of
archaeological resources from the county:
         (a)   The name of the institution in which the applicant proposes to
store all items derived from the proposed work;
         (b)   Reasons, if any, why the items cannot remain in the county for
the use, benefit, and enjoyment of the county’s residents and visitors; and
         (c)   Proposed plans for returning the items for the use, benefit, and
enjoyment of the county’s residents and visitors.
      (5)   Where the application is for the destruction, elimination,
diminishment, or removal of any cultural resource listed on the County Register
of Cultural Resources:
         (a)   The scientific information justifying the action;
         (b)   Resources allocated for in kind replacement and/or equal
compensation for loss of the resource;
         (c)   Alternatives available for completing the action without
impacting the resource; and
         (d)   How the action complies with the county’s no net loss of
cultural resources policy.
      (6)   Where the proposed activity (including management actions)
positively or negatively impacts an outstandingly remarkable or relevant-
important feature:
         (a)   Evidence the feature is listed on the County Register of
Outstandingly Remarkable/Relevant Important Cultural Resources;
         (b)   Proposed impacts to the feature, including improved
opportunities for public benefit, use, and enjoyment; and
         (c)   Alternatives to the proposed action and comparative benefits and
detriments to the resource, including opportunities for public benefit, use,
and enjoyment;
   (C)   The county may require additional information, pertinent to cultural
resource protection responsibilities, to be included in the application for
permit and shall so inform the applicant.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.07 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The county may issue a permit, for a specified period of time
appropriate to the work to be conducted, upon determining that:
      (1)   The applicant is appropriately qualified, as evidenced by training,
education, and/or experience, and possesses demonstrable competence relative to
the type and scope of the work;
      (2)   The proposed work furthers the county policies regarding cultural
resources and is in the public interest;
      (3)   The proposed work, including time, scope, location, and purpose, is
not inconsistent with the county’s general management plan or, if inconsistent,
no other reasonable alternative exists and adequate replacement/compensation
for lost cultural resources is being provided;
      (4)   The proponent understands and is willing to comply with all
federal, state, and local laws pertaining to cultural resources; and
      (5)   Every reasonable effort has been made to improve the opportunity
for benefit, use, and enjoyment of cultural resources for the county’s
residents and visitors.
   (B)   When the area of the proposed work would cross jurisdictional
boundaries, so that permit applications must be submitted to more than one
federal land manager, the federal land managers shall coordinate permitting
requirements with the county.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.08 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   In all permits issued, the county may specify:
      (1)   The nature and extent of work;
      (2)   The name of responsible individual(s);
      (3)   The location in which any collected materials and data shall be
deposited; and
      (4)   Public education, interpretive and/or reporting requirements.
   (B)   The county may specify such terms and conditions as deemed necessary
to protect public safety, other values, and/or resources, to secure work areas,
to safeguard other legitimate land uses, and to limit activities incidental to
work authorized under a permit.
   (C)   Initiation of work or other activities under the authority of a permit
signifies the permittee’s acceptance of the terms and conditions of the permit.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.09 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Suspension or revocation for cause.
      (1)   The county may suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
upon determining that the permittee has failed to meet any of the terms and
conditions of the permit or has violated federal, state, or local law. The
county shall provide written notice to the permittee of the suspension, the
cause thereof, and the requirements which must be met before the suspension
will be removed.
      (2)   The county may revoke a permit upon the permittee’s conviction
under laws protecting cultural resources, or upon determining that the
permittee has failed after notice under this section to correct the situation
which led to suspension of the permit.
   (B)   Suspension or revocation for management purposes. The county may
suspend or revoke a permit, without liability to the county, its agents, or
employees, when continuation of work under the permit would be in conflict with
county management plan requirements not in effect when the permit was issued.
The county shall provide written notice to the permittee stating the nature of
and basis for the suspension or revocation.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.10 APPEALS RELATING TO PERMITS.
   Any affected person may appeal permit issuance, denial of permit issuance,
suspension, revocation, and terms and conditions of a permit before the County
Commission, or through procedures which may be established pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.11 RELATIONSHIP TO § 106 OF THE NATIONAL HISTORIC PRESERVATION ACT.
   Issuance of a permit in accordance with this chapter does not constitute an
undertaking requiring compliance with § 106 of the Act of October 15, 1966 (16
U.S.C. § 470f). However, the mere issuance of such a permit does not excuse the
permittee from compliance with § 106 where otherwise required.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.12 CUSTODY OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCES.
   (A)   Archaeological resources excavated or removed from the public lands
remain the property of legal authority.
   (B)   Until such time as the county promulgates requirements for ultimate
disposition of its cultural resources, permittees are encouraged to utilize
viable facilities located in the county.
   (C)   The county may provide for the exchange of resources with other
entities.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.13 DETERMINATION OF RESOURCE VALUE AND COST OF RESTORATION AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Resource value. The resource value of any cultural resource shall be
determined in accordance with principles outlined in 43 C.F.R. § 7.14(a) as
modified to conform to resources protected by this chapter.
   (B)   Commercial value. The commercial value of any cultural resource shall
be determined in accordance with principles outlined in 43 C.F.R. § 7.14(b) as
modified to conform to resources protected by this chapter.
   (C)   Cost of restoration and repair. The cost of restoration and repair of
any cultural resource damaged as a result of a violation of this chapter shall
be determined in accordance with principles outlined in 43 C.F.R. § 7.14(c) as
modified to conform to resources protected by this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.14 CONFIDENTIALITY OF ARCHAEOLOGICAL RESOURCE INFORMATION.
   (A)   Federal law prohibits land managers from making certain information
available to the public for specific cultural resources. Land managers and
permittees may mask nature and location information only to the extent that it
complies with law for protected resources. The county shall not make available
to the public any information protected by law. The following information shall
be provided by land managers and permittees:
      (1)   General descriptions of the resource and its significance;
      (2)   Resource/site dimensions and graphical representations of the area
on which resources are located;
      (3)   Information justifying outstandingly remarkable/relevant important
values; and
      (4)   Any other information necessary for the county to administer this
chapter.
   (B)   Land managers considering portions of the county for special
designation status (areas of critical environmental concern, wild and scenic
rivers, conservation areas, monuments, parks, and the like) based on cultural
resource values shall document compliance with criteria for outstandingly
remarkable/relevant-important values as defined by county plans and ordinances.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.15 PUBLIC AWARENESS PROGRAMS.
   (A)   Each permittee or land manager impacting cultural resources will
establish programs to:
      (1)   Increase public awareness of the need to protect important cultural
resources; and
      (2)   Advance the benefit, use, and enjoyment of cultural resources in
the county.
   (B)   Each permittee or land manager impacting cultural resources should
incorporate into current actions public education and interpretation programs
where appropriate.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.16 SURVEYS AND SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Federal land managers are required to develop plans and schedules for
surveying specific cultural resources that are likely to contain the most
scientifically valuable resources. The county has established survey priorities
as follows:
      (1)   Level II or Level III surveys, as appropriate, for resources
impacted by current, proposed or imminent projects;
      (2)   Level III surveys for resources considered outstandingly
remarkable/relevant-important; and
      (3)   Level I, Level II, or Level III surveys for other resources.
   (B)   Failure to plan, schedule, and conduct surveys in accordance with the
priorities in division (A) above without written county approval is:
      (1)   A violation of this chapter; and
      (2)   Inconsistent with the county management plan.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.17 DETERMINATION OF LOSS OR ABSENCE OF CULTURAL INTEREST.
   (A)   Under certain circumstances, the county may determine, pursuant to §
153.02 or the definition of archaeological resources above, that certain
material remains are not or are no longer of cultural interest, and therefore
are not to be considered cultural resources under this chapter.
   (B)   The county may make such a determination if the county finds that the
resources are not capable of providing scientific or humanistic understandings
of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics.
   (C)   Prior to making a determination that resources are not or are no
longer protected cultural resources, the county may complete some or all of the
following procedures:
      (1)   A professional evaluation of resources and similar materials within
the area under consideration will be completed; and/or
      (2)   The State Historic Preservation Officer will be requested to
recommend whether the resources under consideration contribute to scientific or
humanistic understandings of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and
related topics.
   (D)   The county will make the determination based upon established facts
and recommendations of knowledgeable individuals and will document the basis.
   (E)   The county will make public record of the determination and any
permitting requirements for activities associated with the materials determined
not to be cultural resources.
   (F)   Any determination made pursuant to this section shall in no way affect
any person’s obligations under other applicable laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.18 PROCEDURAL INFORMATION FOR SECURING PERMITS.
   Information about procedures to secure a permit to impact cultural resources
can be obtained from the county.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.19 PERMIT REVIEW AND DISPUTES.
   (A)   Any affected person disputing the county’s decision with respect to
the issuance or denial of a permit, the inclusion of specific terms and
conditions in a permit, or the modification, suspension, or revocation of a
permit may request the County Commission review the disputed decision and may
request a meeting to discuss the decision and its basis.
   (B)   Any affected person may request a review by the State Historic
Preservation Officer of any professional issues involved in a county permitting
decision.
   (C)   The State Historic Preservation Officer may make a recommendation to
the county. The county will consider the recommendation, but may reject it, in
whole or in part, for good cause.
   (D)   This request should be in writing and should state the reasons for the
request.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
REGISTER OF CULTURAL RESOURCES AND LANDMARKS
§ 153.30 PURPOSE.
   The county recognizes that the cultural heritage of the county is among its
most valued and important assets. It is therefore the intent of the county to
identify, preserve, protect, develop, and enhance cultural resources located
within the limits of the county.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.31 AUTHORITY.
   UCA § 17-50-326 authorizes counties to:
   (A)   Preserve, protect, and enhance cultural sites and areas; and
   (B)   Ensure proper development and utilization of lands adjacent to
cultural sites and areas.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.32 CULTURAL PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   A Cultural Preservation Commission is hereby established by the county with
the following provisions.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of a minimum of five members with a
demonstrated interest, competence, or knowledge in cultural preservation,
appointed by the county for terms of not less than two years.
   (B)   To the extent available in the county, two Commission members may be
professionals, as defined by National Park Service regulations, from the
disciplines of history, archaeology, planning, architecture, engineering, or
architectural history.
   (C)   The Commission shall meet at least twice each year and conduct
business in accordance with the open public meeting laws of the state. This
includes public notification of meeting place, time, and agenda items.
   (D)   Written minutes of each Commission meeting shall be prepared and made
available for public inspection.
   (E)   Until such time as the County Commission identifies qualified
individuals for the Cultural Preservation Commission, the County Planning
Commission shall be authorized to fill the duties.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.33 DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   The Cultural Preservation Commission shall have the following duties.
   (A)   The Cultural Preservation Commission shall conduct or cause to be
conducted a survey of the cultural resources within the county. The survey
shall be, at a minimum, compatible with the state’s inventory of historic and
archaeological sites. Survey and inventory documents shall be maintained and
shall be open to the public. The survey shall be updated at least every ten
years.
   (B)   The Cultural Preservation Commission shall review and make
recommendations to the County Commission for comment to the State Historic
Preservation Officer on all proposed National Register nominations for
resources within the boundaries of the county. When the Cultural Preservation
Commission considers a National Register nomination, which is normally
evaluated by professionals in a specific discipline and that discipline is not
represented on the Commission, the Commission shall seek expertise in that area
before forwarding its recommendation to the County Commission.
   (C)   The Cultural Preservation Commission shall review and make
recommendations to the County Commission for designation of “outstandingly
remarkable” and “relevant-important” cultural resources within the boundaries
of the county. Review and recommendation of “outstandingly remarkable” and
“relevant-important” cultural resources shall comply with the standards for
“outstandingly remarkable” and “relevant-important” cultural resources
contained in this chapter.
   (D)   The Cultural Preservation Commission shall review and make
recommendations to the County Commission on all proposed County Register of
Cultural Resources and Register of Cultural Landmark nominations for resources
within the boundaries of the county.
   (E)   The Cultural Preservation Commission shall provide advice and
information by:
      (1)   Acting in an advisory role to other officials and departments of
government regarding the identification and designation of local cultural
resources; and
      (2)   Working toward expanding the benefit, use, and enjoyment of local
cultural resources by the residents and visitors of the county.
   (F)   The Cultural Preservation Commission shall support the enforcement of
federal, state, and local laws relating to cultural preservation, including,
but not limited to:
      (1)   UCA § 17-50-326, preservation of historical areas and sites;
      (2)   UCA § 9-8, regarding the protection of state antiquities;
      (3)   UCA § 9-8-4, regarding notification of the State Historic
Preservation Office of any known proposed action which will destroy or affect a
site, building, or object owned by the state and included on or eligible for
the State or National Registers; and
      (4)   This chapter.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.34 CULTURAL PRESERVATION OFFICER.
   The County Planner assisted by the County Public Works Director is hereby
designated the County Cultural Preservation Officer.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013; Ord. 2021-6, passed 6-28-2021)
§ 153.35 OFFICER’S DUTIES.
   The Cultural Preservation Officer shall have the following duties:
   (A)   Serve as the point of contact for governmental entities, citizens, and
individuals interested in cultural resources of the county;
   (B)   Serve in an advisory capacity to the Cultural Preservation Commission;
and
   (C)   Maintain the County Register of Cultural Resources, the County
Register of Cultural Landmarks, and the Register of Outstandingly Remarkable/
Relevant-Important Cultural Resources, including such classifications and
designations as may be approved by the County Commission.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.36 COUNTY REGISTER OF CULTURAL RESOURCES.
   (A)   The Cultural Preservation Commission may recommend to the County
Commission cultural resources for designation on the County Register of
Cultural Resources. Upon review, the County Commission may designate cultural
resources for inclusion on the County Register of Cultural Resources as a means
of classifying, recognizing, preserving, protecting, enhancing, or increasing
benefit, use, and enjoyment of cultural resources in the county.
   (B)   Any activity, business, district, building, structure, object,
resource, scenery, or site may be designated to the Register of Cultural
Resources if it meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   It is located within the official boundaries of the county;
      (2)   It is at least 50 years old; and
      (3)   It retains its historic integrity, in that there are no major
alterations or additions that have obscured or destroyed the significant
cultural features.
   (C)   Major alterations that may destroy cultural integrity include, but are
not limited to:
      (1)   Changes in the main appearance;
      (2)   Enlargement or reduction of principal features;
      (3)   Additions to or removal of original features;
      (4)   Covering the resource with non-historic materials;
      (5)   Moving the resource from its original location to one that is
dissimilar to the original; and
      (6)   Additions which significantly detract from or obscure the original
form or appearance.
   (D)   If the resource does not meet the integrity requirements outlined
above, it may qualify for designation if it meets one of the following
requirements:
      (1)   It is directly associated with events of historic importance in the
county;
      (2)   It is closely associated with the lives of persons who were of
historic importance to the county;
      (3)   It exhibits significant methods of construction or materials that
were used within the historic period;
      (4)   It has been documented according to the State Historic Preservation
Office standards for intensive level surveys and copies of that documentation
have been placed in the public record; and
      (5)   It demonstrates a long and dignified human history or consists of
resources that are outstanding in their variety of cultural affiliation, type,
and distribution.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.37 DESIGNATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any person, group, or government agency may nominate a resource under
its ownership or jurisdiction for listing in the County Register of Cultural
Resources. The nomination and listing procedures are as follows.
      (1)   Completed intensive level survey documentation for each nominated
property must be submitted to the Cultural Preservation Commission.
      (2)   The Cultural Preservation Commission will review and consider
properly submitted nominations at its next scheduled meeting. The Cultural
Preservation Commission will notify the nominating party prior to the meeting
that the nomination will be considered and will place that item on the agenda
posted for the meeting.
      (3)   The Cultural Preservation Commission will review the documentation
for completeness, accuracy and compliance with the criteria listed in §
153.36 and will make recommendation to the County Commission accordingly.
      (4)   The County Commission will review the recommendation of the
Cultural Preservation Commission and any other pertinent information at a
regularly scheduled Commission meeting and will make a decision accordingly.
      (5)   No resource shall be included on the County Register of Cultural
Resources if the private property owner or manager with ceded jurisdiction over
the resource is not in favor of the designation.
   (B)   Designation of a resource to the County Register of Cultural Resources
results in the following.
      (1)   Owners of designated cultural resources may display information
recognizing the resource and containing the historic name of the property, the
date of designation, and the appropriate designation.
      (2)   If a designated cultural resource artifact is to be impacted or
extensively altered, efforts will be made to document its physical appearance
before that action takes place.
         (a)   Any demolition/impact permit may be delayed for a maximum of 30
days to allow for the documentation.
         (b)   Documentation may include photographs, exterior/interior
measurements, drawings, histories, video documentation, and any other
information that may be valuable or required.
         (c)   The demolition/impact permit will be issued after 30 days of the
initial application whether or not the documentation has been completed.
Permits may be issued earlier if the documentation is complete or part of the
permitted work.
         (d)   Documentation will be kept in the public record or forwarded to
the State Historic Preservation Office.
      (3)   If a designated cultural resource activity is to be negatively
impacted or diminished, efforts will be made to mitigate impacts with greater
resources before that action takes place.
         (a)   Any demolition/impact permit may be delayed for a maximum of 180
days to allow for replacement resources to be developed.
         (b)   Replacement resources may include new resources, expanded
existing resources, improved resources, or other efforts that result in no net
loss of cultural resource values.
         (c)   The demolition/impact permit may be delayed for an additional
period after the 180-day period from the initial application if mitigation has
not been completed. Permits may be issued earlier if the mitigation is complete
or part of the permitted work.
         (d)   Documentation of replacement value may be required prior to
issuance of the permit.
         (e)   Properties which, in the opinion of the County Commission, no
longer meet the criteria for eligibility may be removed from the County
Register of Cultural Resources after review and consideration.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.38 COUNTY CULTURAL LANDMARK REGISTER.
   (A)   Notable cultural resources may be designated to the Cultural Landmark
Register for the purposes of recognizing their value and providing incentives
and guidelines for their preservation.
   (B)   Any activity, business, district, building, structure, object,
resource, scenery, or site may be designated to the Cultural Landmark Register
if it meets the following criteria:
      (1)   It is located within the official boundaries of the county;
      (2)   It is currently listed in the National Register of Historic Places,
and a copy of the approved National Register form has been placed in the public
record;
      (3)   A property not yet listed in the National Register must:
         (a)   Retain its historic integrity; and
         (b)   Meet at least one of the following National Register criteria:
            1.   Be associated with events that have made a notable
contribution to the broad patterns of the county’s history;
            2.   Be associated with the lives of persons notable in the
county’s past;
            3.   Embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or
method of construction or that represent the work of a master, or that possess
high artistic values, or that represent a notable and distinguishable entity
whose components may lack individual distinction; or
            4.   Have yielded, or be likely to yield, information important in
prehistory or history.
      (4)   It has been documented according to the State Historic Preservation
Office standards for intensive level surveys or National Register standards,
and a copy of that documentation has been placed in the public record; and
      (5)   No resource shall be included on the County Cultural Landmark
Register unless private property owner or manager with ceded jurisdiction
approval is obtained as follows.
         (a)   The owner of a private resource must approve the action to
designate the resource on the County Cultural Landmark Register.
         (b)   Seventy percent of the resource owners in a proposed district
must be in favor of the designation. Written objections from at least 30% of
the resource owners will constitute lack of approval.
         (c)   Public land managers must concur for public resources within
their ceded jurisdiction to be included on the County Cultural Landmark
Register. Failure to concur with such designation constitutes a determination
of lack of significance on behalf of the agency.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.39 DESIGNATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any person, group, or government agency may nominate a resource under
its ownership or jurisdiction for listing in the County Cultural Landmark
Register. The nomination and listing procedures are as follows.
      (1)   Completed intensive level survey documentation for each nominated
property must be submitted to the Cultural Preservation Commission.
      (2)   The Cultural Preservation Commission will review and consider
properly submitted nominations at its next scheduled meeting. The Cultural
Preservation Commission will notify the nominating party prior to the meeting
that the nomination will be considered and will place that item on the agenda
posted for the meeting.
      (3)   The Cultural Preservation Commission will review the documentation
for completeness, accuracy, and compliance with the criteria listed in §
153.38 and will make recommendation to the County Commission accordingly.
      (4)   The County Commission will review the recommendation of the
Cultural Preservation Commission and any other pertinent information at a
regularly scheduled Commission meeting and will make a decision accordingly.
      (5)   No resource shall be included on the County Cultural Landmark
Register if the private property owner or manager with ceded jurisdiction over
the resource is not in favor of the designation.
   (B)   Following designation by the County Commission, a notice of such shall
be mailed to the owners of record together with a copy of this chapter. In the
case of landmark district designation, notice of such may be placed in the
local newspaper or in a public building rather than mailed to each owner of a
resource in the district. The County Commission shall record the Cultural
Landmark Register designation for each resource with the County Recorder’s
office.
   (C)   Designation of a resource to the County Register of Cultural Resources
results in the following.
      (1)   Resources designated on the Cultural Landmark Register may receive
special consideration in the granting of variances or conditional use permits
in order to encourage development for the benefit, use, and enjoyment by the
public.
      (2)   In the event of rehabilitation of the property, local building
officials may consider waiving certain code requirements in accordance with
Chapter 34 of the Uniform Building Code and with the Uniform Code for Building
Conservation.
      (3)   Owners of cultural landmarks may seek assistance from the Cultural
Preservation Commission in applying for grants or tax credits for
rehabilitating or developing their resources for the benefit, use, and
enjoyment by the public.
      (4)   Proposed work or management changes on resources designated as
cultural landmarks is subject to the review and approval of the county. The
purpose of this review is to ensure the preservation, development, and
enhancement of cultural properties to the greatest degree possible. This review
applies to individually designated landmark resources, resources located in
designated landmark districts, and public resources. This review applies only
to exterior work which requires a building, sign, or demolition permit and to
management actions that affect public resources and lands adjacent thereto.
         (a)   Applications for building, demolition, or sign permits shall be
recommended by the Building Inspection Department to the Cultural Preservation
Commission prior to their issuance/denial.
         (b)   At its next scheduled meeting, the Cultural Preservation
Commission shall review the application and proposed work for compliance with
design guidelines adopted by the County Commission.
            1.   Applicants whose proposed projects comply with the provisions
of this chapter shall be issued the appropriate permit.
            2.   Applicants whose proposed projects are found to be in
noncompliance with this chapter shall be offered a negotiating period of 60
days, during which time the Commission and applicant shall explore all options
for an acceptable solution. These may include the feasibility of modifying the
plans, using the cultural landmark for alternative purposes, or reselling the
property to another party. The Cultural Preservation Commission may extend the
negotiating period for additional 60-day periods for the purposes described
above if deemed necessary to accommodate a potential solution.
            3.   If no solution has been agreed upon at the conclusion of
either the initial 60-day period or an extended period, the Building Official
will not issue any permits.
         (c)   Applicants for work or changes in management actions that affect
public resources listed on the Cultural Landmark Register shall apply directly
to the County Commission for consideration.
      (5)   The Cultural Preservation Commission may approve a permit for
rehabilitation or demolition of a landmark property if the owner has presented
substantial evidence demonstrating that unreasonable economic hardship will
result from denial of the request.
         (a)   In order to sustain a claim of unreasonable economic hardship,
the Cultural Preservation Commission may require the owner/manager to provide
information as to whether the property is capable of producing a reasonable
return for the owner.
         (b)   Demonstration of economic hardship by the owner shall not be
based on conditions resulting from willful or negligent acts by the owner,
purchasing the property for substantially more than market value at the time of
purchase, failure to perform normal maintenance and repairs, failure to
diligently solicit and retain tenants, or failure to provide normal
improvements.
      (6)   An applicant who has been denied any permit by the Building
Official, based on the Cultural Preservation Commission’s refusal to issue a
permit, may appeal that decision to the County Commission. The appeal must be
made within 120 days of the Cultural Preservation Commission’s decision.
   (D)   Properties which, in the opinion of the County Commission, no longer
meet the criteria for eligibility may be removed from the Cultural Resource
Landmark Register after review and consideration.
   (E)   The provisions of this section are subject to the enforcement
provisions established in the Uniform Building Code, Uniform Code for Building
Conservation, Uniform Housing Code as adopted by the county, and to other
provisions as allowed by federal, state, and local law.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.40 STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION AND DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   (A)   The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and
Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings, as modified to conform to the
exigencies of the county, shall be used by the Cultural Preservation Commission
in determining the appropriateness of any application pertaining to cultural
landmark properties.
   (B)   The following general design guidelines shall be considered and apply
where appropriate.
      (1)   For landmark buildings and contributing buildings in landmark
designated historic districts:
         (a)   Avoid demolition of landmark and contributing buildings;
         (b)   Vacant buildings should be weather- and vandal-proofed in order
to minimize further deterioration and the threat to public safety;
         (c)   Rehabilitation work on the exterior and the principal facade
should preserve existing historic features or replace them with features and
materials known to have existed on the building; and
         (d)   Avoid moving buildings when possible. If buildings must be
moved, the new site should be similar to the original site and the original
setback and orientation of the building on the lot should be replicated as much
as practical.
      (2)   For additions to landmark and contributing buildings and
construction of new buildings within a historic district:
         (a)   New additions to landmark and contributing buildings should be
subordinate to the original building, that is, lower in height, attached to the
rear or set back along the side, and subordinate in scale and architectural
detailing;
         (b)   Height, width, setback, roof shape, and the overall scale and
massing of new buildings should be compatible with surrounding historic
buildings and the overall streetscape;
         (c)   Materials on at least the primary facade(s) should be similar to
original materials on facades of surrounding historic buildings;
         (d)   Architectural details should not replicate historic features on
surrounding historic buildings;
         (e)   Window and door openings should be similar in size and
orientation to openings on historic buildings and should take up about the same
percentage of the overall facade as those on surrounding historic buildings;
         (f)   The relationship of the width to the height of the principal
elevations should be in scale with surrounding structures and streetscape.
Wider new buildings can be divided into segments that more closely resemble the
facade widths of historic buildings; and
         (g)   The roof shape of a building should be visually compatible with
the surrounding structures and streetscape. Unusual roof shapes, pitches, and
colors are discouraged.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.41 COUNTY REGISTER OF OUTSTANDINGLY REMARKABLE, RELEVANT, AND IMPORTANT
CULTURAL RESOURCES.
   Rare, unique, exemplary cultural resources may be designated on the County
Register of Outstandingly Remarkable/Relevant-Important Cultural Resources for
the purposes of recognizing their greater than local significance and providing
incentives and guidelines for their preservation and the enjoyment of present
and future generations.
   (A)   The Cultural Preservation Commission may recommend to the County
Commission Cultural Resources for designation on the County Register of
Outstandingly Remarkable/Relevant-Important Cultural Resources. Upon review,
the County Commission may designate cultural resources for inclusion on the
County Register of Outstandingly Remarkable/Relevant-Important Cultural
Resources as a means of identifying and recognizing cultural resources that are
rare, unique, exemplary, significant, and deserving of special designation,
protection, and use.
   (B)   OUTSTANDINGLY REMARKABLE/RELEVANT-IMPORTANT CULTURAL RESOURCES are
resources that are rare, unique, exemplary, significant, and deserving of
special designation, protection, and use. They are outstanding, remarkable, one
of a kind resource that deserve special management when compared to other
similar resources in the region of comparison.
   (C)   Any activity, business, district, building, structure, object,
resource, scenery, or site may be designated on the Register of Outstandingly
Remarkable/Relevant-Important Cultural Resources if it is located within the
official boundaries of the county, has been the subject of a Class III
inventory, is approved by the County Commission, and at least 95% of the
proposed area meets any of the following minimum criteria.
      (1)   The resource is of sufficient value that it is the site of public
or private facilities that enhance interpretive opportunities for the public.
Parks, museums, monuments, businesses, and other permanent designations qualify
cultural resources for this criterion. Examples within the region of comparison
include, but are not limited to, Anasazi State Park, Pipe Springs National
Monument, Fremont Indian State Park, CEU Museum, American West Heritage Center,
This is the Place State Park, Emery County Museum, Edge of the Cedars State
Park, and the like.
      (2)   The resource is of sufficient value that it requires paid or
volunteer staff to assist with interpretation and/or protection of the
resource. The presence of on-site guides, hosts, rangers, guards, specialists,
or other similar staff for a minimum of 500 hours per year qualifies cultural
resources for this criterion. Examples within the region of comparison include,
but are not limited to, Defiance House, Mormon Handcart Sites, Sand Island,
Grand Gulch, Pine Lake Campground, and the like.
      (3)   The resource is of sufficient value that it is the subject of
guided or self guided tours promoted by land management agencies or private
businesses. Resources that receive a minimum average visitation of 200 visits
per month qualify for this criterion. Examples within the region of comparison
include, but are not limited to, San Juan River Site Tours, Cedar Mesa, Kane
Gulch, Cowboy Cave, and the like.
      (4)   The resource is of sufficient renown that its location and nature
are well known and recognizable throughout the intermountain region. Resources
that have been the subject of not less than ten statewide mass media feature
articles or programs qualify for this criterion. Examples within the region of
comparison include, but are not limited to, Mormon Tabernacle, Range Creek,
Nine Mile Canyon, Mormon Handcart Sites, Hole in the Rock, and the like.
      (5)   The resource value has been demonstrated to the County Commission
in at a public hearing and the outstandingly remarkable/relevant-important
nature has been documented by a preponderance of the evidence.
      (6)   Resources that are the basis of an ACEC/Wild and Scenic River
designation do not qualify for outstandingly remarkable/relevant-important
status unless they meet one of the criteria above.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.42 DESIGNATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any person, group, or government agency may nominate a resource under
its ownership or ceded jurisdiction for listing in the County Register of
Outstandingly Remarkable/Relevant-Important Cultural Resources. The nomination
and listing procedures are as follows.
      (1)   Documentation for each nominated property must be submitted to the
Cultural Preservation Commission.
         (a)   For archaeological resources, a Level III survey is required.
         (b)   For all resources, completed intensive level survey information
is required.
         (c)   Evidence the resource meets minimum criteria of §
153.41 is required.
         (d)   A legal description and accurate plat to planning grade
standards is required.
      (2)   The Cultural Preservation Commission will review and consider
properly submitted nominations at its next scheduled meeting. The Cultural
Preservation Commission will notify the nominating party prior to the meeting
that the nomination will be considered and will place that item on the agenda
posted for the meeting.
      (3)   The Cultural Preservation Commission will review the documentation
for completeness, accuracy, and compliance with the criteria listed in §
153.41 and will schedule a public hearing accordingly.
         (a)   The public hearing will be advertised in a newspaper of local
circulation for a minimum of 30 days prior to the hearing.
         (b)   Advertising costs will be borne by the nominating entity.
         (c)   In the case of economic hardship, the advertising costs may be
borne by the county.
      (4)   The Cultural Preservation Commission will conduct the public
hearing and receive all pertinent information. Upon completion of the public
hearing, the Cultural Preservation Commission will forward a recommendation to
the County Commission for approval/denial of outstandingly remarkable/relevant-
important status.
      (5)   The County Commission will review the recommendation of the
Cultural Preservation Commission and any other pertinent information at a
regularly scheduled Commission meeting and will schedule a second public
hearing.
         (a)   The public hearing will be advertised in a newspaper of local
circulation for a minimum of 30 days prior to the hearing.
         (b)   Advertising costs will be borne by the nominating entity.
         (c)   In the case of economic hardship, the advertising costs may be
borne by the county.
      (6)   The County Commission will conduct the public hearing and receive
all pertinent information. Within 30 days of the public hearing, the County
Commission will approval or deny outstandingly remarkable/relevant-important
cultural resource status.
         (a)   The County Commission’s decision will be made in an open public
meeting.
         (b)   The County Commission will provide written notice to the
nominating entity its decision.
      (7)   No resource shall be included on the County Register of
Outstandingly Remarkable/Relevant-Important Cultural Resources if the private
property owner or manager with ceded jurisdiction over the resource is not in
favor of the designation.
   (B)   Designation of a resource to the County Register of Outstandingly
Remarkable/Relevant-Important Cultural Resources results in the following.
      (1)   Owners/managers of designated cultural resources may consider the
resource for Areas of Critical Environmental Concern, Wild and Scenic River, or
other special designation status.
      (2)   The County Travel Council will be encouraged to include the
resource in its tourism-related activities.
      (3)   Resources designated on the County Register of Outstandingly
Remarkable/Relevant-Important Cultural Resources may receive special
consideration in the granting of variances or conditional use permits in order
to encourage development for the benefit, use, and enjoyment by the public.
      (4)   The County Commission shall record the Outstandingly Remarkable/
Relevant-Important Cultural Resources Register designation for each resource
with the County Recorder’s office.
      (5)   Owners/managers of outstandingly remarkable/relevant-important
cultural resources may seek assistance from the county in applying for grants
or tax credits for rehabilitating or developing their resources for the
benefit, use, and enjoyment by the public.
      (6)   Proposed work or management actions on resources designated as
outstandingly remarkable/relevant-important cultural resources is subject to
the review and approval of the county. The purpose of this review is to ensure
the preservation, development, and enhancement of cultural properties to the
greatest degree possible. This review applies to individually designated
resources, resources located in designated districts, and public resources.
   (C)   Properties which, in the opinion of the County Commission, no longer
meet the criteria for eligibility may be removed from the County Register of
Outstandingly Remarkable/Relevant-Important Cultural Resources after review in
a public hearing and proper consideration.
   (D)   This chapter provides objective criteria for evaluation and
recognition of outstandingly remarkable/relevant-important cultural resources.
Absent federal or state authority which overrides this chapter, actions of
public and private entities located in the county shall comply therewith.
Actions which do not comply with this chapter are inconsistent with the County
General Management Plan and are a violation of law.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.43 SCENERY.
   (A)   Scenery is an integral part of the landscape and is a vital part of
the history, custom, and culture of an area. This section describes criteria
for including elements of the county’s scenery in the registers indicated
above.
   (B)   Elements of scenery may be included in the Register of Cultural
Resources if it can be graphically described with identifiable limits and meets
all of the following criteria:
      (1)   It is located within the official boundaries of the county;
      (2)   It retains its historic integrity, in that there are no major
alterations or additions that have obscured or destroyed the significant
cultural features;
      (3)   It is designated as Class A scenery or equivalent;
      (4)   It has a scenic quality rating greater than 20 or equivalent; and
      (5)   All of the land proposed for designation meets the criteria
   (C)   If the scenery does not meet the integrity requirements outlined
above, it may qualify for designation if it can be graphically described with
identifiable limits and meets one of the following requirements:
      (1)   It is directly associated with events of historic importance in the
county;
      (2)   It is closely associated with the lives of persons who were of
historic importance to the county; or
      (3)   It is locally renowned.
   (D)   Elements of scenery may be included in the Cultural Landmark Register
if it can be graphically described with identifiable limits and meets all of
the following criteria:
      (1)   It is located within the official boundaries of the county;
      (2)   It retains its historic integrity, in that there are no major
alterations or additions that have obscured or destroyed the significant
cultural features;
      (3)   It is designated as Class A scenery or equivalent;
      (4)   It has a scenic quality rating greater than 25 or equivalent;
      (5)   It is specifically named on one of the following:
         (a)   USGS 7.5 Minute Quadrangle maps;
         (b)   1:100,000 Surface Management Status maps;
         (c)   Utah State Highway maps; or
         (d)   Other maps considered equivalent by the Cultural Preservation
Commission.
      (6)   All of the land proposed for designation meets the criteria.
   (E)   If the scenery does not meet the requirements outlined above, it may
qualify for designation if it can be graphically described with identifiable
limits and meets one of the following requirements:
      (1)   It is a specific location and is well known among the residents of
the county;
      (2)   It is directly associated with events or lives of persons who were
of historic importance to the county; or
      (3)   It is renown in Southern Utah and is the primary attraction for
more than 600 people per year.
         (a)   Visitor use surveys should be used to document visitation
figures.
         (b)   Visitor use information may be waived if it is common knowledge
that minimum visitation figures are met.
   (F)   Elements of scenery may be included in the Register of Outstandingly
Remarkable/Relevant-Important Cultural Resources if it can be graphically
described with identifiable limits and meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   It is located within the official boundaries of the county;
      (2)   It is designated as Class A scenery or equivalent;
      (3)   It has a scenic quality rating greater than 28 or equivalent;
      (4)   It has a landform rating of five or equivalent;
      (5)   It has a vegetation rating of five or equivalent;
      (6)   It has a color rating of five or equivalent;
      (7)   It has a scarcity rating of five or greater;
      (8)   It is renown throughout the state;
      (9)   It is the primary destination for more than 2,400 visitors per year
as verified by actual visitor counts; and
      (10)   All of the land proposed for designation meets all of the
criteria.
   (G)   If the scenery does not meet the requirements outlined above, it may
qualify for designation if it can be graphically described with identifiable
limits and meets one of the following requirements:
      (1)   It is a National Park or National Monument administered by the
National Park Service and has a scenic quality rating greater than 28 or
equivalent.
      (2)   It is part of a congressionally designated area and:
         (a)   Has a minimum scenic quality rating 30; and
         (b)   Is the destination of more than 6,000 visitors per year as
verified by actual visitor counts.
      (3)   It is a legislative designated area by the state and:
         (a)   Has a minimum of 28 or equivalent; and
         (b)   The governor of the state has requested its inclusion on the
County Register of Outstandingly Remarkable/Relevant-Important Cultural
Resources.
   (H)   No scenery shall be designated on the Register of Outstandingly
Remarkable/Relevant-Important Cultural Resources if management actions restrict
or prohibit activities or impacts that are lesser in nature than activities or
impacts that were used to justify its designated status.
   (I)   Criteria for identifying outstandingly remarkable/relevant-important
scenery is identified in divisions (F) and (G) above. The criterion applies to
scenic resources in the county whether or not they are proposed for designation
on the Register of Outstandingly Remarkable/Relevant-Important Cultural
Resources. Scenic resources that fail to meet the criteria identified in
division (F) above and division (G) above are not outstandingly remarkable or
relevant-important.
   (J)   This chapter provides objective criteria for evaluation and
recognition of outstandingly remarkable/relevant-important scenery. Absent
federal or state authority which overrides this chapter, actions of public and
private entities located in the county shall comply therewith. Actions which do
not comply with this chapter are inconsistent with the county general
management plan and are a violation of law.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor if that person:
      (1)   Violates §
153.04; or
      (2)   Counsels, solicits, or employs any other person to violate §
153.04.
(Ord. 2013-1, passed 7-8-2013)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Statutory authorization
   
154.02   Findings of fact
   
154.03   Statement of purpose
   
154.04   Methods of reducing flood loses
   
154.05   Definitions
   
154.06   Application
   
154.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
154.08   Compliance
   
154.09   Conflict of law
   
154.10   Interpretation
   
154.11   Disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
154.25   Establishment of development permit
   
154.26   Designation of the Building Inspector
   
154.27   Responsibilities of the Building Inspector
   
154.28   Permit review
   
154.29   Use of other base flood data
   
154.30   Information to be obtained and maintained
   
154.31   Alteration of watercourses
   
154.32   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.45   General standards
   
154.46   Specific standards
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The State Legislature has, in UCA § 17-5-77, granted responsibility to
counties to adopt ordinances designed to promote the public health, general
welfare of their citizenry.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately flood-proofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets, and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard, so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   (G)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of hazard; and
   (H)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSES.
   In order to accomplish its purpose, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in a floodplain within the county
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal water; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map of the county on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated areas of special flood
hazard designated as Zone A.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. This term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a
site for greater than 180 consecutive days.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. 
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purpose of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.06 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the county.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), dated August 5, 1986,
is adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The FIRM is
on file at the office of the County Building Inspector at the Garfield County
Courthouse in Panguitch, Utah.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.08 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, or
altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.09 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions; however, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.10 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.11 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land or permitted uses outside the areas of special flood hazards,
or land uses permitted within such areas of flood hazards, will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the county, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, for any flood damages that may result from reliance on this
chapter, or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.25 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in §
154.07. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the County Building Inspector, and may include, but not be limited to: plans
in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures fill,
storage of materials, and drainage facilities; and the location of the
foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been flood-proofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the flood-proofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
flood-proofing criteria in §
154.46(B); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.26 DESIGNATION OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The County Building Inspector is hereby appointed to administer and
implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit applications
in accordance with its provisions.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.27 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   Duties of the County Building Inspector shall include, but not be limited to
the following sections.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.28 PERMIT REVIEW.
   (A)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary permits
have been obtained from those federal, state, or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required; and
   (C)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the area of
special flood hazard. For the purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY AFFECTS means
damage to adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages attributed to
physical changes of the channel and the adjacent overbank areas.
      (1)   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect, and the
development is not a building, then the permit shall be granted without further
consideration.
      (2)   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then technical
justification (such as, a registered professional engineer’s certification) for
the proposed development shall be required.
      (3)   If the prosed development is a building, then the provisions of
this chapter shall apply.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.29 USE OF OTHER BASE FLOOD DATA.
   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
154.07, the Building Inspector shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any
base flood elevation data available from a federal, state, or other source as
criteria for requiring that new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development in Zone A are administered in accordance with §
154.46.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.30 INFORMATION TO BE OBTAINED AND MAINTAINED.
   (A)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially improved
structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement.
   (B)   For all new or substantially improved flood-proofed structures:
      (1)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure has been flood-proofed; and
      (2)   Maintain the flood-proofing certifications required in §
154.25(B)(3).
   (C)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.31 ALTERATION OF WATERCOURSES.
   (A)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Division of Comprehensive
Emergency Management prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse,
and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency; and
   (B)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse, so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.32 INTERPRETATION OF FIRM BOUNDARIES.
   Make interpretations, where needed, as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions).
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.45 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required.
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure, and
capable of resisting the hydrostatic and hydro-dynamic loads.
      (2)   All manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement and capable of resisting the
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads. Methods of anchoring may include, but are
not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. Specific requirements may be:
         (a)   Over-the-top ties be provided at each of the four corners of the
manufactured home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations,
with manufactured homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per
side;
         (b)   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes less
that 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
         (c)   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
         (d)   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed, and/or
located so as to prevent water form entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      (3)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development which contain at least 50 lots or five
acres (whichever is less).
   (E)   Encroachments. Encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development shall be prohibited in any
floodway unless a technical evaluation demonstrates that the encroachments will
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.46 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided, as set forth in §
154.29, the following standards are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, (including basement)
elevated to or above base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement), elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation, or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
      (1)   Be flood-proofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting the provisions of this division (B). Such
certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
154.30(B).
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1989-1, passed 6-26-1989)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Purpose and Scope
   
155.001   Short title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Authority
   
155.004   Interpretation
   
155.005   Conflict
   
155.006   Severability
   
155.007   Enforcement
   
155.008   Fees
   
155.009   Definitions
Planning Commission
   
155.020   Establishment
   
155.021   Terms of members
   
155.022   Appointment of members
   
155.023   Compensation
   
155.024   Officers
   
155.025   Quorum and vote
   
155.026   Duties and powers
   
155.027   Appeals and hearings
County Commission
   
155.040   Duties and powers
   
155.041   Appeals
Appeal Authority
   
155.055   Establishment
   
155.056   Duties and powers
   
155.057   Variances
   
155.058   Appeals
   
155.059   Fees
Zoning Administrator
   
155.075   General
   
155.076   Reviews and approvals
   
155.077   General plan and land use regulations
   
155.078   Site plan review
   
155.079   Land use applications
   
155.080   Amendments
   
155.081   Interpretations
   
155.082   Liability
Building Official
   
155.095   Review of building permits
   
155.096   Site plan review
   
155.097   Inspection
   
155.098   Site plan and building permit required
   
155.099   Certificate of occupancy required
General Regulations
   
155.110   Parking and loading spaces
   
155.111   Fencing
   
155.112   Accessory buildings
   
155.113   Accessory dwelling units
   
155.114   Easements and rights-of-way
   
155.115   Special regulations
   
155.116   Phase developments
   
155.117   Development agreements
Conditional Uses
   
155.130   General
   
155.131   Application
   
155.132   Determination
   
155.133   Expiration and revocation
   
155.134   Amendments
   
155.135   Conditional use review criteria
   
155.136   Conditional use standards
Nonconforming Uses
   
155.150   General
   
155.151   Discontinuance
   
155.152   Enlargements and modifications
Zones
   
155.165   Establishment of zones
   
155.166   Boundaries of zones
   
155.167   Zoning map amendment procedures
   
155.168   Rules for locating
Agriculture Zone (A)
   
155.180   Purpose
   
155.181   Permitted uses
   
155.182   Conditional uses
   
155.183   Height regulations
   
155.184   Minimum area, width, and yard regulations
   
155.185   Other provisions
Commercial Zone (C)
   
155.200   Purpose
   
155.201   Permitted uses
   
155.202   Conditional uses
   
155.203   Height regulations
   
155.204   Minimum area regulations and modifying regulations
Forest Recreation Zone (FR)
   
155.215   Purpose
   
155.216   Permitted uses
   
155.217   Conditional uses
   
155.218   Height regulations
   
155.219   Minimum area, width, and yard regulations
   
155.220   Modifying regulations
Industrial Zone (I)
   
155.235   Purpose
   
155.236   Permitted uses
   
155.237   Conditional uses
   
155.238   Height, area, width, and yard regulations
   
155.239   Modifying regulations
Multiple Use Zone (MU)
   
155.250   Purpose
   
155.251   Permitted uses
   
155.252   Conditional uses
   
155.253   Height regulations
   
155.254   Minimum area, width, and yard regulations
   
155.255   Other provisions
Residential Zone (R)
   
155.270   Purpose
   
155.271   Permitted uses
   
155.272   Conditional uses
   
155.273   Height regulations
   
155.274   Minimum area, width, and yard regulations
   
155.275   Modifying regulations
Redevelopment Zone (RD)
   
155.280   Purpose
   
155.281   Permitted uses
   
155.282   Conditional uses
   
155.283   Prohibited uses
   
155.284   Minimum area regulations and modifying regulations
   
155.285   Conditional use standards
Residential Estates Zone (RE)
   
155.290   Purpose
   
155.291   Permitted uses
   
155.292   Conditional uses
   
155.293   Height regulations
   
155.294   Minimum area, width, and yard regulations
   
155.295   Modifying regulations
Resort Recreation Zone (RR)
   
155.310   Purpose
   
155.311   Permitted uses
   
155.312   Conditional uses
   
155.313   Minimum area regulations and modifying regulations
Wildlife Habitat (WH)
   
155.325   Purpose
   
155.326   Permitted uses
   
155.327   Conditional uses
   
155.328   Modifying regulations
Sign Regulations
   
155.340   Purpose
   
155.341   Definitions
   
155.342   General sign types
   
155.343   General provisions
   
155.344   Exempt signs
   
155.345   Prohibited signs
   
155.346   Permits
   
155.347   Specific sign requirements
Subdivisions
   
155.360   General provisions
   
155.361   Exemptions from the plat requirement
   
155.362   Sketch plan procedures
   
155.363   Preliminary plat
   
155.364   Final plat
   
155.365   Dedication, acceptance and maintenance responsibility
   
155.366   Design standards
   
155.367   Financial responsibility
   
155.368   Validity
   
155.369   Permits and fees
Planned Unit Developments
   
155.380   General
   
155.381   Conditions
   
155.382   Planning Commission determination
   
155.383   Required contributions
   
155.384   Planning Commission action
Recreational Vehicles
   
155.395   Intent
   
155.396   Definitions
   
155.397   Location
   
155.398   Approval
   
155.399   Standards and requirements
   
155.400   Nonconforming units
 
   
155.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Garfield County Planning and Zoning Fee Schedule
   
Appendix B:   International Zoning Code General Sign Types
GENERAL PURPOSE AND SCOPE
§ 155.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Garfield County Zoning
Ordinance” and may also be identified within this document as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the
health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity and welfare of the
present and future inhabitants of Garfield County, Utah including among other
things the lessening of congestion in the streets or roads, securing safety
from fire and other dangers, providing adequate light and air, utilization,
protection of the tax base, securing economy in governmental expenditures,
fostering the county’s commercial and industrial growth, and the protection of
custom, culture, heritage and associated resources and residential and
nonresidential development.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.003 AUTHORITY.
   Utah Code Annotated (UCA) Title 17, Chapter 27a.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.004 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, the
requirements contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements fir
the purpose set forth.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.005 CONFLICT.
   This chapter shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants,
agreements, other ordinances or laws but shall prevail notwithstanding such
provisions which are less restrictive.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.006 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section of this chapter should for any reason be found invalid, by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining sections nevertheless shall be
carried into effect.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.007 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced in all unincorporated areas of Garfield
County, Utah. The county shall not enforce Home Owner’s Association (HOA)
Covenants, Conditions and Restrictions (CC&R’s). However, if CC&R’s do exist
within the unincorporated areas of the county and there is a legal, active
board to enforce them, such CC&R’s may prevail.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.008 FEES.
   Appropriate fees shall be charged for building permits and inspections, land
use applications, Appeal Authority hearings or any other service required by
this chapter. Such fees shall be established by the County Commission. (See
Appendix A)
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.009 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context requires otherwise, the following definitions shall be
used in the interpretation and construction of this chapter. Words used in the
present tense include the future: the singular tense shall include the plural
and the plural the singular. The word “building” shall include the term
“structure”; the words “used” or “occupied” shall include arranged, designed,
constructed, altered, converted, rented, leased, or intended to be used or
occupied; the word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary, the word “may”
is permissive; the word “person” includes affirm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual; the word
“lot” includes the word “plot” or “parcel”. Words used in this chapter but not
defined herein shall have the meaning as defined in any other ordinance adopted
by Garfield County.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A building or use on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal building or
use.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU).  A habitable living unit added to, created
within, or detached from a primary single-family dwelling and contained on one
lot or parcel.
   AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRY OR BUSINESS. An industry or business involving
agricultural products in manufacturing, packaging, treatment, sales, intensive
feeding or storage, including but not limited to animal feed yards, fur farms,
food packaging or processing plants, commercial poultry or egg production and
similar uses as determined by the Planning Commission.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. Land shall be deemed to be in agricultural use when
devoted to the raising of plants and animals useful to man, including but not
limited to, forages and sod crops; grain and feed crops; dairy animals,
poultry, livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine, horses, ponies, mules
or goats, including the breeding or grazing of any or all such animals; bees,
fur animals, trees, fruits of all kinds, including grapes, nuts and berries;
vegetables, nursery, floral, and ornamental stock; or when devoted to and
meeting requirements and qualifications for payment for other compensation
pursuant to a cropland retirement program under an agreement with an agency of
the state or federal government.
   AIRPORT. Any area of land designated and set aside for the landing and
taking off of aircraft plus maintenance and auxiliary facilities and building
maintenance.
   ALLEY. A public access way less than 26 feet in width but not less than 12
feet, which is designed to give secondary access to lots or abutting
properties; an alley shall not be considered a street, for the purposes of this
chapter.
   ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL. Any change, addition or modification in the
supporting members of a building, such as bearing walls, column, beams or
girders.
   APARTMENT. Any building or group of buildings which contain dwelling units,
and also satisfies the definition of a motel, as defined in the chapter.
   APARTMENT HOUSE.  See DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY.
   APPEAL AUTHORITY. The board formally appointed by the County Commission to
hear appeals by any person aggrieved by inability to obtain a building permit,
or by the decision of any administrative officer or agency based upon or made
in the course administration or enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
   ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION. Any building or structural projection which is not
intended for occupancy and which extends beyond the face of an exterior wall of
a building or structure, but not including signs.
   AUTOMOBILE SALES AREA. An open area used for display, sale, or rental of new
or used motor vehicles, mobile homes, recreational coaches, or recreation
vehicles in operable condition.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline, or any other motor fuel
or grease for operating motor vehicles is offered for sale to the public and
deliveries are made directly into motor vehicles, and where services performed
may include tube and tire repair, battery changing, storage of merchandise,
lubricating of automobiles, replacement of spark plugs, lights, fans, and other
small parts, but not including major auto repair.
   BASEMENT. A story whose floor is more than twelve feet below the average
level of the adjoining ground, but where no more one-half of its floor-to-
ceiling height is above the average contact level of the adjoining ground. A
basement shall be counted as a story for purpose of height measurement, and as
a half-story for the purpose of yard determination.
   BASEMENT HOUSE. A residential structure without a full story structure above
grade.
   BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION. The placing of concrete footings for building or
structure.
   BENCH MARK. A mark affixed to a permanent or semi-permanent object to
furnish a datum level in survey.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling where, for compensation, meals are provided for
at least three but not more than 15 persons.
   BODY AND FENDER SHOP. A facility for major automobile, mobile home,
recreational coach or recreation vehicle repairs to body, or fenders, and
including rebuilding.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended to be used for the shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals or property.
   BUILDING, MAIN. The principle building housing the principal use upon a lot.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The official designated by the County Commission as the
Building Inspector for Garfield County.
   BUILDING, PUBLIC. A building owned and/or operated or owned and intended to
be operated by a public agency.
   CARPORT.   A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For
the purpose of this chapter, a CARPORT shall be subject to all the regulations
prescribed of a private garage.
   CELLAR. A room or rooms wholly under the surface of the ground or having
more than 50% of its floor to ceiling height under the average level of the
adjoining ground.
   CHILD NURSERY. An establishment for the instruction of six or more children,
for compensation, other than members of the family residing on the premises,
but not including a public school.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses,
maintained and controlled by a duly recognized religious organization where
persons regularly assemble for worship.
   CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL. A building in which a group of dentists,
physicians, and allied professional assistants are associated for the conduct
of their professions. The clinic may include a dental and/or medical laboratory
and an apothecary, but it shall not include in-patient care or operating rooms
for major surgery.
   CLUB, PRIVATE. An organization, group or association supported by the
members thereof, the sole purpose of which is to render a service customarily
rendered for members and their guests but shall not include any service, the
chief activity of which is customarily carried on as a business and does not
include labor union organizations or similar labor or business organizations.
   COMMISSION. Unless otherwise indicated, the Board of County Commissioners of
Garfield County, Utah.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use of land for which a conditional use permit is
required, pursuant to this chapter.
   CONDOMINIUM.  An ownership structure established in accordance with the Utah
Condominium Act.
   CONSTRUCTION CAMP. A camp or other residential area of a temporary nature
established for a period of five or more days for the housing of one or more
persons engaged in activities related to construction, mining and logging.
Camps established for hunting, fishing, recreation or agricultural purposes are
excluded from the definition of a construction camp.
   CORRAL. An enclosure, other than a building less than one acre, used for the
confinement of animals and fowl.
   COUNTY. Unless otherwise indicated, Garfield County, Utah.
   COUNTY ATTORNEY.  The Garfield County Attorney.
   COURT. An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building or group of buildings, and which is bounded on three or more sides by
such building or buildings. The width of a court is its least horizontal
dimension, measured between opposite sides in the same direction as the
yard or lot line on which tile court opens. The length of a court is its least
horizontal dimension measured at right angles to its width.
   COVERAGE, BUILDING. The percent of the total site area covered by buildings.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street having an open end and being terminated at the
other end by a vehicle turnaround.
   DAIRY. A commercial establishment for the manufacture, processing, or
packaging of dairy products, and their sale; for purposes of this definition,
the production of milk on a farm for wholesale marketing off the premises shall
not classify the farm as a dairy.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the area of Garfield County, Utah shown on a Zoning
Map (attached to this zoning ordinance and given a Zone classification as set
forth in this chapter.
   DIVISION OF AGRICULTURAL LAND FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES. A bona-fide
division or partition of agricultural land into three or more parcels of not
less than six acres of land for agricultural purposes as defined herein.
   DRIVEWAY. A private roadway, the use of which is limited to persons
residing, employed or otherwise using or visiting the parcel on which the
driveway is located.
   DWELLING. A building that contains one or two dwelling units used, intended
or designed to be used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied for
living purposes.
      (1)   DWELLING, GROUP. A group of two or more detached buildings used as
dwellings, located on a lot or parcel of land.
      (2)   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be
occupied by more than two families.
      (3)   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be
occupied by one family, the structure having only one dwelling unit.
      (4)   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY.  A building arranged or designed to be
occupied by two families, the structure having only two dwelling units.
      (5)   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a dwelling or apartment motel,
designed for or occupied by one family for living or sleeping purposes and
having kitchen and bathroom facilities for the use of not more than one family.
   EASEMENT. The acquired private or right-of-use or enjoyment which one or
more persons may have in the land of another.
   FAMILY.  An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or
adoption (excluding servants) who are not related, living in a dwelling unit as
a single housekeeping unit and using common cooking facilities.
   FENCE.  A physical barrier to delineate, contain, or designate an area
designed for a specific use, i.e. and an enclosure for a dwelling unit, and
area of storage and the like.
   FLOOD HAZARD.  A hazard to land or improvements due to inundation.
   FORESTRY. The planting, caring for or cultivating of a dense growth of
trees. May include the gathering of wood for domestic fire use.
   FRONTAGE. All property fronting on one side of the street between
intersecting or intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way,
waterway, end of dead-end street, or political subdivision boundary, measured
along the street line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary
of the frontage on the side of the street which it intercepts.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building, or portion of a main
building, used or intended to be used for the storage of motor vehicles,
recreational coaches, boats, or other recreational vehicles, but not including
the parking or storage of trucks or vans having a capacity in excess of one and
one-half tons, and not including space for more than a total of four such
vehicles, unless on a bona fide agricultural tract of land.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof other than a private garage,
designed or used for servicing, equipping, hiring, selling or storage or motor
driven vehicles.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A structure or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
used for the repair of self-propelled vehicles, trailers or boats, including
general repair, rebuilding or reconstruction of engines, motor vehicles,
recreation coaches, and minor collision service, but not including major body,
frame or fender repairs or overall automobile or truck painting, except by
conditional use permit. A repair garage may also include individualized
storage, care, washing, or sale of automobiles.
   GEOLOGICAL HAZARD.  A hazard inherent in or on the crust of the earth, or
artificially created, which is dangerous or potentially dangerous to life,
property, or improvements due to the movement, failure or shifting of the
earth.
   GRADE. The vertical location of the ground surface.
      (1)   For buildings adjoining one street only, the elevation of the
sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
      (2)   For buildings adjoining more than one street, the average of the
elevations of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls adjoining the streets.
      (3)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the centers of all
exterior walls of the building.
      (4)   Any wall parallel or nearly parallel to and not more than five feet
from a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The State of Utah Division of Environmental Quality or
local health agency having jurisdiction.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on
by persons residing in the dwelling unit, occupying no more than 25% of the
dwelling unit, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the character thereof and in
connection with which there is no display nor stock in trade. The HOME
OCCUPATION shall not include the sale of commodities except those which are
produced on the premises and shall not involve the use of any accessory
building or yard space or activity outside the main building not usually
associated with residential use. HOME OCCUPATION may include the use of the
home by a physician, surgeon, dentist, lawyer, clergyman, engineer or
professional person for consultation or emergency treatment. HOME OCCUPATION
includes the care of not more than five children other than members of the
family residing in the dwelling. In all cases where a HOME OCCUPATION is
engaged in, there shall be no advertising of said occupation, no window
displays, or signs and no employees employed.
   HOSPITAL. Institution for the diagnosis, treatment and care of the human
illness or infirmity, but not including sanitariums and clinics.
   HOTEL. A building designed for or occupied as the more or less temporary
abiding place of six or more individuals who are, for compensation, lodged with
or without meals.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house and kept
for company or pleasure, such as dogs, cats, and canaries, but not including a
sufficient number of dogs as to constitute a kennel as defined in this chapter.
Household pets shall not include the keeping of dangerous animals.
   IRRIGATED LAND. Parcels that have surface or underground water diverted
continuously or intermittently upon them for the production of crops or
pasture, through the utilization of man- made improvements.
   JUNK. Any discarded material, including but not limited to scrap metal, one
or more abandoned, inoperable and/or unlicensed motor vehicles, machinery,
equipment, paper, glass, containers and substructures.
   JUNKYARD.  Any place, establishment or business maintained, or operated for
storage keeping, buying and selling junk, including vehicles and salvage yards.
   KENNEL. Any premises where six or more dogs older than four months are kept.
   LIVESTOCK FEED YARD. A commercial operation on a parcel where livestock are
kept in high density corrals or yards and fed.
   LOCAL ENGINEER. The engineer employed by or officially representing Garfield
County.
   LOCAL HEALTH OFFICER. The health officer or department employed by or
officially representing the County of Garfield.
   LOCAL JURISDICTION. Garfield County.
   LODGING HOUSE. A dwelling with not more than five guest rooms where, for
compensation, lodging is provided but does not include motels or hotels.
   LOT. A tract of land, regardless of any label, that is created by and shown
on a subdivision plat that has been recorded in the office of the County
Recorder.
      (1)   LOT CORNER. Lot abutting on two intersecting or intercepting
streets where the interior angle of intersection or interception does not
exceed 135 degrees.
      (2)   LOT COVERAGE. Lot coverage shall be calculated by taking the ground
area of the main and accessory buildings and dividing that total by the area of
the lot.
      (3)   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines measured in the main direction of the side lot line.
      (4)   LOT INTERIOR.  A lot other than a corner lot.
      (5)   LOT LINE. Property lines bounding the lot.
      (6)   LOT RESTRICTED. Any lot having particular problems in size, slope,
contour or space requiring special action of the Appeal Authority.
   MOBILE HOME. A detached, single-family dwelling unit not less than 45 feet
long, designed for long-term occupancy, and to be transported on its own wheels
or on flatbed or other trailers or detachable wheels, containing a flush
toilet, sleeping accommodations, a tub or shower bath, kitchen facilities, and
plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to appropriate
external systems and ready for occupancy except for utility connections and
other minor work. Pre-sectionalized modular, or prefabricated homes not placed
on a permanent foundation, shall be regarded as MOBILE HOMES; if placed upon a
permanent foundation such structures which meet all applicable building and
housing codes shall not be considered as MOBILE HOMES but shall be regarded as
conventional housing.
      (1)   MOBILE HOME LOT. A lot within a mobile home park or subdivision,
designed to be used for the accommodation of one mobile home.
      (2)   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel designed and approved by the county for
occupancy by mobile homes on a rental basis, meeting all requirements of the
Garfield County plans and ordinances.
      (3)   MOBILE HOME SPACE. Space within a mobile home park, designed and to
be used for the accommodation of one mobile home.
      (4)   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and intended for
residential use where the lots are to be individually owned or leased and
occupied by mobile homes exclusively.
   MODULAR HOME/MANUFACTURED HOME. A permanent dwelling structure which
conforms to applicable building codes, built in prefabricated units, which are
assembled and erected on the site, or at another location, and brought as a
unit to the site.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings for the drive-in accommodation of
transient guests, comprising individual sleeping or living units, and designed
and located to serve the motoring public.
   NATURAL WATERWAYS. Areas varying in width along streams, creeks, springs,
gullies or washes which are natural drainage channels as determined by the
County Public Works Director, in which no buildings should be constructed.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Building or structure or portion
thereof, lawfully existing at the time this chapter became effective, which
does not conform to all height, area and yard regulations herein prescribed in
the Zone in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
time this chapter became effective, and which does not conform with the use
regulations of the Zone in which it is located.
   NURSING HOME.  Institution providing residence and care for the aged or
infirm.
   OFF-SITE FACILITIES. Improvements not on individual lots but which are
generally within the boundaries of the subdivision which they serve.
   OPEN SPACE.  Space reserved in parks, courts, playgrounds, golf courses and
other similar open areas, and those areas reserved to meet the density
requirements of Planned Unit Developments.
   PARCEL. Any real property that is not a lot.
   PARKING LOT. An open area, other than a street used for the temporary
parking of more than four automobiles and available for public use, whether
free, for compensation, or as an accommodation for clients, customers or
employees.   
   PERCENT OF GRADE. The percentage increase in elevation over a one-hundred-
foot horizontal distance. For example, a 10% grade would be a use in elevation
of one foot in ten feet or ten feet in 100 feet.
   PERMANENT MONUMENT.  A structure of concrete, masonry and/or metal
permanently placed on or in the ground, including those expressly placed for
surveying reference, which meets the requirements of the county for permanent
monuments.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An integrated design for development of
residential, commercial or industrial uses or limited combinations of such
uses, in which the density and location regulations of the district in which
the development is situated may be varied or waived to allow flexibility and
initiative in site and building design and location, in accordance with a plan
approved by the Planning Commission the County Commission.
   PLANNING COMMISSION.  The Garfield County Planning Commission.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES. These include every common carrier, pipeline corporation,
gas corporation, electrical corporation, telephone corporation, telegraph
corporation, water corporation where the service is performed for the commodity
delivered to the public or any portion thereof.
   RECREATIONAL COACH. A vehicle, such as a travel trailer, tent camper, camp
car or other vehicle with or without motive power, designed and/or constructed
to travel on the public thoroughfare in accordance with the provisions of the
Utah Vehicle Code, and designed for use as human habitation for a temporary and
recreational nature.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. An area or tract of land or a designated section
within a mobile home park where lots are rented or held for rent to one or more
owners or users of recreational vehicles for a temporary time not to exceed 120
days.
   ROOMER. One who occupies a hired room in another’s house.
   SANITARY LANDFILL.  An area set aside that meets all federal and state laws
for the disposal of solid waste.
   SIGN. See SIGN definitions in “Sign Regulations” §§
155.340 through
155.347 of this chapter.
   SITE PLAN. A plan required by, and providing the information required by §
155.098 of this chapter.
   SMALL SHED. One-story detached accessory structure provided that the floor
area does not exceed 200 sq. ft.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses
owned by the occupant of the premises and not kept for remuneration, hire or
sale.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare which affords principal means access to
abutting property with a minimum width of 26 feet.
   SUBDIVISION.  The division of any tract, lot or parcel of land into three or
more lots, plots, sites, or other divisions of land for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of sale, lease or of building development, provided that
the term SUBDIVISION shall not apply to those divisions accepted or exempted in
this chapter. The word “subdivide” and any other derivative thereof shall have
reference to the word SUBDIVISION as herein defined.
   TRANSIENT. Occupancy of a dwelling unit, sleeping unit, recreational coach
or any other space for not more than 30 days.
   TRANSIENT RENTALS. Any building or portion thereof, used for commercial
purposes, as the sleeping place of one or more persons or families for not more
than 30 days.
   USE ACCESSORY. A use subordinate and incident to the main use of a building
or land located upon the same lot or parcel.
   VETERINARY OR ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A building and runs where large and/or small
animals are kept and/or treated by a licensed veterinarian.
   YARD.  A required open space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as permitted elsewhere in this
chapter.
      (1)   YARD, FRONT.  A space on the same lot with a building, between the
front line of building and the front lot line and extending across the full
width of the lot. The “depth” of front yard is the minimum distance between the
front lot line and the front line of the building.
      (2)   YARD, REAR. A space on the same lot with a building, between the
rear line of the building and the rear lot line and extending the full width of
the lot. The “depth” of the rear yard is the minimum distance between the rear
lot line and the rear line of the building.
      (3)   YARD, SIDE. A space on the same lot with a building, between the
side line of the building and the side lot line and extending from the front
yard to the rear yard. The “width” of the side yard shall be the minimum
distance between the side lot line and the side line of the building.
   ZONE. See DISTRICT.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The official designated by the County Commission as
the Zoning Administrator for Garfield County.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The Garfield County Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 155.020 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The establishment of the Planning Commission shall be in accordance with the
policies and procedures as set forth in UCA § 17-27a-301. The Planning
Commission shall consist of seven members. Additionally, one member of the
County Commission may be permitted as a liaison to the Planning Commission.
Such member shall have the right to attend all meetings and take part in all
discussions, including executive sessions, but shall not vote on Planning
Commission decisions.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.021 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   The terms of office for the members of the Planning Commission shall be four
years. Members shall be permitted to be removed for cause upon written charges
and after a public hearing before the County Commission, if such a hearing is
requested.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.022 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   Members shall be appointed and approved by the County Commission. The terms
of office for the Planning Commission members shall be staggered at intervals
so as to provide continuity in policy and personnel. Members of the Planning
Commission shall be residents of Garfield County. Any vacancy for the unexpired
term of any member whose term is not completed shall be filled. A member shall
continue to serve until a successor has been appointed and approved by the
County Commission.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.023 COMPENSATION.
   Compensation of members shall be set by the County Commission. Members shall
be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred upon proper presentation of receipts
and vouchers.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.024 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall elect from its membership a chairperson
and a vice chairperson. The Planning Commission shall establish and adopt rules
and procedures for its organization and transaction of business and shall keep
a public record of its proceedings.
   (B)   A secretary to assist the Planning Commission shall be appointed by
the County Commission. The secretary shall keep minutes of the Planning
Commission meetings for public record and conduct all correspondence, including
the notification of decisions. The secretary shall certify records. The
secretary shall prepare and submit the minutes of Planning Commission meetings
to the Zoning Administrator and the Planning Commission. The County Commission
may elect to provide compensation to the secretary.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.025 QUORUM AND VOTE.
   A quorum shall consist of at least four members. Evidence shall not be
presented unless a quorum is present. A majority vote shall be constituted of
at least a majority of members present. If a majority vote cannot be obtained
among the quorum, the item of business will be deferred until the next regular
meeting of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.026 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   Recommendations. The Planning Commission shall, with respect to the
unincorporated areas of the County, review and make a recommendation to the
County Commission for:
      (1)   A General Plan and amendments to the General Plan; and
      (2)   Land use regulations, including:
         (a)   Ordinances regarding the use of land within the county; and
         (b)   Amendments to existing land use regulations.
   (B)   Public hearing. Before making a recommendation to the County
Commission on an item described in this section, the Planning Commission shall
hold a public meeting in accordance with UCA 17-27a-2.
   (C)   General Plan.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission, after holding
public hearings, to create and recommend to the County Commission a General
Plan for the physical development of the county, which shall be permitted to
include areas outside its boundaries that bear consideration to the planning of
the county.
      (2)   The General Plan shall include at least the following elements:
         (a)   Official maps;
         (b)   Growth and land use;
         (c)   Commercial/industrial uses;
         (d)   Transportation and utilities;
         (e)   Community facilities;
         (f)   Housing;
         (g)   Environmental; and
         (h)   Geologic/natural hazards.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall be permitted to recommend amendments
to the General Plan regarding the administration or maintenance of this
chapter.
   (D)   Zoning ordinance. It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to
develop and recommend to the County Commission a zoning ordinance, in
accordance with the guidelines of the General Plan, establishing zones within
the county. Such regulations shall be made in regard to the character of each
district and the most appropriate use of land within the county. The Planning
Commission shall make periodic reports and recommendations to the County
Commission.
   (E)   Zoning map. The County Commission shall adopt an official zoning map
for all areas included within the county.
   (F)   Subdivisions. It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to
consider applications for the division of land in accordance with this chapter.
   (G)   Conditional uses. It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to
consider applications For conditional uses in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.027 APPEALS AND HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any person with standing aggrieved by any decision of the Planning
Commission shall have the right to make such appeals as provided by this
chapter or state law. Such appeals shall be based on the record.
   (B)   Appeal of Planning Commission decisions shall be to the Garfield
County Appeal Authority. Appeals shall be in writing and shall be filed with
the Clerk’s office not more than 30 days after the decision by the Planning
Commission. The Appeal Authority may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of
the Planning Commission. Appeal review shall be recorded in an open public
meeting. The Appeal Authority’s decision shall be final.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
COUNTY COMMISSION
§ 155.040 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The County Commission shall, with respect to the unincorporated areas
of the county:
      (1)   Exercise all legislative powers, have all legislative duties and
perform all legislative functions of the county;
      (2)   Consider each land use application that the Planning Commission
recommends; and
      (3)   Provide notice as required by UCA § 17-27a-2 and hold a public
meeting to consider the Planning Commission’s recommendations.
   (B)   The County Commission may, with respect to the unincorporated areas of
the county:
      (1)   Take any action required by law and necessary to the full discharge
of its duties, even though the action is not expressly authorized by state
statute;
      (2)   Approve a land use application as recommended by the Planning
Commission;
      (3)   Approve a land use application with revisions;
      (4)   Deny the recommended land use application;
      (5)   Consider the Planning Commission’s failure to make a timely
recommendation as a negative recommendation; and
      (6)   Require onsite and offsite improvements, facilities and amenities
if they are determined necessary to protect the health, safety and general
welfare of the residents of the county, and are found consistent with the
intent of this and other related ordinances.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.041 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person with standing aggrieved by any decision of the County
Commission shall have the right to make such appeals as provided by this
chapter or state law. Such appeals shall be based on the record.
   (B)   County Commission decisions shall be final at the local level. County
Commission decisions may be appealed beyond the local level by:
      (1)   Requesting arbitration and mediation through the Office of the
Property Rights Ombudsman; and/or
      (2)   Filing a petition for review to the local State District Court.
   (C)   Appeals shall be in writing and shall be filed with the Clerk’s office
not more than 30 days after the decision by the County Commission. The Property
Rights Ombudsman and/or local State District Court may affirm, modify or
reverse the decision of the County Commission. Appeal review shall be recorded
in an open public meeting. The Property Rights Ombudsman's and/or local State
District Court’s decision shall be final.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
APPEAL AUTHORITY
§ 155.055 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Board of Garfield County Commissioners shall hereby establish an Appeal
Authority in accordance with UCA § 17-27a-701 and UCA § 63C-30-2.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022; Ord. 2023-7,
passed 10-9-2023)
§ 155.056 DUTIES AND POWERS.
   The Appeal Authority for Garfield County shall hear and decide requests for
variances and appeals in accordance with UCA § 17-27a-701(1)(b) and UCA § 63C-
30-202.
(Ord. 2023-7, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 155.057 VARIANCES.
   Requests for variances from the terms of this subchapter shall be made to
the Appeal Authority. The Appeal Authority shall hear and decide requests for
variances in accordance with UCA § 17-27a-702.
(Ord. 2023-7, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 155.058 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals from land use decisions applying any land use ordinance of
Garfield County, State of Utah and/or appeals from a fee charged in accordance
with UCA § 17-27a-509 shall be to the Appeal Authority.
   (B)   Appeals for County Recorder Standards in accordance with UCA § 63C-30-
302 shall be to the Appeal Authority.
(Ord. 2023-7, passed 10-9-2023)
§ 155.059 FEES.
   The land use applicant shall pay any applicable fee as authorized by §
155.008.
(Ord. 2023-7, passed 10-9-2023)
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
§ 155.075 GENERAL.
   This section establishes the duties and responsibilities for the Garfield
County Zoning Administrator with respect to the administration of this chapter.
The Garfield County Zoning Administrator and/or designee shall be referred to
hereafter as “the Zoning Administrator.”
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.076 REVIEWS AND APPROVALS.
   The Zoning Administrator shall be authorized to undertake reviews, make
recommendations and grant approvals as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.077 GENERAL PLAN AND LAND USE REGULATIONS.
   The Zoning Administrator shall assist the Planning Commission in the
amending, preparing and adopting the General Plan and land use regulations.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.078 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   The Zoning Administrator, along with the Building Official, shall receive
all applications for site plan review and review for completeness before
approving said plan.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.079 LAND USE APPLICATIONS.
   The Zoning Administrator shall receive all land use applications or other
plans to be permitted or approved as required by this chapter, review for
completeness and prepare submittals for review by the Planning Commission and
County Commission.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.080 AMENDMENTS.
   Requests for amendments or changes to land use regulations, the General
Plan, this chapter or map shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for
processing.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.081 INTERPRETATIONS.
   The interpretation and application of the provisions of this chapter shall
be by the Zoning Administrator. An appeal of an interpretation by the Zoning
Administrator shall be submitted to the County Commission, and such
interpretation shall be considered to be final.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.082 LIABILITY.
   The Zoning Administrator, or designee, charged with the enforcement of this
chapter, acting in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties
described in this chapter, shall not be personally, civilly or criminally
liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of an
act or by reason of an act or omission in the discharge of such duties.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
BUILDING OFFICIAL
§ 155.095 REVIEW OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   Applications for building permits and amendments thereto shall be submitted
to the Building Official and Zoning Administrator for review and approved by
both individuals prior to permit issuance. Each application shall include a set
of building plans and all data necessary to show that the requirements of this
chapter are met.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.096 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   The Zoning Administrator, along with the Building Official, shall receive
all applications for site plan review and review for completeness before
approving said plan.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.097 INSPECTION.
   The Building Official is hereby authorized to inspect or to cause to be
inspected all buildings and structures in the course of construction,
modification or repair and to inspect land uses to determine compliance with
the provisions of this chapter. The Building Official or any authorized
employee of the county shall have the right to enter the premises for the
purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
provided, that such right of entry shall be exercised only at reasonable hours
and that in no case shall entry be made to any occupied building in the absence
of the owner or tenant thereof, or the written order of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.098 SITE PLAN AND BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A detailed site plan, drawn to scale to be determined by the Building
Official shall be filed as part of any application, prior to consideration for
any building permit.
   (B)   The construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement,
repair, equipment, use and occupancy, location, removal and demolition of
structures, or any part thereof, as provided or as restricted in this chapter
shall not be commenced or proceeded with except after the issuance of a written
permit for the same by the Building Official. If work is not started on a
structure or building within one-hundred eighty days from issuance of a permit
and new permit will be required. Pursuant to the issuance of a building permit
in Garfield County, the applicant shall submit evidence of having an approved
potable water supply and an approved method of waste disposal. Both the water
supply and the method of waste disposal shall be approved in writing by the
applicable health department prior to the issuance of a building permit.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.099 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   Certificate of occupancy either for the whole or a part of a building or
structure shall be applied for coincidentally with the application for a
building permit and shall be issued within ten days after the erection or
structural alteration of such building or structure or part thereof, shall have
been completed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.110 PARKING AND LOADING SPACES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be provided in compliance with this
section where any building is erected, altered, enlarged converted or increased
in size or capacity.
      (2)   The off-street parking spaces required for each permitted use in
this chapter shall not be less than that found in the table below.
OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Use Number of Parking Spaces Required
OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Use           Number of Parking Spaces Required
Dwelling unit 2 per dwelling unit
Hotel/Motel   1 per sleeping unit
Restaurant    1 per 100 gross square feet
Retail        1 per 200 gross square feet
Commercial    1 per 300 gross square feet
Industrial    1 per 500 gross square feet
 
   (B)   Dimensions. A minimum width of nine feet and a minimum length of 20
feet shall be provided for each parking stall. Handicap spaces shall be
developed in accordance with the American Disabilities Act (ADA). For uses or
occurrences where the parking requirements of this chapter are found
unreasonable, appropriate parking and loading space requirements shall be
determined by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.111 FENCING.
   (A)   General. Unless specifically approved by the Zoning Administrator and/
or Building Official, any wall, fence or hedge shall not exceed those found in
the table below.
 
MAXIMUM WALL, FENCE OR HEDGE HEIGHTS
Yard  Height (feet)
Front 3.5
Side  6.0
Rear  6.0
 
   (B)   Fence types. Any wall, fence or hedge that is not primarily
transparent (metal bar, chain link, etc.) shall not exceed 3.5 feet in height
inside 25 feet from any front property line or side property line which fronts
a street or road.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.112 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   General. Accessory buildings shall occupy the same lot as the main use
or building and shall be located at least ten feet from the main building or
any other building.
   (B)   Setbacks. Accessory buildings shall meet the same front setback
requirements as the main building. However, the side and rear yard setbacks for
any accessory building shall be ten feet. An accessory building may be built on
the side or rear property line upon approval from the Building Official as a
fire proof structure (metal, block or cement).
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.113 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Accessory dwelling units (ADU’s) shall occupy the same lot as the main
use or building and shall be located at least ten feet from the main building
or any other building or structure. ADU’s shall be setback at least 30 feet
from any front property line and at least ten feet from any side property line.
   (B)   An ADU may be approved by the Building Official and Planning
Department so long as the proposed accessory dwelling unit:
      (1)   Is constructed as a habitable living unit added to, created within
or detached from a primary single-family dwelling and contained on one lot or
parcel;
      (2)   Is constructed for the primary purpose of offering a long-term
rental of 30 consecutive days or longer;
      (3)   Does not violate any required setbacks for front, rear or side
yards or from other buildings or structures;
      (4)   Does not violate any local building codes;
      (5)   Has approval from the State or Local Health Department for the
proposed wastewater system and potable water supply and approval from the State
of Utah Division of Water Rights and Division of Drinking Water for potable
water supply; and
      (6)   Does not violate any other Garfield County ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.114 EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Uses of easements and/or rights-of-way shall be permitted in or through any
zone for the purpose of serving a permitted use in the same or any zone. Such
easements or rights-of-way may be used for uses similar to, but not limited to
the following:
   (A)   Roads, streets, highways, railroads, tramways, cableways and conveyor
systems;
   (B)   Pipelines for the transmission of water, waste water, materials, fuels
or products;
   (C)   Overhead or underground transmission or distribution lines, including
poles, towers and conductors; and
   (D)   Structures and facilities incidental to the above.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.115 SPECIAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Home occupations.
      (1)   Classification. Home occupations shall be classified as follows:
         (a)   Class A: fully contained within the interior of the dwelling
unit or accessory building with little to no impact on the conditional use
review criteria listed in §
155.135 of this chapter (i.e., home offices, shops, etc.).
         (b)   Class B: may be contained within the interior and/or the
exterior of the dwelling unit or accessory building with potential outdoor
storage, parking, increased traffic, etc. and a clear impact on the conditional
use review criteria listed in §
155.135 of this chapter (i.e., daycares, salons, retail, manufacturing,
rentals, outdoor storage, etc.).
      (2)   Conditions. Home occupations shall comply with the following
conditions:
         (a)   Class A home occupations shall be a permitted use in all zoning
districts and an approved conditional use permit shall not be required.
         (b)   Class B home occupations shall be a conditional use in all
zoning districts and an approved conditional use permit shall be required.
            1.   Class B home occupations shall be limited to one per parcel
and may be approved as the main dwelling unit or the accessory dwelling unit,
but not both.
         (c)   A town approved business license shall be required for all home
occupations.
         (d)   The home occupation, and all inventory, supplies and equipment
shall not exceed or consume more than 50% of th1e primary structure.
         (e)   Goods relating to the home occupation shall not be stored in the
front yard of the lot
         (f)   If necessary, additional parking spaces shall be provided to
accommodate the home occupation. All parking shall be off-street.
   (B)   Youth homes.
      (1)   Youth homes. Youth homes shall be a conditional use in
Agricultural, Multiple Use and Commercial Zoning Districts and prohibited in
all other zoning districts.
      (2)   Conditions. Youth homes shall comply with the following conditions:
         (a)   Youth homes shall not be located within 1,000 feet from any
park, school, day care, library or religious institution;
         (b)   Youth homes shall not be located adjacent to any Residential
Zone boundary; and
         (c)   Any other conditions as set forth by §§
155.130 through
155.136 of this chapter.
   (C)   Adult uses.
      (1)   Adult uses. Adult uses shall be a conditional use in Commercial and
Industrial Zoning Districts and prohibited in all other zoning districts.
      (2)   Conditions. Adult uses shall comply with the following conditions:
         (a)   Shall not be located within 1,000 feet from any park, school,
day care, library or religious institution;
         (b)   Shall not be located along major highways or main streets and
shall not be located adjacent to any residential zone boundary;
         (c)   Shall only include those deemed legal by the State of Utah such
as bars, taverns, pool halls, lounges, etc.; and
         (d)   Any other conditions as set forth by §§
155.130 through
155.136 of this chapter.
   (D)   Short-term rentals. See the Garfield County Short-Term Rental
Ordinance (§§
111.01 through
111.13).
   (E)   Glamping. See the Garfield County Glamping Ordinance (§§
91.01 through
91.05).
   (F)   Concentrated animal feeding operations. See the Garfield County CAFO
Ordinance.
   (G)   Accessory dwelling units (ADUs). One ADU per lot or parcel shall be
permitted in all zoning districts. The ADU shall:
      (1)   Not exceed 50% of the main dwelling or 1,000 square feet, whichever
is less; and
      (2)   Be setback a minimum of:
         (a)   Ten feet from any dwelling or accessory building;
         (b)   Thirty feet from any front property line; and
         (c)   Ten feet from any side or rear property line.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-7, passed 4-25-2022; Ord. 2022-9,
passed 7-26-2022)
§ 155.116 PHASE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   General. New projects may be developed in phases or sections. Each
phase or section shall consist of a number of improvements which can be
completely developed within a period designated by the Sketch Plan Review
Committee. When the improvements have been completed and approved by the Sketch
Plan Review Committee, the developer may submit the next phase of the proposed
development in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Infrastructure improvements. Infrastructure improvements may be
developed in phases, or for the entire project upon appropriate permits,
inspections and approvals from the Building Official.
   (C)   Site plans. The initial preliminary site plan(s) and/or master plan(s)
shall show all sections or phases of the development.
   (D)   Alterations. Whenever a change is proposed in phase ordering, the
preliminary site plan shall be revised and submitted in accordance with the
procedures of this section.
   (E)   Phase numbering. Phases shall be identified in consecutive numerical
titles and an easily recognizable order, as identified on approved preliminary
and/or master site plans.
   (F)   Intent. The intent is that improvements be completed within a
reasonable period of time as designated by the Sketch Plan Review Committee. If
progress has not been made within said time period, and there are no immediate
plans for substantial work to be completed, the Building Official shall rule
the building permit null and void by reason of inactivity.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 4-25-2022)
§ 155.117 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
   Garfield County may enter into a development agreement containing any term
that the county considers necessary or appropriate to accomplish the purposes
of this chapter, in accordance with UCA § 17-27a-528.
(Ord. 2022-7, passed 4-25-2022)
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 155.130 GENERAL.
   (A)   A conditional use permit shall be obtained for certain uses, which
would become harmonious or compatible with neighboring uses through the
application and maintenance of qualifying conditions and located in specific
locations within a zone, but shall not be allowed under the general conditions
of the zone as stated in this chapter.
   (B)   An approved conditional use permit shall be required for each
conditional use listed in this chapter. No building permit, other permit or
license shall be issued for a conditional use by any officer or employee unless
a conditional use permit has been approved by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.131 APPLICATION.
   Application for a conditional use permit shall be available at the Planning
Department or on the county’s website. Conditional Use Permit applications
shall be submitted to the County as provided in this Ordinance. Applications
shall be accompanied by maps, drawings, statements or other documents in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. An appropriate fee outlined in
the Garfield County Fee Resolution shall be collected at the time of submittal.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.132 DETERMINATION.
   The Planning Commission shall approve, approve with modifications or deny
conditional use applications. In approving a conditional use permit, the
Planning Commission shall determine if the proposed use:
   (A)   Has reasonable conditions proposed, or imposed, to mitigate the
reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance
with the applicable standards listed in §
155.136 of this subchapter;
   (B)   Will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of
persons residing or working in the area, or injurious to the property or
improvements in the area; and
   (C)   Is in harmony with the intent of the County’s General Plan, Zoning
Ordinance and the Zoning District in which it is located.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.133 EXPIRATION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Expiration. A conditional use permit shall be considered to be
exercised when the application has been approved by the Planning Commission.
When such permit is abandoned or discontinued for a period of one year, it
shall not be reestablished, unless authorized by the Planning Commission or
Appeal Authority on appeal.
   (B)   Revocation. A conditional use permit shall be revoked where the
applicant fails to comply with conditions imposed by the county. Conditional
use permits shall be suspended upon failure to renew any associated business
licenses. Upon suspension, the Planning Commission shall determine if the
conditional use permit is to be reissued or revoked.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.134 AMENDMENTS.
   An amendment to an approved conditional use permit shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission accompanied by supporting information. The Planning
Commission shall review the amendment and shall be authorized to approve,
approve with modifications or deny any such amendment and impose applicable
conditions as deemed necessary.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.135 CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   A request for a conditional use shall be approved, approved with
modifications or denied.
   (B)   Each request for a conditional use approval shall be consistent with
the criteria listed as follows.
The request:
      (1)   Is consistent with all applicable provisions of the General Plan;
      (2)   Shall not adversely affect adjacent properties;
      (3)   Is compatible with the existing or allowable uses of adjacent
properties;
      (4)   Can demonstrate that adequate public facilities, including roads,
drainage, potable water, sanitary sewer and police and fire protection exist or
will exist to serve the requested use at the time such facilities are needed;
      (5)   Can demonstrate adequate provision for maintenance of the use and
associated structures;
      (6)   Has minimized, to the degree possible, adverse effects on the
natural environment;
      (7)   Will not create undue traffic congestion;
      (8)   Will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare; and
      (9)   Conforms to all provisions of this chapter and other applicable
county ordinances.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.136 CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS.
   (A)   This section includes provisions for conditional uses that require
compliance with objective standards set forth herein.
   (B)   Each request for a conditional use approval shall be consistent with
the following standards:
      (1)   The safety of people and/or property;
      (2)   Health and sanitation;
      (3)   Infrastructure;
      (4)   Lighting;
      (5)   Environmental concerns;
      (6)   Hours of operation;
      (7)   Consistency with the General Plan; and
      (8)   Compliance with the Zoning Ordinance and other applicable county
ordinances.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
NONCONFORMING USES
§ 155.150 GENERAL.
   Except as otherwise required by state law, a structure or use legally
established prior to the adoption date of this chapter shall be maintained
unchanged. In other than criminal proceedings, the owner, occupant or user
shall have the burden to show that the structure, lot or use was lawfully
established.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.151 DISCONTINUANCE.
   (A)   Vacancy. Any lot or structure, or portion thereof, occupied by a
nonconforming use, that is or hereafter becomes vacant and remains unoccupied
by a nonconforming use for a period of one year shall not thereafter be
occupied, except by a use that conforms to this chapter.
   (B)   Damage. If any nonconforming structure or use is, by any cause,
damaged to the extent of 50% of its value as determined by the Building
Official, it shall not thereafter be reconstructed as such.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.152 ENLARGEMENTS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Maintenance and repair. Maintenance, repairs and structural
alterations shall be permitted to be made to nonconforming structures or to a
building housing a nonconforming use with valid permits.
   (B)   Changes of nonconforming use. A change of use of a nonconforming use
of a structure or parcel of land shall not be made except to that of a
conforming use. Where such change is made, the use shall not thereafter be
changed back to a nonconforming use.
   (C)   Additions. Additions to nonconforming structures and parking areas
shall conform to the requirements of this chapter. Additions to structures
housing nonconforming uses that increase the area of a nonconforming use shall
not be made.
   (D)   Certificate of occupancy required. No building hereafter structurally
altered or erected shall be used or changed in use for a nonconforming use
until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the Building Official,
stating that the building or proposed use thereof or the use of the land,
complies with the provisions of this chapter for the renewing, changing or
extending thereof.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
ZONES
§ 155.165 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following zones are created as
necessary to regulate the development of the land in Garfield County, Utah:
Zoning District Abbreviation
Zoning District     Abbreviation
Agricultural        A
Commercial          C
Forest Recreation   FR
Industrial          I
Multiple Use        MU
Residential         R
Residential Estates RE
Resort Recreation   RR
Wildlife Habitat    WH
 
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.166 BOUNDARIES OF ZONES.
   The boundaries of each of the zones are established as described herein, and
as shown on the map entitled “Zoning Map of Garfield County Utah,” which map is
attached by reference to this chapter; and all boundaries, notations and other
data shown thereon are made as much a part of this chapter as if fully
described and detailed herein.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.167 ZONING MAP AMENDMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall provide notice as required by UCA § 17-
27a-205(1) and hold a public hearing on any proposed zoning map amendment.
      (1)   For a zoning map amendment proposed by the county, a notice shall
be mailed at least ten days before the public hearing to each property owner
whose land is directly affected by the proposed zoning map amendment.
      (2)   For a zoning map amendment proposed by a private property owner, a
notice shall be mailed at least ten days before the public hearing to each
adjacent property owner with a common lot or parcel boundary line as the
subject property or within 500 feet, whichever is greater.
   (B)   After holding a public hearing, the Planning Commission shall give
their formal recommendation to the County Commission for final consideration.
(Ord. 2023-5, passed 4-24-2023)
§ 155.168 RULES FOR LOCATING.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules
shall apply:
   (A)   Whenever a boundary line of a zone overlays any street, river,
irrigation canal, other water way, private/public land boundary or any section
line, the center of the street, river, irrigation canal, other water way,
private/public land boundary or any section line shall be deemed to be the
boundary of such zone.
   (B)   When the application of the above rules does not clarify the zone
boundary location, the Zoning Administrator shall interpret the map.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
AGRICULTURE ZONE (A)
§ 155.180 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Agricultural Zone is to preserve appropriate areas for
permanent and temporary agricultural and open space uses. Uses normally and
necessarily related to agriculture are permitted, and uses adverse to the
continuance of agricultural activity are not allowed.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.181 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings, one per parcel;
   (B)   Accessory buildings and uses;
   (C)   Accessory dwelling units, one per parcel;
   (D)   Crop production;
   (E)   Livestock keeping and grazing; and
   (F)   Stands for the sale of produce grown on the premises.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.182 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses:
   (A)   Home occupations;
   (B)   Public and quasi-public buildings and uses;
   (C)   Short-term rentals;
   (D)   Temporary activities or events expected to consistently reoccur;
   (E)   Transmitting stations and towers;
   (F)   Utility easements; and
   (G)   Youth homes.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
§ 155.183 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No dwelling shall be erected to a height greater than two and one-half
stories or 35 feet, unless specifically approved by the Planning Commission and
Building Official.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.184 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
 
Zoning District Minimum Area Minimum Width Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
                                           Setback    Setback   Setback
A               6.0 Acres    400 feet      30 feet    10 feet   20 feet
 
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.185 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least 30 feet from the front property lines and ten feet from side and rear
property lines, except that the street side yards of a corner lot shall be the
same as the front yard setback required.
   (B)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least ten feet from the main building or any other structure.
   (C)   All setbacks less than ten feet shall require written approval from
the Building Official.
   (D)   Individual potable water supply and wastewater disposal systems shall
be subject to the approval of the applicable State or Local Health Department.
   (E)   No building, structure or enclosure housing livestock of any kind
shall be constructed closer than 100 feet to any dwelling on the same or
adjacent lot or parcel.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-1, passed 1-24-2022)
COMMERCIAL ZONE (C)
§ 155.200 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Commercial Zone is to provide for retail and service
activities in locations convenient to serve the public.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.201 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings, one per parcel;
   (B)   Accessory buildings and uses;
   (C)   Accessory dwelling units, one per parcel;
   (D)   Employee housing developments;
   (E)   Mixed-use buildings;
   (F)   Multiple-family dwellings;
   (G)   Accommodation and food services;
   (H)   Administrative services;
   (I)   Finance and insurance;
   (J)   Health care and social assistance;
   (K)   Information;
   (L)   Management companies and enterprises;
   (M)   Professional, scientific and technical services;
   (N)   Public administration;
   (O)   Real estate, rental and leasing;
   (P)   Retail trade; and
   (Q)   Wholesale trade.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.202 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses:
   (A)   Adult uses;
   (B)   Transmitting stations and towers;
   (C)   Utility easements; and
   (D)   Youth homes.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.203 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall be erected to a height greater than four stories and 48
feet, unless specifically approved by the Planning Commission and Building
Official.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.204 MINIMUM AREA REGULATIONS AND MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
 
Zoning District Minimum Area Minimum Width Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
                                           Setback    Setback   Setback
C               None         100 feet      10 feet    10 feet   10 feet
 
   (A)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least ten feet from the front property lines and ten feet from side and rear
property lines.
   (B)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least ten feet from the main building or any other structure.
   (C)   All setbacks less than ten feet shall require written approval from
the Building Official.
   (D)   Individual potable water supply and wastewater disposal systems shall
be subject to the approval of the applicable State or Local Health Department.
   (E)   Lots with onsite septic systems and potable drinking water wells shall
have a minimum lot size of one acre, per Local Health Department requirements.
   (F)   Commercial structures exceeding 35% of the lot or parcel area shall
obtain written approval from the Building Official and Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
FOREST RECREATION ZONE (FR)
§ 155.215 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Forest Recreation Zone is to permit development of
identified forested areas for recreation, seasonal residential living and other
similar activities, to the extent compatible with the protection of the natural
and scenic resources and for the benefit of present and future generations.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.216 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings, one per parcel;
   (B)   Accessory buildings and uses;
   (C)   Accessory dwelling units, one per parcel; and
   (D)   Crop production.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.217 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses:
   (A)   Home occupations;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings;
   (C)   Public and quasi-public buildings and uses;
   (D)   Short-term rentals;
   (E)   Transmitting stations and towers; and
   (F)   Utility easements.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.218 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall be erected to a height greater than two and one-half
stories and 35 feet, unless specifically approved by the County Planning
Commission and Building Official.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.219 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
 
Zoning District Minimum Area Minimum Width Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
                                           Setback    Setback   Setback
FR              0.50 Acres   90 feet       30 feet    10 feet   20 feet
 
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.220 MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least 30 feet from the front property lines and ten feet from side and rear
property lines, except that the street side yards of a corner lot shall be the
same as the front yard setback required.
   (B)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least ten feet from the main building or any other structure.
   (C)   All setbacks less than ten feet shall require written approval from
the Building Official.
   (D)   Individual potable water supply and wastewater disposal systems shall
be subject to the approval of the applicable State or Local Health Department.
   (E)   Lots with onsite septic systems and potable drinking water wells shall
have a minimum area of one acre, per Local Health Department requirements.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
INDUSTRIAL ZONE (I)
§ 155.235 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Industrial Zone is to provide areas where industries
necessary and beneficial to the local economy may locate and operate.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.236 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   Accommodation and food services;
   (B)   Construction;
   (C)   Information;
   (D)   Manufacturing;
   (E)   Mining;
   (F)   Real estate, rental and leasing;
   (G)   Retail trade;
   (H)   Transportation and warehousing;
   (I)   Utilities;
   (J)   Waste management services; and
   (K)   Wholesale trade.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.237 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses:
   (A)   Adult uses; and
   (B)   Temporary construction camps.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.238 HEIGHT, AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
   The height and yard restrictions pertaining to any adjacent zone shall apply
within 100 feet of the common property boundary.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.239 MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   All hazardous areas or materials subject to this zone shall be completely
enclosed by a secure fence or suitable barrier approved by the Building
Official to prevent entrance by unauthorized persons and to protect the general
public from accidental exposure.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
MULTIPLE USE ZONE (MU)
§ 155.250 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Multiple Use Zone is to establish areas that are open and
generally undeveloped. The Zone is designed to protect open space and resources
by reducing unreasonable requirements for public utilities and services. MU
Zones encourage multiple use/sustained yield activities including grazing,
watershed restoration, mining and recreation. This Zone supports avoidance -
minimization - mitigation protocols to prevent excessive damage to watersheds,
water sources, soils, vegetation and land health from permitted activities. It
is intended to promote the sustainable health, safety, welfare, custom,
culture, traditional use, convenience, order and prosperity of the inhabitants
of the county.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.251 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings; one per parcel;
   (B)   Accessory buildings and uses;
   (C)   Accessory dwelling units, one per parcel;
   (D)   Agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting;
   (E)   Glampgrounds and campgrounds; and
   (F)   Outdoor recreation.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.252 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following are conditional uses:
   (A)   Home occupations;
   (B)   Mining;
   (C)   Power generation;
   (D)   Short-term rentals;
   (E)   Temporary construction camps;
   (F)   Temporary activities or events expected to consistently reoccur;
   (G)   Transmitting stations and towers;
   (H)   Utility easements; and
   (I)   Youth homes.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.253 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall be erected to a height greater than two and one-half
stories and 35 feet, unless specifically approved by the Planning Commission
and Building Official.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.254 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
 
Zoning District Minimum Area Minimum Width Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
                                           Setback    Setback   Setback
A               40.0 Acres   400 feet      30 feet    30 feet   30 feet
 
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.255 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least 30 feet from the front property lines and ten feet from side and rear
property lines, except that the street side yards of a corner lot shall be the
same as the front yard setback required.
   (B)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least ten feet from the main building or any other structure.
   (C)   All setbacks less than ten feet shall require written approval from
the Building Official.
   (D)   Individual potable water supply and wastewater disposal systems shall
be subject to the approval of the Applicable State or Local Health Department.
   (E)   No building, structure or enclosure housing livestock of any kind
shall be constructed closer than 100 feet to any dwelling on the same or
adjacent lot or parcel.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
RESIDENTIAL ZONE (R)
§ 155.270 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Residential Zone is to provide appropriate locations
where single-family dwellings and neighborhoods may be established, maintained
and protected. The regulations also permit the properly controlled
establishment of public and semi-public uses such as churches, schools,
libraries, parks and playgrounds. The regulations are intended to prohibit
those uses that would be incompatible with a residential neighborhood.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.271 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses are:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings, one per parcel;
   (B)   Accessory buildings and uses; and
   (C)   Accessory dwelling units, one per parcel.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.272 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditional uses are:
   (A)   Home-based businesses;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings;
   (C)   Public and quasi-public buildings and uses;
   (D)   Short-term rentals;
   (E)   Transmitting stations and towers; and
   (F)   Utility easements.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.273 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall be erected to a height greater than two and one-half
stories and 35 feet, unless specifically approved by the Planning Commission
and Building Official.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.274 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
 
Zoning District Minimum Area Minimum Width Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
                                           Setback    Setback   Setback
R-1             0.25 Acre    100 feet      30 feet    10 feet   20 feet
R-2             0.50 Acre    100 feet      30 feet    10 feet   20 feet
 
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.275 MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least 30 feet from the front property lines and ten feet from side and rear
property lines, except that the street side yards of a corner lot shall be the
same as the front yard setback required.
   (B)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least ten feet from the main building or any other structure.
   (C)   All setbacks less than ten feet shall require written approval from
the Building Official.
   (D)   Individual potable water supply and wastewater disposal systems shall
be subject to the approval of the Applicable State or Local Health Department.
   (E)   Lots with onsite septic systems and potable drinking water wells shall
have a minimum area of one acre, per Local Health Department requirements.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
REDEVELOPMENT ZONE (RD)
§ 155.280 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Redevelopment Zone is to recognize problem areas in the
unincorporated areas of Garfield County resulting from subdivisions which were
developed and recorded prior to the adoption of applicable land use regulations
by the Board of Garfield County Commissioners (pre-1986). Once these areas are
recognized, the intent of this district is to redevelop the lots or parcels
into larger, buildable lots, or to restore the lots or parcels back to
agricultural use as they originally were before being subdivided many years
ago.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 11-28-2022; Ord. 2023-2, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 155.281 PERMITTED USES.
   Temporary dry camping.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 11-28-2022; Ord. 2023-2, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 155.282 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Agricultural uses (See Chapter 11).
   (B)   Single-family dwellings, one per parcel.
   (C)   Accessory buildings and uses.
   (D)   Accessory dwelling units, one per parcel.
   (E)   Short-term rentals, one per parcel.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 11-28-2022; Ord. 2023-2, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 155.283 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   Any use not specifically listed as permitted or conditional shall be a
prohibited use.
      (1)   This shall include all commercial operations, with the exception of
short-term rentals.
      (2)   Existing operations shall be deemed legally nonconforming and shall
comply with the “Nonconforming Uses” subchapter of this chapter.
   (B)   Outdoor storage of rubbish, materials and inoperable vehicles shall be
prohibited.
   (C)   Advertising and signage shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 11-28-2022; Ord. 2023-2, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 155.284 MINIMUM AREA REGULATIONS AND MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
 
Use               Minimum Area Front Yard Side Yard Setback Rear Yard Setback
                               Setback
Agricultural Uses 6.0 Acres    30 feet    10 feet           20 feet
Structure w/      1.0 Acres    30 feet    10 feet           20 feet
Utilities
 
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 11-28-2022; Ord. 2023-2, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 155.285 CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Agricultural uses.
      (1)   Minimum Lot Area: 6.0 acres; and
      (2)   Approved access certified by the Garfield County Public Works
Director.
   (B)   Single-family and/or accessory dwellings, one (each) per parcel.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 1.0 acre;
         (a)   Lot area may be less than 1 acre, but shall be greater than 0.5
acre if served by a shared well approved by the State of Utah and Southwest
Utah Public Health Department.
      (2)   Private or shared well with water rights approved by the State of
Utah;
      (3)   Septic permit approved by the Southwest Utah Public Health
Department;
      (4)   Approved access certified by the Garfield County Public Works
Director; and
      (5)   Building permit issued from the Garfield County Building Official.
   (C)   Accessory buildings and uses.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 1.0 acres;
         (a)   Lot area may be less than one acre, but shall be greater than
0.5 acre if served by a shared well approved by the State of Utah and Southwest
Utah Public Health Department.
      (2)   If applicable:
         (a)   Private or shared well with water rights approved by the State
of Utah.
         (b)   Septic permit approved by the Southwest Utah Public Health
Department.
      (3)   Approved access certified by the Garfield County Public Works
Director; and
      (4)   Building permit issued from the Garfield County Building Official.
   (D)   Short-term rentals, one per parcel.
      (1)   The requirements of division (B) above of this section and the
Garfield County short- term rental ordinance have been met. (See §§
111.01 through
111.13.)
   (E)   Temporary dry camping. Temporary dry camping shall be permitted as
long as the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Permanent utilities shall be prohibited (water, wastewater, power,
etc.);
      (2)   Wastewater and greywater shall be disposed at an approved dump
station;
      (3)   Approved access certified by the Garfield County Public Works
Director; and
      (4)   Occupancy of recreational vehicles shall be limited to 30
consecutive days or less.
(Ord. 2022-13, passed 11-28-2022; Ord. 2023-2, passed 1-23-2023)
RESIDENTIAL ESTATES ZONE (RE)
§ 155.290 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Residential Estates Zone is to provide for residential
estate neighborhoods of a rural character together with a limited number of
livestock for the benefit and enjoyment of the residents.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.291 PERMITTED USES.
   The keeping of livestock is permitted, with the following conditions.
Livestock shall be:
   (A)   Kept for private, non-commercial purposes; and
   (B)   Contained in an appropriate manner on the permitted lot or parcel and
shall not roam freely onto adjacent properties.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.292 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditional uses are:
   (A)   Home occupations;
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings;
   (C)   Public and quasi-public buildings and uses;
   (D)   Short-term rentals;
   (E)   Transmitting stations and towers; and
   (F)   Utility easements.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.293 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall be erected to a height greater than two and one-half
stories and 35 feet, unless specifically approved by the Planning Commission
and Building Official.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.294 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS.
 
Zoning District Minimum Area Minimum Width Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
                                           Setback    Setback   Setback
RE-1            1.0 Acres    150 feet      30 feet    10 feet   20 feet
RE-6            6.0 Acres    150 feet      30 feet    10 feet   20 feet
 
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.295 MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least 30 feet from the front property lines and ten feet from side and rear
property lines, except that the street side yards of a corner lot shall be the
same as the front yard setback required.
   (B)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least ten feet from the main building or any other structure.
   (C)   All setbacks less than ten feet shall require written approval from
the Building Official.
   (D)   Individual potable water supply and wastewater disposal systems shall
be subject to the approval of the Applicable State or Local Health Department.
   (E)   Lots with onsite septic systems and potable drinking water wells shall
have a minimum area of one acre, per Local Health Department requirements.
   (F)   No building, structure or enclosure housing livestock of any kind
shall be constructed closer than 100 feet to any dwelling on the same or
adjacent lot or parcel.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
RESORT RECREATION ZONE (RR)
§ 155.310 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Resort Recreation Zone is to recognize and provide for
the orderly development of certain properties as a tourist, recreation,
convention, hospitality, business and gathering destination. A Resort
Recreation Zone may include a cohesive and complimentary mixture of land uses
including commercial, residential, recreational and/or business park along with
more primitive settings. Uses should focus on developments for tourists,
recreationists, visitors and the local community.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.311 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses are:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings, one per parcel;
   (B)   Accessory buildings and uses;
   (C)   Accessory dwelling units, one per parcel;
   (D)   Employee housing developments; and
   (E)   Short-term rentals.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.312 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditional uses are:
   (A)   Accommodation and food services;
   (B)   Home occupations;
   (C)   Multiple-family dwellings;
   (D)   Public and quasi-public buildings and uses;
   (E)   Retail trade;
   (F)   Transmitting stations and towers; and
   (G)   Utility easements.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.313 MINIMUM AREA REGULATIONS AND MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
 
Zoning District Minimum Area Minimum Width Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
                                           Setback    Setback   Setback
R-1             0.25 Acres   100 feet      30 feet    10 feet   20 feet
R-2             0.50 Acres   100 feet      30 feet    10 feet   20 feet
C               None         100 feet      10 feet    10 feet   10 feet
 
   (A)   Permitted uses in a Resort Recreation Zone shall meet the zoning
requirements of the Residential Zoning District (R-1, R-2).
   (B)   Conditional uses in a Resort Recreation Zone shall meet the zoning
requirements of the Commercial Zoning District (C).
   (C)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least 30 feet from the front property lines and ten feet from side and rear
property lines, except that the street side yards of a corner lot shall be the
same as the front yard setback required.
   (D)   Private garages and other accessory buildings shall be located at
least ten feet from the main building or any other structure.
   (E)   All setbacks less than ten feet shall require written approval from
the Building Official.
   (F)   Individual potable water supply and wastewater disposal systems shall
be subject to the approval of the applicable State or Local Health Department.
   (G)   Lots with onsite septic systems and potable drinking water wells shall
have a minimum area of one acre, per Local Health Department requirements.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
WILDLIFE HABITAT (WH)
§ 155.325 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Wildlife Habitat Zone is to provide for wildlife habitat
refuges, conservation areas, safe harbors and other uses for the protection of
special status or otherwise designated species and habitat.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.326 PERMITTED USES.
   Permitted uses are:
   (A)   Wildlife habitat refuges;
   (B)   Wildlife habitat conservation areas;
   (C)   Wildlife habitat safe harbors; and
   (D)   Livestock grazing.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.327 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditional uses are:
   (A)   Transmitting stations and towers; and
   (B)   Utility easements.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.328 MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   All land areas subject to this Zone shall have a conservation and management
plan approved by the Planning Commission and County Commission. The plan shall
include sections describing protection of adjacent land and existing uses,
contribution to recovery efforts, historical species range, species condition,
and other information reasonably required to make an informed decision. Minimum
lot size shall be ten acres. Areas containing special status/designated species
or habitat shall be completely enclosed by a secure fence, suitable barrier or
other method approved by the Planning Commission to prevent off site movement
by the protected species. Land areas subject to a habitat conservation easement
or agreement with local, state or federal wildlife agencies shall be Zoned
Wildlife Habitat.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 155.340 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the safety and orderly
development of the community through the regulation of signs and sign
structures.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.341 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms shall, for the purposes of this subchapter and
as used elsewhere in this zoning chapter, have the meanings shown herein.
   ABANDONED SIGN.  A sign structure that has ceased to be used, and the owner
intends no longer to have used, for the display of sign copy, or as otherwise
defined by state law.
   ANIMATED SIGN. A sign employing actual motion or the illusion of motion.
Animated signs, which are differentiated from changeable signs as defined and
regulated by this chapter, include the following types:
      (1)   ELECTRICALLY ACTIVATED. Animated signs producing the illusion of
movement by means of electronic, electrical or electro-mechanical input and/or
illumination capable of simulating movement through employment of the
characteristics of one or both of the classifications noted in divisions (a)
and (b) as follows:
         (a)   FLASHING. Animated signs or animated portions of signs where the
illumination is characterized by a repetitive cycle in which the period of
illumination is either the same as or less than the period of non-illumination.
For the purposes of this chapter, FLASHING will not be defined as occurring if
the cyclical period between on-off phases of illumination exceeds four seconds.
         (b)   PATTERNED ILLUSIONARY MOVEMENT.  Animated signs or animated
portions of signs where the illumination is characterized by simulated movement
through alternate or sequential activation of various illuminated elements for
the purpose of producing repetitive light patterns designed to appear in some
form of constant motion.
      (2)   ENVIRONMENTALLY ACTIVATED. Animated signs or devices motivated by
wind, thermal changes or other natural environmental input. Includes spinners,
pinwheels, pennant strings, and/or other devices or displays that respond to
naturally occurring external motivation.
      (3)   MECHANICALLY ACTIVATED. Animated signs characterized by repetitive
motion and/or rotation activated by a mechanical system powered by electric
motors or other mechanically induced means.
   ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION. Any projection that is not intended for occupancy
and that extends beyond the face of an exterior wall of a building, but that
does not include signs as defined herein. See also AWNING, BACKLIT AWNING, and
CANOPY, ATTACHED AND FREE-STANDING.
   AWNING. An architectural projection or shelter projecting from and supported
by the exterior wall of a building and composed of a covering of rigid or
nonrigid materials and/or fabric on a supporting framework that may be either
permanent or retractable, including such structures that are internally
illuminated by fluorescent or other light sources.
   AWNING SIGN.  A sign displayed on or attached flat against the surface or
surfaces of an awning. See also WALL OR FASCIA SIGN.
   BACKLIT AWNING. An awning with a translucent covering material and a source
of illumination contained within its framework.
   BANNER.  A flexible substrate on which copy or graphics may be displayed.
   BANNER SIGN. A sign utilizing a banner as its display surface.
   BILLBOARD. See OFF-PREMISE SIGN and OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN.
   BUILDING ELEVATION. The entire side of a building, from ground level to the
roofline, as viewed perpendicular to the walls on that side of the building.
   CANOPY (ATTACHED). A multisided overhead structure or architectural
projection supported by attachments to a building on one or more sides and
either cantilevered from such building or supported by columns at additional
points. The surface(s) and/or soffit of an attached canopy may be illuminated
by means of internal or external sources of light. See also MARQUEE.
   CANOPY (FREE-STANDING). A multisided overhead structure supported by
columns, but not enclosed by walls. The surface(s) and or soffit of a free-
standing canopy may be illuminated by means of internal or external sources of
light.
   CANOPY SIGN. A sign affixed to the visible surface(s) of an attached or
free-standing canopy.
   CHANGEABLE SIGN.  A sign with the capability of content change by means of
manual or remote input, including signs that are:
      (1)   ELECTRICALLY ACTIVATED. Changeable sign where the message copy or
content can be changed by means of remote electrically energized on-off
switching combinations of alphabetic or pictographic components arranged on a
display surface. Illumination may be integral to the components, such as
characterized by lamps or other light emitting devices; or it may be from an
external light source designed to reflect off the changeable component display.
See also ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN OR CENTER.
      (2)   MANUALLY ACTIVATED. Changeable sign where the message copy or
content can be changed manually.
   COMBINATION SIGN. A sign that is supported partly by a pole and partly by a
building structure.
   COPY. Those letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos and graphic elements
comprising the content or message of a sign, excluding numerals identifying a
street address only.
   DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX SIGN. A free-standing sign identifying a multiple-
occupancy development, such as a shopping center or planned industrial park,
that is controlled by a single owner or landlord.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. Any sign that is designed and erected for the purpose of
providing direction and/or orientation for pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. A sign with two faces, back-to-back.
   ELECTRIC SIGN. Any sign activated or illuminated by means of electrical
energy.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN OR CENTER.  An electrically activated changeable
sign where the variable message capability can be electronically programmed.
   EXTERIOR SIGN. Any sign placed outside a building.
   FASCIA SIGN. See WALL OR FASCIA SIGN.
   FLASHING SIGN. See ANIMATED SIGN, ELECTRICALLY ACTIVATED.
   FREE-STANDING SIGN. A sign principally supported by a structure affixed to
the ground, and not supported by a building, including signs supported by one
or more columns, poles or braces placed in or on the ground.
   FRONTAGE (BUILDING). The length of an exterior building wall or structure of
a single premise orientated to the public way or other properties that it
faces.
   FRONTAGE (PROPERTY). The length of the property line(s) of any single
premise along either a public way or other properties on which it borders.
   GROUND SIGN. See FREE-STANDING SIGN.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign characterized by the use of artificial light,
either projecting through its surface(s) (internally illuminated); or
reflecting off its surface(s) (externally illuminated).
   INTERIOR SIGN. Any sign placed within a building, but not including WINDOW
SIGNS as defined by this chapter. INTERIOR SIGNS, with the exception of window
signs as defined, are not regulated by this chapter.
   MANSARD. An inclined decorative roof-like projection that is attached to an
exterior building facade.
   MARQUEE. See CANOPY (ATTACHED).
   MARQUEE SIGN. See CANOPY SIGN.
   MENU BOARD. A free-standing sign orientated to the drive-through lane for a
restaurant that advertises the menu items available from the drive-through
window, and which has not more than 20% of the total area for such a sign
utilized for business identification.
   MULTIPLE-FACED SIGN. A sign containing three or more faces.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN. See OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN. A sign erected, maintained or used in the outdoor
environment for the purpose of the display of messages appurtenant to the use
of, products sold on, or the sale or lease of, the property on which it is
displayed.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN. A permanent sign erected, maintained or used in
the outdoor environment for the purpose of the display of commercial or
noncommercial messages not appurtenant to the use of, products sold on, or the
sale or lease of, the property on which it is displayed.
   PARAPET. The extension of a building facade above the line of the structural
roof.
   POLE SIGN. See FREE-STANDING SIGN.
   POLITICAL SIGN. A temporary sign intended to advance a political statement,
cause or candidate for office. A legally permitted outdoor advertising sign
shall not be considered to be a POLITICAL SIGN.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or to a
building or building surface.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign other than a wall sign that is attached to or
projects more than 18 inches from a building face or wall or from a structure
where the primary purpose is other than the support of a sign.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign advertising the sale, lease or rental of
the property or premises on which it is located.
   REVOLVING SIGN. A sign that revolves 360 degrees about an axis. See also
ANIMATED SIGN, MECHANICALLY ACTIVATED.
   ROOF LINE. The top edge of a peaked roof or, in the case of an extended
facade or parapet, the uppermost point of said facade or parapet.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign mounted on, and supported by, the main roof portion of a
building, or above the uppermost edge of a parapet wall of a building and that
is wholly or partially supported by such a building. Signs mounted on mansard
facades, pent eaves and architectural projections such as canopies or marquees
shall not be considered to be roof signs.
   SIGN. Any device visible from a public place that displays either commercial
or noncommercial messages by means of graphic presentation of alphabetic or
pictorial symbols or representations. Noncommercial flags or any flags
displayed from flagpoles or staffs will not be considered to be SIGNS. 
   SIGN AREA. The area of the smallest geometric figure, or the sum of the
combination of regular geometric figures, that comprise the sign face. The area
of any double-sided or “V” shaped sign shall be the area of the largest single
face only. The area of a sphere shall be computed as the area of a circle. The
area of all other multiple-sided signs shall be computed as 50% of the sum of
the area of all faces of the sign.
   SIGN COPY. Those letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos and graphic
elements comprising the content or message of a sign, exclusive of numerals
identifying a street address only.
   SIGN FACE. The surface on, against or through which the sign copy is
displayed or illustrated, not including structural supports, architectural
features of a building or sign structure, nonstructural or decorative trim, or
any areas that are separated from the background surface on which the sign copy
is displayed by a distinct delineation, such as a reveal or border.
      (1)   In the case of panel or cabinet-type signs, the sign face shall
include the entire area of the sign panel, cabinet or face substrate on which
the sign copy is displayed or illustrated, but not open space between separate
panels or cabinets.
      (2)   In the case of sign structures with routed areas of sign copy, the
SIGN FACE shall include the entire area of the surface that is routed, except
where interrupted by a reveal, border, or a contrasting surface or color.
      (3)   In the case of signs painted on a building, or individual letters
or graphic elements affixed to a building or structure, the SIGN FACE shall
comprise the sum of the geometric figures or combination of regular geometric
figures drawn closest to the edge of the letters or separate graphic elements
comprising the sign copy, but not the open space between separate groupings of
sign copy on the same building or structure.
      (4)   In the case of sign copy enclosed within a painted or illuminated
border, or displayed on a background contrasting in color with the color of the
building or structure, the SIGN FACE shall comprise the area within the
contrasting background, or within the painted or illuminated border.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure supporting a sign.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign intended to display either commercial or
noncommercial messages of a transitory or temporary nature. Portable signs or
any sign not permanently embedded in the ground, or not permanently affixed to
a building or sign structure that is permanently embedded in the ground, are
considered TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   UNDER CANOPY SIGN or UNDER MARQUEE SIGN. A sign attached to the underside of
a canopy or marquee.
   V SIGN. Signs containing two faces of approximately equal size, erected on
common or separate structures, positioned in a “V” shape with an interior angle
between faces of not more than 90 degrees with the distance between the sign
faces not exceeding five feet at their closest point.
   WALL OR FASCIA SIGN. A sign that is in any manner affixed to any exterior
wall of a building or structure and that projects not more than 18 inches from
the building or structure wall, including signs affixed to architectural
projections from a building provided that the copy area of such signs remains
on a parallel plane to the face of the building facade or to the face or faces
of the architectural projection to which it is affixed.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign affixed to the surface of a window with its message
intended to be visible to and readable from the public way or from adjacent
property.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.342 GENERAL SIGN TYPES.
   Sign types and the computation of sign area shall be as depicted in the most
current International Zoning Code. (See
Appendix B)
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.343 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Conformance. Any sign hereafter erected shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter and the provisions of the International Building
Code and of any other ordinance or regulation within Garfield County.
   (B)   Signs in rights-of-way. Signs other than an official traffic sign or
similar sign shall not be erected within two feet of the lines of any street,
or within any public way, unless specifically authorized by other ordinances or
regulations of the county or by specific authorization of the Zoning
Administrator and/or Building Official.
   (C)   Projections over public ways. Signs projecting over public walkways
shall be permitted to do so only subject to the projection and clearance limits
either defined herein or, if not so defined, at a minimum height of eight feet
from grade level to the bottom of the sign. Signs, architectural projections or
sign structures projecting over vehicular access areas must conform to the
minimum height clearance limitations imposed by the county for such structures.
   (D)   Traffic visibility. Signs or sign structures shall not be erected at
the intersection of any street in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear
vision, nor at any location where by its position, shape or color it may
interfere with or obstruct the view of or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal or device.
   (E)   Computation of frontage. If a premise contains walls facing more than
one property line or encompasses property frontage bounded by more than one
street or other property usages, the sign area(s) for each building wall or
property frontage will be computed separately for each building wall or
property line facing a different frontage. The sign area(s) thus calculated
shall be permitted to then be applied to permitted signs placed on each
separate wall or property line frontage.
   (F)   Animation and changeable messages. Animated signs, except as
prohibited in this chapter, shall be permitted in Commercial and Industrial
zones only. Changeable signs, electrically activated, shall be permitted in all
nonresidential zones. Changeable signs, manually activated, shall be permitted
for nonresidential uses in all zones.
   (G)   Maintenance, repair and removal. Every sign permitted by this chapter
shall be kept in good condition and repair. Where any sign becomes insecure, in
danger of falling or is otherwise deemed unsafe by the Zoning Administrator
and/or Building Official, or if any sign shall be unlawfully installed, erected
or maintained in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the owner
thereof or the person or firm using same shall, upon written notice by the
Zoning Administrator and/or Building Official forthwith in the case of
immediate danger, and in any case within not more than ten days, make such sign
conform to the provisions of this chapter, or shall remove it. If within ten
days the order is not complied with, the Zoning Administrator and/or Building
Official shall be permitted to remove or cause such sign to be removed at the
expense of the owner and/or the user of the sign.
   (H)   Obsolete sign copy. Any sign copy that no longer advertises or
identifies a use conducted on the property on which said sign is erected must
have the sign copy covered or removed within 30 days after written notification
from the Zoning Administrator and/or Building Official; and upon failure to
comply with such notice, the Zoning Administrator and/or Building Official is
hereby authorized to cause removal of such sign copy, and any expense incident
thereto shall be paid by the owner of the building, structure or ground on
which the sign is located.
   (I)   Nonconforming signs. Any sign legally existing at the time of the
passage of this chapter that does not conform in use, location, height or size
with the regulations of the zone in which such sign is located, shall be
considered to be a legal nonconforming use or structure and shall be permitted
to continue in such status until such time as it is either abandoned or removed
by its owner, subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   Structural alterations, enlargement or re-erection are permissible
only where such alterations will not increase the degree of nonconformity of
the signs.
      (2)   Any legal nonconforming sign shall be removed or rebuilt without
increasing the existing height or area if it is damaged, or removed if allowed
to deteriorate to the extent that the cost of repair or restoration exceeds 50%
of the replacement cost of the sign as determined by the Zoning Administrator
and/or Building Official.
      (3)   Signs that comply with either division (I)(1) or (I)(2) above need
not be permitted.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.344 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Official notices authorized by a court, public body or public safety
official.
   (B)   Directional, warning or information signs authorized by federal, state
or local governments.
   (C)   Memorial plaques, building identification signs and building
cornerstones where cut or carved into a masonry surface or where made of
noncombustible material and made an integral part of the building or structure.
   (D)   The flag of a government or noncommercial institution, such as a
school.
   (E)   Religious symbols and seasonal decorations within the appropriate
public holiday season.
   (F)   Works of fine art displayed in conjunction with a commercial
enterprise where the enterprise does not receive direct commercial gain.
   (G)   Street address signs and combination nameplate and street address
signs that contain no advertising copy and that do not exceed six square feet
in area.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.345 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following devices and locations shall be specifically prohibited:
   (A)   Signs located in such a manner as to obstruct or otherwise interfere
with an official traffic sign, signal or device, or obstruct or interfere with
a driver’s view of approaching, merging or intersecting traffic;
   (B)   Except as provided for elsewhere in this chapter, signs encroaching on
or overhanging public right-of-way. Signs shall not be attached to any utility
pole, light standard, street tree or any other public facility located within
the public right-of-way;
   (C)   Signs that blink, flash or are animated by lighting in any fashion
that would cause such signs to have the appearance of traffic safety signs and
lights, or government vehicle warnings from a distance;
   (D)   Portable signs except as allowed for temporary signs;
   (E)   Any sign attached to, or placed on, a vehicle or trailer parked on
public or private property, except for signs meeting the following conditions:
      (1)   The primary purpose of such a vehicle or trailer is not the display
of signs;
      (2)   The signs are magnetic, decals or painted on an integral part of
the vehicle or equipment as originally designed by the manufacturer, and do not
break the silhouette of the vehicle;
      (3)   The vehicle or trailer is in operating condition, currently
registered and licensed to operate on public streets where applicable, and
actively used or available for use in the daily function of the business to
which such signs relate;
   (F)   Vehicles and trailers are not used primarily as static displays,
advertising a product or service, nor utilized as storage, shelter or
distribution points for commercial products or services for the general public;
   (G)   Balloons, streamers or pinwheels except those temporarily displayed as
part of a special sale, promotion or community event. For the purposes of this
division (G), “temporarily” means not more than 20 days in any calendar year.
   (H)   Signs with provocative content as determined by the Planning
Commission, including but not limited to language, images, visuals, sounds, and
the like.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.346 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit requirements. Unless specifically required by the Building
Official or Planning Department due to sign size, height, weight or electrical
connections, a permit shall not be required for the erection and maintenance of
a sign erected or maintained within the county. Exemptions from the necessity
of securing a permit, however, shall not be construed to relieve the owner of
the sign involved from responsibility for its erection and maintenance in a
safe manner and in a manner in accordance with all the other provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Construction documents. Before any permit is granted for the erection
of a sign or sign structure requiring such permit, construction documents shall
be filed with the Zoning Administrator and/or Building Official showing the
dimensions, materials and required details of construction, including loads,
stresses, anchorage and any other pertinent data. The permit application shall
be accompanied by the written consent of the owner or lessee of the premises on
which the sign is to be erected and by engineering calculations signed and
sealed by a registered design professional where required by the International
Building Code.
   (C)   Changes to signs. Signs shall not be structurally altered, enlarged or
relocated except in conformity to the provisions herein, nor until a proper
permit, if required, has been secured. The changing or maintenance of movable
parts or components of an approved sign that is designed for such changes, or
the changing of copy, business names, lettering, sign faces, colors, display
and/or graphic matter, or the content of any sign shall not be deemed a
structural alteration.
   (D)   Permit fees. Permit fees to erect, alter or relocate a sign shall be
in accordance with the fee established by the Building Official.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.347 SPECIFIC SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Specific sign requirements shall be in accordance with the “Specific Sign
Requirements” and the “Signs for Development Complexes” sections of the most
current International Zoning Code.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
SUBDIVISIONS
§ 155.360 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Scope.
      (1)   After the date of adoption of this chapter, no person shall
subdivide any parcel of land in the unincorporated area of Garfield County into
two or more lots, nor shall any person sell or exchange any parcel of land
which is any part of a subdivision of a tract of land, nor offer for recording
in the office of the County Recorder any deed conveying such parcel of land, or
any interest therein, except in compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   All subdivisions and lots approved prior to this date shall
continue as authorized under the ordinances in effect at the time of their
approval. If any changes are made in those previously approved subdivisions by
plat amendment processes outlined herein, the proposed changes shall come under
the authority of this chapter.
   (B)   Waiver to the ordinance. Where unusual topographic or other
exceptional conditions exist, the Appeal Authority may amend the requirements
of this section after receiving the recommendation of the Garfield County
Planning Commission, provided that such amendments will not substantially
impair the intent of this chapter or other county ordinances related to the
development of land.
   (C)   Appeals. Pursuant to Utah Law, no person shall challenge in District
Court, the county’s land use decisions made consistent with Utah Law and this
chapter, until said person has exhausted all administrative remedies as
provided herein and by UCA § 17-27a-7.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.361 EXEMPTIONS FROM THE PLAT REQUIREMENT.
   This section applies to the subdivision of lands within the unincorporated
areas of Garfield County, that are not required to complete a formal
preliminary or final plat process, but follow a simplified process as outlined
herein.
   (A)   Minor-lot subdivisions. A lot or parcel resulting from a division of
unincorporated land is exempt from the subdivision plat requirements of this
section, if:
      (1)   The sketch plan or record of survey has been reviewed by the Zoning
Administrator, Building Official and/or Recorder and they have given
recommendation to the County Planning Commission that the proposed development
qualifies as a minor-lot subdivision as set forth herein.
      (2)   The property is being subdivided into five or less building lots
that all front a dedicated and accepted county right-of-way.
      (3)   Each new lot created meets, or will meet with an appropriate zone
change in conjunction with the proposed subdivision, the requirements of this
chapter.
      (4)   The developer has, at a minimum, furnished evidence of sufficient
water rights and a conceptual plan for wastewater, power and other applicable
utilities for the proposed development. The developer may provide other
applicable landscaping infrastructure or utility plans.
      (5)   If the proposed development will include municipal utility
connections, a letter of approval from said municipality listing the approved
utilities shall be required.
      (6)   A lot created from a previously approved minor-lot subdivision
shall not be further subdivided via minor-lot subdivision within three years of
the filing and recording date of the minor-lot subdivision where the applicable
lot was originally created.
      (7)   The Planning Commission has reviewed the development plan and
record of survey in a public meeting and has given its recommendation to the
County Commission for final approval in a public meeting.
      (8)   Before any minor-lot subdivision request is considered by the
Planning Commission, the developer shall furnish evidence to the Zoning
Administrator of recordable deeds for each proposed lot in the subdivision. The
minor-lot subdivision shall not be presented to the Planning Commission County
Commission for final approval until evidence of recordable deeds have been
provided.
      (9)   Upon final approval from the County Commission, the developer shall
file the record of survey with the County Surveyor’s Office and record the
deeds with the County Recorder’s Office.
      (10)   Submitting a minor-lot subdivision record of survey otherwise
shall be null and void.
   (B)   Agricultural land exemptions.
      (1)   A lot or parcel resulting from a division of agricultural land is
exempt from the subdivision plat requirements of this section, if the lot(s):
         (a)   Qualifies as land in agricultural use under UCA § 59-2-
5 Farmland Assessment Act;
         (b)   Is not used and will not be used for nonagricultural purposes;
and
         (c)   Meets the minimum size of six acres.
      (2)   The boundaries of each lot or parcel that is exempted shall be
graphically illustrated on a record of survey map that has received the
approval of the Sketch Plan Review Committee, Planning Commission and County
Commission. If the agricultural land exemption lots are created via aliquot
parts or metes and bounds subdivision, the record of survey shall not be
required as long as appropriate deeds are prepared to meet the requirements of
the County Recorder’s Office.
      (3)   If a lot or parcel exempted as agricultural land is used for
nonagricultural purposes as defined by the Farmland Assessment Act, the county
shall require the lot to comply with the related plat requirements of this
chapter.
      (4)   Upon final approval from the County Commission, the developer shall
file the record of survey with the County Surveyor’s Office and record the
deeds with the County Recorder’s Office.
   (C)   Metes and bounds subdivisions.
      (1)   A person may not submit a document that subdivides property by
metes and bounds unless it contains written approval from the Planning
Commission required by this section. Recording a document otherwise shall be
null and void.
      (2)   The boundaries of each lot or parcel that is exempted shall be
graphically illustrated on a record of survey that has received the approval of
the Sketch Plan Review Committee, Planning Commission and County Commission.
   (D)   Agricultural minor subdivisions. An agricultural minor subdivision may
be submitted to the County Recorder for recording without going through the
full subdivision plat application process if the following requirements have
been met:
      (1)   The petitioner is applying for a division of at least 100
contiguous acres of agricultural land to create one new lot that, after the
division, is separate from the remainder of the original 100 or more contiguous
acres of agricultural land.
      (2)   An owner may make an agricultural minor subdivision by submitting
for recording in the County Recorder’s Office:
         (a)   A recordable deed containing the legal description of the
agricultural minor subdivision lot; and
         (b)   A notice:
            1.   Indicating that the owner of the land to be divided is making
an agricultural minor subdivision;
            2.   Referring specifically to UCA § 17-27a-605(4) as the authority
for making the agricultural minor subdivision; and
            3.   Containing the legal description of:
               a.   The land to be divided; and
               b.   The agricultural minor subdivision lot.
         (c)   An agricultural minor subdivision lot:
            1.   May not be less than one acre in size;
            2.   May not be within 1,000 feet of another minor subdivision lot;
and
            3.   Shall meet the requirements of the Garfield County Zoning
Ordinance.
   (E)   Property boundary adjustments and boundary line agreements.
      (1)   To make a property boundary adjustment (i.e., parcel or lot line
adjustment), a property owner shall meet the requirements of UCA § 17-27a-522.
      (2)   To execute a boundary line agreement, a property owner shall meet
the requirements of UCA § 17-27a-523.
   (F)   Subdivision amendments. The public hearing requirement of UCA § 17-
27a-608(1)(d) does not apply and the Garfield County Commission may consider at
a public meeting an owner’s petition for a subdivision amendment if the
petition seeks to:
      (1)   Join two or more of the petitioning fee owner’s contiguous lots;
      (2)   Subdivide one or more of the petitioning fee owner’s lots, if the
subdivision will not result in a violation of this chapter or a development
condition;
      (3)   Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and an
adjoining parcel if the fee owners of each of the adjoining properties join the
petition, regardless of whether the properties are located in the same
subdivision;
      (4)   On a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an internal lot
restriction imposed by the local political subdivision; or
      (5)   Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing boundaries
or other attributes of lots within the subdivision that are not:
         (a)   Owned by the petitioner; or
         (b)   Designated as a common area.
   (G)   Public right of way subdivisions. A parcel of land divided by a public
(county or state) right-of-way is exempt from the subdivision plat requirements
of this chapter and the owner of real property may legally subdivide the
property, only as it is currently portrayed, by recording deeds at the Office
of the County Recorder. Prior to recording the deeds, the exemption shall be
confirmed and approved by the Sketch Plan Review Committee.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-7, passed 4-25-2022)
Statutory reference:
   For state law provisions, see UCA § 17-27a-605
§ 155.362 SKETCH PLAN PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Sketch plan review meeting.
      (1)   Upon receipt of application, the Zoning Administrator shall
schedule a sketch plan review meeting with the subdivider, Building Official,
Public Works Director, Recorder and other related individuals as deemed
necessary, to review the proposed plans and make recommendations to the
subdivider for the preparation of the formal preliminary plat for submission to
the Planning Commission.
      (2)   At this meeting, it shall be determined if the proposed development
qualifies as an exception to the formal subdivision requirement of this chapter
as provided herein.
      (3)   The conceptual sketch plan shall have no official standing or
approval. It may be amended or modified from time to time by the subdivider as
deemed appropriate prior to submission and approval of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Sketch plan requirements. The sketch plan shall include the following:
      (1)   The general location of the proposed subdivision, number, size and
layout of lots and public or private access. It should also show natural or
man-made features on the site and describe the historical use of the property,
if significant.
      (2)   The subdivider shall prepare the formal preliminary plat according
to the recommendations from the sketch plan review meeting and present the
applicable application to the Zoning Administrator along with the required
documentation and fees.
   (C)   Sketch plan not an application for subdivision approval.
      (1)   The sketch plan shall not constitute an application for subdivision
approval, as provided and required by this chapter, and is in no way binding on
the county or the applicant. Any discussion that occurs at the sketch plan
review meeting shall not be considered any indication of subdivision approval
or disapproval, either actual or implied.
      (2)   Formal application for subdivision approval shall only be
considered filed with the county upon payment of the required fees and the
submission of all required documentation and materials as required for a
preliminary subdivision plat as contained herein, and after a determination of
subdivision application completeness by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Those developments that are determined exceptions to the formal
plat process shall be recommended to the Planning Commission as such for formal
review and approval as outlined herein.
   (D)   Determination of greenbelt eligibility.
      (1)   A private parcel of land shall be determined eligible for the
greenbelt tax exemption if all of the following conditions are met. The
qualifying parcel or lot shall:
         (a)   Consist of at least five acres of bona fide farmland and at
least one acre of land set aside for the greenbelt homesite for a minimum lot
or parcel area of six acres; and
         (b)   Meet the qualifications for agricultural use assessment as set
forth in UCA § 59-2-503.
      (2)   (a)   A private parcel or lot of land shall be determined
ineligible for the greenbelt tax exemption if any of the following conditions
are met. The parcel or lot:
            1.   Has been divided into lots smaller than six acres; or
            2.   Is changed from bona fide Agricultural to any other use
including, but not limited to residential subdivisions; commercial
developments; industrial uses, with the exception of CAFO’s; etc.
         (b)   When a qualified parcel of land is determined ineligible for the
greenbelt tax exemption, due to the result of a new land use application, or
any other reason, the owner of said land shall be required to pay the five-year
rollback tax at the Office of the County Treasurer and furnish evidence of
payment to the Zoning Administrator before the land use application is to be
considered by the Planning Commission or County Commission.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.363 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Submission requirements.
      (1)   Copies of all required materials for a preliminary plat shall be
officially submitted to the Planning Department and all fees paid prior to the
date of the Planning Commission meeting at which the preliminary subdivision
plat is to be reviewed in a public meeting.
      (2)   If the proposed subdivision lies within one-one half mile of a
municipality or lies within a municipality’s annexation growth area, the
preliminary plat shall be delivered to the related city or town for their
review and receive written approval by the municipality prior to approval of
the preliminary plat by the County Planning Commission.
   (B)   Plat requirements.
      (1)   At a minimum, an electronic copy of the plat shall be emailed to
the county at least 14 days before the scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
Additional copies, larger prints or additional maps relating to the subdivision
application may be provided as well.
      (2)   The plat shall meet the requirements of UCA § 17-27a-6 and UCA §
17-23-17.
      (3)   The plat shall also meet the requirements of the Sketch Plan Review
Committee.
   (C)   Application requirements. In addition to the applicable plat, the
county shall also require the following information:
      (1)   Potable drinking water and/or wastewater system information and
approval from the applicable Health Department;
      (2)   Municipal, Home Owner's Association, Special Service District,
Local Improvement District or any other local entity approvals, if applicable;
      (3)   Utility provider approval, if applicable;
      (4)   Total number of off-street parking spaces, including those
associated with a single-family residential development;
      (5)   Estimated construction cost and proposed method of financing of the
streets and related facilities; water distribution system; sewage collection
system; storm drainage facilities; and such other utilities as may be
necessary;
      (6)   Total development area, and number of proposed dwelling units and
other buildings and their proposed use; or
      (7)   Any other data or approval documentation applicable to the proposed
subdivision application as deemed necessary by the county.
   (D)   Review procedures. When a preliminary plat has been officially
submitted to, received and approved by the Planning Department, it shall be
placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission
meeting within forty-five days for review. When reviewing for completeness, the
Planning Department shall ensure approval has been granted from the Sketch Plan
Review Committee, all required documentation has been provided and all required
application fees have been paid prior to being placed on the Planning
Commission agenda.
   (E)   Planning Commission approval.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall:
         (a)   Provide notice as required by UCA § 17-27a-2;
         (b)   Hold a public meeting to consider the proposed subdivision
application;
         (c)   If applicable, consider each written objection filed in
accordance with UCA § 17-27a-205(4) prior to the public meeting;
         (d)   Approve recommendations for only those preliminary plats which
it finds have been developed in accordance with the standards and criteria
specified in this chapter and all other ordinances of the county including, but
not limited to, major road plans, the Garfield County General Plan, building
codes and other applicable rules and regulations; and
         (e)   Consider the application and all materials submitted, as well as
any input or comments received.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may:
         (a)   Recommend onsite and offsite improvements, facilities and
amenities if they are determined necessary and accompanied by a finding of the
Planning Commission that such onsite and offsite improvements, facilities and
amenities are required to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the subdivision, or the residents of the county; and
         (b)   Recommend approval of the preliminary subdivision application as
presented, recommend approval with revisions and/or conditions or recommend
denial of the preliminary subdivision application.
      (3)   The determination of the Planning Commission shall be accomplished
by findings of fact. The recommendations of the Planning Commission shall be
made in writing to the County Commission.
   (F)   County Commission approval.
      (1)   The County Commission shall:
         (a)   Consider each subdivision application that the Planning
Commission recommends; and
         (b)   Provide notice as required by UCA § 17-27a-502(2) and hold a
public meeting.
      (2)   The County Commission may:
         (a)   Approve the preliminary subdivision application as recommended
by the Planning Commission;
         (b)   Approve the preliminary subdivision application with revisions,
and/or conditions;
         (c)   Deny the preliminary subdivision application;
         (d)   Consider the Planning Commission’s failure to make a timely
recommendation as a negative recommendation; or
         (e)   Require onsite and offsite improvements, facilities and
amenities if they are determined necessary to protect the health, safety and
general welfare of the residents of the county, and are found consistent with
the intent of this and other related ordinances.
      (3)   Approval of the preliminary subdivision application by the County
Commission shall:
         (a)   Not constitute final approval of the subdivision by the County,
but allows the applicant to proceed with the preparation of the final
subdivision plat and all required documents;
         (b)   Not authorize the development of land or the issuance of any
building permit for the subdivision site or any proposed lots; and
         (c)   Be effective for a period of one year from the date the
preliminary subdivision application is approved by the County Commission. If a
final subdivision application is not submitted for approval within the one-year
period, the preliminary subdivision approval shall be void, and the applicant
shall be required to submit a new preliminary subdivision application for
review and approval, subject to the related county and state rules and
regulations in effect at that time.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.364 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Final plat required. After compliance with preliminary plat
requirements, and after the plat has been approved by the County Commission in
a public meeting, a final plat of the subdivision covering all or part of an
approved preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed surveyor not in the
employ of the county in conformance with the design standards and submitted
within one year from the date of the preliminary plat approval, unless the time
is extended by the county in writing. Otherwise, preliminary approval shall be
deemed to have been withdrawn.
   (B)   Application requirements. The following information is required for a
complete final subdivision application:
      (1)   Approval from the Southwest Utah Public Health Department for the
subdivision feasibility study;
      (2)   Approval from utility providers, if applicable (i.e., municipality,
water company, special service or local improvement district, etc.);
      (3)   Payment of all applicable fees resulting from the application
(i.e., subdivision, zone change, etc.);
      (4)   One 24" x 36" final subdivision plat on Mylar drawn by a licensed
surveyor in the State of Utah:
         (a)   The plat shall meet the requirements of UCA § 17-27a-6 and UCA §
17-23-17; and
         (b)   The plat shall also meet the requirements of the Garfield County
Recorder, Planning Department, Public Works Department and Building Official.
      (5)   Proof of ownership via vesting deed;
      (6)   Copy of master tax roll record to prove no back taxes are owed;
      (7)   Wastewater disposal method with engineered plans;
      (8)   Culinary water system method with engineered plans;
      (9)   A detailed infrastructure plan for proposed roads, culinary water
lines, wastewater systems, power lines and other proposed utilities or
services; and
      (10)   Attached zone change application, if applicable.
   (C)   Phase development.
      (1)   The final platting of subdivisions may be done in phases. Each
phase shall consist of a number of lots which can be completely developed with
off-site improvements within a period designated by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The intent is that improvements be completed within a reasonable
period of time designated by the Planning Commission. If little to no work has
been done within said time period, and there are no immediate plans for
substantial work to be completed, the Planning Commission shall rule the plat
null and void by reason of inactivity.
      (3)   When the off-site improvements have been completed and approved by
the county, the subdivider may submit the next phase of the proposed
development in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   A final plat shall be accepted only upon the submission of
qualified evidence indicating that the subdivider has the financial ability to
complete the proposed public improvements for all lots within the phase to be
submitted.
   (D)   Recording.
      (1)   The subdivision plat shall be filed at the office of the County
Surveyor and applicable deeds shall be recorded at the office of the County
Recorder within one year of approval by the County Commission in a public
meeting.
      (2)   If the approved final subdivision plat is not recorded within 60
days of the date of approval by the County Commission, the final subdivision
approval shall be void, and the applicant shall be required to submit a new
preliminary subdivision application for review and approval subject to the then
existing provisions of this chapter and all other applicable federal, state and
local requirements.
   (E)   Site preparation and building permits prohibited. No excavation,
grading or other improvement shall take place on any land and no building
permits shall be issued within the proposed subdivision until:
      (1)   The final subdivision application has been approved by the County
Commission in a public meeting;
      (2)   The subdivision plat has filed at the office of the County
Surveyor;
      (3)   Applicable deeds have been recorded at the office of the County
Recorder; and
      (4)   All applicable fees have been paid.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.365 DEDICATION, ACCEPTANCE AND MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   ACCEPTANCE.  Actions of the county to take ownership of rights-of-
way dedicated to public use as shown on the subdivision plot or other
recordable downward.
      (2)   DEDICATION. Action of the developer to transfer ownership and
control of rights-of-way shown on the subdivision plot or other recordable
elements from private to public ownership.
      (3)   MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.  The obligation and responsibility of
keeping road, street, or improvement in a condition that provides responsible
use.
   (B)   Dedication and acceptance.
      (1)   The subdivider shall identify public roads, streets, and
improvements that are to be transferred to public ownership on the subdivision
plat or other recordable document. Dedication shall not occur until widths,
alignments, location and design features of the proposed rights-of-way are
approved by the county.
      (2)   After approval by the county, the final subdivision plat or
recordable document defining roads, streets and public improvement that are
dedicated to the public may be accepted by the county, at the county’s
discretion. A legal description of accepted improvements will be filed in the
office of the County Recorder and the county shall take ownership as of the
date of recording.
      (3)   The subdivider shall bring public streets, easements and other
public improvements to county standards and maintain them in that condition for
a period of one year before maintenance as public facility may be requested.
Only after inspection shall the County Commission consider the facilities for
public maintenance; however, the developer will be required to maintain said
improvements until such time as the county decides to accept maintenance
responsibility for streets and other improvements dedicated to the county.
      (4)   At the time the county decides to accept maintenance responsibility
it will do so only when it finds that the subdivider has constructed,
installed, and maintained the required public improvements to the minimum
standards and requirements of the county at the time the project was approved
for completion.
      (5)   County services will not be provided to the subject area until
maintenance responsibility for the public improvements is accepted, and the
roads are formally dedicated.
      (6)   In the event the County Commission does not accept maintenance
responsibility of the dedicated public improvements, the subdivider shall be so
advised in writing by the County Attorney stating the reason for the non-
acceptance and necessary corrective actions. If the needed corrections are not
made within a reasonable time, as so stated in the notice, the county may have
the improvements completed and paid for out of the security deposits for the
subdivision.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.366 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Natural conditions protected. All subdivisions shall comply with the
following standards.
      (1)   The design and development of subdivisions shall preserve insofar
as possible the natural terrain, natural drainage, existing topsoil and trees.
      (2)   Land subject to hazardous conditions such as slides, mud flows,
rock falls, snow avalanches, possible mine subsidence, shallow water table,
open quarries, floods and polluted or non-potable water supply shall be
identified and shall not be subdivided until the hazards have been eliminated
or will be eliminated by the subdivision and construction plans.
   (B)   Lots. All lots approved for building shall comply with the following.
      (1)   All lots shall conform in dimension and acreage requirements of the
zone in which they are located.
      (2)   Lots shall meet the minimum requirements of this chapter and the
Local Health Department for wastewater disposal.
      (3)   All lots shall abut a dedicated street, a public street, a street
which has become public by right of use or a private street maintained by a
maintenance agreement.
      (4)   The travel surface for streets shall be at least twenty-four feet
wide. In the event a lot abuts a public right-of-way created by use, the
subdividers shall improve the right-of-way to the standards required by this
chapter.
      (5)   Corner lots shall have extra width sufficient for maintenance of
required building lines and setbacks on both streets.
      (6)   All remnants of lots less than minimum size left over after
subdividing a larger tract shall be added to adjacent lots rather than allowed
to remain lot remnants.
      (7)   No single lot shall be divided by a municipal or county boundary
line.
      (8)   A lot shall not be divided by a road, alley or other lot.
      (9)   No wedge-shaped lot shall be less than 30 feet in width at the
front property line.
   (C)   Street standards. All county streets and roads shall be designed and
built to the AASHTO standards. The designing engineer shall certify in writing
that this is the case when the preliminary plats are submitted for approval.
      (1)   Stub streets with approved turn-arounds shall be provided where
needed to connect to adjacent undeveloped land, and new streets shall be
provided where needed to connect to existing stub streets in adjacent
subdivisions. Not more than three lots shall front stub streets, except where a
temporary cul-de-sac turnaround is provided.
      (2)   Intersections of minor streets with major streets shall be kept to
the minimum possible.
      (3)   Streets shall have the following minimum right-of-way widths:
         (a)   Major Collector: 100 feet
         (b)   Minor Collector: 66 feet
         (c)   Collector Street: 66 feet
         (d)   Major Street: 66 feet
         (e)   Minor Streets and Frontage Roads: 66 feet
         (f)   Private Street or Road: Private streets or road rights-of-way
are not under the authority of the county and shall not be restricted in any
manner except that the county may require a minimum 66 feet road right-of-way
for future public needs if it is apparent that more lots may developed in the
future that will require a public road to service these lots.
      (4)   Maintenance of private streets is the responsibility of the land
owner(s). If the street is to ever become a public street, it shall be brought
up to county road standards prior to the county accepting maintenance
responsibility.
      (5)   If the private property owners that the road serves request that
the road become a public road, they shall pay the cost of doing so. If the
county or some other public entity requests that the road become a public road,
the costs of bringing the road to county standards may be negotiated.
      (6)   The county shall not take a private road right-of-way against a
private property owner’s will for public use without due process and fair
compensation.
      (7)   All county roadway travel surface widths shall be consistent with
AASHTO Standards for the use and speed to be traveled on said roads as
determined by the designing engineer and approved by the County Public Works
Director.
      (8)   Minimum ten-foot shoulders shall be provided where there are no
curbs installed.
      (9)   No half-streets are permitted, except if required to complete a
half-street already existing and approved by the Planning Commission and the
County Commission.
      (10)   Dead-end streets and or street stubs shall have approved temporary
turn-arounds and/or shall be built to accommodate future access to adjoining
properties.
      (11)   Approved permanent cul-de-sac streets shall serve no more than six
lots and extend not more than 500 feet with the cul-de-sac having a minimum
radius of 50 feet or more, and the outside curb or pavement edge radius as
required by fire code.
      (12)   No more than four streets shall enter an intersection.
      (13)   Streets shall intersect at 90 degrees.
      (14)   Two streets meeting a street from opposite sides shall meet at the
same point, or their center lines shall be offset at least 200 feet.
      (15)   Streets shall have the names of existing streets which are in
alignment or which connect directly to the end of a street. There shall be no
duplication of street names within the area. All street names shall be approved
by the County Planning Commission. Permanent signs shall be installed by the
developer at his or her expense at the time of installation of other off-site
public improvements.
      (16)   Curvature and alignment.
         (a)   All horizontal curves shall comply with AASHTO Standards for
desired speeds.
         (b)   All vertical curves shall comply with AASHTO Standards for
desired speeds.
         (c)   Where a subdivision abuts a highway, frontage roads may be
required for the safety of the public.
      (17)   Roadbed construction. Minimum roadbed grading and paving for
County streets and roads shall be according to AASHTO Standards.
      (18)   Road grades. All roads and street grades shall be designed in
compliance with AASHTO Standards and approved by the County Public Works
Director.
      (19)   Block standards. Block lengths shall be reasonable as approved by
the County Public Works Director, and in total design shall provide for safe,
convenient access and circulation for the general public and emergency vehicles
as per fire code.
   (D)   Easement standards.
      (1)   Easements shall follow rear and side lot lines whenever practical
and shall have a minimum total width of fifteen feet apportioned equally in
abutting properties except where the gradient or terrain may require additional
space for working or maintenance of the easement.
      (2)   Where front-line easements are required, a minimum of 15 feet shall
be allocated as a utility easement. Perimeter easements shall not be less than
15 feet in width, extending throughout the peripheral area of the development,
if required by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   All easements shall be designed so as to provide efficient
installation of utilities, design features or street planning.
      (4)   The Planning Commission may require the exterior perimeter of any
subdivision to be fenced if the need is apparent to protect the health, safety,
and welfare of the residents or others.
      (5)   Unless the Planning Commission and County Commission determine,
upon application by a subdivider, supported by recommendation of the County
Public Works Director, that it is not feasible to do so, all power lines,
telephone lines, and other utility lines shall be placed underground by the
subdivider.
   (E)   Alleys. The County Planning Commission may approve service access to
the interior of blocks in certain instances, in which case alleys shall be
indicated on the plan and plat.
   (F)   Culinary water system standards.
      (1)   Culinary water systems shall meet the requirements of the Southwest
Utah Public Health Department and the State of Utah.
      (2)   Prior to final subdivision approval, the proposed culinary water
system plans and specifications (improvement drawings), including water
quantity and quality, shall be approved by the Local Health Department or the
DEQ, as applicable.
      (3)   Hauling water to a proposed subdivision to meet the water and fire
protection requirements of this chapter is prohibited and shall not be accepted
by the county as a method of providing any subdivision with water and fire
protection services.
      (4)   Culinary water supply.
         (a)   The subdivider shall provide a piped, public or private culinary
water supply to the property line of every lot in any subdivision.
         (b)   Said system shall be designed and built to safe drinking water
standards as evidenced by written approval from the State of Utah.
         (c)   The culinary water system and plans shall also be approved by
the Local Health Department, DEQ, Fire Marshall and County Building Official
before approval is issued.
   (G)   Wastewater system standards.
      (1)   The Local Health Department and/or DEQ shall review and approve the
proposed wastewater treatment method and submit its approval in writing with
the application for preliminary plat approval. It shall be the responsibility
of the applicant to provide information and materials as required by the Local
Health Department or DEQ, as applicable, necessary to evaluate the proposed
sewage treatment method.
      (2)   Connection to an existing public sewer system, with adequate sewer
treatment capacity, is required for all subdivisions and individual lots, if
public sewer lines are within 300 feet of the borders of the subdivision or any
lot to be developed within the un-incorporated lands of the county or as
dictated by state law.
      (3)   If connection to an existing public sewer system is not authorized,
the applicant shall present an alternative, that has been approved by the Local
Health Department or DEQ in writing, to the Planning Commission with the
preliminary application.
      (4)   Based upon the recommendations of the Building Official, Zoning
Administrator and local health department or DEQ, the Planning Commission may
recommend, and the County Commission may require, the installation of a private
central wastewater system, and/or the provision of sewer lines (dry sewer),
necessary to facilitate the connection of the proposed subdivision to a central
sewer system at a later date.
      (5)   In all cases where a proposed subdivision is not to be connected to
an approved public sewer system, approval for the proposed sewage treatment
method shall be obtained from the Local Health Department or the DEQ, as
applicable.
      (6)   For all proposed subdivisions, or subdivision phases, where onsite
wastewater disposal systems are proposed, the preliminary subdivision
application shall include written approval from the Health Department for each
lot proposed.
      (7)   Larger lots than those provided by the Zoning District in which the
proposed subdivision is located, may be required by the county to assure that
each lot will provide adequate onsite sewer treatment. The location of the
approved absorption site shall be shown and identified clearly on the
preliminary subdivision plat.
      (8)   Septic tanks and/or sealed vaults or other alternative treatment
methods may be approved only when an existing public sanitary sewer system is
more than 300 feet from the nearest boundary of the lot or the nearest boundary
of a proposed subdivision. Written approval from the Local Health Department or
DEQ shall be required for all forms of wastewater disposal.
      (9)   When individual on-site wastewater systems are proposed, the lot
owner shall install such facilities at the time the principal building is
constructed, and no building permit shall be issued until such installation is
assured and approved by the Building Official.
      (10)   In all other cases, wastewater disposal facilities shall be
provided for every lot or parcel that is to be used for residential or
commercial building.
   (H)   Flood plain standards.
      (1)   All subdivisions and buildings within a flood plain shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider and not the county.
      (2)   No subdivision in the county shall be allowed in a flood plain
unless each lot is situated where there is sufficient area for the location of
a dwelling entirely outside the flood plain, and where all setback requirements
of the zone in which the subdivision is located, can be met.
      (3)   Flood plains shall be determined according to the latest FEMA flood
maps.
   (I)   Storm drainage standards.
      (1)   Complete drainage systems for the entire subdivision area shall be
designed by a professional engineer, licensed in the state of Utah and
qualified to perform such work, and shall be shown graphically. All existing
drainage features which are to be incorporated in the design shall be
identified. If the final plat is to be presented in phases, a general drainage
plan for the entire area shall be presented with the first phase, and
appropriate development stages for the drainage system for each phase
indicated.
      (2)   The drainage system shall be designed by a registered engineer who
shall certify that it has been done according to professional drainage
standards. The subdivider shall be responsible for the results and performance
of the drainage system.
      (3)   The drainage system shall be designed by the subdivider to consider
the drainage basin as a whole and shall accommodate not only runoff from the
subdivision area but also accommodate the runoff from those areas adjacent to
and “upstream” from the subdivision itself, as well as its effects on lands
downstream.
      (4)   All proposed surface drainage structures shall be indicated on the
plans.
      (5)   All appropriate designs, details, and dimensions needed to explain
clearly proposed construction materials and elevations shall be included in the
drainage plans.
   (J)   Fire protection. 
      (1)   All subdivisions shall have a fire protection plan prepared by
qualified individuals and approved by the state, county, or community fire
officials as the case may be prior to approval of any subdivision or
development within the county.
      (2)   The fire protection plan shall apply to all lands that are to be
developed as well as any properties adjacent to and that might otherwise be
impacted by the possibility of fire.
      (3)   The following shall be a minimum to be included in the plans:
         (a)   Fire flow needs to protect all properties to be located in the
development to a minimum fire protection rating;
         (b)   Source, availability, amount, and delivery of water necessary to
meet fire flow requirements;
         (c)   Responsibility, training, and availability of personnel for
maintenance and operation of required firefighting infrastructure and
equipment; and
         (d)   Written approval of the fire protection plan of all related fire
officials;
      (4)   The fire protection plan shall be submitted with the preliminary
plat application and be considered as an integral part of the subdivision plat
approval process.
      (5)   In the case of remote cabin sites, a minimum of 1,000 gallons of
water storage shall be required for fire protection for each dwelling during
and following construction. It shall be the responsibility of the respective
property owners to ensure that this provision is met.
      (6)   The county shall not be liable for any action taken by the
subdivider as a result of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
Statutory reference:
   State law provisions, see UCA § 17-27a-7
§ 155.367 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Guarantee. To ensure that improvements are installed as required by
this chapter, and before final plat approval by the County Commission, the
subdivider shall guarantee the installation thereof by one or a combination of
one or more of the methods specified as follows.
   (B)   Performance bonds. The subdivider shall furnish and file with the
County Clerk a corporate surety bond, to assure that the actual construction of
such improvements is completed within a period of two years immediately
following the approval of the final plat and subdivision by the County
Commission, which bond shall be approved by the County Commission and the
County Attorney.
   (C)   Escrow deposit. The subdivider shall deposit in escrow with an escrow
holder approved by the County Commission an amount of money, under an interest-
bearing escrow agreement conditioned upon the installation of said improvements
within two years from the approval of the final plat and subdivision. The
escrow agreement aforesaid shall be approved by the County Commission and the
County Attorney and shall be filed with the County Recorder.
   (D)   Irrevocable letter of credit. The subdivider shall file with the
County Commission an irrevocable letter of credit from a duly chartered state
or national bank or savings and loan institution, which letter shall contain
provisions substantially similar to those required by the escrow agreement and
shall be approved by the County Commission and County Attorney before being
accepted.
      (1)   The amount of the above instruments shall be equal to 110% of the
cost of the improvements as estimated by the County Public Works Director plus
a percentage to cover inflation.
      (2)   The guarantee employed shall be approved as to method and form by
the County Attorney.
      (3)   The County Commission is authorized to prescribe by administrative
rule, or regulation, forms and procedures to insure the orderly, regular and
efficient processing of applications for the approval of a proposed subdivision
and the strict compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Default. In the event the subdivider defaults or fails or neglects to
install satisfactorily the required improvements within two years from the date
of approval of the final plat, the County Commission may declare the guarantee
forfeited, and may install or cause the required improvements to be installed,
using the proceeds from the collection of the posted security to defray the
expenses thereof.
   (F)   Phased development. Whenever the subdivider shall develop a
subdivision in phases, each phase shall be secured as provided herein, such
development shall be in an orderly manner and in such a way that the required
improvements will be continuous and all said improvements will be made
available for full, effective and practical use thereof by lessee or grantee of
any of the subdivided lands within herein before specified.
   (G)   Improvements guarantee.
      (1)   The subdivider shall warrant and guarantee that the improvements
provided for herein and every part thereof, will remain in good condition for a
period of year after the date of conditional acceptance by the County
Commission and shall agree to make all repairs to and maintain the improvements
and every part thereof in good condition during that one-year period at no cost
to the county.
      (2)   It is further agreed and understood that the identification of the
necessity for repairs and maintenance of the work rests with the County Public
Works Director, whose decision upon the matter shall be final and binding upon
the subdivider, and the guarantee hereby stipulated shall extend to and
include, but not be limited to the entire street, sub-grade, base, and surface
and all pipes, joints, valves, backfill and compacting as well as the working
surface, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and other accessories that are, or may be,
affected by the construction operations.
      (3)   If the subdivider does not complete needed repairs after written
notice from the County Public Works Director within 30 days after the date of
notice, the County Public Works Director, with the approval of the County
Commission, shall have such repairs made, and the cost of such repairs shall be
paid out of the performance security deposits held in the name of the county
for that project.
   (H)   Covenant.
      (1)   The subdivider shall execute and acknowledge in a form approved by
the County Attorney, and capable of recording in the office of the County
Recorder, a written agreement with the County Commission by which the
subdivider covenants that he or she will not sell, lease or convey any of the
subdivided property to anyone whomsoever unless he or she shall first record
the approved final plat and posted the necessary financial security as provided
in this chapter.
      (2)   The agreement shall specifically provide that it shall be deemed to
be a covenant running with the land to secure the installation of all the
improvements required by this chapter together with a payment of all costs,
including a reasonable attorney’s fee, which the County Commission may incur in
enforcing any of the terms and provisions of the agreement.
      (3)   This condition shall be released when final release of security is
approved by the County Commission.
   (I)   Acceptance and release of surety. Acceptance of public improvements
and release of surety shall only be done following final inspection and
recommendation by the County Public Works Director to the County Commission. No
improvement security shall be released until all improvements are completed and
approved and all defects corrected.
   (J)   Orderly development required. Whenever a subdivider shall develop a
subdivision, such development shall be in an orderly manner and in such a way
that the required improvements will be continuous and all of the improvements
will be made available for the full, effective and practical use and enjoyment
thereof by the purchaser, grantee, assignee, transferor or lessee of any of the
lands subdivided within the time hereinbefore or in phases specified.
   (K)   Progress payments.
      (1)   Progress payments shall be made only after approval of the related
improvements by the County Commission based upon written recommendation of the
County Public Works Director. Payments shall only be made on a phase-by-phase
basis as the work is completed to county standards.
      (2)   Progress payments may be made to the subdivider from any deposit of
money or letter of credit which the subdivider may have made in lieu of
providing a security bond, provided however, that no progress payment shall be
made for more than 90% of the value of any installment or work completed.
      (3)   No progress payments from cash deposits shall be made except upon
certification by the County Public Works Director and approved by the County
Commission.
   (L)   Completion and release of surety.
      (1)   Ten percent of the surety posted with the county shall be held for
the one year following completion of all phases of the subdivision.
      (2)   This amount plus any interest earned shall be released to the
subdivider upon final inspection by the County Public Works Director and/or
other authorized county representative and approved by the County Commission in
public meeting.
      (3)   Upon completion of all requirements stated herein, a release of
surety shall be prepared by the County Attorney for approval and signature of
the County Commission and recorded with the County Recorder. A certified copy
shall be provided to the subdivider.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.368 VALIDITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is
for any reason held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.369 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permits. From the effective date of this section, the county shall not
grant a permit, nor shall any officer of the county grant any license or permit
for the use of any land or the construction or alteration of any building or
structure on a lot which would be in violation of any provisions of this
section, this subchapter or this chapter or on a lot in a subdivision created
by judicial decree, until a subdivision plat thereof has been recorded, or
approved as required by this section. Any license or permit issued in conflict
with such provisions shall be null and void.
   (B)   Fees. At the time of filing for any platting, zoning or subdivision
action, a non-refundable fee shall be submitted, payable to Garfield County, in
accordance with the currently adopted fee schedule as adopted by the County
Commission by resolution.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 155.380 GENERAL.
   (A)   Approval. Planned Unit Developments (PUDs) shall be allowed by
Planning Commission approval in any Zoning District. Such Planned Unit
Development permit shall not be granted unless such development will meet the
use limitations of the Zoning District in which it is located and meet the
density and other limitations of such districts, except as such requirements
may be lawfully modified as provided by this chapter. Compliance with the
regulations of this chapter in no way excuses the developer from the applicable
requirements of the subdivision requirements, except as modifications thereof
are specifically authorized in the approval of the application for the planned
unit development.
   (B)   Intent. These regulations are to encourage and provide means for
effecting desirable and quality development by permitting greater flexibility
and design freedom than that permitted under the basic zoning district
regulations, and to accomplish a well-balanced, aesthetically satisfying county
and economically desirable development of building sites within a PUD. These
regulations are established to permit latitude in the development of the
building site if such development is found to be in accordance with the
purpose, spirit and intent of this chapter and is found not to be hazardous,
harmful, offensive or otherwise adverse to the environment, property values or
the character of the neighborhood or the health, safety and welfare of the
community. It is intended to permit and encourage diversification, variation
and imagination in the relationship of uses, structures, open spaces and
heights of structures for developments conceived and implemented as
comprehensive and cohesive unified projects. It is further intended to
encourage more rational and economic development with relationship to public
services, and to encourage and facilitate the preservation of open lands.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.381 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Area. Planned unit development shall not have an area less than that
approved by the Planning Commission as adequate for the proposed development.
   (B)   Uses. A planned unit development that will contain uses not permitted
in the zoning district in which it is to be located may require a change of
zoning district and shall be accompanied by an application for a zoning
amendment, except that any residential use shall be considered to be a
permitted use in a planned unit development, which allows residential uses and
shall be governed by density, design and other requirements of the planned unit
development permit. Where a site is situated in more than one use district, the
permitted uses applicable to such property in one district may be extended into
the adjacent use district.
   (C)   Ownership. The development shall be in single or corporate ownership
at the time of application, or the subject of an application filed jointly by
all owners of the property.
   (D)   Design. The Planning Commission shall require such arrangements of
structures and open spaces within the site development plan as necessary to
ensure that adjacent properties will not be adversely affected.
   (E)   Density. Density of land use shall in no case be more than 15% higher
than allowed in the zoning district.
   (F)   Arrangement. Where feasible, the least height and density of buildings
and uses shall be arranged around the boundaries of the development.
   (G)   Specific regulations. Lot area, width, yard, height, density and
coverage regulations shall be determined by approval of the site development
plan.
   (H)   Open spaces. Preservation, maintenance and ownership of required open
spaces within the development shall be accomplished by either:
      (1)   Dedication of the land as a public park or parkway system; or
      (2)   Creating a permanent, open space easement on and over the said
private open spaces to guarantee that the open space remains perpetually in
recreational use, with ownership and maintenance being the responsibility of an
owners’ association established with articles of association and bylaws, which
are satisfactory to the legislative body.
   (I)   Landscaping. Landscaping, fencing and screening related to the uses
within the site and as a means of integrating the proposed development into its
surroundings shall be planned and presented to the Planning Commission for
approval, together with other required plans for the proposed development.
   (J)   Signs. The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and the
intensity and direction of area or floodlighting shall be detailed in the
application.
   (K)   Desirability. The proposed use of the particular location shall be
shown as necessary or desirable, to provide a service or facility that will
contribute to the general wellbeing of the surrounding area. It shall also be
shown that under the circumstances of the particular case, the proposed use
will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons
residing in the vicinity of the planned unit development.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.382 PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION.
   In carrying out the intent of this section, the Planning Commission shall
consider the following principles.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section that site and building plans for a
PUD shall be prepared by a designer or team of designers having professional
competence in urban planning as proposed in the application. The Planning
Commission shall be permitted to require the applicant to engage such
professional expertise as a qualified designer or design team.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this section that control of the design of a
PUD by the Planning Commission be so rigidly exercised that individual
initiative be stifled and substantial additional expense incurred; rather, it
is the intent of this section that the control exercised be the minimum
necessary to achieve the purpose of this section.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall be authorized to approve or disapprove
an application for a PUD. In an approval, the Planning Commission shall be
permitted to attach such conditions as it deems necessary to secure compliance
with the purposes set forth in this chapter. The denial of an application for a
PUD by the Planning Commission shall be permitted to be appealed to the
legislative body of the jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.383 REQUIRED CONTRIBUTIONS.
   The County Commission, as part of the approval of a PUD, shall be permitted
to require an applicant to make reasonable contributions to include, but not
limited to any combination of the following:
   (A)   Dedication of land for public park purposes;
   (B)   Dedication of land for public school purposes;
   (C)   Dedication of land for public road right-of-way purposes;
   (D)   Construction of, or addition to, roads serving the proposed project
where such construction or addition is reasonably related to the traffic to be
generated.
   (E)   Installation of required traffic safety devices; and
   (F)   Preservation of areas containing significant natural, environmental,
historic, archeological or similar resources.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
§ 155.384 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   Approval. The Planning Commission shall have the authority to require
that the following conditions for a planned unit development (among others it
deems appropriate) be met by the applicant:
      (1)   That the proponents intend to start construction within one year of
either the approval of the project or of any necessary zoning district change,
and intend to complete said construction, or approved stages thereof, within
four years from the date construction begins; and
      (2)   That the development is planned as one complex land use rather than
as an aggregation of individual and unrelated buildings and uses.
   (B)   Limitations on application.
      (1)   Upon approval of a PUD, construction shall proceed only in
accordance with the plans and specifications approved by the Planning
Commission and in compliance with any conditions attached by the jurisdiction
as to its approval.
      (2)   Amendment to approved plans and specifications for a PUD shall be
obtained only by following the procedures here outlined for first approval.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator and/or Building Official shall not issue
any permit for any proposed building, structure or use within the project
unless such building, structure or use is in accordance with the approved
development plan and with any conditions imposed in conjunction with its
approval.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 155.395 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter:
   (A)   To permit variety and flexibility in land development by allowing the
use of recreational vehicles in certain districts within Garfield County.
   (B)   To require that recreational vehicle developments will be of such
character as to promote the objectives and purposes of the County Zoning
Ordinance; to protect the integrity and characteristics of the districts
contiguous to those in which recreational vehicles are located; and to protect
other land use values contiguous to or near recreational vehicle developments.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-9, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 155.396 DEFINITIONS.
   This chapter shall be interpreted using the definitions provided in the
County Zoning Ordinance, except for, in addition to, or as modified by the
following:
   CONSTRUCTION CAMP.  Temporary occupancy of a mobile home, recreational
vehicle, travel trailer or any other non-permanent structure during the period
of construction. Construction jobs may include, but are not limited to:
dwellings, agricultural, commercial or industrial buildings, public works or
infrastructure developments, mines, and the like.
   DEVELOPED (LOT OR PARCEL). For the purposes of this chapter, a lot or parcel
with a dwelling constructed on the property.
   DEVELOPER. An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, subdivider or
association who designs or builds a mobile home park, mobile home subdivision
or recreational vehicle park.
   FOUNDATION, PERMANENT. The portion of a building or structure which rests on
the earth as a concrete FOUNDATION, including footings capable of distributing
the weight of a building or structure evenly in relationship to the supporting
characteristics of the soil.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building, or a portion of a main
building, used for the storage of motor vehicles for the tenants or occupants
of a specific building and not by the general public.
   GENERAL PLAN. The Garfield County Master Plan, General Plan, Resource
Management Plan or other plans, policies and programs adopted by the county.
   LOT. Any tract of land that is created by and shown on a subdivision plat or
record of survey that has been approved by the Board of County Commissioners
and recorded or filed in the office of the County Recorder.
   MOBILE HOME. A detached, single-family dwelling unit not less than 45 feet
long, designed for long-term occupancy, and to be transported on its own wheels
or on flatbed or other trailers or detachable wheels, containing a flush
toilet, sleeping accommodations, a tub or shower bath, kitchen facilities, and
plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to appropriate
external systems and ready for occupancy except for utility connections and
other minor work. Pre-sectionalized modular, or prefabricated homes not placed
on a permanent foundation, shall be regarded as MOBILE HOMES; if placed upon a
permanent foundation such structures which meet all applicable building and
housing codes shall not be considered as MOBILE HOMES but shall be regarded as
conventional housing.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel designed and approved by the county for occupancy
by mobile homes on a rental basis, meeting all requirements of the county plans
and ordinances.
   MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A subdivision designed and intended for residential
use where the lots are to be individually owned or leased and occupied by
mobile homes exclusively.
   PARCEL. Any tract of land or real property that is not part of a
subdivision.
   PERMANENT LIVING. The occurrence of one or more persons occupying a
recreational vehicle for longer than 30 days in any 60-day period.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels, of such a
size or weight as not to require special highway movement permits when drawn by
a motorized vehicle. Vehicles such as travel trailers, tent camper trailers,
truck campers, camp cars, motor homes or other vehicles with or without motive
power designed and/or constructed to travel on public thoroughfares in
accordance with provisions of the Utah Vehicle Code and designed for human
habitation. May also be referred to as Recreational Coach or Travel Trailer.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. An area of land where spaces are rented
commercially to one or more owners or users of recreational vehicles or travel
trailers. May also be referred to as Recreational Coach Park.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE. A plot of ground within a recreational vehicle
park, designated and intended for the accommodation of one or more recreational
vehicles.
   SERVICE BUILDING. A substantial, permanent building, providing toilet
facilities, laundry facilities and/or other facilities for use in common by the
occupants of mobile home parks or recreational vehicle parks.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, developer, firm, corporation, partnership or
association who causes land to be divided in a mobile home subdivision for
himself or others.
   TEMPORARY LIVING. The condition of one or more persons occupying a
recreational vehicle for less than 30 days at a time.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   UNIMPROVED PROPERTY. A lot without a dwelling or a private garage.
   UTILITIES. For the purposes of this chapter, UTILITIES shall include public
and private connections for electricity, gas, water and wastewater.
   VACANT (LOT OR PARCEL). For the purposes of this chapter, a lot or parcel
without a dwelling constructed on the property.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-9, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 155.397 LOCATION.
   (A)   Mobile homes. No mobile home, mobile home park or mobile home
subdivision shall be located anywhere within the unincorporated areas of the
county without written approval of the County Building Official.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles. No recreational vehicle as herein defined shall
be located, placed, used or occupied for permanent living purposes in any
district except within approved and licensed recreational vehicle parks and
except as otherwise provided herein. Each person residing in a recreational
vehicle in violation of this section and each property owner permitting persons
to reside in a recreational vehicle on the owner’s property shall be guilty of
a Class C misdemeanor. Each day of residence shall be a separate offense.
   (C)   Storage. Recreational vehicles which are unoccupied for living
purposes may be unoccupied and stored on a private lot or parcel of land,
provided they do not violate any required setbacks for front, rear or side
yards.
   (D)   Utility connections.
      (1)   Vacant properties. On a vacant lot or parcel, no recreational
vehicle shall be connected to any permanent utility in any district except
within approved and licensed recreational vehicle parks and except as otherwise
provided herein.
      (2)   Developed properties. On a developed lot or parcel, a recreational
vehicle may be temporarily connected to the dwelling unit’s utilities, but
permanent occupancy shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Self-contained infrastructure or utilities that are affixed to,
or part of the recreational vehicle do not apply to this section.
         (b)   Permanent infrastructure or utilities may be temporarily
extended to recreational vehicles with an approved conditional use permit (CUP)
by the County Planning Commission and County Commission for uses such as a
construction camp. Evidence of an approved building permit from the County
Building Department shall be required as one of the conditions in the
conditional use permit.
            1.   CUP shall be valid during the period of construction or work
relating to the construction camp and shall expire 30 days after the applicable
work is completed.
            2.   After the work is completed, the temporary mobile home or
structure shall be removed from the premises and the recreational vehicle or
travel trailer may either be removed from the premises or disconnected from all
infrastructure and utilities and stored on the property, not to be occupied for
permanent living purposes.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-9, passed 7-26-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.398 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Recreational vehicle parks. Recreational vehicle parks may be approved
by the County Planning Commission and County Commission in locations permitting
such use in this chapter. Before approval is granted, the County Planning
Commission shall find the proposed development will:
      (1)   Be placed within a parcel of land appropriately zoned for such use;
      (2)   Be placed on a parcel of land of not less than two acres, or
adjacent to or in conjunction with a mobile home park, unless modified by a
planned unit development;
      (3)   Meet all standards and requirements of this chapter, and all other
applicable ordinances, except where these are modified by approval of a planned
unit development;
      (4)   Comply with the State of Utah's regulations for recreational
vehicle park sanitation.
      (5)   Ensure that each recreational vehicle space consists of a parking
space for at least one recreational vehicle and an additional parking space for
at least one automobile.
   (B)   Recreational vehicle subdivisions. Mobile home recreational vehicle
subdivisions may be approved by the County Planning Commission and County
Commission in locations permitting such use in this chapter. Before such
approval may be granted, a report to the County Commission by the County
Planning Commission shall find that the proposed development will:
      (1)   Be placed within a parcel of land appropriately zoned for such use.
      (2)   Be placed on a parcel of land of not less than two acres, unless
modified by a Planned Unit Development.
      (3)   Meet all standards and requirements of this chapter, and all other
applicable ordinances, except where these are modified by approval of a Planned
Unit Development.
      (4)   Comply with the State of Utah's regulations for recreational
vehicle park sanitation.
      (5)   Ensure that each recreational vehicle space consists of a parking
space for at least one recreational vehicle and an additional parking space for
at least one automobile.
      (6)   Proposed RV lot sizes shall not be less than 4,356 sq. ft., or 0.10
acres.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-9, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 155.399 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Recreational vehicle parks. The development of a recreational vehicle
park shall conform to the following standards and requirements, unless modified
by an approved Planned Unit Development.
      (1)   All RV Parks shall have potable drinking water and wastewater
disposal systems approved by the State of Utah DEQ or local health department.
      (2)   Streets and roadways shall be designed to the minimum standards:
         (a)   Minimum travel surface width. 26 feet
         (b)   Minimum roadway width. 50 feet
         (c)   Roadways. All roadways shall be hard-surfaced or have a six-inch
gravel base and shall be properly drained.
         (d)   Access. In addition to the RV park entrance roadway, an approved
emergency access road and/or turnaround shall be required.
         (e)   Any required UDOT approvals for access shall be granted by UDOT
before issuance of any permit or license by the county.
      (3)   Storm drainage facilities shall be approved by the State of Utah
DEQ.
      (4)   All storage and solid waste receptacles outside the confines of any
recreational vehicle park must be constructed and maintained in an orderly
manner by the park owner.
      (5)   No RV park in the county shall be allowed in an obvious flood or
geological hazardous area.
      (6)   All RV parks shall provide sanitary facilities, approved by the
State of Utah DEQ or local health department, for tent campers and units which
are not self-contained.
      (7)   Wastewater dump stations shall be required at all RV parks for
self-contained units.
      (8)   RV parks shall meet all requirements of the State of Utah
Recreational Vehicle Park Sanitation Regulations.
   (B)   Recreational vehicle subdivisions. The development of a recreational
vehicle park shall conform to the following standards and requirements, unless
modified by an approved planned unit development.
      (1)   All RV subdivisions shall comply with the standards and
requirements for RV parks as outlined in division (A) above of this section.
      (2)   RV subdivisions shall have the following area and modifying
regulations:
 
Minimum Area Minimum Width Front Yard Side Yard Setback Rear Yard Setback
                           Setback
0.10 Acres   30 feet       30 feet    10 feet           10 feet
 
Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-9, passed 7-26-2022) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.400 NONCONFORMING UNITS.
   State law and Garfield County Code shall govern the establishment,
restoration, reconstruction, extension, alteration, expansion or substitution
of any approved nonconforming mobile home or recreational vehicle and any
approved noncomplying structure related to such use.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021; Ord. 2022-9, passed 7-26-2022)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any civil offense against this chapter shall be a Class C Misdemeanor,
which shall be punishable by imprisonment up to 90 days and a maximum fine of
$750.
   (B)   The violation of any part of this chapter shall constitute an offense
and shall be punishable as provided in the local ordinances for misdemeanors.
In addition, Garfield County may enjoin by civil action the violation hereof
and may remove any mobile home from a location violating the provisions hereof
and assess the expenses thereof as a cost of action.
   (C)    Each person residing in a recreational vehicle in violation of §
155.397 and each property owner permitting persons to reside in a recreational
vehicle on the owner’s property shall be guilty of a Class C Misdemeanor. Each
day of residence shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-27-2021)
APPENDIX A: GARFIELD COUNTY PLANNING AND ZONING FEE SCHEDULE
PLANNING DEPARTMENT FEES
Service Provided Fee
PLANNING DEPARTMENT FEES
Service Provided                           Fee
Conditional Use Permit Application         $300.00
Short-Term Rental Inspection               $150.00
Zone Change Application                    $500.00
Minor-Lot Subdivision                      $500.00
Subdivision (1-5 lots)                     $500.00
Subdivision (5+ lots)                      $500.00 + $10 per additional lot > 5
Subdivision Amendment                      $200.00
Planned Unit Development                   $300.00
Planned Unit Development Amendment         $200.00
Agricultural Land Exemption                $200.00
Agricultural Minor Subdivision             $200.00
Variance Application (Board of Adjustment) $400.00
 
(Res. 2022-1, passed 1-10-2022)
APPENDIX B: INTERNATIONAL ZONING CODE GENERAL SIGN TYPES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef2a0ce09c7429740724a71826e6d11a3d2a537/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1772.png]
 
   General Sign Types
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef2a0ce09c7429740724a71826e6d11a3d2a537/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1774.png]
 
   Comparison - Roof and Wall or Fascia Signs
CHAPTER 156: CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATIONS
Section
   
156.01   Definitions
   
156.02   Comprehensive nutrient management plan
   
156.03   Conditional use permit required
   
156.04   Regulations
   
156.05   Establishment of a CAFO Overlay Zone
   
156.07   Permits and fees
   
156.08   Appeals
 
   
156.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: CNMP National Policy and Guidance Documents
   
Appendix B: CAFO Overlay Zone Map
§ 156.01 DEFINITIONS.
   This chapter shall be interpreted using the definitions provided in the
Large CAFO Act, except for, in addition to, or as modified by the following:
   COMPREHENSIVE NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLAN (CNMP) means a plan prepared by a
CAFO owner/operator, that manages manure and organic by-products by combining
conservation practices and management activities into a conservation system
that, when implemented, will control soil erosion. (See Appendix A)
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 156.02 COMPREHENSIVE NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   A CNMP is required for any CAFO which:
   (A)   Must include the following:
      (1)   The production area including the animal confinement, feed, and
other raw materials storage areas, animal mortality facilities, and the manure
handling containment or storage areas; and
      (2)   The land treatment area, including any land under control of the
CAFO owner or operator, whether it is owned, rented, or leased, and to which
manure or process wastewater is, or might be, applied for crop, hay, pasture
production, or other uses.
      (3)   An explanation for prevailing winds and topography of the area.
   (B)   Meets the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Natural
Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) FOTG Section III quality criteria for
water quality (nutrients, organics, and sediments in surface and groundwater)
and soil erosion (sheet and rill, wind, ephemeral gully, classic gully, and
irrigation induced natural resource concerns on the production area and land
treatment area);
   (C)   Mitigates, if feasible, foul odors and harmful fumes that may be
emitted and dangers to the quality of water sources that may result from
practices identified in the CNMP or from existing on-farm areas/activities;
   (D)   Complies with applicable federal, state, tribal, and local laws,
regulations, and permit requirements; and
   (E)   Satisfies the owner/operator's production objectives.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 156.03 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A CAFO may be approved as a conditional use only in the established
CAFO Overlay Zone within the unincorporated areas of the county.
   (B)   Applications for conditional use permits to operate CAFOs within in
the established CAFO Overlay Zone shall satisfy the requirements and procedures
established by this chapter, the county code, and state law.
   (C)   The county shall approve a CAFO conditional use permit application if
said application satisfies all the requirements of this chapter, the county
code, and state law.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 156.04 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No CAFO shall be constructed within:
      (1)   Five miles (26,400 feet) of any municipal boundary;
      (2)   Two miles (10,560 feet) from any:
         (a)   Residential, Residential Estates or Forest Recreation Zone;
         (b)   Health care facility;
         (c)   Public area;
         (d)   Education institution;
         (e)   Religious institution; and
         (f)   Commercial enterprise; and
      (3)   One mile (5,280 feet) of any state highway or county Class A Road.
   (B)   Where the operation of a proposed CAFO is likely to emit foul odors
sufficient to create a nuisance or release harmful fumes or presents an unusual
danger to the quality of a water source, the applicant shall provide, prior to
consideration by the County Planning Commission and in addition to all
information and documentation required by the County CAFO conditional use
application form, an overall development plan that includes a CNMP approved by
the USDA.
   (C)   For the purposes of this chapter, multiple CAFO applications for the
same or nearby parcels filed by the same or related individuals or entities
shall not be accepted or approved unless filed as one comprehensive CAFO
application that will be considered as one operation.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 156.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF A CAFO OVERLAY ZONE.
   This chapter, upon its adoption, shall establish a Cafo Overlay Zone within
the unincorporated areas of Garfield County, Utah designating the only
geographic areas where CAFOs may locate as required by the Large CAFO Act. The
CAFO Overlay Zone is illustrated on a map that is available to the public that
shows the approved geographic areas where CAFOs may locate within
unincorporated areas of Garfield County, Utah if they meet the requirements of
this chapter, the county code, and state law.
(See
Appendix B.)
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 156.06 EXISTING OPERATIONS - NONCONFORMING USES.
   State law and the county code shall govern the establishment, restoration,
reconstruction, extension, alteration, expansion, or substitution of any
approved nonconforming CAFO use and any approved noncomplying structure related
to such use.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 156.07 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Permits. From the effective date of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator, Building Official, or any other officer or department of the
county may not grant any license or permit for the use of any land or the
construction or alteration of any building or structure on a tract of land
which would be in violation of the provisions of this chapter until an
associated CAFO conditional use application has been submitted, reviewed, and
approved as required by this chapter. Any license or permit issued in conflict
with such provisions shall be null and void.
   (B)   Fees. At the time of filing, a non-refundable application fee shall be
charged, payable to the county, in accordance with the currently adopted fee
resolution by the County Commission. Any cost or fee incurred by an applicant
to submit a complete CAFO Conditional Use application including, but not
limited to, inspections, surveys, studies, etc., shall be the responsibility of
the CAFO applicant.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 156.08 APPEALS.
   Appeals from land use decisions made under this chapter shall be governed by
the county code and state law.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who is found guilty of violating any part of this chapter, either
by failing to do those acts required herein or by doing a prohibited act, is
guilty of an infraction. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate violation. Nothing in this section is
intended nor shall be construed as limiting the methods of enforcement
available to the county under the county code or state law.
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-1-2022)
APPENDIX A: CNMP NATIONAL POLICY AND GUIDANCE DOCUMENTS
   The CNMP National Policy and Guidance Documents are attached as Appendix 1
to Ord. 2022-2.
APPENDIX B: CAFO OVERLAY ZONE MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef2a0ce09c7429740724a71826e6d11a3d2a537/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2020.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eef2a0ce09c7429740724a71826e6d11a3d2a537/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2022.png]
 
(Ord. 2022-2, passed 2-1-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ROAD CLOSURES
      
III.   PROPERTY CHANGES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
20       3-22-1906   Granting a telephone franchise to J.G. Spencer
30       8-15-1917   Granting a franchise to Southern Utah Power Company
-        9-1-1925    Amendment to telephone franchise agreement with J.G.
                     Spencer
33       8-18-1926   Granting a franchise to the Los Angeles and Salt Lake
                     Railroad Company
34       8-8-1927    Granting a franchise to the Widtsoe Telephone and
                     Telegraph Company
-        2-9-1931    Granting a franchise to the Utah Parks Company
-        - -1932     Granting a franchise to the Mountain State Telephone and
                     Telegraph Company
-        1-3-1938    Granting a franchise to Garfield-Kane County Rural Power
                     Co-op Association
-        12-2-1946   Granting a franchise to A.L. Chaffin
38       5-2-1949    Granting a franchise to A.L. Chaffin
37       10-3-1949   Granting a franchise to the Escalante Telephone Company
42       9-14-1966   Granting a franchise to Utran Inc.
43       4-3-1967    Granting a franchise to Utah Power and Light Company
1993-2   6-28-1993   Granting telephone franchise
1998-2   5-11-1998   Granting a natural gas franchise to Questar Gas Company
2015-2   7-13-2015   Granting a franchise to Garkane Energy Cooperative, Inc.
                    
 
TABLE II: ROAD CLOSURES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1978-8   10-26-1978  Vacation of roads in Forest Gardens Subdivisions
1987-3   8-24-1987   Vacation of a certain road in the Warner Ranch
1987-5   11-2-1987   Vacation of roads in Forest Gardens Subdivisions
1987-6   11-2-1987   Vacation of roads owned by the Heaton family
1993-1   4-12-1993   Vacation of a county road
2004-3   3-22-2004   Vacation of a country road
2009-1   1-12-2009   Vacating a portion of Falls Road
                    
 
TABLE III: PROPERTY CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
1997-5   9-8-1997    Vacation of the Boulder King Rancheros Subdivision
1998-1   2-23-1998   Division of a lot in Aspen Highlands Subdivision
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Utah Code Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO UTAH CODE ANNOTATED
UCA Cites Code Section
UCA Cites                      Code Section
9-7-502                        31.040
9-7-509                        31.045
9-8                            153.33
9-8-4                          153.33
10-2-409 through 10-2-409.5    31.062,
                               31.064
10-2-409 through 10-2-412      31.060
10-2-409.2(a)(iii)             31.062
10-2-410                       31.063
10-2-410.3(a)                  31.065
10-2-410.3(b)                  31.065
10-2-412                       31.067,
                               31.070
Title 11, Chapter 14           113.060
15A-1-204                      91.23
15A-5-104                      91.23
17-3                           113.076
17-5-77                        154.01
17-16-3                        31.003
Title 17, Chapter 16, Part 6.5 33.01,
                               33.02
17-16a-3                       30.085
17-16a-10                      30.999
                               32.01,
17-23-17                       155.363,
                               155.364
Title 17, Chapter 27a          111.03,
                               155.003
                               155.026,
17-27a-2                       155.040,
                               155.363
17-27a-6                       155.363,
                               155.364
17-27a-7                       155.360,
                               155.366
17-27a-205(1)                  155.167
17-27a-205(4)                  155.363
17-27a-301                     155.020
17-27a-502(2)                  155.363
17-27a-509                     155.058
17-27a-522                     155.361
17-27a-523                     155.361
17-27a-528                     155.117
17-27a-605                     155.361
17-27a-605(4)                  155.361
17-27a-608(1)(d)               155.361
17-27a-701                     155.055
17-27a-701(1)(b)               155.056
17-27a-702                     155.057
                               113.076,
17-31                          113.077,
                               113.079
Title 17, Chapter 41           31.028
17-41-101                      31.021
17-41-201                      31.022
17-41-301(4)                   31.027
                               153.02,
17-50-326                      153.31,
                               153.33
17-50-333c                     150.03
17-50-333(l)(b)                150.03
17-54-104                      31.101
17A-2-201 et seq.              92.01
19-5-125                       91.23
27-12-89                       93.01
Title 32A                      112.02
32A-1-5(1)                     112.04
32A-17-3(1)                    112.04
41-6-44                        70.06
41-6a-101 et seq.              91.40
41-6a-102                      130.20
Title 41, Chapter 22           70.02
41-22-1 et seq.                91.40
41-22-2                        70.01,
                               113.017
49-3-2                         31.002
                               31.069,
Title 52, Chapter 4            31.101,
                               31.102
Title 54                       113.003
57-8                           151.04
58-37-8                        110.99
59-1-401                       113.999
59-1-402                       113.999
59-2-503                       155.362
Title 59, Chapter 12           113.002,
                               113.003
                               113.018,
59-12-1                        113.039,
                               113.058,
                               113.079
                               113.017,
                               113.059,
59-12-2                        113.079 ,
                               113.090,
                               113.092
                               113.076,
59-12-3                        113.077,
                               113.079
59-12-6                        113.058
59-12-9                        113.036
59-12-101                      113.003,
                               113.039
59-12-103                      113.015
59-12-103(1)                   113.038
                               113.015,
59-12-104                      113.038,
                               113.041
                               113.003,
59-12-106                      113.018,
                               113.058,
                               113.079
59-12-119                      113.003,
                               113.039
59-12-201 et seq.              113.040
                               113.017,
59-12-205(2)                   113.040,
                               113.059 ,
                               113.092
59-12-206                      113.040
59-12-602                      113.060
59-12-902(3)                   113.040
59-12-902(3)(d)                113.040
Title 63, Chapter 2            30.036
63-2-1 et seq.                 30.037
63-2-201                       30.039
63-2-302                       30.039
63-2-303                       30.039
63C-30-2                       155.055
63C-30-202                     155.056
63C-30-302                     155.058
Title 63G, Chapter 3           31.103
72-2-108                       113.091
72-3-108                       93.02,
                               93.03
72-5-105                       93.02
72-5-305                       93.02
76-3-204                       130.99
76-3-205                       10.99
76-3-301                       130.99
76-3-301(1)(d)                 10.99
76-3-301(1)(e)                 10.99
76-3-302                       130.99
76-3-302(3)                    10.99
76-3-302(4)                    10.99
Title 76, Chapter 8            52.076
76-9-3 et seq.                 91.41
76-10-104.1                    150.03
78-51-25                       31.004
78B-22-102                     10.99
78B-22-301                     10.99
                               
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
4        - -         31.001
1992-1   - -         90.55
20       3-22-1906   TSO Table I
30       8-15-1917   TSO Table I
-        9-1-1925    TSO Table I
33       8-18-1926   TSO Table I
34       8-8-1927    TSO Table I
-        2-9-1931    TSO Table I
-        - -1932     TSO Table I
-        1-3-1938    TSO Table I
-        12-2-1946   TSO Table I
38       5-2-1949    TSO Table I
37       10-3-1949   TSO Table I
                     111.55,
41       7-3-1950    111.56,
                     111.99
42       9-14-1966   TSO Table I
43       4-3-1967    TSO Table I
1968-1   8-12-1968   31.002
1970-1   4-13-1970   31.005
1-71     6-1-1971    131.01   
                     131.07
1974-1   5-13-1974   31.085   
                     31.088
1976-2   7-12-1976   70.99
1977-3   10-17-1977  70.99
                     130.01   
1977-4   10-17-1977  130.05,
                     130.99
1978-1   1- -1978    31.003
1978-2   5-8-1978    31.004
                     111.40   
1978-3   5-31-1978   111.43,
                     111.99
1978-5A  6-12-1978   94.01,
                     94.99
1978-5   9-5-1978    30.004
1978-8   10-26-1978  TSO Table II
1979-1   12-10-1979  51.01   
                     51.06
1980-2   3-10-1980   30.002
1982-1   6-14-1982   30.003
                     112.01   
1986-1   6-16-1986   112.13,
                     112.99
                     150.15   
1986-2   6-16-1986   150.19,
                     150.99
1986-6   9-22-1986   112.01
1987-2   7-6-1987    112.04
1987-3   8-24-1987   TSO Table II
1987-5   11-2-1987   TSO Table II
1987-6   11-2-1987   TSO Table II
                     154.01   
                     154.11,
                     154.25   
1989-1   6-26-1989   154.32,
                     154.45,
                     154.46,
                     154.99
                     113.001   
1990-1   2-5-1990    113.003,
                     113.999
1993-1   4-12-1993   TSO Table II
1993-2   6-28-1993   TSO Table I
                     111.25,
1994-1   3-14-1994   111.26,
                     111.99
1994-2   12-12-1994  30.015   
                     30.020
                     30.035   
1995-1   1-9-1995    30.052,
                     30.999
                     90.15   
1995-4   6-12-1995   90.24,
                     90.99
                     113.055   
1996-1   2-12-1996   113.060,
                     113.999
1997-1   4-28-1997   113.100   
                     113.102
1997-2   5-12-1997   31.020   
                     31.029
1997-3   6-9-1997    90.40   
                     90.43
1997-4   8-25-1997   113.035   
                     113.041
1997-5   9-8-1997    TSO Table III
1998-1   2-23-1998   TSO Table III
1998-2   5-11-1998   TSO Table I
1999-1   3-8-1999    150.01,
                     150.02
1999-2   5-24-1999   150.02
2000-1   2-14-2000   113.015   
                     113.020
                     93.01   
2000-2   5-8-2000    93.07,
                     93.99
2002-1   7-8-2002    92.01   
                     92.03
2004-1   1-12-2004   31.040   
                     31.046
2004-3   3-22-2004   TSO Table II
2005-1   5-23-2005   112.10
                     113.075   
2006-3   8-14-2006   113.085,
                     113.999
2006-4   10-12-2006  30.001
2007-1   1-22-2007   30.065   
                     30.073
                     70.01   
2007-3   4-9-2007    70.08,
                     70.99
                     50.01   
2007-4   5-29-2007   50.04,
                     50.99
2009-1   1-12-2009   TSO Table II
2011-1   2-14-2011   113.015   
                     113.020
                     153.01   
                     153.19,
2013-1   7-8-2013    153.30   
                     153.43,
                     153.99
                     130.20   
2014-1   1-27-2014   130.25,
                     130.99
                     30.085   
2014-2   7-28-2014   30.088,
                     30.999
                     90.01   
2015-1   1-12-2015   90.04,
                     90.99
2015-2   7-13-2015   TSO Table I
2015-3   9-14-2015   31.060   
                     31.071
2015-4   10-26-2015  32.01
2016-1   4-25-2016   50.15   
                     50.17
2017-1   6-26-2017   150.03
                     110.01   
2018-3   3-11-2019   110.15,
                     110.99
2019-4   4-22-2019   151.01   
                     151.09
2019-8   6-24-2019   130.23
2019-7   8-12-2019   110.30,
                     110.99
2020-1   1-27-2020   70.20   
                     70.25
2020-7   5-11-2020   31.100   
                     31.105
                     91.20   
2020-8   5-26-2020   91.23,
                     91.99
2020-10  6-22-2020   31.100   
                     31.105
                     91.35   
2020-12  7-13-2020   91.43,
                     91.99
                     111.01 -
                     111.09,
                     111.11 -
2021-2   3-22-2021   111.13,
                     111.99, Ch. 111, Apps.
                     A,
                     B and
                     C
                     91.01 -
2021-3   4-26-2021   91.05,
                     Ch. 91 App. A,
                     App. B
2021-4   6-28-2021   130.40,
                     130.99
2021-6   6-28-2021   153.34
2021-8   8-23-2021   130.40
                     155.001 -
                     155.009,
                     155.020 -
                     155.027,
                     155.040,
                     155.041,
                     155.055,
                     155.075 -
                     155.082,
                     155.095 -
                     155.099,
                     155.110 -
                     155.115,
                     155.130 -
                     155.136,
                     155.150 -
                     155.152,
                     155.165 ,
                     155.66,
                     155.168,
                     155.180 -
                     155.185,
                     155.200 -
2021-10  9-27-2021   155.204,
                     155.215 -
                     155.220,
                     155.235 -
                     155.239,
                     155.250 -
                     155.255,
                     155.270 -
                     155.275,
                     155.290 -
                     155.295,
                     155.310 -
                     155.313,
                     155.325 -
                     155.328,
                     155.340,
                     155.347,
                     155.360 -
                     155.369,
                     155.380 -
                     155.384,
                     155.395 -
                     155.400,
                     155.999
                     155.020 -
                     155.027,
                     155.040,
                     155.041,
2022-1   1-24-2022   155.055,
                     155.130 -
                     155.136,
                     155.180 -
                     155.185
                     156.01 -
                     156.08,
2022-2   2-1-2022    156.99, Ch. 156 Apps.
                     A,
                     B
                     152.01 -
2022-3   3-14-2022   152.07,
                     152.99
                     114.01 -
                     114.03,
2022-4   3-14-2022   114.05 -
                     114.11,
                     114.99,
                     Ch. 114 App. A
                     33.01 -
2022-5   3-14-2022   33.06,
                     33.99
2022-6   4-25-2022   111.05
                     155.115 -
2022-7   4-25-2022   155.117,
                     155.361
2022-8   6-27-2022   91.03
                     155.115,
2022-9   7-26-2022   155.395 -
                     155.400
                     90.15 -
2022-10  7-26-2022   90.25,
                     90.99
                     110.01,
2022-11  7-26-2022   110.02,
                     110.11,
                     110.99
                     52.01 -
2022-12  10-10-2022  52.08, Ch. 52 Apps.
                     A,
                     B
2022-13  11-28-2022  155.280 -
                     155.285
2023-1   1-23-2023   31.010 -
                     31.029
2023-2   1-23-2023   155.280 -
                     155.285
2023-3   3-27-2023   114.04,
                     114.05
2023-4   3-27-2023   113.017
2023-5   4-24-2023   155.167
2023-6   4-24-2023   113.090 -
                     113.092
2023-7   10-9-2023   155.055 -
                     155.059
2023-9   10-9-2023   91.03
                     111.01 -
2024-1   3-11-2024   111.14,
                     111.99
                     52.01 -
2024-2   3-11-2024   52.08,
                     Ch. 52 App. B
                    
 
 
