CITY CODE
of
GARLAND CITY, UTAH
2006
Code current through:
Ord. O-24-09, passed November 6, 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Garland City, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance O-24-09, passed November 6, 2024. Ordinances of
the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
GARLAND CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Garland City. This
city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the GARLAND CITY CODE and
is hereby published by authority of the city council and shall be supplemented
to incorporate the most recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2006 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2006 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2006 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city recorder shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city
recorder. Any person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make every
effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered or made available to such person through the office of
the city recorder. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and
shall be returned to the office of the city recorder when directed so to do by
order of the city council. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the city passed prior
to the adoption of this city code are hereby repealed, except such as are
included in this city code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2006 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2006 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2006 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of any provision
of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. Where any provision
of a code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter than the general
provision imposed by the code, the provision imposing the greater restriction
or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
   C.   Additional Interpretations:
      1.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
      2.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
      3.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and
be applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
      4.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      5.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
      6.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language, but
technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such
meaning.
      7.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      8.   Officers Generally: Whenever any officer is referred by title, such
as "recorder", "treasurer", "chief of police", etc., such reference shall be
construed as if followed by the words "of Garland City".
      9.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present. (2006 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Garland City, Utah.
CODE: The city code of Garland City.
COUNTY: Box Elder County, state of Utah.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to city regulation,
authorization or limitation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2006 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2006
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Criminal: The city council may impose a minimum criminal penalty for
the violation of any municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum
class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or by a
term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
      2.   Civil:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the city
council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any
municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   A municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a municipal moving traffic ordinance.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the city, or for an offense
defined outside of this code over which this city has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-3-703.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 1. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 2. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this city shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this city when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this city, or which is expressly designated an infraction and any
offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this city which is not
designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified, is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. UCA § 76-3-104.
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
The official corporate seal of the city shall be one and three-fourths inches
(13/4") in diameter, and the impression shall contain two (2) circles with the
following device: Within the inner circle the words:
"CORPORATE SEAL"
On the outside of the inner circle and within the outer circle shall contain
the words:
"GARLAND CITY, BOX ELDER COUNTY, UTAH".
(1949 Code title VII; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Eligibility And Residency Requirements
1-6-2: Election, Terms; Vacancies
1-6-3: Mayor As Member Of City Council
1-6-4: Municipal Administration
1-6-5: Meetings; Procedure And Conduct
1-6-6: Ordinances And Resolutions; Procedures
1-6-1: ELIGIBILITY AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Declaration Of Candidacy: A person filing a declaration of candidacy
for a city office shall:
      1.   Have been a resident of the city in which the person seeks office
for at least three hundred sixty five (365) consecutive days immediately before
the date of the election; and
      2.   Meet the other requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-
203.
   B.   Annexed Areas: A person living in an area annexed to the city meets the
residency requirement of this section if that person resided within the area
annexed to the city for at least three hundred sixty five (365) consecutive
days before the date of the election.
   C.   Registered Voter: Any person elected to city office shall be a
registered voter in the city.
   D.   Residency Maintained: Each elected officer of the city shall maintain
residency within the boundaries of the city during the officer's term of
office.
   E.   Residence Outside City: If an elected officer of the city establishes a
principal place of residence, as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-2-
105, outside of the city during the officer's term of office, the office is
automatically vacant.
   F.   Continuous Absence From City: If an elected city officer is absent from
the city any time during the officer's term of office for a continuous period
of more than sixty (60) days without the consent of the city council, the city
office is automatically vacant. (2006 Code)
1-6-2: ELECTION, TERMS; VACANCIES:
   A.   Election; Terms: The election and terms of office shall be as follows:
      1.   The offices of mayor and approximately half the council members
shall be filled in municipal elections held in 1977. The terms shall be for
four (4) years. These offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal
elections.
      2.   The offices of the remaining council members shall be filled in a
municipal election held in 1979. The terms shall be for four (4) years. These
offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
   B.   Vacancy In Office: Mayor or city council vacancies shall be filled as
provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510. (2006 Code)
1-6-3: MAYOR AS MEMBER OF CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Administration Vested In Mayor: The administrative powers, authority
and duties are vested in the mayor.
   B.   Presiding Officer; Mayor Pro Tempore: The mayor shall be the
chairperson and preside at the meetings of the city council. In the absence of
the mayor or because of his inability or refusal to act, the city council may
elect a member of the city council to preside over the meeting as mayor pro
tempore, who shall have all the powers and duties of the mayor during his
absence or disability. The election of a mayor pro tempore shall be entered in
the minutes of the meeting.
   C.   Voting; No Vote Except In Tie: The mayor may not vote, except in the
case of a tie vote of the city council or in the appointment or dismissal of a
city manager under Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-830.
   D.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The mayor is the chief executive officer to whom all employees of
the city shall report.
      2.   The mayor shall:
         a.   Keep the peace and enforce the laws of the city;
         b.   Remit fines and forfeitures;
         c.   Report remittances under subsection D2b of this section to the
city council at its next regular session;
         d.   Perform all duties prescribed by law, resolution or ordinance;
         e.   Ensure that all the laws and ordinances and resolutions are
faithfully executed and observed;
         f.   Report to the city council the condition of the city and
recommend for city council consideration any measures that the mayor considers
to be in the best interests of the city;
         g.   When necessary, call on the residents of the city over the age of
twenty one (21) years to assist in enforcing the laws of the state and
ordinances of the city;
         h.   Appoint, with the advice and consent of the city council, persons
to fill city offices or vacancies on commissions or committees of the city; and
         i.   Report to the city council any release granted under subsection
D2b of this section.
      3.   The mayor may:
         a.   At any reasonable time, examine and inspect the official books,
papers, records or documents of the city or of any officer, employee or agent
of the city; and
         b.   Release any person imprisoned for violation of any city
ordinance.
   E.   No Veto: The mayor shall have no power to veto any act of the city
council, unless otherwise specifically authorized by statute. (2006 Code)
1-6-4: MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Rules; Expulsion Of Members: The city council shall determine its own
rules of proceedings, may punish its members for disorderly conduct and with
the concurrence of two-thirds (2/3) of the members, may expel a member for
cause. (1949 Code § 2-3-4)
   B.   Prescribe Additional Powers And Duties: The city council may, by
resolution, prescribe additional duties, powers and responsibilities for any
elected or appointed official which are not prohibited by any specific statute,
except that the mayor may not serve as city recorder and neither the mayor nor
the city recorder may serve as city treasurer. A justice court judge may not
hold any other city office or position of employment with the city.
   C.   Members Of Council May Be Appointed To Administration: The mayor may,
with the advice and consent of the majority of the city council, assign or
appoint any member or members of the city council to administer one or more
departments of the city and shall by ordinance provide the salary of the
administrator.
   D.   Change Of Duties: The mayor may, with the concurrence of a majority of
the city council, change the administrative assignment of any member of the
city council who is serving in any administrative position in the city
government.
   E.   General Administrative Powers: The city council shall, from time to
time, prescribe the powers and duties to be performed by the superintendents,
supervisors, department directors and all of its officers and employees.
   F.   Personnel Assigned To One Or More Departments: The city council may
assign any individual to one or more positions in one or more departments.
   G.   Rules And Regulations For Administration: The city council shall
prescribe rules and regulations which are not inconsistent with the laws of
this state, as it deems best for the efficient administration, organization,
conduct and business of the city.
   H.   Appointed Officers; Residency Requirements: The city council may
require by ordinance that any or all appointed officers reside in the city.
(2006 Code)
1-6-5: MEETINGS; PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The governing body shall conduct regular work session
meetings which shall be held on the second and fourth Wednesdays of each month
which shall begin promptly at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. Regular city council
meetings which shall be held on the second and fourth Wednesday of each month
which shall begin promptly at eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. at the Garland City
Civic Center, 72 North Main Street, Garland, Utah, but if the meeting date(s)
is a legal holiday, then the meeting shall be held on a date to be determined
by the city council.
   B.   Special Meetings: If at any time the business of the city requires a
special meeting of the city council, such meeting may be ordered by the mayor
or any two (2) members of the city council. The order shall be entered in the
minutes of the city council. The order shall provide at least three (3) hours'
notice of the special meeting and notice thereof shall be served by the city
recorder on each member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice
personally or by leaving it at the member's usual place of abode. The personal
appearance by a council member at any specially called meeting constitutes a
waiver of the notice required in this subsection.
   C.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the governing body shall be held in
compliance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 52, chapter 4,
relating to open and public meetings. All minutes of any public meeting shall
be typed and available to the public in draft form within five (5) working
days.
   D.   Quorum:
      1.   Defined: The number of members of the city council necessary to
constitute a quorum is three (3) or more.
      2.   Necessary: No action of the city council shall be official or of any
effect, except when a quorum of the members are present. Fewer than a quorum
may adjourn from time to time.
   E.   Voting:
      1.   How Vote Taken: A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all
ordinances, resolutions and any action which would create a liability against
the city and in any other case at the request of any member of the city council
by a "yes" or a "no" vote and shall be recorded. Every resolution or ordinance
shall be in writing before the vote is taken.
      2.   Minimum Vote Required: The minimum number of yes votes required to
pass any ordinance, resolution or to take any action by the city council,
unless otherwise prescribed by law, shall be a majority of the members of the
quorum, but shall never be less than three (3).
         a.   Any ordinance, resolution or motion of the city council having
fewer favorable votes than required herein shall be deemed defeated and
invalid, except a meeting may be adjourned to a specific time by a majority
vote of the city council even though such majority vote is less than that
required herein.
         b.   A majority of the members of the city council, regardless of
number, may fill any vacancy in the city council.
      3.   Reconsideration: Any action taken by the city council shall not be
reconsidered or rescinded at any special meeting unless the number of members
of the city council present at the special meeting is equal to or greater than
the number of members present at the meeting when the action was approved.
   F.   Electronic Meetings:
      1.   Any public body of Garland City may, by following the procedures and
requirements of this Ordinance and those outlined by state law, convene and
conduct an electronic meeting.
      2.   Definitions.
                            The physical location where a public meeting is
ANCHOR LOCATION:            held and from which the electronic meeting
                            originates or from which the participate(s) is/are
                            connected.
                            A Garland City meeting convened or conducted by
ELECTRONIC MEETING:         means of a telephonic, telecommunications, or
                            computer conference.
ELECTRONIC NOTICE:          Electronic mail or fax.
                            To hear live, by speaker or by other equipment, all
                            of the public statements of each member of the
MONITOR:                    Public Body who is participating in a meeting; or
                            see, by computer screen or other visual medium, all
                            public statements of each member of the Public Body
                            who is participating in a meeting.
                            The ability to communicate with all of the members
PARTICIPATE:                of the Public Body, either verbally or
                            electronically, so that each member of the Public
                            Body can hear or see the communication.
                            The City Council or other official City body or
                            commission that is created by City ordinance or
PUBLIC BODY:                resolution and consists of two or more persons and
                            expends, disburses, or is supported by tax revenue
                            and is vested with the authority to make decisions
                            regarding the public's business.
                            A meeting at which comments from the public will be
                            accepted. At public meetings, participation of the
PUBLIC HEARING:             public is through observation/listening with public
                            input being provided during any approved period of
                            the meeting agenda that has been designated for
                            such participation.
                            A statement made in the ordinary course of business
PUBLIC STATEMENT:           of the Public Body with the intent that all other
                            members of the Public Body receive it.
                            Any place, other than the anchor location, where a
REMOTE LOCATION:            member is at, who participates in a
                            telecommunication meeting.
                            A formal meeting of the City where one or more
                            members participates from a remote location via
TELECOMMUNICATIONS MEETING: telephone, internet, television, or other
                            telecommunication means now known or yet to be
                            developed.
 
      3.   Procedures
         a.   The meeting procedures to be followed at the electronic meeting
shall be the same as those followed by the public body in a non-electronic
meeting.
         b.   A speakerphone, or similar amplifying electronic device, will be
connected in such a manner that comments made by the members participating
electronically will be broadcast through the public address system at the
anchor location. Full participation of each member present and those
participating electronically will be given to make inquires and participate in
the discussion through a roll call method. Votes taken in these circumstances
shall be by roll call method, with each member audibly verbalizing their vote
in accordance with Garland City Code.
         c.   Garland City elected and appointed representatives and city staff
shall be considered present as if the individual(s) were physically on-site and
present. Any form of telecommunication may be used, as long as it allows for
real time interaction in the way of discussions, questions and answers, and
voting.
         d.   Designated sites at which an electronic meeting is held will be
open to the public unless specifically closed to the public under state law.
Members of the public attending such a meeting may provide input during any
meeting that is designated for public participation. Space and facilities will
be provided at the anchor location so that interested persons and the public
may attend, monitor, and participate in the open portions of the meeting.
         e.   Minutes of the meeting shall record the presence of members
participating through electronic means. The roll call for members present will
be taken verbally and recorded.
         f.   Discussion of motions will take place in accordance with usual
procedures with the exception of those present electronically must declare
their intent verbally with their accompanying name(s). All voting and consensus
requests shall be made verbally and by roll call when a voting participant is
present electronically.
         g.   Public notice of the meeting shall be made in the manner and
within the time frame as set forth in Utah Code Annotated, Section 52-4-6.
         h.   Any member(s) participating from remote locations shall make
contact with the City fifteen (15) minutes prior to the start of the meeting to
ensure that the equipment to be used is in proper working order.
         i.   Quorum. Members participating via telecommunications are to be
considered present for purposes of establishing a quorum, as defined by law. In
the event of failure of equipment, or other factor, which causes a lack of
communications with a member(s) causing lack of a quorum, no additional
business may be conducted until the quorum can be reconstituted. Continuances
may be granted as set forth by law. Business already conducted remains binding.
         j.   Location. Whenever a meeting is to be held with a member(s) via
telecommunications, the anchor location identified in all notices shall be the
City offices, 72 N. Main St., Garland City, Box Elder County, Utah or such
other location as determined by the Council in accordance with law. Public
participation is limited to the anchor location. Members participating via
telecommunications may do so from any location where access can be had and the
criteria of this section met.
         k.   Method. Any telecommunications method now known or hereafter
developed may be used to conduct a telecommunications meeting, so long as the
criteria set forth herein can be met. All persons at the anchor location shall
be required to have real time video and/or audio contact with member(s)
participating from remote locations, so as to know the entire discussion and
deliberations of the Council. Members participating from remote locations shall
have the obligation to use appropriate equipment or take other precautions to
eliminate static or other disturbances to the orderly conduct of the meeting.
If available, and not cost prohibitive, an audio and video feed is the
preferred method of conducting a telecommunications meeting.
         l.   Closed meetings. Participation in a closed meeting shall not be
allowed electronically. (2006 Code; amd. Ord. 11-08, 12-22-2011; Ord. 12-08,
12-18-2012; Ord. O-22-01, 1-5-2022; Ord. O-22-02, 1-19-2020)
1-6-6: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Power Exercised By Ordinance: The city council may pass any ordinance
to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the city shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he relied on or enforced an ordinance he reasonably believed to be a valid
ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages that the
official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he enforced an
ordinance on advice of legal counsel.
   B.   Form Of Ordinance: Any ordinance passed by the city council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      1.   A number;
      2.   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      3.   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      4.   An ordaining clause which states "Be it ordained by Garland City:";
      5.   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      6.   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
city ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      7.   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      8.   A line for the signature of the mayor or acting mayor to sign the
ordinance;
      9.   A place for the city recorder to attest the ordinance and affix the
seal of the city;
      10.   Where the mayor may disapprove an ordinance passed by the city
council, the ordinance must show that it was passed with the mayor's approval
or that if the mayor disapproved the ordinance, that it was passed over his
disapproval. If the mayor neither approves or disapproves an ordinance, the
ordinance should show that it became effective without the approval or
disapproval of the mayor.
   C.   Requirements As To Form; Effective Date:
      1.   Ordinances passed or enacted by the city council shall be signed by
the mayor, or if he is absent, by the mayor pro tempore, or by a quorum of the
city council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance shall be
void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-704(1), (2), (3) or (4).
      2.   Ordinances shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication
or posting or thirty (30) days after final passage by the city council,
whichever is closer to the date of final passage, but ordinances may become
effective at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so
provided in the ordinance.
      3.   Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall become
effective twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days
after final passage by the city council, whichever is sooner.
   D.   Publication And Posting Of Ordinances:
      1.   Before an ordinance may take effect, the legislative body of the
city adopting an ordinance, except an ordinance enacted under Utah Code
Annotated sections 10-3-706 through 10-3-710, shall:
         a.   Deposit a copy of the ordinance in the office of the city
recorder; and
         b.   (1) Publish a short summary of the ordinance at least once:
               (A)   In a newspaper published within the city; or
               (B)   If there is no newspaper published within the city, in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city; or
            (2)   Post a complete copy of the ordinance in three (3) public
places within the city.
      2.   a. Any ordinance, code or book, other than the state code, relating
to building or safety standards, municipal functions, administration, control
or regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect without further
publication or posting, if reference is made to the code or book and at least
three (3) copies have been filed for use and examination by the public in the
office of the city recorder prior to the adoption of the ordinance by the
governing body.
         b.   Any state law relating to building or safety standards, municipal
functions, administration, control or regulations, may be adopted and shall
take effect without further publication or posting if reference is made to the
state code.
         c.   The ordinance adopting the code or book shall be published in the
manner provided in this subsection.
   E.   Recording, Numbering And Certification Of Passage: The city recorder
shall record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, all ordinances
passed by the city council. The city recorder shall give each ordinance a
number, if the city council has not already so done. Immediately following each
ordinance, or codification of ordinances, the city recorder shall make or cause
to be made a certificate stating the date of passage and of the date of
publication or posting, as required. The record and memorandum, or a certified
copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage and
publication or posting of the ordinance or codification.
   F.   Resolutions:
      1.   Purpose: Unless otherwise required by law, the city council may
exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, but not limited
to: a) establishing water and sewer rates; b) charges for garbage collection
and fees charged for city services; c) establishing personnel policies and
guidelines; and d) regulating the use and operation of the city property.
Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution.
      2.   Form: Any resolution passed by the city council shall be in a form
and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
      3.   Publication; Effective Date: Resolutions may become effective
without publication or posting and may take effect on passage or at a later
date as the city council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Creating Offices; Filling Vacancies
1-7-2: Compensation
1-7-3: Bond Requirements
1-7-4: Oaths
1-7-5: Deputies
1-7-1: CREATING OFFICES; FILLING VACANCIES:
   A.   Offices Created By Council: The city council may create any office
deemed necessary for the government of the city and provide for filling
vacancies in elective and appointive offices. (2006 Code)
   B.   Terms Of Appointed Officers; Removal: Except as otherwise provided by
law or ordinance, the term of all appointed officers shall continue at the
pleasure of the mayor and city council. Any appointed officer may be removed by
the mayor, with the concurrence of the majority of the members of the city
council, or by the city council with the concurrence of the mayor. (1949 Code §
2-1-6)
   C.   Continuation In Office: All appointed officers shall continue in office
until their successors are appointed and qualified. (2006 Code)
1-7-2: COMPENSATION:
The salary and wage schedule on file in the city office, as may be amended by
ordinance from time to time, is hereby adopted as the salary and wage schedule
of the city. (2006 Code)
1-7-3: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Approval Of Bonds: The bonds of the council members shall be approved
by the mayor and the bond of the mayor shall be approved by the city council at
the first meeting of the city council in January following a city election.
   B.   Premium Paid By City: The premium charged by a corporate surety for any
bond required by the city shall be paid by the city.
   C.   Additional Bonds: The city council may at any time require further and
additional bonds of any or all officers elected or appointed. All bonds given
by the officers, except as otherwise provided by law, shall be filed with the
city recorder, except that the bond of the city recorder shall be filed with
the city treasurer.
   D.   Bond Amounts: Before taking the oath of office and entering on the
duties of their respective office, required city officials shall each give a
bond with good and sufficient securities, payable to the city, conditioned for
the faithful performance of the duties of their office and the payment of all
monies received by such officers according to law and the ordinances of the
city.
   E.   Treasurer's Bond: The city treasurer's bond, or the bond of any person
who acts as city treasurer, may be set by resolution or ordinance in any
amount, not less than that established by the state money management council.
(2006 Code)
1-7-4: OATHS:
   A.   Constitutional Oath Of Office: All officers, whether elected or
appointed, before entering on the duties of their respective offices shall
take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of office.
   B.   Filing: The oath of office required under this section shall be
administered by any judge, notary public or by the city recorder. Elected
officials shall take their oath of office at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the
first Monday in January following their election or as soon thereafter as is
practical. Appointed officers shall take their oath at any time before entering
on their duties. All oaths of office shall be filed with the city recorder.
   C.   Acts Of Officials Not Voided: No official act of any city officer shall
be invalid for the reason that he failed to take the oath of office. (2006
Code)
1-7-5: DEPUTIES:
Elective officers shall have the sole right to appoint all their deputies and
assistants, who shall be confirmed by the governing body. (1949 Code § 2-1-5)
ARTICLE A. CITY RECORDER
SECTION:
1-7A-1: General Duties; Copies Of Records; Evidence
1-7A-2: Countersign Contracts
1-7A-3: Ex Officio Auditor
1-7A-4: Records, Accounts And Reports
1-7A-5: Reports By City Recorder
1-7A-6: Limit Of Warrants
1-7A-7: Pay Money And File Receipts
1-7A-8: Annual Financial Statement
1-7A-9: Ordinances Recorded
1-7A-10: Certify Annual Tax Levy
1-7A-11: Other Prescribed Duties
1-7A-1: GENERAL DUTIES; COPIES OF RECORDS; EVIDENCE:
The city recorder shall keep his office at the place of meeting of the city
council or at some other place convenient thereto as the city council may
direct. He shall keep the corporate seal and all papers and records of the
city, and shall keep a record of the proceedings of the city council, whose
meetings it shall be his duty to attend. Copies of all papers filed in his
office, and transcripts from all records of the city council, certified by him
under the corporate seal, shall be evidence in all courts as if the original
were produced. (1949 Code § 2-4-1)
1-7A-2: COUNTERSIGN CONTRACTS:
The city recorder shall countersign all contracts made on behalf of the city,
and every contract made on behalf of the city or to which the city is a party
shall be void unless signed by the city recorder. (1949 Code § 2-4-2)
1-7A-3: EX OFFICIO AUDITOR:
The city recorder shall be ex officio city auditor and shall perform the duties
of such office without extra compensation. (1949 Code § 2-4-3; amd. 2006 Code)
1-7A-4: RECORDS, ACCOUNTS AND REPORTS:
The city recorder shall draw and countersign all orders upon the city treasurer
in pursuance of any order or resolution of the city council, and shall keep a
full and accurate account thereof in books provided for that purpose; shall
make to the city council from time to time, upon its order, reports of the
financial condition of the city; shall make and keep a list of outstanding
bonds, to whom issued, for what purpose, when and where payable and the rate of
interest they respectively bear, and recommend such action to the city council
as shall secure the payment of the principal and interest of such bonds; shall
report annually on or before June 1, to the city council, an estimate of the
expenses of the city and the revenue necessary to be raised for the current
year; shall keep regular books of account in which he shall enter all
indebtedness of the city, and which shall at all times show the financial
condition of the city, the amount of bonds, orders, certificates or other
evidence of indebtedness issued by the city, the amount of all bonds, orders,
certificates or other evidence of indebtedness which have been redeemed, and
the amount of each outstanding; shall keep accounts with all receiving and
disbursing officers of the city, showing the amount they have received from the
different sources of revenue and the amount which they have disbursed under the
direction of the city council; shall examine all reports, bonds, papers,
vouchers and accounts of the city treasurer; shall audit all claims and demands
against the city before they are allowed by the city council, and shall keep a
record of claims presented and the action of the city council thereon; shall
keep a book properly indexed in which he shall enter all contracts, which book
shall be open to the inspection of all persons interested. (1949 Code § 2-4-4)
1-7A-5: REPORTS BY CITY RECORDER:
The city recorder shall furnish each member of the city council a monthly
report setting forth the amounts of all budget appropriations, the
disbursements to date from such appropriations, the amount of indebtedness
incurred or contracted against appropriations but not yet paid, the total
encumbrance to date against each appropriation, including disbursements and
indebtedness incurred and not paid, and the percentage of appropriations
encumbered to date. Such monthly reports shall promptly be made available for
public inspection. (1949 Code § 2-4-5)
1-7A-6: LIMIT OF WARRANTS:
The city recorder is forbidden to draw warrants on city funds except in
accordance with and within the limits of the budget appropriation ordinance for
the current year. (1949 Code § 2-4-6)
1-7A-7: PAY MONEY AND FILE RECEIPTS:
The city recorder shall pay into the city treasury all money belonging to the
city coming into his hands by virtue of his office, and shall take a receipt
for the same, which receipt shall be filed with other papers in the city
recorder's office. (1949 Code § 2-4-7)
1-7A-8: ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT:
The city recorder shall prepare and publish, on or before the first Monday in
February each year, in some newspaper having a general circulation in the city,
a detailed statement of the financial condition of the city, and of all the
receipts and expenditures for the previous year, ending December 31; provided,
that upon the expiration of his term of office, and before his successor enters
upon his duties, the city recorder shall make and prepare said statement,
properly attested, for the use and benefit of his successor in office, showing:
   A.   The total receipts of the city, stating particularly the source of each
portion of the revenue;
   B.   The amount of cash on hand at the date of the last report;
   C.   The amount of sinking fund, and how invested;
   D.   The number, date and amount of every bond issued or redeemed, and the
amount received or paid therefor;
   E.   The indebtedness of the city, funded and floating, stating the amount
of each class and the rate of interest borne by such indebtedness or any part
thereof;
   F.   The amount of cash in the city treasury, and in its several funds;
   G.   The total expenditures of the city as shown by the warrants issued,
giving in total the amount expended in each department. (1949 Code § 2-4-8)
1-7A-9: ORDINANCES RECORDED:
The city recorder shall record all ordinances passed by the city council in a
book kept for that purpose, together with affidavits of publication by the
publisher or his agent, if such ordinance was published, or if posted with the
certificate of due posting thereof; he shall also keep in a book provided for
that purpose, the names of persons elected or appointed to any office within
the city, together with the dates on which they entered upon the duties of
their respective offices and the date of their resignation, or removal
therefrom. (1949 Code § 2-4-9)
1-7A-10: CERTIFY ANNUAL TAX LEVY:
The city recorder shall certify the ordinance or resolution making the annual
tax levy as provided for in this code to the county clerk immediately after the
passage of the same. (1949 Code § 2-4-10)
1-7A-11: OTHER PRESCRIBED DUTIES:
The city recorder shall perform such other duties as are or may be prescribed
by law or ordinance. (1949 Code § 2-4-11)
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Receive Money; Keep Accounts
1-7B-2: Payments
1-7B-3: Warrants; Order Of Payment
1-7B-4: Give Receipts
1-7B-5: Accounts; Financial Reports
1-7B-6: Special Funds
1-7B-7: Other Prescribed Duties
1-7B-1: RECEIVE MONEY; KEEP ACCOUNTS:
The city treasurer shall receive all money belonging to the city, including all
taxes, licenses and fines, and keep an accurate and detailed account thereof.
He shall collect special taxes and assessments as provided by law and
ordinance. He shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and distinct
from his own money. He shall make a settlement with the city recorder as the
city council may direct at the end of every month, and turn over all warrants,
interest coupons, bonds or other evidence of indebtedness of the city which may
have been redeemed by him during the month, taking the receipts of the city
recorder therefor, and all such warrants, orders or other evidence of
indebtedness shall be cancelled by him and have written or stamped thereon the
date of their payment or redemption. (1949 Code § 2-5-1)
1-7B-2: PAYMENTS:
The city treasurer shall pay no money out save upon lawful warrant, except
bonds and interest coupons, which, when due, may be paid upon presentation, or
in case the same are payable at some other place, then the money for their
redemption shall be sent to the place where they are payable, in time to meet
such payment when due. (1949 Code § 2-5-2)
1-7B-3: WARRANTS; ORDER OF PAYMENT:
All warrants shall be paid in the order in which they are presented, and the
city treasurer shall note upon the back of each warrant presented to him the
date of presentation, when payment is made, the date of payment; that any
warrant shall be paid by the city treasurer in case a sufficient amount of
money shall remain in the treasury to pay all warrants issued previous to such
warrant. (1949 Code § 2-5-3)
1-7B-4: GIVE RECEIPTS:
The city treasurer shall give every person paying money into the city treasury
a receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment and upon what account paid,
and shall also file the duplicate of such receipt with the city recorder. (1949
Code § 2-5-4)
1-7B-5: ACCOUNTS; FINANCIAL REPORTS:
The city treasurer shall keep in suitable books a full account of all receipts
and expenditures and prepare as often as required by the city council, a
statement giving a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures
since his last report, with the amount on hand, and, on or before the first
Monday in February of each year, present to the city council a full report of
his receipts and expenditures for the preceding year with vouchers for all sums
disbursed by him. He shall also keep a registry of all warrants redeemed and
paid during the year, describing such warrants, their date, amount, number, the
fund from which paid, and the person to whom paid, specifying also the time of
payment. All such warrants shall be examined by the city council at the time of
making such report. (1949 Code § 2-5-5)
1-7B-6: SPECIAL FUNDS:
All monies on any special assessment shall be held by the city treasurer as a
special fund to be applied to the payment of the improvement for which the
assessment was made, and said money shall be used for no other purpose. (1949
Code § 2-5-6)
1-7B-7: OTHER PRESCRIBED DUTIES:
The city treasurer shall perform such other duties as are or may be prescribed
by law or ordinance. (1949 Code § 2-5-7)
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Duties Of City Attorney
1-7C-1: DUTIES OF CITY ATTORNEY:
The city attorney:
   A.   May prosecute violations of city ordinances:
   B.   May prosecute, under state law, infractions and misdemeanors occurring
within the boundaries of the municipality;
   C.   Has the same powers in respect to violations as are exercised by a
county attorney or district attorney, except that a city attorney's authority
to grant immunity shall be limited to:
      1.   Granting transactional immunity for violations of city ordinances;
and
      2.   Granting transactional immunity under state law for infractions and
misdemeanors occurring within the boundaries of the municipality;
   D.   Shall represent the interests of the state or the municipality in the
appeal of any matter prosecuted in any trial court by the city attorney; and
   E.   May cooperate with the office of the attorney general during
investigations. (1949 Code § 2-6-1; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Conduct Of Elections
1-8-1: CONDUCT OF ELECTIONS:
Election for mayor and council members shall be conducted according to the
municipal election section of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-404. (2006
Code)
CHAPTER 9
PROCUREMENT AND BIDDING 1
SECTION:
1-9-1: Expenditures And Encumbrances Generally
1-9-2: Purchasing Officer
1-9-3: Bidding Procedures
1-9-4: Purchases
1-9-5: Agreements
1-9-6: Emergency Purchases
1-9-7: Sole Source Purchasing
1-9-8: Interlocal Purchasing Agreements
1-9-9: Compliance With/Exemption From This Chapter
1-9-10: Exemptions From Bidding Procedure
1-9-11: Penalties And Illegal Activities
1-9-12: Miscellaneous Regulations
1-9-13: Appeals
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 10 of this title.
1-9-1: EXPENDITURES AND ENCUMBRANCES GENERALLY:
   A.   Conform With Budget: All expenditures by any work area are required to
conform with the budget of that work area.
   B.   Sufficient Unencumbered Balance Required: No appropriation may be
encumbered and no expenditure may be made against any work area appropriation
unless there is a sufficient unencumbered balance in the department's
appropriation, except in cases of emergency as provided by this chapter.
   C.   Outstanding Encumbrances: All encumbrances designated as outstanding as
of the end of the fiscal year shall be evidenced by a purchase order issued on
or before the last day of the fiscal year and approved by the mayor and city
council.
   D.   Established Procedures: All purchases or encumbrances of such purchases
by the city shall be made or incurred according to the purchasing procedures
established by this chapter and applicable state law.
   E.   Excess Prohibited: No expenditures or encumbrances shall be made in
excess of the total appropriations for any work area in the budget as adopted
or subsequently amended. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-9-2: PURCHASING OFFICER:
   A.   Appointment: A purchasing officer or agent may be appointed by the city
council to control and expedite city purchasing. His/her duties and powers are
set forth in this chapter and may be modified or amended by subsequent
ordinances and/or resolutions. The mayor shall be the purchasing officer for
the city until another person is appointed by the city council.
      1.   The purchasing officer, or his/her designated agent, when the mayor
is the purchasing officer, shall provide any assistance requested by city
personnel desiring to make purchases with respect to bid preparation, actual
purchases, delivery, installation and monitoring the performance of any
purchase related agreements. The purchasing officer shall involve city
personnel as may be reasonably necessary in the purchase process.
      2.   Typically, the purchasing agent, or his/her designated agent, upon
receipt of the general specifications prepared by city personnel and the
request for bid, together with other related information, shall:
         a.   Review the documents as submitted.
         b.   Make comparisons to other sources for the same items or services.
         c.   Prepare the bid documents.
         d.   Contact potential bidders for bids.
         e.   Determine if purchases could be made jointly with other work
areas in order to obtain better prices and terms.
         f.   Receive bids and confirm adherence to the specifications of the
bid request and clarify any questions concerning the bid.
         g.   Submit any proposed agreements or leases to the city attorney for
a legal opinion, when determined to be necessary.
         h.   Make recommendations to the work area supervisor, the mayor and/
or to the city council.
         i.   Unless instructed otherwise by the city council, the purchasing
agent, upon request and approval of all the documents and examination of bids,
may submit a purchase order to the city recorder, together with the bid and
other documents, including any legal opinion from the city attorney, together
with the purchasing officer or agent's statement of approval. The city recorder
shall then approve the purchases as being within the budget for that work area
and submit the purchase materials, together with his/her indication of approval
to the mayor and city council, who shall then either approve or disapprove the
same. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-9-3: BIDDING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Specified:
      1.   All bids shall be submitted as open bids rather than sealed bids
unless specified otherwise.
      2.   The city shall at all times and in all bidding circumstances reserve
the right to reject any and all bids with or without cause, and to waive
informalities and minor defects.
      3.   In all instances, the request for bids shall be issued to at least
three (3) separate vendors/sources, if reasonable and possible.
      4.   Each request for, notice of, or advertisement regarding bids shall
set forth specifications for the item or service to be purchased. A copy of
such request, notice or advertisement shall be maintained in the office of the
city recorder, as well as with the responsible work area head.
      5.   When the mayor and the city council determine in writing that the
use of competitive sealed bidding is advantageous to the city or required by
law or otherwise, a contract may be entered into by competitive sealed
proposals in the manner as set forth in Utah Code Annotated, section 63G-6-401,
as amended, and in compliance with this chapter.
      6.   Sealed bids shall be received and held by the city recorder, who
shall indicate on the bids the date and time of the receipt of such bids.
Sealed bids shall be opened at the time and place as specified in the bid
notice request and shall be opened in the presence of the city recorder, mayor,
work area supervisor, designated purchasing officer, if applicable, and any
other interested parties.
      7.   All bids shall be recorded as to the name of the bidder, the amount
bid, and compliance with the bid notice and request, and such record shall be
submitted to the mayor and city council for confirmation and award of bid as
required by this chapter.
   B.   Bidding: Bids shall be prepared in the following manner whenever
purchases for equipment, supplies or services are to be made by the city,
unless specified otherwise in this chapter. City personnel, such as the work
area supervisor, etc., shall:
      1.   Determine the specifications of the items or services needed and
prepare a written statement setting forth those specifications.
      2.   Prepare a written request or notice for bids.
      3.   Submit the specifications and request or notice for bids, for mayor
and city council approval. Bids, as hereinafter specified, received directly by
a work area supervisor, together with proposed agreements or other documents
relating to the purchase, shall be submitted to the mayor and city council for
confirmation and award of bid as required by this chapter.
      4.   Bidding shall be required for all purchases in excess of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00). Contracts for public improvements, including a
building improvement and a public works project, as defined in Utah Code
Annotated section 11-39-101(2) and (12), with an estimated cost in excess of
the bid limit amounts stated in Utah Code Annotated 11-39-101(1), shall be
formulated in accordance with Utah Code Annotated, title 11, chapter 39, as it
currently exists or as it hereafter may be modified.
      5.   A bid security in an amount equal to at least five percent (5%) of
the amount bid shall be required for all sealed bids for construction contracts
and shall be in the form of a bond provided by a surety company authorized to
do business in the state, the equivalent in cash, or any other form
satisfactory to the city.
      6.   If a bidder fails to comply with the requirement for bid security,
the bid shall be rejected, unless it is determined that the failure to comply
with the security requirement is nonsubstantial.
      7.   After all bids are open, such bids shall be irrevocable for the
period specified in the invitation or request for bids. However, if the bidder
is permitted to withdraw a bid before the award, no action shall be taken
against the bidder or the bid security.
      8.   All notices of or requests for bidding on construction contracts,
including building improvement and public works contracts, shall specify
requirements for a performance bond and payment bond in compliance with the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated, sections 14-1-18, 14-1-19, 63G-6-505 and
63G-6-507, as amended.
      9.   All bids received, together with proof of advertisement by
publication or otherwise, shall be maintained by the city recorder for a period
of at least three (3) years following the award of any contract pursuant to
such bids and for three (3) years following the date of first advertisement or
publication of the notice for such bids in the event that all bids received
pursuant to such notice are rejected, or the notice for such bids is canceled.
(Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-9-4: PURCHASES:
   A.   For purchases of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or less, authorized
city personnel desiring to make purchases do not need to obtain bids, but shall
first obtain a purchase order from the city recorder, and then may purchase the
items without any formal approval procedure. Authorized purchases of fifty
dollars ($50.00) or less do not require a purchase order. However, for all
purchases not requiring a bid, a sales receipt and/or a purchase order must be
presented to the city recorder for accounting purposes.
   B.   For purchases in excess of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), but twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or less, city personnel desiring to make a city
purchase shall submit or have the purchasing agent, if one has been appointed,
submit a purchase order to the city recorder for determination that the
purchase would be within the related budget. Upon the approval of the purchase
order by the city recorder, the purchase order and the city recorder's
statement of approval shall be submitted to the mayor and city council, who may
then approve or disapprove of the purchase. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-9-5: AGREEMENTS:
No agreement, lease purchase or lease may be made or entered into without the
approval of the mayor and city council, and such approval may not be given
unless and until the agreement has been first reviewed and a legal opinion
submitted by the city attorney, when determined necessary by the mayor and/or
city council. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-9-6: EMERGENCY PURCHASES:
Under emergency conditions, where there exists a threat to public health,
welfare, safety or property, the purchasing officer, if one has been appointed,
or in his/her absence, the mayor or a member of the city council, or in the
inability to contact any of those individuals, the work area supervisor in
charge of the affected area, may make or authorize an emergency procurement
without bids. However, an emergency procurement shall be made with as much
competition as practical under the circumstances. A written determination of
the basis for the emergency and for the selection of the particular vendor/
contractor shall be submitted thereafter by the individual authorizing
procurement, to the mayor and city council for the purchase to be reviewed and
the emergency confirmed. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-9-7: SOLE SOURCE PURCHASING:
A purchase may be awarded without competition or bidding when the work area
supervisor and purchasing officer, if one has been appointed, and if not, the
mayor, shall determine in writing that there is only one source for the
required service or item and the city attorney gives a written opinion of the
legality thereof, if such an opinion is determined necessary and requested by
the mayor and/or city council. In that event, bids will not be necessary but
all other procedures as set forth in this chapter shall be followed. (Ord. 10-
10, 11-18-2010)
1-9-8: INTERLOCAL PURCHASING AGREEMENTS:
The city shall have the power to enter into joint purchase agreements with the
state of Utah for the purchase of any commodity or service wherein it is
determined by the city council to be in the best interests of the city. (Ord.
10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-9-9: COMPLIANCE WITH/EXEMPTION FROM THIS CHAPTER:
   A.   This chapter shall not prevent Garland City from complying with the
terms and conditions of any grant, gift, or bequest that is otherwise
consistent with law.
   B.   When procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance funds,
Garland City shall, as required, comply with applicable federal law
regulations. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-9-10: EXEMPTIONS FROM BIDDING PROCEDURE:
All purchases which are exempt from bidding procedures may be authorized and
funds obligated by the purchasing officer provided the expenditures are within
the budget appropriation. The purchasing officer may approve individual
purchases greater than twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) under these exempt
from bidding provisions only when the purchase was approved as a specific line
item in the budget; otherwise, authorization shall be obtained as required by
this chapter. The following purchases shall be exempt from bidding
requirements:
   A.   Purchase from any federal or state agency, including, but not limited
to, Utah state central stores, surplus sources, or state approved contract
lists.
   B.   Salaries and benefits for city employees.
   C.   Utilities including gas, electric, water, sewer, solid waste, and
telephone.
   D.   Ongoing contracts which have been provided for in the city's budget
such as, but not limited to, lease purchase agreements, land purchase
agreements, and otherwise.
   E.   Seminars, training and conferences for city employees, officers, or
authorized representatives.
   F.   Reimbursement for travel costs, and expenses incurred by city
employees, officers, and authorized representatives.
   G.   Fuel purchases, which may be bid on an annual basis rather than on a
purchase by purchase basis.
   H.   Items to be acquired from a sole source providing that there is written
documentation that there is only one source for the required items.
   I.   Interlocal agreements.
   J.   Professional services such as legal, auditing, accounting, engineering,
consulting, and other similar services. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-9-11: PENALTIES AND ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Personal Investments: No person involved in making procurement
decisions on behalf of the city may have personal investments in any business
entity which will create a substantial conflict between their private interests
and their public duties, without compliance with the municipal officers' and
employees' ethics act, Utah Code Annotated 10-3-1301 to 1312 and specific
approval by the city council.
   B.   Personal Compensation Prohibited: Any person involved in making
procurement decisions on behalf of the city is guilty of a class B misdemeanor
offense if the person asks, receives, or offers to receive any emolument,
gratuity, contribution, loan, or reward, or any promise thereof, either for the
person's own use or the use or benefit of any other person or organization.
   C.   Conflict Of Interests: No member of the city council, other city
official, or city employee may be interested directly or indirectly in any
contract entered into by the city, without compliance with the municipal
officers' and employees' ethics act, Utah Code Annotated 10-3-1301 to 1312 and
specific approval by the city council. A violation of this provision shall be
cause for removal or other disciplinary action.
   D.   Collusion Among Bidders: Any agreement or collusion among bidders or
prospective bidders which may result in the restraint of freedom of competition
by agreement to bid a fixed price, or otherwise, shall render the bids of such
bidders void.
   E.   Advance Disclosures: Any disclosure in advance of the opening of bids,
whether in response to advertising or any formal or informal request for bids,
made or permitted by a member of the city council or city employee shall render
void the advertisement or request for bids.
   F.   Gratuities: The acceptance of any gratuity in the form of cash,
merchandise, or anything of value by officials or employees of the city from
any vendor or contractor for the purpose of gaining favor or an advantage shall
be deemed to be a violation of this chapter and shall be cause for termination
or other disciplinary action.
   G.   Purchasing Officer: Any person acting as the purchasing officer for the
city or who in any official capacity participates in the procurement of
supplies, services, construction, real or personal property, is guilty of a
class B misdemeanor offense if the person asks, receives or offers to receive
any emolument, gratuity, contribution, loan or reward, or any promise thereof,
from any person interested in the sale of such supplies, services,
construction, real or personal property, either for the person's own use or the
use or benefit of any other person or organization.
   H.   Vendors And Contractors: A person who is interested in any way in the
sale of any supplies, services, construction, real or personal property, shall
be guilty of a class B misdemeanor if the person gives or offers to give any
emolument, gratuity, contribution, loan or reward, or any promise thereof to
any person acting as the purchasing officer, or who in any official capacity
participates in the procurement of such supplies, services, construction, real
or personal property, or insurance, whether it is given for his own use or for
the use or benefit of any other person or organization.
   I.   Penalty: Any employee or official of Garland City who shall purchase
any goods or services in violation of the procedures set forth in this chapter
shall be subject to penalties up to and including possible termination. (Ord.
10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-9-12: MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS:
   A.   Determination Of Nonresponsibility Of Bidder: A written determination
of nonresponsibility of a bidder or offerer may be made. The unreasonable
failure of a bidder or offerer to promptly supply information in connection
with an inquiry with respect to responsibility may be grounds for a
determination of nonresponsibility with respect to the bidder or offerer.
Information furnished by a bidder or offerer shall not be disclosed without
prior written consent by the bidder or offerer.
   B.   Rules And Regulations To Determine Allowable Incurred Costs: Rules and
regulations may be made regarding the separate handling of small purchases.
However, purchases shall not be artificially divided up so as to qualify for
purchasing under the small purchases rules.
   C.   Cost Plus A Percentage Of Cost Contract: "Cost plus a percentage of
cost" contracts are prohibited.
   D.   Period Of Time For Contract Of Supplies: Contracts for supplies and
services may be entered into for any period of time deemed to be in the best
interest of the city. However, the contract should state that payment and
performance obligations for succeeding fiscal periods shall be subject to the
availability and appropriation of funds.
   E.   Right Of City To Inspect Place Of Business Of Contract Or
Subcontractor: The city may, at reasonable times, inspect the part of the plant
or place of business of a contractor or any subcontractor which is related to
the performance of any contract awarded or to be awarded by city. (Ord. 10-10,
11-18-2010)
1-9-13: APPEALS:
   A.   Any actual or prospective bidder or contractor who is aggrieved in
connection with the solicitation or award of a contract may appeal to the
purchasing officer. An appeal shall be submitted in writing within five (5)
working days after the contract to which the grievance relates is awarded. No
appeal may be taken in connection with purchases involving less than three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00) nor in the event all bids are rejected by the
city.
   B.   The purchasing officer shall promptly issue a written decision
regarding any appeal, if it is not settled by a mutual agreement. The decision
shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the bidder, contractor,
or prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the governing body, in
writing, within five (5) working days from the date the decision is issued.
   C.   The city council's decision shall be final. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
CHAPTER 10
ACQUISITION OF REAL PROPERTY AND DISPOSAL OF PERSONAL AND REAL PROPERTY 1
SECTION:
1-10-1: Scope
1-10-2: Real Estate; Recording Deeds
1-10-3: City Recorder; Recordkeeping Duties
1-10-4: City Recorder And Planning And Zoning Commission To Notify Mayor
1-10-5: Inventory Of Real Property
1-10-6: Surplus Property; Disposition Of Public Property
1-10-7: Definition
1-10-8: Surplus Property Declaration
1-10-9: Procedures
1-10-10: Disposal Of Personal Property
1-10-11: Disposal Of Real Property
1-10-12: City Agencies
1-10-13: Trade Of Real Property
1-10-14: Lease Of Public Property
1-10-15: Acquiring Property By Eminent Domain
1-10-16: Penalties And Illegal Activities
1-10-17: Appeals
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 9 of this title.
1-10-1: SCOPE:
   A.   This chapter shall, except where otherwise noted, govern the
acquisition of city real property, and disposal of property, whether personal
or real, owned by the city.
   B.   No purchases shall be made and no encumbrances shall be incurred for
the benefit of the city except as provided in this chapter.
   C.   Acquisition and disposal of municipal property must comply with chapter
9 of this title, this chapter, and Utah Code Annotated 10-8-2, where
applicable. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-2: REAL ESTATE; RECORDING DEEDS:
Whenever any interest in real property is conveyed to the city, the deed or
other instrument of conveyance shall immediately be delivered to the city
recorder who shall forthwith cause the same to be recorded in the office of the
county recorder of the county in which the real property is situated. After
such deed or other instrument has been recorded, it shall also be recorded in
the records of the city engineer and shall thereafter be deposited with the
city recorder. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-3: CITY RECORDER; RECORDKEEPING DUTIES:
   A.   Whenever any interest in real property is transferred by the city, the
deed or other instrument of transfer shall be recorded in the office of the
city recorder before being delivered to the transferee. If it shall be
impracticable to record the deed or other instrument before delivery, a true
copy thereof shall be immediately furnished the city recorder who shall record
the same.
   B.   The city engineer shall keep a complete, accurate and properly indexed
record of all transfers of real estate to or from the city and of all other
transactions which affect the title of real estate belonging to the city. (Ord.
10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-4: CITY RECORDER AND PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION TO NOTIFY MAYOR:
The city recorder and the planning and zoning commission shall notify the mayor
of all transactions coming to their attention which pertain to the purchase,
sale, transfer, lease or encumbrance of any real estate in which the city has
an interest. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-5: INVENTORY OF REAL PROPERTY:
The city recorder shall deliver to the mayor, planning and zoning commission
and city auditor during June of each year a revised list of all real estate
belonging to the city, together with an estimate of the current value of the
several parcels thereof. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-6: SURPLUS PROPERTY; DISPOSITION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Pursuant to the provisions of the laws of the state 1 , there is adopted and
established a system for disposition of public property of the city which shall
be based upon the principles set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-
2010)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-8-2.
1-10-7: DEFINITION:
"City property" or "public property" as defined in this chapter means any real
or personal property or equity interest in real or personal property held or
owned by the city except for cemetery lots and security taken or released to
secure the installation of subdivision and other public improvements. (Ord. 10-
10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-8: SURPLUS PROPERTY DECLARATION:
   A.   No city property may be disposed of unless and until it has been first
declared to be surplus by the city council.
   B.   The city council must first find that it is in the public interest that
the said city property may be disposed of in order to declare any city property
surplus.
   C.   In determining whether any city property shall be deemed surplus, the
city council shall take into consideration the following:
      1.   The city has, or anticipates that it will have, no practical,
economical, efficient, or appropriate use for the property currently or in the
reasonably foreseeable future.
      2.   The purpose served by the property can be better accomplished by
other alternatives or property.
      3.   The purpose served by the property or its use either no longer
exists or has significantly changed because of the needs and demands of the
city or as may be determined by a change of policy evidenced by an ordinance or
resolution of the city council.
      4.   The property is so damaged, depreciated, or worn that it is
inoperable or limited in operation without repairs and the cost of such repairs
is unreasonable, excessive, or impractical. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-9: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Upon the declaration of any city property as surplus property, the city
council may authorize the disposition of such surplus city property, including
real or personal property, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Unless provided otherwise by this chapter, the disposition of city
surplus property may be by public sale, private sale, exchange, exchange and
sale, option to purchase, lease, lease with an option to purchase, trade-in,
public auction, private auction, sale upon public advertisement by sealed bid,
or by any other lawful and reasonable means.
   C.   No disposition of surplus city property shall be made for less than
fair market value and consideration unless the city council determines that it
is in the best public interest that disposition of city surplus property may be
made for less than a full market value. Consideration and fair market value may
be in forms other than cash payment and may include the exchange of property or
services as may be reasonably determined by the city council.
   D.   The city council designates that the city recorder shall maintain
records of the manner and date of the disposal of all city surplus property as
well as the amount and nature of consideration received for such property.
   E.   No lease or lease with an option to purchase surplus property shall be
entered without the prior consent of the city council. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-10: DISPOSAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   If a work area supervisor, mayor, or council member has city personal
property under his or her control or supervision which he or she deems unusable
or surplus to the use of his or her work area, he or she shall notify the mayor
and city council, who shall in turn notify all other area supervisors of the
availability of such property. If any other area supervisor requests the
designated surplus property for their respective work area, the city council
may, at their option, transfer the property to the requesting area supervisor.
If no requests for the surplus personal property are received, or if the city
council deems it reasonable and in the public interest to otherwise dispose of
the property, the city council may then proceed to sell such personal property
in the manner as deemed to be in the best interests of the city.
   B.   The city council may advertise through public notice in a newspaper of
general circulation, the sale of any personal property. The notice may be
general in nature without listing each item individually.
   C.   Following publication of the notice, the city may hold a public sale
and dispose of items at a predetermined price or within a predetermined price
range. In lieu of a public sale, the city may invite bids to be submitted. In
such case, the date for submitted bids shall be given.
   D.   Bids shall be opened and read before the public. The sale of items
shall be made to the highest responsible bidder.
   E.   Any personal property that cannot be sold at a public sale or through
the bidding process may be disposed of in a manner acceptable to the city
council.
   F.   If surplus personal property is not readily marketable or marketable
for a fair market value because of its deterioration or condition, the city
council may determine that such property be sold as scrap, and if not salable
as such, may dispose of such personal property by destruction or other means.
(Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-11: DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   No real property may be sold on the open market unless the following
conditions are met:
      1.   The real property is not property acquired by condemnation or by the
threat of condemnation.
      2.   The real property has been offered for sale to the person or entity
from whom the city acquired the property at the highest offer with first right
of refusal; and the person or entity failed to accept the offer within ninety
(90) days after notification by registered mail to their last known address, or
waived/refused to exercise their right to purchase back the property offered
for sale.
   B.   No real estate, except cemetery lots, may be sold, traded or purchased
by the mayor unless and until the proposed sale, trade or purchase is presented
to the city council for its information, suggestions, if any, and approval.
   C.   The mayor shall not lease any city real property unless and until the
proposed lease is presented to the city council for its information,
suggestions, if any, and approval.
   D.   The city may dispose of no significant parcel of real property unless
and until the proposed disposition is presented at a reasonably noticed public
hearing allowing for public comment.
      1.   "Significant parcel of real property" is defined as any parcel owned
by the city, one acre or larger in size or valued over one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00), excluding property owned by the city or a redevelopment
agency of the city that is located in a redevelopment area and which is being
disposed of as part of an economic incentive that has been approved by the city
council and/or the redevelopment agency board.
      2.   Reasonable notice for the purposes of this section shall be a public
notice posted at the city office, published in a local newspaper, with general
circulation within the city, and posted on the Utah public notice website,
created under section 63F-1-701, at least fourteen (14) days before the date of
the public hearing, when comment on the proposed disposition shall be allowed.
   E.   The city may, but shall not be required to obtain from a certified
public appraiser an appraisal of the property to be disposed of.
   F.   When in the best interest of the city, the city council may negotiate
and consummate the sale of a parcel of land, with or without a building, with
an individual, group, corporation, or consortium.
   G.   In cases where the property is to be disposed of through a sale to the
general public, such action shall generally be accomplished through a sealed
bid process. The city recorder shall cause a notice to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation which shall describe the property to be sold,
the minimum asking price of the property, the date and time bids shall be
submitted and any other information pertinent to the property being sold. When
determined to be in the best interest of the city, the city council may dispose
of real property without the use of sealed bids.
   H.   The city council shall review bids in a setting of their choice.
   I.   Disposal of real property shall be made on the basis of bid amount,
future use of the property, and any other factors the city council deems to be
in the best interest of the city. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-12: CITY AGENCIES:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all bodies which are within the
jurisdiction or under the authority of the city and which own real or personal
property in the name of the city. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-13: TRADE OF REAL PROPERTY:
If the city council determines that the real property declared surplus under
this section could be sold for a greater consideration or benefit to the city
if something other than cash were taken as consideration, then the city council
may invite prospective purchasers to tender consideration either in cash or in-
kind or a combination of both. Upon receipt of a bid tendering consideration
in-kind and if the city council considers such bid to be the best offer made,
prior to accepting such a bid the city council may request a report from the
purchasing officer, setting forth his or her reasons for thinking the in-kind
bid has the most value to the city. This report shall be made to the city
council at a regular council meeting and the report shall remain open to public
inspection. Before accepting any bid containing in-kind consideration, adequate
appraisals may be required by one or more qualified appraisers. If the city
council finds that the bid containing the in-kind consideration has more value
or benefit to the city than any other bid submitted, the city council may
accept the bid containing in-kind consideration. However, real property deemed
to be surplus should not be traded unless the property received is of
equivalent value as determined by an appraisal unless there is an express
authorization by the city council for trading for property of a lesser value.
(Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-14: LEASE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
The mayor, with city council approval, may lease or sublease any property,
including real property, under such terms and conditions as the mayor and city
council may deem desirable, fair and appropriate, either by use of negotiations
or bidding, considering intended land use and equivalent property tax value,
and the best interest of the city. Leases of real property shall not be granted
for a period of over five (5) years, generally, provided leases for a period
exceeding five (5) years may be approved by the city council, for good cause.
(Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-15: ACQUIRING PROPERTY BY EMINENT DOMAIN:
   A.   The city may acquire by eminent domain, or otherwise, property located
inside or outside the corporate limits of the municipality and necessary for
any of the purposes stated in Utah Code Annotated 10-8-2, and any other
applicable law, subject to restrictions imposed by title 78B, chapter 6, part
5, eminent domain, and other applicable law.
   B.   In the event the city intends to acquire property by eminent domain, it
shall, upon the first contact with the owner of the property sought to be
acquired, deliver to the owner a copy of a booklet or other materials provided
by the office of the property rights ombudsman, created under section 13-43-
201, dealing with the property owner's rights in an eminent domain proceeding.
   C.   This chapter may not be construed to diminish any other authority a
municipality may claim to have under the law to acquire by eminent domain
property located inside or outside the municipality. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-16: PENALTIES AND ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Personal Investments: No person involved in making acquisition of real
property and disposal of personal and real property decisions on behalf of the
city may have personal investments in any business entity which will create a
substantial conflict between their private interests and their public duties,
without compliance with the municipal officers' and employees' ethics act, Utah
Code Annotated 10-3-1301 to 1312 and specific approval by the city council.
   B.   Personal Compensation Prohibited: Any person involved in making
acquisition of real property and disposal of personal and real property
decisions on behalf of the city is guilty of a class B misdemeanor offense if
the person asks, receives, or offers to receive any emolument, gratuity,
contribution, loan, or reward, or any promise thereof, either for the person's
own use or the use or benefit of any other person or organization.
   C.   Conflict Of Interests: No member of the city council, other city
official, or city employee may be interested directly or indirectly in any
contract entered into by the city, without compliance with the municipal
officers' and employees' ethics act, Utah Code Annotated 10-3-1301 to 1312 and
specific approval by the city council. A violation of this provision shall be
cause for removal or other disciplinary action.
   D.   Collusion Among Bidders: Any agreement or collusion among bidders or
prospective bidders which may result in the restraint of freedom of competition
by agreement to bid a fixed price, or otherwise, shall render the bids of such
bidders void.
   E.   Advance Disclosures: Any disclosure in advance of the opening of bids,
whether in response to advertising or any formal or informal request for bids,
made or permitted by a member of the city council or city employee shall render
void the advertisement or request for bids.
   F.   Gratuities: The acceptance of any gratuity in the form of cash,
merchandise, or anything of value by officials or employees of the city from
any bidder, contractor or other person or entity doing business with the city,
for the purpose of gaining favor or an advantage shall be deemed to be a
violation of this chapter and shall be cause for termination or other
disciplinary action.
   G.   Purchasing Officer: Any person acting as the purchasing officer for the
city or who in any official capacity participates in the acquisition of real
property and disposal of personal and real property, is guilty of a class B
misdemeanor offense if the person asks, receives or offers to receive any
emolument, gratuity, contribution, loan or reward, or any promise thereof, from
any person interested in the acquisition of real property and disposal of
personal and real property, either for the person's own use or the use or
benefit of any other person or organization.
   H.   Bidders And Contractors: A person who is interested in any way in the
acquisition of real property and disposal of personal and real property, shall
be guilty of a class B misdemeanor if the person gives or offers to give any
emolument, gratuity, contribution, loan or reward, or any promise thereof to
any person acting as the purchasing officer, or who in any official capacity
participates in the acquisition of real property and disposal of personal and
real property, or insurance, whether it is given for his own use or for the use
or benefit of any other person or organization.
   I.   Penalty: Any employee or official of Garland City who shall acquire
real property and dispose of personal and real property in violation of the
procedures set forth in this chapter shall be subject to penalties up to and
including possible termination. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
1-10-17: APPEALS:
   A.   Any actual or prospective bidder or contractor who is aggrieved in
connection with the solicitation or award of a contract may appeal to the
purchasing officer. An appeal shall be submitted in writing within five (5)
working days after the contract to which the grievance relates is awarded. No
appeal may be taken in connection with transactions involving less than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00), nor in the event all bids are rejected by the
city.
   B.   The purchasing officer shall promptly issue a written decision
regarding any appeal, if it is not settled by a mutual agreement. The decision
shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the bidder, contractor,
or prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the governing body, in
writing, within five (5) working days from the date the decision is issued.
   C.   The city council's decision shall be final. (Ord. 10-10, 11-18-2010)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Reserved
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required
3-1-2: Application For License
3-1-3: Fee For License
3-1-4: Investigation Of Certain Applicants
3-1-5: Health Certificate May Be Required
3-1-6: Certificate Of License
3-1-7: Renewal Of License
3-1-8: Revocation Of License
3-1-9: Penalty
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in or carry
on any business, trade, profession or calling within the corporate limits of
the city for the transaction or carrying on of which a license is required
without first taking out or procuring the license required for such business,
trade, profession or calling as hereinafter set out. (1949 Code § 12-0-1)
3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Required: All applications for licenses shall be made in writing to the
city recorder. All certificates of license shall be signed by the mayor and
attested by the city recorder, under the seal of the city.
   B.   Information Required: The application shall contain:
      1.   The name of the person, firm or corporation desiring a license.
      2.   The kind of license desired, stating the business, calling, trade or
profession to be performed, practiced or carried on.
      3.   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
carried on, giving the street number if such business, calling, trade or
profession is to be carried on in any building or enclosure.
      4.   Period of time for which such license is desired to be issued.
      5.   Such other and further information as might be required by ordinance
or statute.
   C.   Filing; Bill For Fee: The application, with any accompanying statements
or bonds, if any pertain thereto, shall be filed in the office of the city
recorder. Thereafter, the city recorder shall furnish to the licensee either
personally, by mail or leaving at his usual place of business, a bill showing
the amount due for said license. It shall be unlawful for any officer except
the city treasurer or his deputy who shall be authorized to receive payment for
any license, and the city treasurer is hereby authorized to receive such
payment only when accompanied by the bill from the city recorder as herein
provided.
   D.   Payment Of Fee Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to commence business or carry on its trade, occupation or
profession without first having paid the amount as so assessed herein provided.
(1949 Code § 12-0-2)
3-1-3: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Established: Business license fees shall be in such amounts as
established by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Half Year License: Businesses originating after August 31 of said year
may obtain a half year license at half the year's price (yearly seasonal
businesses are exempt from this rule). (Ord. 91-2, 1-15-1991; amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   License Fee A Debt: The amount of any license imposed by this chapter
shall be deemed a debt to the city, and any person, firm or corporation
carrying on any trade, calling, profession or occupation mentioned in this
chapter without having a license from said city to do so, shall be liable to an
action in the name of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
amount of license by this chapter imposed on such trade, calling, profession or
occupation; provided, that any suit for the collection of such debt shall not
relieve the offender nor deny the city the right to prosecute said offender
criminally for said violation. (1949 Code § 12-0-4)
3-1-4: INVESTIGATION OF CERTAIN APPLICANTS:
Applicants for licenses in occupations by their nature affecting the public
health, safety or the morals of the community as herein named shall be referred
by the city recorder to the chief of police for investigation, who shall,
within a reasonable time, file a written report of such application with the
city recorder, giving a report of his investigations with his recommendation
for the issuance or nonissuance of a license, and if such report be favorable,
a license shall be issued in the usual course; provided, that if the report is
unfavorable, then in that case no license shall be issued by the city recorder,
but the applicant shall have the right of appeal to the city council, which, in
its discretion after a hearing thereon, may grant or reject such application.
The applicant shall not engage in business for which the application is made
pending the investigation by the chief of police, or pending a hearing thereon
by the city council. For the purposes of this chapter, it is declared that
carnival shows, circuses, menageries, theaters, picture shows, vaudeville side
shows, tent shows, tent museums, fortune tellers, boxing contests, wrestling
matches and all traveling performers and exhibits and concessions of every kind
or nature, and solicitors and peddlers, affect the public health, safety and
morals and are subjects for investigation as herein provided. (1949 Code § 12-
0-6)
3-1-5: HEALTH CERTIFICATE MAY BE REQUIRED:
The city recorder shall not issue a license to any person, firm or corporation
contemplating engaging in the business of manufacturing, preparing or selling
food or drink which is prepared, cooked, mixed, packed, posed, bottled,
handled, stored, manufactured, offered for sale or sold on their premises
without first having said person, firm or corporation present a certificate
issued by the board of health certifying said premises to be in such a
condition as to be a fit and proper place for the preparing, manufacturing,
selling, etc., of said food or drink. (1949 Code § 12-0-33)
3-1-6: CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: Every certificate of license issued shall bear upon its face:
      1.   The name of the person to whom such certificate has been issued.
      2.   The amount paid to the city treasurer.
      3.   The kind of license and the class of such license, if such licenses
are divided into classes.
      4.   The term of the license with commencing date, and the date of its
expiration.
      5.   The place where such business calling, trade or profession is to be
carried on.
   B.   Posting Of Certificate; Display Upon Request: Every certificate of
license issued shall be posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place upon the
wall of the building, room or office of the store or place in which such
licensed business, calling, trade or profession is carried on so that the same
may be easily seen, and when such certificate or license shall have expired, it
shall be removed by the licensee from such place in which it has been posted,
and no certificate of license which is not in force and effect shall be
permitted to remain posted upon the wall or any part of any room, store, office
or place of business after the period of such certificate or license has
expired. It shall be the duty of each and every person to whom a certificate of
license has been issued to show the same at any proper time when requested to
do so by any police officer or license inspector. No license granted or issued
under any of the provisions of this chapter, or otherwise, shall be in any
manner assignable or transferable, or authorize any person, other than is
therein mentioned or named, to do business, or authorize any other business,
calling, trade or profession than is therein mentioned or named, to be done or
transacted, or the business, calling, trade or profession therein mentioned or
named to be done, or transacted, at any place other than is therein mentioned
or named. (1949 Code § 12-0-5)
3-1-7: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
All licenses that have been legally issued for any period of time may be
renewed by the applicant at the expiration of said period by the paying to the
city treasurer the proper fee for the next period of time. It shall be unlawful
for any person, firm or corporation to operate his business, trade or
occupation after the expiration of any license and during a period when the
same has not been renewed. (1949 Code § 12-0-3)
3-1-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Unlawful To Do Business After Revocation: If at any time a license
under the provisions of this chapter is denied or revoked, it shall thereafter
be unlawful for any person to open, operate, maintain, manage or conduct any
business, trade, profession or calling for the transaction or carrying on of
which a license is required at the premises, until a new license shall be
granted by the city council. (1949 Code § 12-0-35; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Term Of Revocation: No person who has been denied a license, or whose
license has been revoked under the provisions of this chapter, shall thereafter
be granted a license under this chapter for a period of six (6) months, and no
person associated or connected with such business shall be granted a license
under the provisions of this chapter for a period of six (6) months after such
denial or revocation has occurred. (1949 Code § 12-0-36)
3-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, unless otherwise provided,
shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1949 Code § 12-0-37; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Title
3-2A-2: Purpose
3-2A-3: Effective Date
3-2A-4: Sales And Use Tax
3-2A-5: Penalty
3-2A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF GARLAND CITY.
(Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990)
3-2A-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The 48th session of the Utah legislature has authorized the counties
and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use tax ordinances imposing
a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales and use tax of
the city to the requirements of the sales and use tax act, Utah Code Annotated
title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990)
3-2A-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective as of one minute past twelve o'clock (12:
01) A.M., January 1, 1990. (Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990)
3-2A-4: SALES AND USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Levied:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the city at the rate of one percent
(1%).
      2.   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the city of tangible personal property from any retailer on or
after the operative date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales
price of the property.
      3.   For the purpose of this article, all retail sales shall be presumed
to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out of state destination. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed by and adopted by
the state tax commission. "Public utilities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated
title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within any
county or municipality where public utilities services are rendered, but the
place of sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable to
the city shall be as determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an
appropriate formula and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by it.
   B.   Adoption Of State Statutes:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the sales and use tax act, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, and in
force and affect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales
taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, are hereby adopted
and made a part of this article as through fully set forth herein.
      2.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of the city shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the city for the word
"state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state tax
commission, or of the constitution of the state, nor shall the name of the city
be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the city or any
agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article.
      3.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section.
      4.   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or changed by
which the tax is measured:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer of consumer;
         b.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
tax has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the state, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (Ord.
90-1, 2-6-1990)
3-2A-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990; amd. 2006 Code)
ARTICLE A. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Title
3-2A-2: Purpose
3-2A-3: Effective Date
3-2A-4: Sales And Use Tax
3-2A-5: Penalty
3-2A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF GARLAND CITY.
(Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990)
3-2A-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The 48th session of the Utah legislature has authorized the counties
and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use tax ordinances imposing
a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales and use tax of
the city to the requirements of the sales and use tax act, Utah Code Annotated
title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990)
3-2A-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective as of one minute past twelve o'clock (12:
01) A.M., January 1, 1990. (Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990)
3-2A-4: SALES AND USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Levied:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the city at the rate of one percent
(1%).
      2.   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the city of tangible personal property from any retailer on or
after the operative date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales
price of the property.
      3.   For the purpose of this article, all retail sales shall be presumed
to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to
an out of state destination. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed by and adopted by
the state tax commission. "Public utilities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated
title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places within any
county or municipality where public utilities services are rendered, but the
place of sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable to
the city shall be as determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an
appropriate formula and other rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by it.
   B.   Adoption Of State Statutes:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the sales and use tax act, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, and in
force and affect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales
taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, are hereby adopted
and made a part of this article as through fully set forth herein.
      2.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of the city shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the city for the word
"state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state tax
commission, or of the constitution of the state, nor shall the name of the city
be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the city or any
agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article.
      3.   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by
reason of this section.
      4.   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or changed by
which the tax is measured:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer of consumer;
         b.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
tax has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the state, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (Ord.
90-1, 2-6-1990)
3-2A-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 90-1, 2-6-1990; amd. 2006 Code)
ARTICLE B. MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Intent
3-2B-2: Definitions
3-2B-3: Municipal Energy Sales And Use Tax
3-2B-4: Exemptions From Tax
3-2B-5: No Effect Upon Existing Franchises; Credit For Franchise Fees
3-2B-6: Tax Collection Contract With State Tax Commission
3-2B-7: State Statutes Incorporated
3-2B-8: No Additional License Or Reporting Requirements
3-2B-9: Effective Date
3-2B-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of the city to adopt the municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to, and in conformance with, Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-301 et
seq., the municipal energy sales and use tax act. (Ord. 97-1, 6-17-1997)
3-2B-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this article shall have the following
meaning unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
CONSUMER: A person who acquires taxable energy for any use that is subject to
the municipal energy sales and use tax.
CONTRACTUAL FRANCHISE FEE: A. A fee:
      1.   Provided for in a franchise agreement; and
      2.   That is consideration for the franchise agreement; or
   B.   1. A fee similar to subsection A of this definition; or
      2.   Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
DELIVERED VALUE: A. The fair market value of the taxable energy delivered for
sale or use in the city and includes:
      1.   The value of the enemy itself; and
      2.   Any transportation, freight, customer demand charges, service
charges or other costs typically incurred in providing taxable energy in usable
form to each class of customer in the city.
   B.   "Delivered value" does not include the amount of a tax paid under part
1 or part 2 of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12.
ENERGY SUPPLIER: A person supplying taxable energy, except for persons
supplying a de minimus amount of taxable energy, if such persons are excluded
by rule promulgated by the state tax commission.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A franchise or an ordinance, contract or agreement
granting a franchise.
FRANCHISE TAX: A. A franchise tax;
   B.   A tax similar to a franchise tax; or
   C.   Any combination of subsection A or B of this definition.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, partnership, limited liability company,
joint venture, association, corporation, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, syndicate, this state, any country, city, municipality, district, or
other local governmental entity of the state, or any group or combination
acting as a unit.
SALE: Any transfer of title, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in
any manner, of taxable energy for a consideration. It includes:
   A.   Installment and credit sales;
   B.   Any closed transaction constituting a sale;
   C.   Any transaction under which right to acquire, use or consume taxable
energy is granted under a lease or contract and the transfer would be taxable
if an outright sale were made.
STORAGE: Any keeping or retention of taxable energy in the city for any
purpose, except sale in the regular course of business.
TAXABLE ENERGY: Gas and electricity.
USE: A. The exercise of any right or power over taxable energy incident to the
ownership or the leasing of the taxable energy.
   B.   "Use" does not include the sale, display, demonstration or trial of the
taxable energy in the regular course of business and held for resale. (Ord. 97-
1, 6-17-1997)
3-2B-3: MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX:
There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this article, a tax on
every sale or use of taxable energy made with the city equaling four percent
(4%) of the delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This tax
shall be known as the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   A.   The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the taxable
energy to the consumer.
   B.   The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax on taxable energy
imposed by the city authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
part 2, the local sales and use tax act 1 . (Ord. 97-1, 6-17-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See article A of this chapter.
3-2B-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM TAX:
   A.   No exemptions are granted from the municipal energy sales and use tax
except as expressly provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b),
notwithstanding an exemption granted by Utah Code Annotated section 59-1-104.
   B.   The following are exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-305(2)(b):
      1.   Sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel, and special fuels
subject to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      2.   Sales and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation under
federal law, the United States constitution, or the Utah constitution;
      3.   Sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored for resale;
      4.   Sales or use of taxable energy to a person, if the primary use of
the taxable energy is for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or a
fuel subject to taxation under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 13;
      5.   Taxable energy brought into the state by a nonresident for the
nonresident's own personal use or enjoyment while within the state, except
taxable energy purchased for use in the state by a nonresident living or
working in the state at the time of purchase;
      6.   The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than as a
fuel or energy; and
      7.   The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of the
city.
   C.   The sale, storage, use or other consumption of taxable energy is exempt
from the municipal energy sales and use tax levied by this chapter, provided:
      1.   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another municipality within the
state authorized by Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 3; and
      2.   The city is paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this chapter, if the
tax due under this chapter exceeds the tax paid to the other municipality.
(Ord. 97-1, 6-17-1997)
3-2B-5: NO EFFECT UPON EXISTING FRANCHISES; CREDIT FOR FRANCHISE FEES:
   A.   This article shall not alter any existing franchise agreements between
the city and energy suppliers.
   B.   There is a credit against the tax due from any consumer in the amount
of a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      1.   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the city
pursuant to a franchise agreement in effect on July 1, 1997;
      2.   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      3.   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise. (Ord. 97-1, 6-17-
1997)
3-2B-6: TAX COLLECTION CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
   A.   On or before the effective date hereof, the city shall contract with
the state tax commission to perform all functions incident to the
administration and collection of the municipal energy sales and use tax, in
accordance with this article. This contract may be a supplement to the existing
contract with the commission to administer and collect the local sales and use
tax, as provided in article A of this chapter. The mayor, with the approval of
the city council, is hereby authorized to enter into agreements with the state
tax commission that may be necessary to the continued administration and
operation of the municipal energy sales and use tax ordinance enacted by this
article.
   B.   An energy supplier shall pay the municipal energy sales and use tax
revenues collected from consumers directly to the city monthly if:
      1.   The city is the energy supplier; or
      2.   a. The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales and
use tax collected annually from its Utah consumers equals one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) or more; and
         b.   The energy supplier collects the municipal energy sales and use
tax.
   C.   An energy supplier paying the municipal energy sales and use tax
directly to the city may deduct any contractual franchise fees collected by the
energy supplier qualifying as a credit and remit the net tax less any amount
the energy supplier retains as authorized by Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-
307(4). (Ord. 97-1, 6-17-1997)
3-2B-7: STATE STATUTES INCORPORATED:
   A.   Except as herein provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 1, part 3,
municipal energy sales and use tax act, as well as this article, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended, and
in force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to
sales and use taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, and
excepting for the amount of the sales and use taxes levied therein, are hereby
adopted and made a part of this article as if fully set forth herein.
   B.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, as amended, the state of Utah is named or referred to as
the "taxing agency", the name of the city shall be substituted, insofar as is
necessary for the purposes of that part, as well as Utah Code Annotated title
10, chapter 1, part 3, as amended. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed
to require substitution of the name Garland City for the word "state" when that
word is used as part of the title of the state tax commission, or of the
constitution of Utah, nor shall the name of Garland City be substituted for
that of the state in any section when the result of such a substitution would
require action to be taken by or against the city or any agency thereof, rather
than by or against the state tax commission in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this article.
   C.   Any amendments made to Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part
1, as amended, which would be applicable to the city for the purposes of
carrying out this article are hereby incorporated herein by reference and shall
be effective upon the date that they are effective as a Utah statute. (Ord. 97-
1, 6-17-1997)
3-2B-8: NO ADDITIONAL LICENSE OR REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
No additional license to collect or report the municipal energy sales and use
tax levied by this chapter is required, provided the energy supplier collecting
the tax has a license issued under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106. (Ord.
97-1, 6-17-1997)
3-2B-9: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article is effective June 30, 1997. The municipal energy sales and use tax
shall be levied beginning one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M., July 1,
1997. (Ord. 97-1, 6-17-1997)
ARTICLE C. TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDERS TAX
SECTION:
3-2C-1: Definitions
3-2C-2: Levy Of Tax
3-2C-3: Rate
3-2C-4: Rate Limitation And Exemption
3-2C-5: Effective Date Of Tax Levy
3-2C-6: Changes In Rate Or Repeal Of Tax
3-2C-7: Interlocal Agreement For Collection
3-2C-8: Repeal Of Inconsistent Taxes And Fees
3-2C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
CITY: Garland City, Utah.
COMMISSION: The state tax commission.
CUSTOMER: A. Subject to subsections B and C of this definition, the person who
is obligated under a contract with a telecommunications provider to pay for
telecommunications service received under the contract.
   B.   For purposes of this article, "customer" means:
      1.   The person who is obligated under a contract with a
telecommunications provider to pay for telecommunications service received
under the contract; or
      2.   If the end user is not the person described in subsection B1 of this
definition, the end user of telecommunications service.
   C.   "Customer" does not include a reseller:
      1.   Of telecommunications service; or
      2.   For mobile telecommunications service, of a serving carrier under an
agreement to serve the customer outside the telecommunications provider's
licensed service area.
END USER: A. The person who uses a telecommunications service.
   B.   For purposes of telecommunications service provided to a person who is
not an individual, "end user" means the individual who uses the
telecommunications service on behalf of the person who is provided the
telecommunications service.
GROSS RECEIPTS ATTRIBUTED TO THE CITY: Those gross receipts from a transaction
for telecommunications services that is located within the city for the
purposes of sales and use taxes under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12,
sales and use tax act, and determined in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-207.
GROSS RECEIPTS FROM TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The revenue that a
telecommunications provider receives for telecommunications service rendered,
except for amounts collected or paid as:
   A.   A tax, fee or charge:
      1.   Imposed by a governmental entity;
      2.   Separately identified as a tax, fee or charge in the transaction
with the customer for the telecommunications service; and
      3.   Imposed only on a telecommunications provider;
   B.   Sales and use taxes collected by the telecommunications provider from a
customer under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, sales and use tax act;
or
   C.   Interest, a fee or a charge that is charged by a telecommunications
provider on a customer for failure to pay for telecommunications service when
payment is due.
MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: As defined in the mobile telecommunications
sourcing act, 4 USC 124.
PLACE OF PRIMARY USE: A. For telecommunications service other than mobile
telecommunications service, means the street address representative of where
the customer's use of the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which
shall be:
      1.   The residential street address of the customer; or
      2.   The primary business street address of the customer; or
   B.   For mobile telecommunications service, is as defined in the mobile
telecommunications sourcing act, 4 USC 124.
SERVICE ADDRESS: Notwithstanding where a call is billed or paid, "service
address" means:
   A.   If the location described in this subsection is known, the location of
the telecommunications equipment:
      1.   To which a call is charged; and
      2.   From which the call originates or terminates;
   B.   If the location described in subsection A of this definition is not
known but the location described in this subsection is known, the location of
the origination point of the signal of the telecommunications service first
identified by:
      1.   The telecommunications system of the telecommunications provider; or
      2.   If the system used to transport the signal is not a system of the
telecommunications provider, information received by the telecommunications
provider from its service provider; or
   C.   If the locations described in subsection A or B of this definition are
not known, the location of a customer's place of primary use.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: A. Subject to subsections B and C of this
definition, "telecommunications provider" means a person that:
      1.   Owns, controls, operates or manages a telecommunications service; or
      2.   Engages in an activity described in subsection A1 of this definition
for the shared use with or resale to any person of the telecommunications
service.
   B.   A person described in subsection A of this definition is a
"telecommunications provider" whether or not the public service commission of
Utah regulates:
      1.   That person; or
      2.   The telecommunications service that the person owns, controls,
operates or manages.
   C.   "Telecommunications provider" does not include an aggregator as defined
in Utah Code Annotated section 54-8b-2.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: A. "Telephone service", as defined in Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-102, other than mobile telecommunications service, that
originates and terminates within the boundaries of this state; and
   B.   Mobile telecommunications service, as defined in Utah Code Annotated
section 59-12-102:
      1.   That originates and terminates within the boundaries of one state;
and
      2.   Only to the extent permitted by the mobile telecommunications
sourcing act, 4 USC 116 et seq. (Ord. 04-03, 5-18-2004)
3-2C-2: LEVY OF TAX:
There is hereby levied a municipal telecommunications license tax on the gross
receipts from telecommunications service attributed to the city. (Ord. 2004-1,
5-20-2004)
3-2C-3: RATE:
The rate of the tax levy shall be four percent (4%) of the telecommunication
provider's gross receipts from telecommunications service that are attributed
to the city, subject to the following:
If the location of a transaction is determined to be other than the city, then
the rate imposed on the gross receipts for telecommunications services shall be
the lower of: a) the rate imposed by the taxing jurisdiction in which the
transaction is located; or b) the rate for nonmobile telecommunication services
shall be the rate imposed by the city in which the customer's service address
is located; or c) for mobile telecommunications service, the rate imposed by
the city of the customer's primary place of use. (Ord. 04-03, 5-18-2004; amd.
2006 Code)
3-2C-4: RATE LIMITATION AND EXEMPTION:
The rate of this levy shall not exceed four percent (4%) of the
telecommunication provider's gross receipts from telecommunication service
attributed to the city unless a higher rate is approved by a majority vote of
the voters in the city that vote in:
   A.   A municipal general election;
   B.   A regular general election; or
   C.   A local special election. (Ord. 04-03, 5-18-2004)
3-2C-5: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX LEVY:
This tax shall be levied beginning July 1, 2004, or the first day of any
calendar quarter after a seventy five (75) day period beginning on the date the
commission received notice, pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-403,
that the city has enacted this article. (Ord. 04-03, 5-18-2004)
3-2C-6: CHANGES IN RATE OR REPEAL OF TAX:
This article is subject to the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 10-
1-403. If the tax rate is changed or the tax is repealed, then the appropriate
notice shall be given as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 10-1-403.
(Ord. 04-03, 5-18-2004)
3-2C-7: INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT FOR COLLECTION:
On or before the effective date hereof, the city shall enter into the uniform
interlocal agreement with the commission as described in Utah Code Annotated
section 10-1-405 for the collection, enforcement and administration of this
municipal telecommunications license tax. (Ord. 04-03, 5-18-2004)
3-2C-8: REPEAL OF INCONSISTENT TAXES AND FEES:
   A.   Any tax or fee previously enacted by the city under authority of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-1-203, or Utah Code Annotated title 11, chapter 26,
local taxation of utilities limitation, is hereby repealed.
   B.   Nothing in this article shall be interpreted to repeal any municipal
ordinance or fee which provides that the city may recover from a
telecommunications provider the management costs of the city caused by the
activities of the telecommunications provider in the rights of way of the city,
if the fee is imposed in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 72-7-102
and is not related to the city's loss of use of a highway as a result of the
activities of the telecommunications provider in a right of way, or increased
deterioration of a highway as a result of the activities of the
telecommunications provider in a right of way, nor does this article limit the
city's right to charge fees or taxes on persons that are not subject to the
municipal telecommunications license tax under this article and locate
telecommunications facilities, as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 72-7-
108, in the city. (Ord. 04-03, 5-18-2004)
ARTICLE D. EMERGENCY TELEPHONE TAX
SECTION:
3-2D-1: Scope
3-2D-2: Tax Imposed
3-2D-3: Notice And Collection
3-2D-1: SCOPE:
The city council, on May 18, 2004, passed a resolution imposing a charge upon
all described access lines within the city. Such collected funds are used to
operate and fund the Box Elder communications center PSAP operations in the
city. (Res. 04-04, 5-18-2004)
3-2D-2: TAX IMPOSED:
The city council hereby imposes a
9-1-1 emergency telephone tax in the amount of sixty five cents ($0.65) per
month on each local exchange access line, wireless communications access line
or other technological or radio device access line that under normal operations
is designed to, or routinely used to, access
9-1-1, within the city, commencing on May 18, 2004. (Res. 04-04, 5-18-2004)
3-2D-3: NOTICE AND COLLECTION:
Service providers shall be provided written notice of such
9-1-1 tax, the
9-1-1 tax shall be collected at the time charges for telecommunications are
collected under the regular billing practice of the service provider, and the
9-1-1 tax imposed pursuant to this article shall be remitted to the state tax
commission monthly. Service providers are required to collect such surcharges
and remit the amounts collected monthly, together with required reporting
forms. The service providers may deduct and retain four cents ($0.04) of the
monthly surcharge as cost recovery for implementing wireless enhanced phase I
technology and for collecting and administering the levy. (Res. 04-04, 5-18-
2004)
CHAPTER 3
CABARETS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Defined
3-3-2: Compliance Required
3-3-3: License Required
3-3-4: Fee For License
3-3-5: Investigation And Recommendation; Licensing Authority
3-3-6: Term; Expiration
3-3-7: Access; Inspection And Report
3-3-8: Minors
3-3-9: Alcoholic Beverages
3-3-10: Regulations And Requirements Generally
3-3-11: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-3-12: Operation Prohibited Upon Denial Or Revocation
3-3-1: DEFINED:
Duly licensed restaurants which permit their patrons to dance, and restaurants
or premises which entertain their patrons with live performers who sing or
dance or which permit their patrons to dance, shall be deemed to be "cabarets",
and such places shall be subject to the cabaret licensing provisions as
hereinafter provided. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-3-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All cabaret licenses, whether original applicants or renewal applicants, must
comply with all the applicable provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-
1984)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No "cabaret", as defined in section
3-3-1 of this chapter, shall open for business without first obtaining a
license, as herein provided, from the city. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-3-4: FEE FOR LICENSE:
The license fee for a cabaret license shall be in such amount as established by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984; amd. 2006 Code)
3-3-5: INVESTIGATION AND RECOMMENDATION; LICENSING AUTHORITY:
The police department shall examine and investigate all applicants for licenses
and the premises of all licensees under this chapter. Following such
examination, the recommendations of the police department shall be made in
writing to the city council. The city council shall be the licensing authority
of cabarets. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-3-6: TERM; EXPIRATION:
All licenses issued under this chapter shall be issued for a period not to
exceed one year, and all licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-3-7: ACCESS; INSPECTION AND REPORT:
The police department shall be permitted to have access to all premises
licensed. It shall be unlawful to lock the rear door of the premises during the
hours that such premises are open to the public so that the police department,
operating in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, may have immediate
entry to the premises or establishment licensed hereunder and may do so without
delay. The police department shall make periodic inspections of the premises
and report its findings to the city council. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-3-8: MINORS:
It shall be unlawful to permit any person who has not reached the age of twenty
one (21) years to attend or remain at any cabaret where beer is sold or served,
or cabaret which is licensed to sell beer, unless such person be accompanied by
the parent or legal guardian of such person. It shall be unlawful for any
person to misrepresent his age for the purpose of gaining admission to a public
dance or cabaret, or falsely to represent himself to be a parent or legal
guardian of any person in order that such person may attend or remain at any
public dance or cabaret. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-3-9: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Beer License: If a licensee desires to operate as herein provided, he
shall first obtain an appropriate retail beer license and conform to the
provisions of the ordinances of the city concerning the sale of beer.
   B.   Sale Or Consumption Of Beer By Minor: The sale or consumption of beer
by any person under the age of twenty one (21) years is expressly prohibited
hereunder. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-3-10: REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY:
   A.   Separation Of Dance Area And Seating Area: The dance area in a licensed
cabaret must be separated from the seating area by a minimum aisle or areaway
of three feet (3').
   B.   Access To Restrooms: Access to restrooms must be by an aisle or a
areaway of at least three feet (3') in width, and in no event shall a cabaret
license be issued if it is necessary to cross directly over the dance area to
have access to restrooms.
   C.   Aisle Or Areaway Between Bar And Dance Area: If the dance area is
adjacent to or in front of a bar where beer or food is served or consumed,
there must be a minimum aisle or areaway of five feet (5') between the bar and
the dance area.
   D.   Entertainers: Impromptu audience performers or itinerant walk-in guitar
players or entertainers are prohibited. It shall be unlawful to furnish live
entertainment for patrons of restaurants on premises herein, unless the
premises are licensed as a cabaret.
   E.   Minimum Size Of Dancing Area: No cabaret license shall be granted
unless the premises to be licensed thereunder shall contain at least three
hundred (300) square feet of suitable dancing area.
   F.   Parking Space: No cabaret license shall be granted unless there is
provided on the premises parking space sufficient to park one automobile for
each two (2) patrons for which accommodations are provided on the premises,
which total area shall be determined by the maximum seating capacity of the
establishment.
   G.   Distance From School, Church, Park Or Recreation Center: No premises
shall be licensed hereunder which are located within a distance of less than
three hundred feet (300') from any public schools, churches, public parks or
recreation centers.
   H.   Lighting; View Of Both, Etc.: Premises licensed pursuant to this
chapter shall maintain throughout such premises, during business hours, a
minimum of two (2) candle power light measured at a level of five feet (5')
above the floor. No booth, blind or stall shall be maintained unless all
tables, chairs and occupants, if any therein, are kept open to full view from
the main floor at the entrance of such licensed premises.
   I.   Premises To Comply With Health And Fire Regulations: No license shall
be issued pursuant to this chapter until it shall be found that the premises
for which it is issued complies with and conforms to all laws, ordinances and
health and fire regulations applicable thereto. The premises shall be properly
ventilated and have available separate and sufficient toilet conveniences for
each sex. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-3-11: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
All suspensions of licenses hereunder shall be for the period of not less than
one year and all revocations hereunder shall not be renewable to the persons
involved. Any licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may, after a hearing, be
suspended or revoked for the violation of any provision of this chapter or any
other ordinance or law relating to such places. The city council shall hear and
determine all suspension and revocation matters. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-3-12: OPERATION PROHIBITED UPON DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
If, at any time, a license under the provisions of this chapter is denied or
revoked, it shall thereafter be unlawful for any person to operate, open,
maintain, manage or conduct any such business at the same premises until a new
license shall be granted by the city council. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
CHAPTER 4
ENTERTAINERS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Permit Required
3-4-2: Time Limit To Apply
3-4-3: Application And Applicant Requirements
3-4-4: Review Of Application
3-4-5: Fee For Permit
3-4-6: Term Of Permit
3-4-7: Age Limit
3-4-8: Regulations And Requirements Generally
3-4-9: Penalty
3-4-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to perform any live act
of entertainment at or in any establishment or function within the city limits
which said establishment or function is licensed to sell, serve, consume,
distribute or give away any alcoholic beverage until such entertaining person
or group of persons has applied for and received an entertainer's permit. (Ord.
84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-4-2: TIME LIMIT TO APPLY:
Persons or groups of persons applying for an entertainer's permit must apply,
in person, to the chief of police at least twenty four (24) hours prior to such
persons or groups of persons scheduled live performance; provided, however, no
person or group of persons shall apply for an entertainer's permit more than
ten (10) days prior to such live performance. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-4-3: APPLICATION AND APPLICANT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Identification; Application Form: When applying for an entertainer's
permit, the applicant or applicants shall present a form of identification
wherein the applicant's photograph is permanently attached. In addition
thereto, such applicant or applicants shall fill out an application for
entertainer's permit, which, when validated by the chief of police, shall
become the entertainer's permit.
   B. Information Required: All applications for an entertainer's permit shall
contain at least the applicant's name, address, date of birth, height, weight,
color of hair, color of eyes, and a description of the entertainment to be
provided, an address where the entertaining person will be performing, the date
of the scheduled performance, and the time and duration of the performance. In
addition, the applicant shall state that said applicant has never been
convicted of a felony or of a crime involving moral turpitude, and the
statement shall be signed by the applicant. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-4-4: REVIEW OF APPLICATION:
The chief of police, or in his absence, a police officer designated by the
chief of police, shall review all applications for entertainer's permits and
shall either approve or disapprove such applications and shall sign all such
approved applications. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-4-5: FEE FOR PERMIT:
The sum that shall be charged for the issuance of an entertainer's permit shall
be in such amount as established by resolution of the city council, which shall
be paid prior to the issuance of the permit. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984; amd. 2006
Code)
3-4-6: TERM OF PERMIT:
   No entertainer's permit shall be valid for more than forty eight (48) hours
from the time that the application is approved and the permit is issued. (Ord.
84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-4-7: AGE LIMIT:
   No entertainer's permit will be issued to any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years, nor to any person who has any prior felony conviction or a
conviction involving moral turpitude. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984)
3-4-8: REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY:
   A. Permit In Possession: Every person or group of persons who are issued
entertainer's permits shall have said entertainer's permit in their possession
when performing any live act of entertainment in any establishment or at any
function within the city limits, which said establishment or function has been
licensed to sell, serve, consume, distribute or give away any alcoholic
beverage.
   B. Exhibit Permit Upon Request: Any person or group of persons performing
any act of live entertainment in any establishment or function which has been
licensed to sell, serve, consume, distribute or give away any alcoholic
beverage shall, at the request of any peace officer, exhibit such entertainer's
permit to said peace officer.
   C. Violations Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator or
person in charge of any establishment or function within the city limits which
has been licensed to sell, serve, distribute, give away or have consumed upon
the premises any alcoholic beverage, to employ, allow to be employed or allow
to perform on the premises, any act of live entertainment until such
entertaining person or persons have received and displayed to said owner,
operator or person in charge a valid entertainer's permit.
   D. Separate Performing Area: All live entertainment performances shall be
conducted only on a suitable stage or within the confines of a physically
corded off area. Such performing area shall be situated a minimum of three feet
(3') from any customer, observer or any nonperforming person or persons, and no
customer, observer or any nonperforming person or persons shall be allowed on
any stage or corded off area while any live act of entertainment is in
progress.
   E. Performance On Fixtures Prohibited: No person performing any live act of
entertainment shall, during said act of entertainment, climb, stand, sit or lay
down on any table, bar or other fixture that is designed for the primary
purpose of holding or supporting any food or beverage when such table, bar or
other fixture is being used or occupied by any person or group of persons.
   F. Attire Restrictions: No person engaged in any act of live entertainment
shall expose or cause to be exposed any of the genital or pubic areas of their
person. Female entertainers shall not expose or cause to be exposed any of the
nipple or nipple area of the breasts in any manner. No person engaged in an act
of live entertainment shall perform in any lewd or lascivious manner. (Ord. 84-
2, 5-1-1984)
3-4-9: PENALTY:
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 84-2, 5-1-1984; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BEER SALES
SECTION:
3-5-1: On Premises Sales; Exception
3-5-2: Off Premises Sales
3-5-3: Retail Beer License Required
3-5-1: ON PREMISES SALES; EXCEPTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell or offer for
sale, or any individual employed by any person, firm or corporation to sell or
offer for sale, for consumption on the premises, any beer, bottled or on draft,
after the hour of one o'clock (1:00) A.M., and prior to ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. of the following day, on each day of the week except Sunday; and on the
first day of the week, commonly called Sunday, it shall be unlawful for any
such person defined above to sell beer between the hours of one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. Sunday morning and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. Monday morning. The following
exception shall be granted: It shall be legal to sell or offer for sale, for
consumption on the premises, any beer, bottled, or on draft, on the first day
of the week, commonly called Sunday, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. from September 1 through February 28 of the
year. This authorization for beer sales on Sunday may be terminated or extended
at any time, without notice, by the city council. (Ord. 13-08, 8-14-2013)
3-5-2: OFF PREMISES SALES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell or offer for
sale, or any individual employed by any person, firm or corporation, to sell or
offer for sale, dispose of, deliver or give beer to a person for off the
premises use between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. of each day. (Ord. 13-08, 8-14-2013)
3-5-3: RETAIL BEER LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person not holding a retail beer license to sell
beer, serve beer or permit beer to be consumed in his place of business at any
time. (Ord. 13-08, 8-14-2013)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION
SECTION:
3-6-1: Purpose
3-6-2: No Other City License Or Approval Required
3-6-3: Definitions
3-6-4: Exemptions From Chapter
3-6-5: Solicitation Prohibited
3-6-6: Registration Of Solicitors
3-6-7: Application Form
3-6-8: Written Disclosures
3-6-9: When Registration Begins
3-6-10: Issuance Of Certificates
3-6-11: Form Of Certificate And Identification Badge
3-6-12: Maintenance Of Registry
3-6-13: Nontransferability Of Certificates
3-6-14: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of A Certificate Of Registration
3-6-15: Appeal
3-6-16: Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited
3-6-17: "No Solicitation" Notice
3-6-18: Duties Of Solicitors
3-6-19: Time Of Day Restrictions
3-6-20: Buyer's Right To Cancel
3-6-21: Penalties
3-6-1: PURPOSE:
Residents of the city have an inalienable interest in their personal safety,
well being, and privacy in their residences, as well as their ability to
provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief, political
or charitable activities, and goods and services lawfully in commerce. The city
has a substantial interest in protecting the well being, tranquility, personal
safety, and privacy of its citizens, which includes the ability to protect
citizens from unwanted intrusions upon residential property. The city also has
a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud or otherwise unfair
consumer sales practices as well as criminal activity.
There must be a balance between these substantial interests of the city and its
citizens, and the effect of the regulations in this chapter on the rights of
those who are regulated. Based on the collective experiences of city officials
derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and property from
criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens regarding door to
door solicitation, the experience of its law enforcement officers and those
affected by door to door canvassing and solicitation, as well as judicial
decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional protections afforded and
denied persons seeking to engage in door to door solicitation, the city adopts
this chapter to promote the city's substantial interests in:
   A.   Respecting citizens' decisions regarding privacy in their residences;
   B.   Protecting persons from criminal conduct;
   C.   Providing equal opportunity to advocate for and against religious
belief, political position, or charitable activities; and
   D.   Permitting truthful and nonmisleading door to door solicitation
regarding lawful goods or services in intrastate or interstate commerce.
The city finds that the procedures, rules and regulations set forth in this
chapter are narrowly tailored to preserve and protect the city interests
referred to herein while at the same time balancing the rights of those
regulated. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-2: NO OTHER CITY LICENSE OR APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Registered solicitors and persons exempt from registration need not
apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or registration from the city
to engage in door to door solicitation.
   B.   Any business licensed by the city under another city ordinance that
uses employees, independent contractors, or agents for door to door
solicitation in an effort to provide any tangible or intangible benefit to the
business, shall be required to have such solicitors obtain a certificate,
unless otherwise exempt from registration.
   C.   Those responsible persons or entities associated with registered
solicitors need not apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or
registration from the city, provided they do not establish a temporary or fixed
place of business in the city.
   D.   Nothing herein is intended to interfere with or supplant any other
requirement of federal, state, or other local government law regarding any
license, permit, or certificate that a registered solicitor is otherwise
required to have or maintain. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ADVOCATING: Speech or conduct intended to inform, promote, or support a
religious belief, political position, or charitable activities.
APPEALS OFFICER: The city council or designee of the city responsible for
receiving the information from the city and appellant regarding the denial or
suspension of a certificate and issuing a decision as required by this chapter.
APPELLANT: The person or entity appealing the denial or suspension of a
certificate, either personally as an applicant or registered solicitor, or on
behalf of the applicant or registered solicitor.
APPLICANT: An individual who is at least sixteen (16) years of age and not a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other lawful entity who
applies for a certificate permitting door to door solicitation.
APPLICATION FORM: A standardized form provided by the city to an applicant to
be completed and submitted as part of registration.
BCI: An original or copy, dated no older than one hundred eighty (180) days
prior to the date of the application, of either: a) a Utah department of public
safety bureau of criminal identification verified criminal history report
personal to the applicant; or b) verification by the Utah department of public
safety bureau of criminal identification that no criminal history rising to the
level of a disqualifying status exists for the applicant.
BUSINESS: A commercial enterprise licensed by the city as a person or entity
under this title, having a fixed or temporary physical location within the
city.
CERTIFICATE: A temporary, annual, or renewal certificate permitting door to
door solicitation in the city applied for or issued pursuant to the terms of
this chapter.
CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES: Advocating by persons or entities that either are, or
support, a charitable organization.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: Includes any person, joint venture, partnership,
limited liability company, corporation, association, group, or other entity:
   A.   That is:
      1.   A benevolent, educational, voluntary health, philanthropic, humane,
patriotic, religious or eleemosynary, social welfare or advocacy, public
health, environmental or conservation, or civic organization;
      2.   For the benefit of a public safety, law enforcement, or firefighter
fraternal association; or
      3.   Established for any charitable purpose; and
   B.   That is tax exempt under applicable provisions of the internal revenue
code of 1986 as amended, and qualified to solicit and receive tax deductible
contributions from the public for charitable purposes.
   C.   Charitable organization includes a chapter, branch, area, or office, or
similar affiliate or any person soliciting contributions within the state for a
charitable organization that has its principal place of business outside the
city or state of Utah 1 .
COMPETENT INDIVIDUAL: A person claiming or appearing to be at least eighteen
(18) years of age and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage
in rational thought, conversation, and conduct.
COMPLETED APPLICATION: A fully completed application form, a BCI, two (2)
copies of the original identification relied on by the applicant to establish
proof of identity, and the tendering of fees.
CRIMINALLY CONVICTED: The final entry of a conviction, whether by a plea of no
contest, guilty, entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt, which has not
been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The criminal
conviction is that offense of which the applicant or registered solicitor was
convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion
of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed under a plea in
abeyance or diversion agreement.
DISQUALIFYING STATUS: Anything specifically defined in this chapter as
requiring the denial or suspension of a certificate, and any of the following:
   A.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of:
1) felony homicide, 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a
minor, 3) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or 4) sexual
assault of any kind;
   B.   Criminal charges currently pending against the applicant or registered
solicitor for: 1) felony homicide, 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or
exploiting a minor, 3) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or 4)
sexual assault of any kind;
   C.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a felony within the last ten (10) years;
   D.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been incarcerated in a
federal or state prison within the past five (5) years;
   E.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a misdemeanor within the past five (5) years involving a crime of: 1) moral
turpitude, or 2) violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
   F.   A final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant or
registered solicitor within the last five (5) years indicating that: 1) the
applicant or registered solicitor had either engaged in fraud, or intentional
misrepresentation, or 2) that a debt of the applicant or registered solicitor
was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)
(6), or (a)(19);
   G.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently on parole or
probation to any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including
being under house arrest or subject to a tracking device;
   H.   The applicant or registered solicitor has an outstanding arrest warrant
from any jurisdiction; or
   I.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently subject to a
protective order based on physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION: The practice of engaging in or attempting to engage
in conversation with any person at a residence, whether or not that person is a
competent individual, while making or seeking to make or facilitate a home
solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and/or services.
ENTITY: Includes a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or
other lawful entity, organization, society or association.
FEES: The cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for the
issuance of a certificate and/or identification badge, which shall not exceed
the reasonable costs of processing the application and issuing the certificate
and/or identification badge.
FINAL CIVIL JUDGMENT: A civil judgment that would be recognized under state law
as a judgment to which collateral estoppel would apply.
GOODS: One or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise, perishables
of any kind, subscriptions, or manufactured products offered, provided, or
sold.
HOME SOLICITATION SALE: To make or attempt to make a sale of goods or services
by a solicitor at a residence by means of door to door solicitation, regardless
of:
   A.   The means of payment or consideration used for the purchase;
   B.   The time of delivery of the goods or services; or
   C.   The previous or present classification of the solicitor as a solicitor,
peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, or similar designation.
LICENSING OFFICER: The city employee(s) or agent(s) responsible for receiving
from an applicant or registered solicitor the completed application and either
granting, suspending, or denying the applicant's certificate.
NO SOLICITATION SIGN: A reasonably visible and legible sign that states "No
Soliciting", "No Solicitors", "No Salespersons", "No Trespassing", or words of
similar import.
POLITICAL POSITION: Any actually held belief, or information for, against, or
in conjunction with any political, social, environmental, or humanitarian
belief or practice.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has been issued a current certificate by
the city.
REGISTRATION: The process used by the city licensing officer to accept a
completed application and determine whether or not a certificate will be
denied, granted, or suspended.
RELIGIOUS BELIEF: Any sincerely held belief, or information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any theistic, agnostic, or atheistic assumption, presumption
or position, or religious doctrine, dogma, or practice regardless of whether or
not the belief or information is endorsed by any other person or public or
private entity.
RESIDENCE: Any living unit contained within any building or structure that is
occupied by any person as a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of the
city, together with the lot or other real property on which the living unit is
located. This does not include the sidewalk, public street or public rights of
way.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON OR ENTITY: That person or entity responsible to provide the
following to an applicant, registered solicitor, and the competent individual
in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or attempted to be
made by means of a home solicitation sale:
   A.   Maintaining a state sales tax number, a special events sales tax
number, computing the sales taxes owing from any sale of goods or services,
paying the sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;
   B.   Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire to
cancel the sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law; and
   C.   Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those
persons who timely rescind any sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights
or law.
SALE OF GOODS OR SERVICES: The conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the
competent individual in a residence regarding a particular good(s) or service
(s) that entitles the consumer to rescind the same within three (3) days under
any applicable federal, state, or local law.
SERVICES: Those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided, or
sold to a competent individual of a residence.
SOLICITING OR SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: Any of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought;
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase
insurance, subscriptions to publications, or publications;
   C.   Seeking to obtain contributions of money or any other thing of value
for the benefit of any person or entity;
   D.   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or
services;
   E.   Seeking to engage an individual in conversation at a residence for the
purpose of promoting or facilitating the receipt of information regarding
religious belief, political position, charitable conduct, or a home
solicitation sale;
   F.   Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of
soliciting, such as hawking or peddling.
SOLICITOR OR SOLICITORS: A person(s) engaged in door to door solicitation.
SUBMITTED IN WRITING: The information for an appeal of a denial or suspension
of a certificate, submitted in any type of written statement to the city
offices by certified, registered, priority, overnight or delivery confirmation
mail, facsimile, or hand delivery.
SUBSTANTIATED REPORT: An oral, written, or electronic report:
   A.   That is submitted to and documented by the city;
   B.   By any of the following:
      1.   A competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement or
other city employees with publicly available identification of their name,
address, and any other reliable means of contact;
      2.   City law enforcement or licensing officer; or
      3.   Any other regularly established law enforcement agency at any level
of government;
   C.   That provides any of the following information regarding a registered
solicitor:
      1.   Documented verification of a previously undisclosed disqualifying
status of a registered solicitor;
      2.   Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a
disqualifying status which has not yet been determined to be a disqualifying
status;
      3.   Documented, eyewitness accounts that the registered solicitor has
engaged in repeated patterns of behavior that demonstrates failure by the
registered solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this chapter; or
      4.   Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered solicitor
creates exigent circumstances that threaten the health, safety, or welfare of
any individuals or entities within the city.
WAIVER: The written form provided to applicant by the city wherein applicant
agrees that the city may obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on
the applicant for licensing purposes under this chapter, and which contains
applicant's notarized signature. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. Charitable solicitation act, UCA §§ 13-22-2(1)(a), (b).
3-6-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER:
The following are exempt from registration under this chapter:
   A.   Persons specifically invited to a residence by a competent individual
prior to the time of the person's arrival at the residence;
   B.   Persons whose license, permit, certificate or registration with the
state of Utah permits them to engage in door to door solicitation to offer
goods or services to an occupant of the residence;
   C.   Persons delivering goods to a residence pursuant to a previously made
order, or persons providing services at a residence pursuant to a previously
made request by a competent individual;
   D.   Persons advocating or disseminating information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any religious belief, or political position regardless of
whether goods, services, or any other consideration is offered or given, with
or without any form of commitment, contribution, donation, pledge, or purchase;
and
   E.   Persons representing a charitable organization. The charitable
exemption shall apply to students soliciting contributions to finance
extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs,
provided that the solicitation has been approved in writing by the school
administration, and that such student solicitors carry current picture student
identification from the educational institution for which they are soliciting.
Those persons exempt from registration are not exempt from the duties and
prohibitions outlined in sections
3-6-17,
3-6-18 and
3-6-19 of this chapter while advocating or soliciting. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006,
eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-5: SOLICITATION PROHIBITED:
Unless otherwise authorized, permitted, or exempted pursuant to the terms and
provisions of this chapter, the practice of being in and upon a private
residence within the city by solicitors, for the purpose of home solicitation
sales or to provide goods or services, is prohibited and is punishable as set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-6: REGISTRATION OF SOLICITORS:
Unless otherwise exempt under this chapter, all persons desiring to engage in
door to door solicitation within the city, prior to doing so, shall submit a
completed application to the licensing officer and obtain a certificate. (Ord.
06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-7: APPLICATION FORM:
The licensing officer shall provide a standard application form for use for the
registration of solicitors. Upon request to the licensing officer, or as
otherwise provided, any person or entity may obtain in person, by mail, or
facsimile, a copy of this application form. Each application form shall require
disclosure and reporting by the applicant of the following information,
documentation, and fee:
   A.   Review Of Written Disclosures: An affirmation that the applicant has
received and reviewed the disclosure information required by this chapter.
   B.   Contact Information:
      1.   Applicant's true, correct and legal name, including any former names
or aliases used during the last ten (10) years;
      2.   Applicant's telephone number, home address and mailing address, if
different;
      3.   If different from the applicant, the name, address, and telephone
number of the responsible person or entity; and
      4.   The address by which all notices to the applicant required under
this chapter are to be sent.
   C.   Proof Of Identity: An in person verification by the licensing officer
of the applicant's true identity by use of any of the following which bear a
photograph of said applicant:
      1.   A valid driver's license issued by any state;
      2.   A valid passport issued by the United States;
      3.   A valid identification card issued by any state;
      4.   A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States
military.
Upon verification of identity, the original identification submitted to
establish proof of identity shall be returned to the applicant.
   D.   Proof Of Registration With Department Of Commerce: The applicant shall
provide proof that either the applicant, or the responsible person or entity,
has registered with the Utah state department of commerce.
   E.   Special Events Sales Tax Number: The applicant shall provide a special
events sales tax number for either the applicant, or for the responsible person
or entity for which the applicant will be soliciting.
   F.   Marketing Information:
      1.   The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any
commonly known, registered or trademarked names;
      2.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits,
registrations, or other qualifications required by federal or state law to
promote, provide, or render advice regarding the offered goods or services.
   G.   BCI Background Check: The applicant shall provide:
      1.   An original or a copy of a "BCI" background check as defined in
section
3-6-3 of this chapter; and
      2.   A signed copy of a waiver whereby applicant agrees to allow the city
to obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on applicant for purposes
of enforcement of this chapter 1 .
   H.   Responses To Questions Regarding Disqualifying Status: The applicant
shall be required to affirm or deny each of the following statements on the
application form:
      1.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of: a) felony homicide,
b) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor, c) the sale or
distribution of controlled substances, or d) sexual assault of any kind;
      2.   Are any criminal charges currently pending against the applicant
for: a) felony homicide, b) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting
a minor, c) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or d) sexual
assault of any kind;
      3.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a felony within the
last ten (10) years;
      4.   Has the applicant been incarcerated in a federal or state prison
within the past five (5) years;
      5.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a misdemeanor within
the past five (5) years involving a crime of: a) moral turpitude, or b) violent
or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
      6.   Has a final civil judgment been entered against the applicant within
the last five (5) years indicating that: a) the applicant had either engaged in
fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or b) that a debt of the applicant was
nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or
(a)(19);
      7.   Is the applicant currently on parole or probation to any court,
penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under house arrest
or subject to a tracking device;
      8.   Does the applicant have an outstanding arrest warrant from any
jurisdiction; or
      9.   Is the applicant currently subject to a protective order based on
physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of competent jurisdiction?
   I.   Fee: The applicant shall pay such fees as determined applicable by the
city, which shall not exceed the reasonable cost of processing the application
and issuing the certificate and/or identification badge.
   J.   Execution Of Application: The applicant shall execute the application
form, stating upon oath or affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that based on
the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the information provided is
complete, truthful and accurate. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 53-10-108(1)(b).
3-6-8: WRITTEN DISCLOSURES:
The application form shall be accompanied by written disclosures notifying the
applicant of the following:
   A.   The applicant's submission of the application authorizes the city to
verify information submitted with the completed application including:
      1.   The applicant's address;
      2.   The applicant's and/or responsible person or entity's state tax
identification and special use tax numbers, if any;
      3.   The validity of the applicant's proof of identity;
   B.   The city may consult any publicly available sources for information on
the applicant, including, but not limited to, databases for any outstanding
warrants, protective orders, or civil judgments;
   C.   Establishing proof of identity is required before registration is
allowed;
   D.   Identification of the fee amount that must be submitted by applicant
with a completed application;
   E.   The applicant must submit a BCI background check with a completed
application;
   F.   To the extent permitted by state and/or federal law, the applicant's
BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not
available for public inspection;
   G.   The city will maintain copies of the applicant's application form,
proof of identity, and identification badge. These copies will become public
records available for inspection on demand at the city offices whether or not a
certificate is denied, granted, or renewed;
   H.   The criteria for disqualifying status, denial, or suspension of a
certificate under the provisions of this chapter;
   I.   That a request for a temporary certificate will be granted or denied
the same business day that a completed application is submitted. (Ord. 06-03,
9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-9: WHEN REGISTRATION BEGINS:
The licensing officer shall not begin the registration process unless the
applicant has submitted a completed application. The original identification
submitted to establish proof of identity shall be returned after the licensing
officer verifies the applicant's identity. A copy of the identification may be
retained by the licensing officer. If an original BCI background check is
submitted by the applicant, the licensing officer shall make a copy of the BCI
and return the original to the applicant. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-
2006)
3-6-10: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES:
The licensing officer shall review the completed application submitted by the
applicant and issue a certificate in accordance with the following:
   A.   Temporary Certificate:
      1.   A temporary certificate shall issue allowing the applicant to
immediately begin door to door solicitation upon the following conditions:
         a.   Applicant's submission of a completed application;
         b.   Applicant's submission of the required fee;
         c.   Applicant establishes proof of identity;
         d.   The applicant's representations on the application form do not
affirmatively show a disqualifying status;
         e.   The BCI does not affirmatively show a disqualifying status; and
         f.   The applicant has not previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      2.   A temporary certificate will automatically expire after twenty five
(25) calendar days from issuance, or upon grant or denial of an annual
certificate, whichever period is shorter.
   B.   Annual Certificate: Within twenty five (25) calendar days of the
issuance of a temporary certificate the city shall:
      1.   Take any and all actions it deems appropriate to verify the
truthfulness and completeness of the information submitted by the applicant,
including, but not limited to, those disclosed with the application form.
      2.   Issue written notice to the applicant and the responsible person or
entity, if any, that the applicant either:
         a.   Will be issued an annual certificate, eligible for renewal one
year from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate; or
         b.   Will not be issued an annual certificate for reasons cited in
section
3-6-14 of this chapter.
   C.   Renewal Certificate: An annual certificate shall be valid for one year
from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate and shall expire at
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the anniversary date of issuance. Any annual
certificate that is not suspended, revoked, or expired may be renewed upon the
request of the registered solicitor and the submission of a new completed
application and payment of the fee, unless any of the conditions for the
denial, suspension or revocation of a certificate are present as set forth in
section
3-6-14 of this chapter, or a disqualifying status is present. (Ord. 06-03, 9-
19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-11: FORM OF CERTIFICATE AND IDENTIFICATION BADGE:
   A.   Certificate Form: Should the licensing officer determine that the
applicant is entitled to a certificate, the licensing officer shall issue a
certificate to the applicant. The certificate shall list the name of the
registered solicitor and the responsible person or entity, if any, and the date
on which the certificate expires. The certificate shall be dated and signed by
the licensing officer. The certificate shall be carried by the registered
solicitor at all times while soliciting in the city.
   B.   Identification Badge: With both the temporary and annual certificates,
the city shall issue each registered solicitor an identification badge that
shall be worn prominently on his or her person while soliciting in the city.
The identification badge shall bear the name of the city and shall contain: 1)
the name of the registered solicitor; 2) address and phone number of the
registered solicitor, or the name, address, and phone number of the responsible
person or entity is provided; 3) a recent photograph of the registered
solicitor; and 4) the date on which the certificate expires. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-
2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-12: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The licensing officer shall maintain and make available for public inspection a
copy or record of every completed application received and the certificate or
written denial issued by the city. The applicant's BCI background check shall
remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for public
inspection. The licensing officer may furnish to the head of the city's law
enforcement agency a listing of all applicants, those denied, and those issued
a certificate. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-13: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF CERTIFICATES:
Certificates shall be issued only in the name of the applicant and shall list
the responsible party or entity, if any. The certificate shall be
nontransferable. A registered solicitor desiring to facilitate or attempt to
facilitate home solicitation sales with different: a) goods or services; or b)
responsible person or entity, from those designated in the originally submitted
completed application, shall submit a written change request to the licensing
officer. A new certificate based on the amended information shall issue for the
balance of time remaining on the solicitor's previous certificate before the
amendment was filed. Before the new certificate is given to the registered
solicitor, the registered solicitor shall obtain a revised identification badge
from the city, after payment of the fee for the identification badge. (Ord. 06-
03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-14: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF A CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Denial: Upon review, the licensing officer shall refuse to issue a
certificate to an applicant for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Denial of temporary certificate:
         a.   The application form is not complete;
         b.   The applicant fails to: 1) establish proof of identity, 2)
provide a BCI or 3) pay the fees;
         c.   The completed application or BCI indicates that the applicant has
a disqualifying status; or
         d.   The applicant has previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or has had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      2.   Denial of annual certificate:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant at the time of the
granting of the temporary certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the completed application, the applicant
is subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application, the city has received a
substantiated report regarding the past or present conduct of the applicant;
         e.   Since the submission of the application, the city or other
governmental entity has either criminally convicted or obtained a civil
injunction against the applicant for violating this chapter or similar federal,
state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to the level of a disqualifying
status; or
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had
either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or 2) that a debt of
the applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2),
(a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19).
      3.   Denial of annual certificate renewal:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant when seeking renewal
of a certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the renewal application, the applicant is
subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application or granting of a
certificate, the city has received a substantiated report regarding the past or
present conduct of the solicitor;
         e.   The city or other governmental entity has either criminally
convicted or obtained a civil injunction against the applicant for violating
this chapter or similar federal, state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to
the level of a disqualifying status; or
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had
either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or 2) that a debt of
the applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2),
(a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19).
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation: The city shall either suspend or revoke a
certificate when any of the reasons warranting the denial of a certificate
occurs.
   C.   Notice Of Denial Or Suspension: Upon determination of the licensing
officer to deny an applicant's completed application or to suspend a registered
solicitor's certificate, the city shall cause written notice to be sent to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the method indicated in the completed
application. The notice shall specify the grounds for the denial or suspension,
the documentation or information the city relied on to make the decision, the
availability of the documentation for review by applicant upon one business
day's notice to the city, and the date upon which the denial or suspension of
the certificate shall take effect. It shall further state that the applicant or
registered solicitor shall have ten (10) business days from the receipt of the
notice of denial or suspension to appeal the same. The denial or suspension of
the certificate shall be effective no sooner than two (2) calendar days from
the date the notice is sent, unless that suspension is because of exigent
circumstances outlined in subsection C4 of the definition of "substantiated
report" in section
3-6-3 of this chapter, in which case, the suspension is effective immediately.
The denial or suspension shall remain effective unless and until the order is
rescinded, overturned on appeal, or determined by a court to be contrary to
equity or law. Failure to appeal the suspension of a certificate automatically
results in its revocation. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-15: APPEAL:
An applicant or registered solicitor whose certificate has been denied or
suspended shall have the right to appeal to the city council or its designee.
Any appeal must be submitted by either the applicant, the responsible person or
entity, or legal counsel for either whom: a) documents the relationship with
the applicant or responsible person or entity; or b) is licensed or authorized
by the state of Utah to do so, and makes the assertion of an agency
relationship. The following procedures and requirements shall apply:
   A.   Any appeal must be submitted in writing to the city recorder with a
copy to the licensing officer within ten (10) business days of the decision
from which the appeal is taken. Such appeal shall describe in detail the nature
of the appeal, the action complained of and the grounds for appeal.
   B.   Upon request of the applicant or registered solicitor, within one
business day, the city will make available any information upon which it relied
in making the determination to either deny or suspend the certificate.
   C.   The appeals officer shall review, de novo, all written information
submitted by the applicant or registered solicitor to the licensing officer,
any additional information relied upon by the licensing officer as the basis
for denial, suspension or revocation, and any additional information supplied
by the city, applicant or registered solicitor. Any additional information
submitted by any party to the appeal to the appeals officer shall be
simultaneously submitted to the opposing party. If desired, any party shall
have three (3) business days to submit rebuttal documentation to the appeals
officer regarding the additional information submitted by the opposing party.
   D.   The appeals officer will render a decision no later than fifteen (15)
calendar days from the date the appeal was taken, unless an extension of time
is agreed upon by the parties. In the event that any party to the appeal
submits rebuttal information as allowed in subsection C of this section, the
fifteen (15) calendar days shall be extended to include the additional three
(3) days for rebuttal.
      1.   The denial or suspension of the certificate shall be reversed by the
appeals officer if upon review of the written appeal and information submitted,
the appeals officer finds that the licensing officer made a material mistake of
law or fact in denying or suspending the applicant or registered solicitor's
certificate.
      2.   If the written appeal and information submitted indicates that the
licensing officer properly denied or suspended the certificate of the applicant
or registered solicitor, the denial or suspension of the certificate shall be
affirmed and constitute a determination that the suspended certificate is
revoked.
      3.   The decision of the appeals officer shall be delivered to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the means designated in the completed
application, or as otherwise agreed upon when the appeal was filed.
   E.   After the ruling of the appeals officer, the applicant or solicitor is
deemed to have exhausted all administrative remedies with the city.
   F.   Nothing herein shall impede or interfere with the applicant's,
solicitor's, or city's right to seek relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-16: DECEPTIVE SOLICITING PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially false or
fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
   B.   A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the consumer during face to
face solicitation: 1) the name of the solicitor; 2) the name and address of the
entity with whom the solicitor is associated; and 3) the purpose of the
solicitor's contact with the person and/or competent individual. This
requirement may be satisfied through the use of the badge and an informational
flyer.
   C.   No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias, or any name other
than his or her true and correct name.
   D.   No solicitor shall represent directly or by implication that the
granting of a certificate of registration implies any endorsement by the city
of the solicitor's goods or services or of the individual solicitor. (Ord. 06-
03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-17: "NO SOLICITATION" NOTICE:
   A.   Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to refuse
solicitors by displaying a "No Solicitation" sign which shall be posted on or
near the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to the
sidewalk leading to the residence.
   B.   The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed to constitute
notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the residence does not desire to
receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the solicitor to check each residence
for the presence of any such notice.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall apply also to solicitors who are
exempt from registration pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 06-
03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-18: DUTIES OF SOLICITORS:
   A.   Every person soliciting or advocating shall check each residence for
any "No Soliciting" sign or placard or any other notice or sign notifying a
solicitor not to solicit on the premises, such as, but not limited to, "No
Solicitation" signs. If such sign or placard is posted such solicitor shall
desist from any efforts to solicit at the residence or dwelling and shall
immediately depart from such property. Possession of a certificate of
registration does not in any way relieve any solicitor of this duty.
   B.   It is a violation of this chapter for any person soliciting or
advocating to knock on the door, ring the doorbell, or in any other manner
attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence that bears a "No
Solicitation" sign or similar sign or placard for the purpose of engaging in or
attempting to engage in advocating, a home solicitation sale, door to door
soliciting, or soliciting.
   C.   It is a violation of this chapter for any solicitor through ruse,
deception, or fraudulent concealment of a purpose to solicit, to take action
calculated to secure an audience with an occupant at a residence.
   D.   Any solicitor who is at any time asked by an occupant of a residence or
dwelling to leave shall immediately and peacefully depart.
   E.   The solicitor shall not intentionally or recklessly make any physical
contact with, or touch another person without the person's consent.
   F.   The solicitor shall not follow a person into a residence without their
explicit consent.
   G.   The solicitor shall not continue repeated soliciting after a person
and/or competent individual has communicated clearly and unequivocally their
lack of interest in the subject, goods or services of the solicitor.
   H.   The solicitor shall not use obscene language or gestures. (Ord. 06-03,
9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-19: TIME OF DAY RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to solicit at a
residence before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
Mountain Time, unless the solicitor has express prior permission from the
resident to do so. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-20: BUYER'S RIGHT TO CANCEL:
In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to
provide goods or services without delay in an emergency, the seller or
solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain buyer's signature to a written
statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel within the third
business day after signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of "buyer's
right to cancel" shall be in the form required by section 70C-5-103, Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, or a current version thereof or any state or federal law
modifying or amending such provision. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-21: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or a jail sentence of not to exceed six (6)
months. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
CHAPTER 7
ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING
SECTION:
3-7-1: Purpose
3-7-2: Findings
3-7-3: Definitions
3-7-4: Classification Of Licenses
3-7-5: Adult Oriented Business License Requirements
3-7-6: Adult Oriented Business Employee License Required
3-7-7: Fees
3-7-8: Inspection
3-7-9: Expiration Of License
3-7-10: Unlawful Acts
3-7-11: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-7-12: No Transfer Of License
3-7-13: Hours Of Operation
3-7-14: Adult Motels
3-7-15: Escort Agencies And Escorts
3-7-16: Nude Model Studios
3-7-17: Public Nudity
3-7-18: Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films And Videos
3-7-19: Exterior Portions Of Adult Oriented Businesses
3-7-20: Loitering, Exterior Lighting And Monitoring
3-7-21: Signage Restrictions
3-7-22: Sale, Use, Or Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
3-7-23: Persons Under Eighteen Prohibited; Attendant Required
3-7-24: Massages Prohibited
3-7-25: Public Nuisance
3-7-26: Prohibited Activities
3-7-27: Location And Zoning Restrictions
3-7-28: Exemptions From License Requirements
3-7-29: Penalty And Enforcement
3-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to regulate adult oriented
businesses, their employees in the city and related activities to promote the
health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of the city, and to
establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious
secondary effects, location and concentration of adult oriented businesses
within the city. The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor
effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of or reasonable
access to any communicative materials, including adult oriented materials.
Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or
deny access by adults to adult oriented materials protected by the first
amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of adult
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent nor
effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene or
indecent material.
It is the finding of the Garland City council that:
   A.   Adult oriented businesses require special supervision in order to
protect and preserve the health, safety, and welfare of the patrons of such
businesses as well as the citizens of the community where they locate; and
   B.   Adult oriented businesses are frequently used for unlawful sexual
activities, including prostitution and sexual liaisons of a casual nature; and,
the concern over sexually transmitted diseases is a legitimate health concern
of the city that demands reasonable regulation of adult oriented businesses in
order to protect the health and well being of the citizens; and
   C.   Licensing is a legitimate means of accountability to ensure that
operators and employees of adult oriented businesses comply with reasonable
regulations, and to ensure that operators do not allow their establishments to
be used as places of illegal sexual activity or solicitation; and
   D.   There is convincing documented evidence that adult oriented businesses,
because of their very nature, have a deleterious effect on both the existing
businesses around them and the surrounding residential areas adjacent to them,
causing increased crime and the downgrading of property values; and
   E.   It is recognized that adult oriented businesses, due to their nature,
have serious objectionable operational characteristics and secondary impacts,
particularly when they are located in proximity to each other, thereby
contributing to urban blight and downgrading the quality of life in the
adjacent area; and
   F.   The council wants to prevent these adverse effects and thereby protect
the health, safety and welfare of the citizenry; protect the citizens from
increased crime; preserve the quality of life; preserve the property values and
character of surrounding neighborhoods and deter the spread of urban blight;
and
   G.   It is not the intent of the council to suppress any speech activities
protected by the first amendment, but to enact a content neutral ordinance that
addresses the secondary effects of adult oriented businesses as well as the
health problems associated with such businesses; and
   H.   It is not the intent of the council to condone or legitimize the
distribution of obscene materials, and the council recognizes that state and
federal law prohibits the distribution of obscene materials and expects and
encourages state enforcement officials to enforce state and federal obscenity
statutes against any such illegal activities in this state.
   I.   Garland City council is empowered to issue, suspend and revoke business
licenses and to regulate businesses by section 10-1-203 of the Utah state code,
and to enact zoning laws pursuant to 10-9a-505. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-2: FINDINGS:
Based on evidence of the adverse secondary effects of adult uses presented in
hearings and in reports made available to the city council, and on findings
incorporated in the cases of Pap's A.M. v. City Of Erie, 529 U.S. 277 (2000);
City Of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v.
American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501
U.S. 560 (1991); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); O'Connor v. City And
County Of Denver, 894 F.2d 1210 (10th Cir. 1990); Z.J. Gifts D-2, L.L.C. v.
City Of Aurora, 136 F.3d 683 (10th Cir. 1998); Dodger's Bar & Grill, Inc. v.
Johnson County, 98 F.3d 1262 (10th Cir. 1996); Connection Distrib. Co. v. Reno,
154 F.3d 281 (6th Cir. 1998); Sundance Assocs. v. Reno, 139 F.3d 804 (10th Cir.
1998); American Library Association v. Reno, 33 F.3d 78 (D.C. Cir. 1994);
Dodger's Bar & Grill, Inc. v. Johnson County, 32 F.3d 1436 (10th Cir. 1994);
American Target Advertising, Inc. v. Giani, 199 F.3d 1241; MS News Co. v.
Casado, 721 F.2d 1281 (10th Cir. 1983); Cortese v. Black, No. 95-1429, 1996
U.S. App. LEXIS 15311 (10th Cir., June 25, 1996); Salt Lake City v. Wood, 1999
Utah App. 323, 991 P.2d 595 (Utah Ct. App. 1999); United States v. Freedberg,
724 F.Supp. 851 (D. Utah 1989); and other cases; and on testimony to congress
in 136 Cong. Rec. S 8987; 135 Cong. Rec. S. 14519; 135 Cong. Rec. S 5636; 134
Cong. Rec. E 3750; and reports of secondary effects occurring in and around
sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, Phoenix, Arizona -
1984; Minneapolis, Minnesota - 1980; Houston, Texas - 1997; Utahpolis, Utah;
Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, California - 1991; Los Angeles, California -
1977; Whittier, California - 1978; Austin, Texas - 1986; Seattle, Washington -
1989; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986; Cleveland, Ohio; and Dallas, Texas -
1997; St. Croix County, Wisconsin - 1993; Bellevue, Washington, - 1998; Newport
News, Virginia - 1996; New York Times Square study - 1994; Phoenix, Arizona -
1995-98; and also on findings from the paper entitled "Strip Clubs According To
Strippers: Exposing Workplace Sexual Violence" by Kelly Holsopple, program
director, freedom and justice center for prostitution resources, Minneapolis,
Minnesota, and from "Sexually Oriented Businesses: An Insider's View" by David
Sherman, presented to the Michigan house committee on ethics and constitutional
law, January 12, 2000, and the report of the attorney general's working group
on the regulation of sexually oriented businesses (June 6, 1989, state of
Minnesota), the city council finds:
   A.   Adult oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful and
unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of the
establishments, and there is presently no mechanism to hold owners of these
establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their premises.
   B.   Crime statistics show that all types of crimes, especially sex related
crimes, occur with more frequency in neighborhoods where adult oriented
businesses are located. See, e.g., studies of the cities of Phoenix, Arizona;
Indianapolis, Indiana; and Austin, Texas.
   C.   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur at
adult oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or
semiprivate booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows.
The offering and providing of such booths and/or cubicles encourages such
activities, which creates unhealthy conditions.
   D.   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and other adult
oriented businesses, for the purpose of engaging in sex within those premises.
   E.   Numerous communicable diseases may be spread by activities occurring in
adult oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, syphilis, gonorrhea,
human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital herpes, hepatitis
salmonella, campylobacter and shigella infections, chlamydia, mycoplasma and
ureoplasmal infections, trichomoniasis and chancroid.
   F.   For the period 1985 through 1995, the total number of reported cases of
AIDS in the United States caused by the immunodeficiency virus (HIV) was five
hundred twenty three thousand fifty six (523,056).
   G.   The number of cases of early (less than 1 year) syphilis in the United
States reported annually has risen, with thirty three thousand six hundred
thirteen (33,613) cases reported in 1982 and forty five thousand two hundred
(45,200) through November of 1990.
   H.   The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported annually
remains at a high level, with over five hundred thousand (500,000) cases being
reported in 1990.
   I.   The surgeon general of the United States in his report of October 22,
1986, advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug use, exposure to infected
blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her newborn.
   J.   According to the best scientific evidence available, AIDS and HIV
infection, as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by
sexual acts.
   K.   Sanitary conditions in some adult oriented businesses are unhealthy, in
part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and, in part,
because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of the
owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those activities
and maintain those facilities.
   L.   Numerous studies and reports have determined that bodily fluids,
including semen and urine, are found in the areas of adult oriented businesses
where persons view "adult" oriented films.
   M.   Nude dancing in adult establishments encourages prostitution, increases
sexual assaults, and attracts other criminal activity and increases the
likelihood of drug dealing and drug use.
   N.   These findings raise substantial governmental concerns.
   O.   Adult oriented businesses have operational characteristics which should
be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial governmental
concerns.
   P.   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to place
the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators of the
adult oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will place a
heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the adult
oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health, safety, and
welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the city. It
is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is the actual
operator of the adult oriented business, fully in possession and control of the
premises and activities occurring therein.
   Q.   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day to day operation and maintenance of the adult oriented
business, where such information is substantially related to the significant
governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in preventing the
spread of sexually transmitted diseases and criminal activity.
   R.   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct this chapter is designed to prevent or who are
likely to be witnesses to such activity.
   S.   The fact that an applicant for an adult oriented business or employee
license has been convicted of a sex related crime leads to the rational
assumption that the applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention to
this chapter, and the barring of such individuals from operation or employment
in adult oriented businesses for a period of ten (10) years for a previous
felony conviction serves as a deterrent to and prevents conduct which leads to
the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases.
   T.   This chapter is necessary and proper to provide for safety, to preserve
health, and to promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good
order, comfort and convenience of the city and its inhabitants for the
protection of property in the city and is authorized on that basis by section
10-8-84 of the Utah state code. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter the following words shall have the meanings set
forth below, unless a different meaning is clearly indicated by the context:
ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or token operated or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image producing devices are maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial establishment that, as one
of its principal business purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of
consideration any of the following:
   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion picture, videocassettes, compact discs, slides or video
reproductions, or other visual representations that depict or describe
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; or
   B.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use in
connection with "specified sexual activities".
A commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or describing
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" and still be
categorized as "adult bookstore" or "adult video store". Such other business
purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments from being
categorized as an "adult bookstore" or "adult video store" so long as one of
its principal business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for
consideration the specified materials that depict or describe "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas". A principal business purpose need
not be a primary use of an establishment so long as it is a significant use
based upon the visible inventory or commercial activity of the establishment.
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or other
commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which
regularly features:
   A.   Persons who appear in a nude and/or seminude state; or
   B.   Persons who engage in erotic dancing, erotic pole dancing or
performances that are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an
audience or customers.
ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
   A.   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration and
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions, or live
performances which are characterized by the display or simulated display,
depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas"; and which advertises the availability of such material by
means of a sign visible from a public right of way, or by means of any on or
off premises advertising, including, but not limited to, newspapers, magazines,
pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television; or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
ten (10) hours; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room for
a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where, for any form of
consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown that are characterized by the
depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video store,
adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, escort
agency, nude and seminude model studio, sexual device shop, or sexual encounter
center.
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which, for any form of consideration, regularly features persons
who appear in a state of seminudity or live performances which are
characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of specified anatomical areas
or specified sexual activities.
CHARACTERIZED BY: Describing the essential character of quality of an item. As
applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as an adult oriented
business solely by virtue of showing, selling or renting materials rated "NC-
17" or "R" by the Motion Picture Association Of America.
CITY: Garland City, Utah.
DIRECTOR: Any city official, legal counselor, commission or council, including
the city council so designated or appointed by the Garland City council. The
director shall be in office for a minimum of three (3) years or until another
director is designated or appointed by the city council. If no director is
appointed the city council assumes this responsibility.
EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE AND EMPLOYMENT: A person who performs any service on the
premises of an adult oriented business on a full time, part time, contract
basis, or independent basis, whether or not the person is denominated an
employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise, and whether or not the
said person is paid a salary, wage, or other compensation by the operator of
said business. "Employee" does not include a person exclusively on the premises
for repair or maintenance of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for
the delivery of goods to the premises, nor does "employee" include a person
exclusively on the premises as a patron or customer.
ESCORT: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
ESCORT AGENCY: A person or business association, who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
ESTABLISH OR ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any adult oriented business as a new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
oriented business, to any adult oriented business;
   C.   The additions of any adult oriented business to any other existing
adult oriented business;
   D.   The relocation of any adult oriented business; or
   E.   An adult oriented business or premises on which the adult oriented
business is located.
LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual or individuals listed as an applicant on the application for a
sexual oriented business license. In the case of an employee, "licensee" means
the person in whose name an adult oriented business employee license has been
issued.
NUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity or
seminudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons for consideration.
NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The showing, simulated showing or appearance of a
human bare buttock, anus, anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals,
female genitals, or vulva, with less than a fully opaque covering; or a female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple; or
human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if completely and
opaquely covered.
PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association,
or other legal entity.
PREMISES: The real property upon which the adult oriented business is located,
and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but not limited
to, the adult oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and parking
lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership, control, or
supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a business
license.
SEMINUDE OR SEMINUDITY: For a female, a state of dress in which opaque clothing
covers no more, or little more, than the nipple and areola of the female
breast, the genitals, pubic region and anus. For a male, a state of dress in
which opaque clothing covers no more, or little more, than the genitals, pubic
region and anus.
SEXUAL DEVICE: Any three-dimensional object designed or marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genital organ or anus or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others. Nothing in this definition
shall be construed to include any device primarily intended for protection
against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, purports to offer any form of consideration,
physical activities or contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
male and female persons and/or persons of the same sex when one or more of the
persons is in a state of nudity or seminudity.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if fully and opaquely covered;
   B.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following offenses:
   A.   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of obscenity;
sale, distribution, or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; sexual assault;
molestation of a child; or any similar sex related offenses to those described
above under the criminal or penal code of this state, other states, or other
countries, for which:
      1.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
      2.   Less than ten (10) years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense;
      3.   Less than ten (10) years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or
more misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring
within any twenty four (24) month period;
      4.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant or a person residing with the applicant.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts, whether covered or uncovered;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
   C.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
   D.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through C of this definition.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF AN ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and
includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities that form a controlling or influential
interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal devise that
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-4: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
Adult oriented businesses are classified as follows: a) adult arcades; b) adult
bookstores or adult video stores; c) adult cabarets; d) adult motels; e) adult
motion picture theaters; f) adult theaters; g) escort agencies; h) nude and
seminude model studios; i) sexual device shops; and j) sexual encounter
centers. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-5: ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an
adult oriented business in Garland City without a valid adult oriented business
license.
   B.   Employee License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person who
operates an adult oriented business to employ a person to work and/or perform
services on the premises of the adult oriented business, if such employee is
not in possession of a valid adult oriented business employee license, except
if the employment is of limited duration and for the sole purpose of repair
and/or maintenance of machinery, equipment, or the premises.
   C.   Application Form: An application for an adult oriented business license
must be made on a form provided by the city and shall be filed with the city
recorder, who shall promptly forward a copy of the application to the
"director".
   D.   Sketch Or Diagram Of Premises: The application must be accompanied by a
sketch or a diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a
statement of total floor space occupied by the business. It need not be
professionally prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with
marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or
minus six inches (±6"). Prior to issuance of a license, the premises must be
inspected by the health department, fire department, building department,
zoning department and police department.
   E.   Other Information Provided: The applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as necessary to enable the city to
determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications established under this
chapter. The applicant has an affirmative duty to supplement an application
with new information received subsequent to the date the application was deemed
completed.
   F.   Applicant Signature: If a person who wishes to own or operate an adult
oriented business is an individual, he must sign the application for a business
license as applicant. If a person who wishes to operate an adult oriented
business is other than a single individual, each individual who has a ten
percent (10%) or greater interest in the business must sign the application for
a business license as applicant.
   G.   Information Provided On Application Form: Applications for a business
license, whether original or renewal must be made by the intended operator of
the enterprise. The following information shall be provided on the application
form:
      1.   The applicant's full name and any other names used by the applicant
within the preceding five (5) years, street address (and mailing address if
different) of the applicant(s);
      2.   A recent color photograph of the applicant(s);
      3.   The applicant's driver's license number, social security number,
and/or his/her state or federally issued tax identification number, including a
color copy of the driver's license;
      4.   The name under which the establishment is to be operated and a
general description of the services to be provided. If the applicant intends to
operate the adult oriented business under a name other than that of the
applicant, the fictitious name must be stated together with documents proving
legal entitlement to the name;
      5.   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
been convicted, or is awaiting trial on pending charges, of a "specified
criminal activity" and, if so, the "specified criminal activity" involved, the
date, place, and jurisdiction of each;
      6.   Whether the applicant, or a person residing with the applicant, has
had a previous license under this chapter or other similar adult oriented
business ordinance from another city or county denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the adult oriented business for which the
business license was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the date of the
denial, suspension or revocation, and whether the applicant or a person
residing with the applicant is or has been a partner in a partnership, a member
and/or manager in a limited liability company, or an officer, director or
principal stockholder of a corporation that is or was licensed under an adult
oriented business ordinance whose business license has previously been denied,
suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the adult oriented
business for which the business license was denied, suspended or revoked as
well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation;
      7.   Whether the applicant or a person residing with the applicant holds
any other licenses under this chapter or other similar adult oriented business
ordinance from another city or county and, if so, the names and locations of
such other licensed businesses;
      8.   The classification of license for which the applicant is filing;
      9.   The telephone number of the establishment;
      10.   The address and legal description of the tract of land on which the
establishment is to be located;
      11.   If the establishment is in operation, the date on which the owner
(s) acquired the establishment for which the business license is sought, and
the date on which the establishment began operations as an adult oriented
business at the location for which the business license is sought;
      12.   If the establishment is not in operation, the expected startup date
(which shall be expressed in number of days from the date of issuance of the
business license). If the expected startup date is to be more than ten (10)
days following the date of issuance of the business license, then a detailed
explanation of the construction, repair or remodeling work or other cause of
the expected delay and a statement of the owner's time schedule and plan for
accomplishing the same.
   H.   Accompanied Material With Application: Each application for a business
license shall be accompanied by the following:
      1.   Payment of the application fee;
      2.   If the establishment is a Utah corporation, a certified copy of the
articles of incorporation, together with all amendments thereto, or if a
foreign corporation, a certified copy of the certificate of authority to
transact business in this state, together with all amendments thereto;
      3.   If the establishment is a limited partnership or a limited liability
company, formed under the laws of Utah, a certified copy of the certificate of
limited partnership or of the articles of organization, together with all
amendments thereto, or if a foreign limited partnership or limited liability
company, a certified copy of the certificate of limited partnership or articles
of organization, and the qualification documents, together with all amendments
thereto;
      4.   Proof of the current fee ownership of the tract of land on which the
establishment is to be situated in the form of a copy of the recorded deed;
      5.   If the persons identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of land
are not also the owners of the establishment, then the lease, purchase
contract, purchase option contract, lease option contract or other document(s)
evidencing the legally enforceable right of the owners or proposed owners of
the establishment to have or obtain the use and possession of the tract or
portion thereof that is to be used for the establishment for the purpose of the
operation of the establishment;
      6.   A current certificate and straight line drawing prepared within
thirty (30) days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting
the property lines and the structures containing any existing adult oriented
businesses, established religious institution/synagogue, school, public park or
recreation area, or family oriented entertainment business within one thousand
feet (1,000') of the property. For purposes of this section, a use shall be
considered existing or established if it is in existence at the time an
application is submitted; and
      7.   Any of subsections H2 through H6 of this section shall not be
required for a renewal application if the applicant states that the documents
previously furnished the director with the original application or previous
renewals thereof remain correct and current.
   I.   Notarized Statement: Every application for a license shall contain a
notarized statement certifying that the applicant has personal knowledge of the
information contained in the application, that the information contained
therein and furnished therewith is true and correct; and the applicant has read
the provisions of this chapter.
   J.   Separate Application And License For Each Business: A separate
application and business license shall be required for each adult oriented
business classification.
   K.   Approval Or Denial Of License: The director shall approve or deny
issuance of the license within forty five (45) days of receipt of the completed
application. The director shall issue a license to an applicant unless it is
determined by a preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the following
findings is true:
      1.   An applicant has failed to provide the information required and
reasonably necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a
question or request for information on the application form;
      2.   An applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      3.   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been denied a license by the city, another city, county or other governmental
entity, to operate an adult oriented business within the preceding twelve (12)
months, or whose license to operate an adult oriented business has been revoked
within the preceding twelve (12) months;
      4.   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing is
overdue in payment to the city in taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed
against or imposed upon him/her in relation to any business;
      5.   An applicant or a person with whom the applicant is residing has
been convicted of a "specified criminal activity";
      6.   The premises to be used for the adult oriented business have not
been approved by the health department, fire department, the police department,
zoning department and/or the building department as being in compliance with
applicable laws and ordinances;
      7.   The license fee required under this chapter has not been paid;
      8.   An applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, one or more of the provisions of this chapter.
   L.   Information On License; Posting Of License: The license issued shall
state on its face the name of the person or persons to whom it is granted, the
expiration date, the address of the adult oriented business, and the
classification for which the license is issued. The license shall be posted in
a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the adult oriented business so
that it may be easily read at any time.
   M.   Certification: The health department, fire department, building
department, police department and zoning department shall complete their
certification that the premises are in compliance or not in compliance within
twenty (20) days of receipt of the completed application by the director. The
certification shall be promptly presented to the director.
   N.   Reasons For Denial: In the event that the director determines that an
applicant is not eligible for an adult oriented business license, the applicant
shall be given notice in writing of the reasons for the denial within forty
five (45) days of the receipt of the completed application by the director,
provided that the applicant may request, in writing at any time before the
notice is issued, that such period be extended for an additional period of not
more than ten (10) days in order to make modifications necessary to comply with
this chapter.
   O.   Appeal: An applicant may appeal the decision of the director regarding
a denial to the city council by filing a written notice of appeal with the city
recorder within fifteen (15) days after service of notice upon the applicant of
the director's decision. The notice of appeal shall be accompanied by a
memorandum or other writing setting out fully the grounds for such appeal and
all arguments in support thereof. The director may, within fifteen (15) days of
service upon him of the applicant's memorandum, submit a memorandum in response
to the memorandum filed by the applicant on appeal to the city council. After
reviewing such memoranda, as well as the director's written decision, if any,
and exhibits submitted to the director, the city council shall vote either to
uphold or overrule the director's decision. Such vote shall be taken within
twenty one (21) calendar days after the filing of the appeal unless such time
is extended by mutual agreement of the applicant and director. However, all
parties shall be required to comply with the director's decision during the
pendency of the appeal.
   P.   Annual Renewal: A license may be annually renewed upon the written
application of the applicant and a finding by the director that the applicant
has not been convicted of any "specified criminal activity" or committed any
act during the existence of the previous license which would be grounds to deny
the initial license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall
be made within thirty (30) days of the completed application. The renewal of a
license shall be subject to the fee as set forth in section
3-7-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-6: ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to obtain employment with an adult
oriented business if such person is not in possession of a valid adult oriented
business employee license issued to such person by the director pursuant to
this chapter, except if the employment is of limited duration and for the sole
purpose of repair and/or maintenance of machinery, equipment, or the premises.
   B.   The applicant shall provide such information (including fingerprints)
as necessary to enable the city to determine whether the applicant meets the
qualifications established under this chapter. The applicant has an affirmative
duty to supplement an application with new information received subsequent to
the date the application was deemed completed.
   C.   Each application for an employee license shall be accompanied by
payment of the application fee. Application forms shall be supplied by the
director, and shall include the following information:
      1.   The applicant's given name, and any other names by which the
applicant is or has been known, including "stage" names and/or aliases;
      2.   Age, and date and place of birth;
      3.   Height, weight, hair color, and eye color;
      4.   Present residence address and telephone number;
      5.   Present business address and telephone number;
      6.   Date, issuing state, driver's license number, and/or other state
issued identification card, including a color copy of the state issued driver's
license or identification card;
      7.   Social security number; and
      8.   Proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years old.
   D.   Attached to the application form for a license shall be the following:
      1.   A color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the applicant's
face, no more than thirty (30) days old, and the applicant's fingerprints on a
form provided by the police department. Any fees for the photographs and
fingerprints shall be paid by the applicant.
      2.   A statement detailing the license history of the applicant for the
five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application,
including whether such applicant, in this or any other city, county, state, or
country, has ever had any license, permit, or authorization to do business
denied, revoked, or suspended, or had any professional or vocational license or
permit denied, revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such denial,
revocation, or suspension, state the name(s) under which the license was sought
and/or issued, the name(s) of the issuing or denying jurisdiction, and describe
in full the reason(s) for the denial, revocation, or suspension. A copy of any
order of denial, revocation, or suspension shall be attached to the
application.
      3.   A statement whether the applicant has been convicted, or is awaiting
trial on pending charges, of a "specified criminal activity" and, if so, the
"specified criminal activity" involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of
each.
   E.   Every application for a license shall contain a notarized statement
certifying that the applicant has personal knowledge of the information
contained in the application, that the information contained therein and
furnished therewith is true and correct; and the applicant has read the
provisions of this chapter.
   F.   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or city permits
and/or licenses does not exempt him/her from the requirement of obtaining an
adult oriented business or employee license.
   G.   The application shall then be referred to the appropriate city
departments for investigation to be made on the information contained in the
application. The application process shall be completed within thirty (30) days
from the date of the completed application. After the investigation, the
director shall issue an employee license unless it is determined by a
preponderance of the evidence that one or more of the following findings is
true:
      1.   The applicant has failed to provide the information required and
reasonably necessary for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a
question or request for information on the application form;
      2.   The applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      3.   The applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity";
      4.   The adult oriented business employee license is to be used for
employment in a business prohibited by local or state law, statute, rule, or
regulation, or prohibited by a particular provision of this chapter; or
      5.   The applicant has had an adult oriented business employee license
revoked by the city, another city, county, or other governmental entity, within
two (2) years of the date of the current application.
   H.   The license issued shall state on its face the name of the person to
whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address of the adult oriented
business. The employee shall keep the license on his or her person at all times
while engaged in employment or performing services on the adult oriented
business premises so that said license may be available for inspection upon
lawful request.
   I.   The license shall be subject to annual renewal upon the written
application of the applicant and a finding by the director that the applicant
has not been convicted of any "specified criminal activity" or committed any
act during the existence of the previous license which would be grounds to deny
the initial license application. The decision whether to renew a license shall
be made within thirty (30) days of the completed application. The renewal of a
license shall be subject to the fee as set forth in section
3-7-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-7: FEES:
The annual fee for an adult oriented business license, whether new or renewal
is one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The annual fee for an adult oriented
business employee license, whether new or renewal is one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00). These fees are to be used to pay for the cost of the administration
and enforcement of this chapter. Both fees can be changed by resolution or
ordinance of the city council, hereafter adopted. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-8: INSPECTION:
An applicant or licensee and adult oriented business employees shall permit
representatives of the police department, health department, fire department,
building department, or other city or state departments or agencies to inspect
the premises of an adult oriented business for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the law at any time it is open for business. It is unlawful to
refuse such an inspection. A licensee's knowing or intentional refusal to
permit such an inspection shall constitute a violation of this section. (Ord.
12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-9: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   One Year: Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance.
   B.   Application For Renewal: An application for renewal of an existing
license should be made at least sixty (60) days before the expiration date. If
an application for renewal is made less than sixty (60) days before the
expiration date, the license will expire as scheduled and remain invalid until
a new license is issued.
   C.   Denial Term: When the director denies renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
(Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-10: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
The following acts are unlawful:
   A.   Any violation of, or noncompliance with the requirements of, this
chapter;
   B.   Intoxication on the premises of an adult oriented business;
   C.   Refusal to promptly allow inspection of the premises as authorized by
this chapter;
   D.   Permitting gambling by any person on the premises;
   E.   Permitting the possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the
premises;
   F.   Permitting the sale, use, or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises;
   G.   Permitting prostitution on the premises;
   H.   Permitting any act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation,
masturbation, or any other specified sexual activity or conduct to occur in or
on the premises. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-11: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The director may suspend or revoke a license upon any basis set out in
this chapter, or if the director determines that a licensee or an employee of a
licensee has:
      1.   Committed any unlawful act set out in this chapter;
      2.   Is delinquent in payment to the city or state for any taxes or fees;
or
      3.   Has attempted to sell his business or employee license, or has sold,
assigned, or transferred ownership or control of the adult oriented business to
a nonlicensee;
   B.   When the director suspends or revokes a license, the suspension shall
be for up to sixty (60) days, and a second offense within twelve (12) months of
the date on the notice for the first offense shall result in revocation of the
business or employee license, and a revocation shall continue for one year. The
revoked licensee shall not be issued an adult oriented license for one year
from the date revocation became effective.
   C.   A written notice of suspension or revocation shall be given by the
director to the licensee, with the effective date included in the notice. A
license may appeal such action to the city council in the same manner as
outlined in subsection 3-7-5O of this chapter. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-12: NO TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another person or entity,
nor shall a licensee operate an adult oriented business under the authority of
a license at any place other than the address designated in the license
application. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-13: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No adult oriented business shall be or remain open for business between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. on any
day. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-14: ADULT MOTELS:
   A.   Presumption: Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a
similar commercial enterprise has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times
in a period of less than ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable presumption that
the enterprise is an adult motel.
   B.   License Required: It is unlawful if a person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial enterprise that does not have an
adult oriented business license, rents or subrents a sleeping room to a person
and, within ten (10) hours from the time the room is rented, rents or subrents
the same sleeping room again. The terms "rent" and "subrent" mean the act of
permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration. (Ord. 12-02, 2-
28-2012)
3-7-15: ESCORT AGENCIES AND ESCORTS:
It is unlawful for an escort agency to employ a person under the age of
eighteen (18) years, or for a person under the age of eighteen (18) to act,
agree to act, or attempt to act as an escort. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-16: NUDE MODEL STUDIOS:
   A.   When Permitted: Nudity is prohibited in a nude model studio. However,
an exception may be granted in the reasonable discretion of the director upon a
finding that the operation is in fact a bona fide art instruction business.
   B.   Employment Of Minor: A nude model studio shall not employ any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   C.   Minors Appearing Nude Prohibited: It is unlawful for a person under the
age of eighteen (18) years to appear in a state of nudity in or on the premises
of a nude model studio.
   D.   Nudity Prohibited Within View: It is unlawful to appear in a state of
nudity, or knowingly allow another to appear in a state of nudity or
seminudity, in an area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from
the public right of way.
   E.   Bed, Sofa, Or Mattress Prohibited; Exception: A nude model studio shall
not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress in any room on the premises,
except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the public.
   F.   Defense To Prosecution: It is a defense to prosecution under this
chapter that a person appearing in a state of nudity or seminudity did so in a
modeling class operated by either a proprietary school licensed by the state of
Utah, a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation, or by a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation. (Ord. 12-02,
2-28-2012)
3-7-17: PUBLIC NUDITY:
   A.   Nudity Prohibited: It is unlawful for a person to appear live in a
state of nudity in an adult oriented business.
   B.   Seminudity Permitted: It is unlawful for a person to appear live in a
state of seminudity in an adult oriented business, unless the person is a
licensed employee who remains at least ten feet (10') from any patron or
customer and on a stage at least two feet (2') above the floor, in a room at
least one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   C.   Gratuity Prohibited: It is unlawful for an employee, while in a state
of seminudity in an adult oriented business, to solicit any pay or gratuity
from any patron or customer, or for any patron or customer to pay or give any
gratuity to any such employee.
   D.   Touching Prohibited: It is unlawful for an employee, while in a state
of seminudity in an adult oriented business, to touch a patron or the clothing
of a patron, or for a patron to touch any such employee. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-
2012)
3-7-18: EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS AND VIDEOS:
A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of
less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a film,
videocassette, or other video reproduction, that depicts specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   Upon application for an adult oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the business license will be conspicuously posted,
if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). The director may waive the
foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
   B.   Every application for a license shall contain a statement certifying
that the applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained in the
application, that the information contained therein and furnished therewith is
true and correct; and the applicant has read the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's station
may be made without the prior approval of the director or his designee.
   D.   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   E.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of the entire area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two (2) or more manager's stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is
permitted access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations.
The view required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the
manager's station.
   F.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of
any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the view area
specified in subsection E of this section remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to ensure
that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted, as designated in
the license application.
   G.   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any time.
   H.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five (5) foot-candles as measured at
the floor level.
   I.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of
any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   J.   No licensee shall allow an opening of any kind to exist between viewing
rooms or booths.
   K.   No person shall make any attempt to make an opening of any kind between
the viewing booths or rooms.
   L.   The operator of the adult oriented business shall, during each business
day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings
or holes exist.
   M.   The operator of the adult oriented business shall cause all floor
coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no
rugs or carpeting.
   N.   The operator of the adult oriented business shall cause all wall
surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other porous material shall be used within forty eight
inches (48") of the floor. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-19: EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   Visibility Outside Premises Prohibited: It is unlawful for an owner or
operator of an adult oriented business to allow the merchandise or activities
of the establishment to be visible from any point outside the establishment.
   B.   Exterior Representations: It is unlawful for the owner or operator of
an adult oriented business to allow the exterior portion of the adult oriented
business to have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs,
silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner except to the
extent permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Exterior Color: It is unlawful for the owner or operator of an adult
oriented business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted
any color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply
to an adult oriented business if the establishment is a part of a commercial
multi-unit center and the exterior portions of each individual unit in the
commercial multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business,
are painted the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to
be a component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial
multi-unit center.
   D.   Barriers: No licensee or other person shall erect a fence, wall, or
other barrier which prevents any portion of a parking lot for employees or
customers of the business from being visible from a public right of way.
   E.   Failure To Comply: It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty
under this section to knowingly fail to fulfill that duty. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-
2012)
3-7-20: LOITERING, EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND MONITORING:
   A.   Operator Duty: It shall be the duty of the operator of an adult
oriented business to:
      1.   Initiate and enforce a no loitering policy within the external
boundaries of the real property upon which the adult oriented businesses are
located;
      2.   Post conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is permitted on
such property;
      3.   Designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of persons
on such property by visually inspecting such property at least once every
ninety (90) minutes or inspecting such property by use of video cameras and
monitors; and
      4.   Provide lighting of the exterior premises to provide for visual
inspection or provide video monitoring to prohibit loitering.
   B.   Video Cameras: If used, video cameras and monitors shall operate
continuously at all times that the premises are open for business. The monitors
shall be installed within a manager's station.
   C.   Failure To Comply: It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty
under this section to knowingly fail to fulfill that duty. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-
2012)
3-7-21: SIGNAGE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other city ordinance, code, or regulation to the
contrary, it shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any adult oriented
business or any other person to erect, construct, or maintain any sign for the
adult oriented business other than one outside sign. It shall have no more than
one display surface. Each such display surface shall be a flat plane and shall
not contain any flashing lights, shall not exceed three feet (3') in height or
eight feet (8') in length.
   B.   No animation is permitted on or around any sign or on the exterior
walls or roof of such premises.
   C.   No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity related to, or
inferring, the nature of the business shall be allowed on any sign. Said signs
shall contain alphanumeric copy only.
   D.   Painted wall advertising shall not be allowed.
   E.   Other than the signs specifically allowed by this chapter, the adult
oriented business shall not construct or allow to be constructed any temporary
sign, banner, light or other device designed to draw attention to the business
location. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-22: SALE, USE, OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
The sale, use, or consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of an
adult oriented business is prohibited. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-23: PERSONS UNDER EIGHTEEN PROHIBITED; ATTENDANT REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful to allow a person who is younger than eighteen (18)
years of age to enter or be on the premises of an adult oriented business at
any time during such adult oriented business regular business hours.
   B.   An attendant must be stationed at each public entrance to the adult
oriented business at all times during such adult oriented businesses' regular
business hours. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-24: MASSAGES PROHIBITED:
No massage therapy license shall be issued to, or upon the same premises as, or
to an employee or business partner of, an adult oriented business. (Ord. 12-02,
2-28-2012)
3-7-25: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any adult oriented business operating without a valid business license is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and may be summarily abated by closing
the business or may be abated by either criminal or civil action. (Ord. 12-02,
2-28-2012)
3-7-26: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Specified: It shall be unlawful for an adult oriented business to
knowingly violate the following regulations or knowingly allow an employee or
any other person to violate the following regulations:
      1.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a customer, employee, or
any other person, to knowingly or intentionally, in an adult oriented business,
appear in a state of nudity regardless of whether such public nudity is
expressive in nature.
      2.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a customer, employee, or
any other person, to knowingly or intentionally, in an adult oriented business,
appear in a seminude condition unless the person is an employee who, while
seminude, remains at least ten feet (10') from any customer and on a stage at
least two feet (2') above the floor in a room of at least one thousand (1,000)
square feet.
      3.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an employee who
regularly appears seminude in an adult oriented business to knowingly or
intentionally touch a customer or the clothing of a customer on the premises.
      4.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell, use
or consume alcoholic beverages on the premises.
   B.   Sign Required: A sign, in a form prescribed by the director,
summarizing the provisions of subsection A of this section shall be posted near
the entrance of an adult oriented business in a location where it is clearly
visible to patrons and customers upon entry. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-27: LOCATION AND ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any adult oriented business to do business at any location
within the city not zoned for such business. Adult oriented businesses licensed
as adult oriented businesses pursuant to this chapter shall only be allowed in
areas zoned for such use pursuant to title 9, chapter 9 of this code. (Ord. 12-
02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-28: EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any sex therapist or similar
individual licensed by the state to provide bona fide sexual therapy or
counseling, licensed medical practitioner, licensed nurse, psychiatrist or
psychologist, nor shall it apply to any educator licensed by the state for
activities in the classroom. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
3-7-29: PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person, who knowingly violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to a civil fine not to exceed five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00). Each day the violation is committed, or permitted to
continue, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be fined as such.
   B.   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor. Each day the violation is committed, or permitted to
continue, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be fined as such.
   C.   The city attorney is hereby authorized to institute criminal and/or
civil proceedings necessary for the enforcement of this chapter to prosecute,
restrain, or correct violations hereof. Such proceedings, including injunction,
shall be brought in the name of the city.
   D.   Nothing in this section and no action taken hereunder shall:
      1.   Prohibit a criminal or administrative proceeding as may be
authorized by other provisions of this chapter, this code, or other law, or
      2.   Exempt any person violating this chapter, this code, or other law
from a penalty which may be incurred. (Ord. 12-02, 2-28-2012)
TITLE 4
FIRE SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Authority And Creation
4-1-2: Election Of Officers
4-1-3: Oath Of Office
4-1-4: Compensation
4-1-5: Powers And Duties
4-1-6: Owner Of Building To Provide Fire Apparatus
4-1-7: Rules And Regulations For Inhabitants
4-1-8: Prohibited Acts And Activities
4-1-9: Penalty
4-1-10: Charges For Fire Department Services
4-1-1: AUTHORITY AND CREATION:
The formation and maintenance of a fire department is hereby authorized in the
city, which shall be known as the Garland City fire department. (1949 Code §
11-0-1; amd. 2006 Code)
4-1-2: ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
The chief shall be elected to office biennially, according to rules and bylaws
of the members of the department. All officers shall be elected from their own
number under the direction of the chief, and they shall adopt such rules and
regulations as may be deemed necessary. All vacancies that may occur from
death, resignation, removal or otherwise, in said department, shall be filled
by a majority vote of officers and members present at any regular meeting of
said fire department. The election of officers and members of the fire
department shall be ratified by the mayor and city council. (1949 Code § 11-0-
3; amd. 2006 Code)
4-1-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
All members, before being accepted as members of the fire department, shall
subscribe to an oath supporting the ordinances of the city, and the rules,
regulations and bylaws of the fire department. (1949 Code § 11-0-4; amd. 2006
Code)
4-1-4: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the fire chief and firefighters will be regulated by the
mayor and city council. (1949 Code § 11-0-10; amd. 2006 Code)
4-1-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: It shall be the responsibility of the chief and the persons
belonging to the fire department to keep the department up to the required
number of persons and officers. The members shall keep the fire apparatus in
good order and ready for use and drill, and on the alarm of fire shall leave
all other business and proceed to the fire station or to the place of fire and
there operate under the direction of the chief or officers in charge. (1949
Code § 11-0-2)
   B.   Fire Chief In Charge Of Fires: It shall be the duty of the chief, in
all cases, to take and have control of all members of the fire department, and
all persons assisting at fires, and he shall take all proper measures for the
extinguishment of fires, the protection of property, and for the preservation
of order at and in the vicinity of fire, and to secure the observance of all
ordinances and regulations respecting fire. (1949 Code § 11-0-5)
   C.   Police Chief To Assist: It shall be the duty of the chief of police and
his aids to keep open a space of two hundred feet (200') upon all sides of the
fire and cause the observance of all ordinances. (1949 Code § 11-0-6; amd. 2006
Code)
   D.   Special Police Powers: Every member of the fire department, while on
duty, shall have special police powers. (1949 Code § 11-0-7)
   E.   Quarterly Reports: It shall be the duty of the chief to report to the
city council quarterly, and more often if required, the condition of equipment,
fire hydrants, fire apparatus and fire alarms, and recommend such addition to
firefighting equipment as he may deem expedient. The department shall at all
times be subject to the control and direction of the mayor and city council.
(1949 Code § 11-0-8)
   F.   Chief May Demand Aid: It shall be lawful upon any alarm of fire for the
chief or officers in charge to require the aid of any citizen or conveyance,
and any person so called upon who shall refuse or neglect to obey the lawful
orders of any officer shall be deemed guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall for every such offense be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1949 Code § 11-0-9; amd. 2006 Code)
   G.   Investigation Of Cause Of Fire: The chief of the fire department, or in
his absence the person in charge of said department, shall, after any fire is
extinguished, make a prompt and thorough investigation of the cause thereof,
the amount of loss and insurance, the time of the breaking out of such fire,
description of the building and other particulars, and shall enter the same in
a record book kept for that purpose in the office of said department. (1949
Code § 11-0-13)
   H.   Inspection Of Buildings For Fire Hazards: The chief of the fire
department, or any member of such department designated by him, shall have the
right to enter upon any premises at all reasonable hours for the purpose of
inspecting the same, and when such officer shall find in any building, or upon
or about any premises, combustible or explosive materials, or dangerous
accumulations of rubbish or unnecessary accumulations of wastepaper, boxes,
shavings or other inflammable materials, especially liable to fire, and which
is so situated as to endanger property, or shall find obstructions to or on
fire escapes, stairs, passageways, doors or windows which are likely to
interfere with the operations of the fire department, or the egress of
occupants in case of fire, such officer shall order the immediate removal of
all such combustible or explosive materials, and of all such obstructions, and
it shall be the duty of the owner, lessee, manager or occupant of any such
buildings or premises to immediately comply with such direction. (1949 Code §
11-0-14)
4-1-6: OWNER OF BUILDING TO PROVIDE FIRE APPARATUS:
The chief of the fire department shall have authority to require the owner,
agent, lessee or manager of any theater, public hall, lecture room or other
place of public entertainment or use to provide such fire apparatus as in the
judgment of said officer is necessary, the same to be placed at such points in
theater, public hall, lecture room or other place of public entertainment or
use as said officer may designate. (1949 Code § 11-0-11)
4-1-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR INHABITANTS:
In the event of a fire in the city, all inhabitants shall observe the following
rules and regulations:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, not a member of the fire
department or who has not been requested to act in that capacity, to follow any
fire truck or apparatus after a fire alarm has been sounded.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person driving a vehicle of any
description to proceed along any portion of the highway after a fire alarm has
been sounded. Any person upon said highway shall immediately, upon the sounding
of the fire alarm, move their said vehicles to the curb and remain in said
position until said fire truck or other fire apparatus has passed, if the same
shall proceed in their direction.
   C.   It shall be the duty of all pedestrians, after the sounding of any fire
alarm, to remain upon the sidewalks of any streets within the city and not to
enter upon that portion of said highway used for vehicular traffic until after
said fire apparatus has passed, if the same proceeds in their direction.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to either go nearer or drive a
vehicle nearer than one block of any fire that is being attended by a fire
truck or other firefighting apparatus.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle of any kind over
any fire hose laid for the purpose of combating a fire.
   F.   The chief of the fire department, or in his absence the person in
command of such department, may block any street, avenue, alley, sidewalk or
other place, if, in his judgment, it is necessary to ensure efficient working
of the firefighters or the fire apparatus, or to protect the hose or equipment
from injury.
   G.   The chief of the fire department, or in his absence the person in
command thereof, may and is hereby authorized to request the chief of police or
other officer in charge of the police department, and it shall be the duty of
such officer to furnish a detail of police officers to assist in handling the
traffic and to protect the fire department from interference. (1949 Code § 11-
0-15)
4-1-8: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Storage Of Gasoline: No person, firm or corporation shall keep within
the city limits gasoline for the purpose of wholesale or retail without first
duly notifying the chief of the fire department, who shall keep posted within
the fire station a record of all such places where gasoline is stored; and it
shall be unlawful to store gasoline in excess of twelve (12) gallons anywhere
within the platted limits of the city, except that it shall be kept underground
in a steel tank submerged at least three feet (3') from the surface of the soil
to the top side of the container; provided, that storage in wholesale
quantities may be permitted under such rules and regulations as may be
prescribed by the mayor and city council. (1949 Code § 11-0-16)
   B.   Storage Of Explosives: It shall be unlawful for any person or persons
to keep in stock any powder, gas, dynamite, or any other dangerous explosives
within the platted limits of the city, unless a permit is issued by the chief
of the fire department. (1949 Code § 11-0-17)
   C.   False Fire Alarms: It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to
sound or cause to be sounded any fire alarm when there is not a fire, or when
there is no necessity for sounding of said alarm, or to falsely alarm or
unnecessarily call out the fire department. (1949 Code § 11-0-18)
   D.   Depositing Of Hot Ashes: No person shall deposit any hot ashes at any
place within the fire limits, unless the same shall be in a closed and secure
metallic or earthen container, or in a brick or stone ash room or vault, and no
hot ashes shall be deposited elsewhere within the corporate limits of the city
within ten feet (10') of any wood or combustible material. (1949 Code § 11-0-
21)
4-1-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, upon conviction
thereof, shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and subject to the general
penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1949 Code § 11-0-24; amd. 2006 Code)
4-1-10: CHARGES FOR FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICES:
   A.   The Garland City council, with assistance of the fire department,
establishes and sets mitigation rates for the delivery of emergency and
nonemergency services by the fire department for personnel, supplies and
equipment to the scene of emergency and nonemergency incidents as listed in
exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein. The mitigation rates are
based on the actual costs of the services and on costs which are usual,
customary and reasonable (UCR) as shown on exhibit A attached to the ordinance
codified herein, which may include any services, personnel, supplies, and
equipment and with baselines established by addendum to this document.
   B.   A claim shall be filed with the responsible party through his/her/its/
their insurance carrier, if any and if possible. In some circumstances, the
responsible party will be billed directly.
   C.   The city council, with the assistance of the fire department, may adopt
ordinances and/or resolutions, which adopt rules and/or regulations deemed
necessary to more fully implement the provisions of this section and any
related ordinances and resolutions, and from time to time may amend, revoke or
add rules and regulations, not inconsistent with this section, as the city
council may deem necessary or expedient in respect to billing for and
collecting these mitigation rates or the collection thereof. The fire
department reserves the right to send unpaid invoices to a third party
collection agency to collect for services rendered, and to take any and all
other actions allowed by law to bill for and collect any amounts due for
services rendered. Any fees associated with said collections will be
responsibility of the billed party. (Ord. 16-05, 4-27-2016)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE REGULATIONS; OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-2-1: Compliance
4-2-2: Burn Permit Required
4-2-3: Responsibility For Damage
4-2-4: Penalty
4-2-1: COMPLIANCE:
City residents are required to obey Box Elder County and Utah state fire
ordinances. (Ord. 98-2, 4-21-1998)
4-2-2: BURN PERMIT REQUIRED:
All open burning within the city requires the open burn permit application to
be completed. The application can be found at http://www.garlandfd.com/
burnpermit. For residential open burns there will be a ten dollar ($10.00) fee
per burn. For agricultural open burns inside the city limits, a flat onetime
twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee per year to burn is required.
Burn permits may only be issued between March 30 and May 30 and between
September 15 and October 30. No burning on Sundays or Mondays.
The clearing index on the day of the burn must be greater than five hundred
feet (500') and will be verified by the fire department.
   A.   After receiving the application request and prior to issuing the
permit, a Garland fire officer or designee must inspect the burn site and the
material(s) to be burned. This is to ensure adequate safety precautions have
been met to maintain control of the fire at all times and no unauthorized
material(s) will be burned.
   B.   If conditions change during a burn which may cause the fire to become
out of control or pose unsafe conditions, the permittee must extinguish the
fire immediately. If the burn becomes out of control in any way the Garland
fire department must be notified via 911 immediately. Smoke or embers from a
fire cannot become a nuisance to neighbors. If such a nuisance arises, the fire
will be extinguished.
   C.   The permittee shall be responsible for any and all damages caused by
the fire or, as a result of the fire including smoke or heat damage.
   D.   All fires must be out by dark.
   E.   All fires must be monitored by a responsible adult at all times. A
reliable, constant water source must be available at all times for
extinguishment. Any fire must be extinguished before the adult in charge leaves
the area.
   F.   Burn permits are only valid for the date they are issued, and the
address they are issued.
   G.   Agricultural burning of fields must require a fifty foot (50')
firebreak between any structure and the area to be burned.
   H.   Agricultural areas for purpose of open burning are areas greater than
one acre and the land must be used to raise crops or livestock. This will be
confirmed by the fire department upon the preburn inspection.
   I.   Only yard clippings, bushes, prunings from trees incident to property
and residential cleanup activities may be burned. Trash, rubbish, tires, oils,
plastic, wire sheathing, construction waste or other hazardous materials are
not to be burned.
   J.   Recreational fires are allowed without a permit. Recreational fires
must be kept small, no more than three foot (3') flame lengths. Fires must be
contained to a portable, commercial type firepit or an inground firepit. You
must have a five foot (5') barrier of no vegetation. A five foot (5') barrier
must be maintained from adjacent property lines. Burn at your own risk. If
responsible party is found to be negligent they could be held liable for all
cost to extinguish any fires caused.
   K.   Burning outside a burn window, burning without a valid permit and
burning unauthorized materials inside city limits will be considered an illegal
burn and the fire department will extinguish the fire. (Ord. 14-02, 2-26-2014)
4-2-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGE:
The permittee (person requesting the burn permit) shall be responsible for any
and all damage caused by the fire or as a result of the fire (i.e., smoke
damage, heat damage, etc.). (Ord. 98-2, 4-21-1998)
4-2-4: PENALTY:
Any persons, principal, corporation or any person as agent or employee
convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a class C misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 98-2, 4-21-1998; amd. 2006 Code)
TITLE 5
POLICE, PUBLIC SAFETY AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Established
5-1-2: Chief Of Police
5-1-3: Powers And Duties
5-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a regularly constituted police force to be known as
the police department, which shall consist of a chief of police and such other
police officers as shall be employed by the city. (2006 Code)
5-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
The chief of police shall:
   A.   Responsible For Department: Organize, supervise and be responsible for
all the activities of the police department and shall define and assign the
duties of the different police officers.
   B.   Attend City Council Meetings: When required, attend meetings of the
city council to consult with and advise them on matters of public safety. He
shall execute all lawful orders of the mayor and city council and see that all
orders and judgments of the justice of the peace are carried into effect. (2006
Code)
5-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The chief of police and all police officers of the city shall have the
following powers and duties in addition to those that may be assigned to them
as provided above:
   A.   Suppress Riots: To suppress riots, disturbances, and breaches of the
peace, and to apprehend all persons committing any offense against the laws of
the state or ordinances of the city.
   B.   Execute And Serve Warrants: To execute and serve all warrants,
processes, commitments, and writs whatsoever issued by the justice of the
peace.
   C.   Preserve Public Peace: To preserve the public peace, prevent crime,
detect and arrest offenders, protect persons and property, remove nuisances
existing in the public streets, roads, highways and other public places,
enforce every law relating to the suppression of offenses, render such
assistance in the collection of licenses as may be required by the license
collector and perform all duties enjoined upon them by law and ordinance.
   D.   Maintain Register Of Arrests: The chief of police shall provide and
cause to be kept a register of arrest. Upon such register shall be entered a
statement showing the date of such arrest, the name of the person arrested, the
name of the arresting officer, the offense charged and a description of any
property found upon the person arrested.
   E.   Stolen Property Disposition: It shall be the duty of the chief of
police to keep all lost or stolen property that comes into the possession of
the police department or any of its members. He shall make all reasonable
efforts to discover the owners thereof.
   F.   Register Of Property: The chief of police must enter or cause to be
entered in a suitable book a description for every article of property alleged
to be stolen or embezzled and brought into his office or taken from the person
of the prisoner and must attach a number to each article and make a
corresponding entry thereof.
   G.   Property Taken From Person Arrested: When money or other property is
taken from a person arrested upon a charge of a public offense, the officer
taking it must at the time issue triplicate receipts therefor, specifying
particularly the amount of money or kind of property taken. One of the receipts
he must deliver to the person arrested; another he must forthwith file with the
clerk of the court to which the complaint and other papers in the case are
required by law to be sent; and the third receipt must be sent at once to the
office of the police department. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
DOGS
ARTICLE A. REGISTRATION AND LICENSES
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Dog License Required; Kennels; Fees
5-2A-2: Animal Control Officer
5-2A-3: Collars And Tags
5-2A-4: Leash Required
5-2A-5: Dogs Without Collars And Unregistered Dogs
5-2A-6: Female Dogs In Heat
5-2A-7: Dangerous And Mischievous Dogs At Large
5-2A-8: Dogs Disturbing The Peace
5-2A-9: Vicious Dogs
5-2A-10: Obligation To Prevent Dog Attacks
5-2A-11: Penalty
5-2A-12: Animal Waste; Removal Required
5-2A-1: DOG LICENSE REQUIRED; KENNELS; FEES:
   A.   License; Fee: It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep a dog
four (4) months old or older within the corporate limits of the city without
making application to the city recorder or other person designated by the mayor
and city council, and paying to said city recorder or other person for the
benefit of the city, an annual licensing fee in such amount as established by
resolution of the city council. Proof of rabies vaccination is required to
license a dog.
   B.   Kennels: Kennel licenses are intended for dog breeders who plan on
keeping more than two (2) adult dogs (over 4 months old). Kennel licenses are
not intended for homeowners who have inadvertently obtained more than two (2)
adult dogs and desire to become compliant without the intent of running a dog
breeding operation. All other animal related ordinances must be continuously
complied with. See this article for details. If the below conditions are met,
the city council may approve an application for a kennel license.
      1.   Shelter: An approved kennel requires a permanent humane shelter for
dogs including, but not limited to:
         a.   Covered enclosure for all animals.
         b.   Concrete floor pad which is cleaned at least twice weekly to
maintain hygiene, reduce odors and prevent disease.
         c.   Fenced with chainlink wire sufficiently strong to keep the
particular breed of animals inside the enclosure at all times.
         d.   Kennel will be at least twenty feet (20') from all property
lines.
         e.   Kennels will be subject to inspection by enforcement officers at
any time.
      2.   Application; Forms: The owner shall state at the time application is
made for such license, and upon printed forms provided for such purpose, the
owner's name, address and telephone number, the name, breed, color, sex and age
of each dog and the address where such animal is usually kept if different from
the address of the owner.
      3.   Fees: Approved dog breeders shall be required to pay an annual
kennel license fee in such amount as established by resolution of the city
council. The maximum number of dogs over four (4) months allowed is four (4).
All dogs must maintain current vaccination and licensing status (see subsection
A of this section). Owners of dogs unlicensed at the time of application for
kennel licenses will be required to pay double the standard fee for each
unlicensed dog as a penalty.
   C.   Term: All licenses that have been legally issued for any period of time
may be renewed by the applicant at the expiration of said period by paying the
proper fee for the next period of time to the city recorder or other person
designated by the mayor and city council. All licenses will be renewed annually
by March 31 or the renewal fee will be double. (Ord. 16-04, 3-23-2016)
5-2A-2: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The mayor, by and with the consent of the city council, shall appoint some
competent person to act as animal control officer. (Ord. 94-1, 10-18-1994, eff.
10-18-1994)
5-2A-3: COLLARS AND TAGS:
All dogs so licensed shall wear a suitable collar with their dog tags attached.
Dog tags are not transferable. The city will replace lost or misplaced tags
upon payment of a fee in such amount as established by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 94-1, 10-18-1994, eff. 10-18-1994; amd. 2006 Code)
5-2A-4: LEASH REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of a dog to allow said dog to be
on any public street, alley, sidewalk, or any public way or public place within
the city, unless said dog is on a leash. (Ord. 94-1, 10-18-1994, eff. 10-18-
1994)
5-2A-5: DOGS WITHOUT COLLARS AND UNREGISTERED DOGS:
   A.   Any dogs within the corporate limits of the city that are not wearing
collars with licenses attached or are running at large are hereby declared to
be a nuisance and shall be immediately taken and impounded for a period of
three (3) days. Any dog so impounded wherein no owner has called or claimed the
same within the said three (3) days shall be humanely killed or caused to be
killed by the animal control officer.
   B.   Any person calling and claiming said dog so impounded shall pay to the
city such fees as established by resolution of the city council for any dog
that has been impounded and shall produce a collar with a license attached for
said dog before said dog is released. The city recognizes ownership after three
(3) days of care (food and water). (Ord. 99-4, 10-19-1999, eff. 10-19-1999;
amd. 2006 Code)
5-2A-6: FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT:
It shall be unlawful for any person who keeps or owns a female dog to allow the
same to run at large while in heat. Said female dog while so in heat and
running at large, whether collared or not, shall be humanely killed. (Ord. 94-
1, 10-18-1994, eff. 10-18-1994)
5-2A-7: DANGEROUS AND MISCHIEVOUS DOGS AT LARGE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of a fierce, dangerous
("dangerous" or "fierce" is defined the same as "vicious" in section
5-2A-9 of this article) or mischievous ("mischievous" is defined as a dog not
restrained on a leash and off the owners property) dog to permit the same to be
"at large" (meaning off the premises of the owner and not under the control of
the owner or a member of his immediate family either by leash, cord, chain or
otherwise).
   B.   Any person may kill a dog while it is attacking, chasing or worrying
any domestic animal or person while such dog is being pursued thereafter. (Ord.
94-1, 10-18-1994, eff. 10-18-1994)
5-2A-8: DOGS DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or harbor within the limits of
the city, any dog which by barking, howling or yelping disturbs the peace and
quiet of any neighborhood or person. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to allow a dog to bark after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and before
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. The first offense will be a verbal warning. The
second offense will be a citation. The third offense will be a citation with a
petition to the judge to destroy the animal. (Ord. 94-1, 10-18-1994, eff. 10-
18-1994)
5-2A-9: VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   All vicious dogs shall be confined in a locked and covered enclosure.
It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to maintain a vicious dog upon any
premises which does not have a locked enclosure.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to allow any vicious dog
to be outside of the dwelling of the owner or keeper or outside of the
enclosure unless the vicious dog shall be securely muzzled and restrained with
a chain having a minimum tensile strength of three hundred (300) pounds and not
exceeding three feet (3') in length, and shall be under the direct control of a
person capable of completely restraining the dog and under the direct
supervision of the owner or keeper of the vicious dog.
   C.   As used in this article, "dog" means any canis familiaris. "Vicious
dog" means any dog which, in a vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches any
person or domestic animal in apparent attitude of attack. Also, any dog with a
known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack, to cause injury or to
otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or animals on public or private
property. "Enclosure" means a fence or structure at least six feet (6') in
height, forming or causing an enclosure suitable to confine a vicious dog in
conjunction with other measures which may be taken by the owner or keeper, such
as tethering of vicious dog. Vicious dog owners must have an insurance policy
with personal liability of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). (Ord.
15-05, 11-4-2015)
5-2A-10: OBLIGATION TO PREVENT DOG ATTACKS:
Any owner or keeper of a "dog", as defined in section
5-2A-9 of this article, shall keep the dog in a manner and with appropriate
precautions to ensure that the dog will not bite or attack a person. Failure to
maintain such a dog in a manner and with appropriate precautions to ensure that
the dog will not bite or attack a person shall be a class C misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 94-1, 10-18-1994, eff. 10-18-1994; amd. 2006 Code)
5-2A-11: PENALTY:
Any person or keeper of a dog violating the provisions of this article, upon
conviction thereof, shall be found guilty of a class C misdemeanor and subject
to the general penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. The animal control officer shall be able to approach the
court for an order to destroy any vicious, mischievous or biting dog. (Ord. 94-
1, 10-18-1994, eff. 10-18-1994; amd. 2006 Code)
5-2A-12: ANIMAL WASTE; REMOVAL REQUIRED:
The owner or any person having control over or charge of any dog or other
animal shall be responsible for the removal of any feces deposited by such dog
or animal in any public place, including, but not limited to, sidewalks,
streets, planting strips, parking lots, parks, recreational areas or on private
property not in the ownership or control of the person having control or
purporting to have control over or charge of such dog or animal. (Ord. 16-04,
3-23-2016)
ARTICLE B. RABIES CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2B-1: Quarantine; Inspection
5-2B-2: Rabid Dogs
5-2B-3: Rabies Shots
5-2B-4: Person Bitten By Dog
5-2B-5: Animal Bitten By Dog
5-2B-1: QUARANTINE; INSPECTION:
Whenever the owner or person having in custody or possession any dog shall have
reason to believe that such dog has rabies or has shown symptoms of rabies,
such owner or person shall immediately notify the board of health or its health
officer to make inspection or examination of such animal and shall immediately
confine such animal until such inspection or examination is made. (Ord. 94-1,
10-18-1994, eff. 10-18-1994)
5-2B-2: RABID DOGS:
If it shall appear to the animal control officer upon such examination or
inspection that a dog has rabies, it shall be the duty of said officer to kill,
or cause to be killed, the dog. (Ord. 94-1, 10-18-1994, eff. 10-18-1994)
5-2B-3: RABIES SHOTS:
All dogs inside the city limits shall be required by law to have current rabies
shots. Rabies shots are considered current for two (2) years. (Ord. 94-1, 10-
18-1994, eff. 10-18-1994)
5-2B-4: PERSON BITTEN BY DOG:
Whenever any person shall be bitten by a dog, the owner or person having
custody of such dog shall immediately notify the animal control officer, who
shall confine such dog and keep the same confined for a period of fourteen (14)
days. At the end of the fourteen (14) days, the animal control officer will
determine if the animal has rabies. All animals quarantined shall pay a fee in
such amount as established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 94-1, 10-
18-1994, eff. 10-18-1994; amd. 2006 Code)
5-2B-5: ANIMAL BITTEN BY DOG:
Whenever any animal shall be bitten by a dog having rabies, the owner or person
having custody or possession of the animal so bitten shall upon being informed
thereof, either kill such animal forthwith or quarantine it, and keep it tied
up or confined for a period of fourteen (14) days, and the animal control
officer shall have power in his discretion to kill or quarantine any animals so
bitten in case the owner or person having custody or possession thereof shall
fail to do so immediately or in case the owner or person having custody thereof
is not readily accessible. (Ord. 94-1, 10-18-1994, eff. 10-18-1994)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES AND CRIMES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-3-2: Disturbing The Peace
5-3-3: Discharging Weapons
5-3-4: Fireworks
5-3-5: Obstructing Streets Or Sidewalks
5-3-6: Prohibitions Concerning Synthetic Cannabinoids
5-3-7: Smoking In Public Places
5-3-8: Curfew
5-3-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah Criminal Code, Utah Code Annotated title
76, as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction, Class C misdemeanor
or Class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the City. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation
shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 88-1, 6-21-1988, eff. 7-21-1988; amd. 2006 Code)
5-3-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create loud or
disturbing noises between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M., which shall be considered the City's quiet hours. This
offense will be considered an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-03, 6-20-2018)
5-3-3: DISCHARGING WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge within the City limits any
firearm of any description, including, but not limited to, shotguns, rifles,
CO2 guns, bow and arrows, slingshots or flippers; provided, that this section
shall not apply to the use of firearms by persons described in Utah Code
Annotated section 76-10-523; also, that the City Council may authorize firing
on designated target ranges. An offense under this section is a Class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (2006 Code)
5-3-4: FIREWORKS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person within the limits of the City to
discharge, explode or set off any rocket, squib, firecracker, roman candle,
sparkler, cannon, gun, rifle, pistol, toy pistol, or any other firearm or
fireworks, or combustible or explosive matter whatever, without first obtaining
permission of the City Council so to do. Such permission shall be granted only
on written application therefor and after the said application has been
submitted to the Chief of the Fire Department or other official designated to
take care of said applications, and a report thereon made by him to the City
Council. The permission herein provided for shall be in writing and shall
specify the time when and the place where such fireworks or firearms or
combustible or explosive matter may be discharged, set off or exploded.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or to offer for sale, or
have in his possession or custody, any rocket, squib, firecracker, roman
candle, toy pistol, fire balloon, or other combustible or explosive fireworks,
or any article for the making of pyrotechnical display, without first obtaining
from the City Council permission in writing to sell or offer for sale or have
in his custody any such article. (1949 Code § 13-4-11)
5-3-5: OBSTRUCTING STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any merchant, auctioneer or other individual to sell
or exhibit for sale any kind of property on or so near to any street as to
cause people to gather in crowds on the sidewalk, or to obstruct free passage
thereon. (1949 Code § 13-4-13)
5-3-6: PROHIBITIONS CONCERNING SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including a corporation or other
entity, to manufacture, distribute, dispense, ingest, use, possess, purchase,
attempt to purchase, sell, publicly display for sale, attempt to sell, give,
trade or barter, any one or more of the following chemical compounds and/or
substances, including their salts, isomers, homologues and salts of the isomers
and homologues:
      1.   Salvia Divinorum or Salvinorum A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as Salvia Divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
      2.   Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-018);
      3.   (6ar,10ar)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethy-3-(2-methyloctan- 2-yl)-
6a, 7, 10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c] chromen-1-ol (also known as HU-210 or 1,1-
Dimethylheptyl-11-hydroxy-delta8- tetrahydrocannabinol);
      4.   2-(3-hydroxycyclohexyl)-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl) phenol(also known as
CP-47,497), and the dimethylhexyl, dimethyloctyl and dimethylnonyl homologues
of CP-47,497;
      5.   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-073);
      6.   1-(2-(4-(morpholinyl)ethyl))-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as
JWH-200);
      7.   1-Pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole (also known as JWH-250);
      8.   1-Hexyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-019);
      9.   1-Pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH- 398);
      10.   N-benzylpiperazine (also known as BZP);
      11.   1-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl) piperazine (also known as TFMPP);
      12.   Any similar structural analogs of the above chemical compounds;
      13.   Any other synthetic cannabinoids.
   B.   It is not an offense under subsection A of this section if the person
was acting at the direction of an authorized agent of the city of Garland to
enforce or ensure compliance with this law prohibiting the sale of the
aforementioned intoxicating chemical compounds.
   C.   If any of the aforementioned intoxicating chemical compounds are found
in the possession of any person, they may be confiscated and destroyed by law
enforcement officials.
   D.   This section shall not apply to drugs or substances lawfully prescribed
or to drugs or substances which have been approved by the federal food and drug
administration or which are specifically permitted by Utah law.
   E.   Any person found to be in violation of this section will be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor. Each day during which a violation of subsection A of this
section occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   F.   The city of Garland shall have the authority to seek an injunction to
compel compliance of any business which fails to or refuses to comply with this
section. (Ord. 10-08, 10-20-2010)
5-3-7: SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Smoking Prohibited: Smoking or carrying lighted cigarettes, pipes,
cigars, e-cigarettes, and other tobacco products on all publicly owned or
leased areas where playground equipment has been installed for public use by
children, play pits, play structures, bleachers, backstops, sports fields, ball
diamonds, basketball courts, tennis or volleyball courts, concession stands,
skateboard areas, horseshoe pits, bowery's and pathways for walking, is
prohibited.
   B.   Penalty: The violation by any person of the provisions of this section
is a class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 16-09, 9-14-2016)
5-3-8: CURFEW:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to be or remain in or upon any of the streets, alleys or public places or
vacant lots within the City limits of Garland City between the hours of ten
o'clock p.m. and five o'clock a.m. the day following, unless such person is
accompanied by a parent, guardian or other person having legal custody of such
person or unless such minor's employment or lawful business makes it necessary
to be upon the streets, alleys or public places between the hours specified
herein. On Friday and Saturday nights of each week the hours shall be twelve
o'clock midnight to five o'clock a.m. the day following, providing adequate
time for such minor persons to attend school, church or civic functions
provided for such minor persons.
   B.   It is hereby unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having
legal charge or custody of any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
allow or permit such minor person to be in violation of Subsection A within the
City limits of Garland City.
   C.   Violations of the provisions of this section shall be considered an
infraction and subject to the penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. O-21-08, 8-4-2021)
CHAPTER 4
TRUANCY FOR MINORS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Offenses
5-4-3: Defenses
5-4-4: Enforcement
5-4-5: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ASSIGNED SCHOOL LOCATION: The location where a student would be assigned,
registered or released from attending during compulsory school time when the
class or activity is in session, and the student is under the control or
supervision of school authorities or other recognized supervision. Further
defined as the authorized presence, for a reasonable time or direct authorized
passage to and from an area where the student would be involved in dealing with
school or personal business.
AUTHORIZATION: A permission slip given by a school authority to excuse a
student from being in the usual assigned school location in accordance with
school policy, or a note from the parent or guardian giving permission for the
student to be absent from class. The permission slip must be in the immediate
possession of the student whenever not at the expected school location.
COMPULSORY SCHOOL AGE MINOR: A person not less than six (6) nor more than
eighteen (18) years of age that is not exempted and must be attending a public
or regularly established private school during the school year in the district
in which the minor resides, pursuant to Utah compulsory education requirements,
Utah Code Annotated sections 53A-11-101 through 53A-11-106.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: A. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
   B.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
MINOR: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age.
OPEN CAMPUS: When a compulsory school age minor is allowed by school officials
to leave school for lunch purposes.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the members or
partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a corporation.
PARENT: A person who is:
   A.   A natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent of another person; or
   B.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, the
common areas of schools, hospitals, office and commercial buildings, public
transit buses and property, and apartment houses.
REMAIN: To:
   A.   Linger or stay; or
   B.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer or
the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
TRUANCY HOURS: Those hours in which a compulsory school age youth should be
attending school in the district or jurisdiction in which the student attends
school. (Ord. 04-04, 10-19-2004, eff. 10-19-2004)
5-4-2: OFFENSES:
   A.   Minor: A compulsory school age minor commits an offense if he or she
remains in any public place, is not in his assigned location at school, or is
on the premises of any establishment within the city limits during truancy
hours.
   B.   Accumulation Of Tardies:
      1.   A compulsory school age minor commits an offense if he or she
accumulates ten (10) tardies in a trimester from any and all classes and such
accumulation of tardies will result in a truancy citation being issued to the
student committing this offense in violation of this chapter.
      2.   A compulsory school age minor commits additional offenses if he or
she accumulates additional tardies in a trimester from any and all classes in
multiples of five (5) more tardies than the ten (10) tardies which results in
the first violation as described in subsection B1 of this section, i.e.,
accumulations of fifteen (15), twenty (20), twenty five (25), etc., tardies
will result in one or more additional truancy citations.
   C.   Parent Or Guardian: A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense
if he or she knowingly permits, aids, encourages or allows a compulsory school
age minor or minors to remain in any public place or on the premises of any
establishment within the city during truancy hours.
   D.   Conduct Inducing Violation: Any person commits an offense if he or she
engages in any conduct for the purpose of, or resulting in inducing any
compulsory school age minor to leave or be absent from said compulsory school
age minor's assigned school location during truancy hours. (Ord. 15-03, 8-19-
2015)
5-4-3: DEFENSES:
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution under section
5-4-2 of this chapter that the compulsory school age minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      2.   Involved in an emergency;
      3.   Following school policy regarding open campus for lunch, off campus
school approved classes and activities, or any other legitimate school
sanctioned off campus function, and has on his/her person legal authorization
of permission by the school or his/her parent or guardian; or
      4.   Married or has been married or has disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   B.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection 5-4-2C of this chapter
that the parent or guardian of a compulsory school age minor has met in
cooperation with the proper school authorities within fourteen (14) days of
notification in response to a certified letter from the court notifying them
that their child has received a truancy citation.
   C.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection 5-4-2D of this chapter
that the owner, operator or employee of an establishment, or owner of a private
residence, promptly notified the police department that a compulsory school age
minor was present on their premises during truancy hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. 04-04, 10-19-2004, eff. 10-19-2004)
5-4-4: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking any enforcement action under this chapter, an identified police
officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the
public place. Citations shall direct the apparent offender to either the
juvenile court or the appropriate justice court upon the apparent offender's
signature and promise to appear. If the apparent offender fails to appear, the
court will notify the parent or guardian of a compulsory school age minor by
certified letter that a truancy citation has been issued to said minor and that
the minor's appearance is required under either the Utah rules of juvenile
procedure, or the Utah rules of criminal procedure. (Ord. 04-04, 10-19-2004,
eff. 10-19-2004)
5-4-5: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter is an infraction. A person who violates a provision
of this chapter is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day
during which the violation is committed, continued or permitted. Each offense
of a minor, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00),
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). A third offense by an adult is
subject to the provisions of state law. (Ord. 04-04, 10-19-2004, eff. 10-19-
2004)
CHAPTER 5
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose And Declaration
5-5-2: Construction
5-5-3: Discriminatory Terms
5-5-4: Withholding Housing
5-5-5: Licensing
5-5-6: Complaints; Conciliation
5-5-7: Limitation Of Time To File Complaint
5-5-8: Remedies
5-5-9: Penalty
5-5-1: PURPOSE AND DECLARATION:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city, and the purpose of this
chapter, in the exercise of its police and regulatory powers for the protection
of the public safety, for the health, morals, safety and welfare of the persons
in and residing in the city, and for the maintenance and promotion of commerce,
industry and good government in the city, to secure all persons living and/or
working or desiring to live and/or work in the city, fair opportunity to
purchase, lease, rent or occupy real estate without discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, age, marital status, physical limitations, source
of income, family responsibilities, educational association, sexual orientation
or national origin. (Ord. 80-4, 7-15-1980)
5-5-2: CONSTRUCTION:
This chapter shall be construed according to the fair import of its terms and
shall be liberally construed to further the purpose and policy stated in
section
5-5-1 of this chapter and the special purposes of the particular provision
involved. (Ord. 80-4, 7-15-1980)
5-5-3: DISCRIMINATORY TERMS:
It shall be an unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter for
any real estate broker, salesperson, agent, owner or other person to sell or
rent, or offer to sell or rent, a real property on terms, conditions or
privileges that discriminate between persons because of race, color, religion,
sex, age, marital status, physical limitations, source of income, family
responsibilities, educational association, sexual orientation or national
origin. (Ord. 80-4, 7-15-1980)
5-5-4: WITHHOLDING HOUSING:
It shall be an unlawful real estate practice and a violation of this chapter
for any real estate broker, salesperson, agent, owner or other person to
represent to any person that any real property is not available for inspection,
purchase, sale, lease or occupancy when in fact it is so available, or
otherwise to hold real property from any person because of race, color,
religion, sex, age, marital status, physical limitations, source of income,
family responsibilities, educational association, sexual orientation or
national origin. (Ord. 80-4, 7-15-1980)
5-5-5: LICENSING:
Every real estate broker shall apply for and obtain a license from the Utah
securities commission prior to transacting any business involving real estate
as a real estate broker and prior to advertising or assuming to act as such
real estate broker, as provided for under Utah Code Annotated title 61, chapter
2, as amended. (Ord. 80-4, 7-15-1980)
5-5-6: COMPLAINTS; CONCILIATION:
   A.   Written Complaint: Any person claiming to be aggrieved in any manner by
a violation of the provisions of this chapter may file with the city council a
written complaint setting forth the name and address of the complainant, the
name and address of the alleged violator and the facts claimed to constitute
the violation.
   B.   Service Of Complaint; Investigation: After the filing of such
complaint, the city council shall cause a copy of such complaint to be served
on the alleged violator, and shall make a prompt investigation of the claims.
   C.   Conference: If the investigation of the claims indicate probable cause
exists for the complaint, a conference of the city council, the complainant and
the claimed violator shall be called with a view to resolve the complaint by
all proper methods of conciliation and persuasion.
   D.   Referral To City Attorney: If the city council shall determine that the
attempts at conciliation and persuasion are ineffective, or will serve no
further useful purpose, the city council shall refer the matter to the city
attorney with recommendations for prosecution in a court of competent
jurisdiction, or termination of the complaint. (Ord. 80-4, 7-15-1980)
5-5-7: LIMITATION OF TIME TO FILE COMPLAINT:
Any complaint filed hereunder with the city council must be filed within sixty
(60) days after the alleged discriminatory practice occurred or it shall be
barred. (Ord. 80-4, 7-15-1980)
5-5-8: REMEDIES:
Any person aggrieved in any manner by the violation of any provisions of this
chapter who has exhausted the administrative remedies provided herein, may
apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for appropriate relief from such
violation. (Ord. 80-4, 7-15-1980)
5-5-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 80-4, 7-15-1980; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 6
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Declaration Of Nuisance
5-6-3: Toilet Or Sewer Facilities
5-6-4: Blocking Water
5-6-5: Weeds And Refuse
5-6-6: Unusable Personal Property
5-6-7: Nuisance Prohibited
5-6-8: Maintenance Of Private Property
5-6-9: Enforcement; Administration
5-6-10: Penalty
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
AUTHOR OF NUISANCE: Where a nuisance exists upon property and is the outgrowth
of the usual, natural or necessary use of the property, the landlord or his
agent, the tenant or his agent, and all other persons having control of the
property on which such nuisance exists, shall be deemed to be the authors
thereof and shall be equally liable and responsible. Where any such nuisance
shall arise from the unusual or unnecessary use of such property or from the
business thereon conducted, then the occupants and all other persons
contributing to the continuance of such nuisance shall be deemed the authors.
NUISANCE: A. Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and whatever renders
soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome is declared to be a nuisance and
unlawful.
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter, the term "nuisance" shall also include
any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which are deleterious
or injurious, noxious or unsightly, which includes, but is not limited to,
keeping or depositing on, or scattering over the premises any of the following:
      1.   Lumber, junk, trash or debris.
      2.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
vehicles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers. (Ord.
04-02, 4-20-2004, eff. 4-20-2004)
5-6-2: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Every act or condition made, permitted, allowed or continued in
violation of the definition of "nuisance", as defined in section
5-6-1 of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be abated
and punished as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Nuisances include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Befouling water in any spring, stream, well or water source
supplying water for culinary purposes.
      2.   Allowing any privy vault or cesspool or other individual wastewater
disposal system to become a menace to health or a source of odors to air or
water.
      3.   Permitting any garbage container to remain on premises when it has
become unclean and offensive.
      4.   Allowing vegetable waste, garbage, litter, filth or refuse of any
nature to accumulate within or upon any private alley, yard or area, except
when it is temporarily deposited for immediate removal.
      5.   Permitting the accumulation of manure in any stable, stall, corral,
feed yard, yard or in any other building or area in which any animals are kept.
      6.   Permitting any slaughter house, market, meat shop, stable, feed
yard, or other place or building wherein any animals are slaughtered, kept, fed
or sold to remain unclean or in any state or condition detrimental to health or
creating a nuisance because of odors, or in which flies or rodents breed.
      7.   Discharging or placing any offensive water, liquid waste or refuse
of any kind into any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural
watercourse, ditch, canal or any vacant lot, or which, as the result of
continued discharge, will render the place of discharge offensive or likely to
become so.
      8.   Keeping or collecting any stale or putrid grease or other offensive
matter.
      9.   Having or permitting upon any premises any fly or mosquito producing
condition.
      10.   Permitting or performing any ablutions in or near any public
drinking fountain.
      11.   Failing to furnish any dwelling house, boarding house or factory,
or other place of employment, with such privy vaults, water closets, sinks or
other facilities as may be required to maintain the same in sanitary condition.
      12.   Neglecting or refusing to discontinue use of, clean out, disinfect
and fill up all privy vaults and cesspools or other individual wastewater
disposal systems within twenty (20) days after notice from an enforcement
officer or official of the municipality.
      13.   Permitting any lot or excavation to become the repository of
stagnant water or any decaying or offensive substances.
      14.   Obstructing or tending to obstruct or interfere with or render
dangerous for passage any street or sidewalk, lake, stream, drainage, canal or
basin, or any public park without first obtaining the written permission of the
governing body.
   C.   The types of nuisances above stated shall be deemed in addition to and
in no way a limitation of the nuisances subject to this chapter. (Ord. 04-02,
4-20-2004, eff. 4-20-2004)
5-6-3: TOILET OR SEWER FACILITIES:
All toilet or sewer facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with the ordinances of the city. All such facilities that do not
comply with such provisions are hereby declared to be a nuisance and are
subject to abatement as herein prescribed. (Ord. 04-02, 4-20-2004, eff. 4-20-
2004)
5-6-4: BLOCKING WATER:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to permit any drainage
system, canal, ditch, conduit or other watercourse of any kind or nature,
natural or artificial, to become so obstructed as to cause the water to back up
and overflow therefrom, or to become unsanitary.
   B.   Maintenance of any such watercourse in such condition shall constitute
a nuisance and the same shall be subject to abatement. (Ord. 04-02, 4-20-2004,
eff. 4-20-2004)
5-6-5: WEEDS AND REFUSE:
   A.   Real Property To Be Kept Clean: It shall be an infraction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person owning or occupying real property to allow
weeds to grow higher on such property than is permitted by this section, or not
to remove from such property any cuttings of such weeds or any refuse,
unsightly or deleterious objects after having been given notice from the city.
(Ord. 04-02, 4-20-2004, eff. 4-20-2004; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Weeds Defined: "Weeds" shall include any vegetation commonly referred
to as a weed, or which shall have been designated a noxious weed by the Utah
commissioner of agriculture.
   C.   Standards Of Weed Control:
      1.   It is hereby declared that the above stated weeds constitute a
nuisance when they:
         a.   Create a fire hazard, a source of contamination, or pollution of
the water, air or property, a danger to health, a breeding place or habitation
for insects or rodents or other forms of life deleterious to humans or are
unsightly or deleterious to their surroundings; and
         b.   Exceed six inches (6") from the ground or soil in which they are
anchored.
      2.   The cut weeds shall be removed from the premises within twenty four
(24) hours after cutting. (Ord. 04-02, 4-20-2004, eff. 4-20-2004)
5-6-6: UNUSABLE PERSONAL PROPERTY:
Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped and junked vehicles, machinery,
implements, equipment or personal property of any kind which is no longer
safely usable for the purpose for which it was manufactured, for a period of
thirty (30) days or more (except in licensed junk yards) within the city, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the public safety. (Ord. 04-
02, 4-20-2004, eff. 4-20-2004)
5-6-7: NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, either as an owner, agent or occupant to
create or aid in creating or contributing to or maintaining a nuisance. (Ord.
04-02, 4-20-2004, eff. 4-20-2004)
5-6-8: MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Duty: No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any
premises shall maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person
keep or maintain such premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in
the value of the other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are
located.
   B.   Abatement By Owners: The owner, owners, tenants, lessees or occupants
of any lot within the city upon which such "storage", as defined in subsection
A of this section is made, and also the owner, owners or lessees of the above
described personal property involved in such storage, shall jointly and
severally abate such nuisance by its prompt removal into completely enclosed
and secured buildings to be used for such purposes, or otherwise to remove such
property from the city. (Ord. 04-02, 4-20-2004, eff. 4-20-2004)
5-6-9: ENFORCEMENT; ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Appointment And Duties Of Inspector:
      1.   Designated: There is hereby established the position of nuisance
inspector, whose duties it shall be to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Until another person is designated, the chief of police shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter 1 . More than one person may be appointed to act as
inspector under this section.
      2.   Authority Of Inspector: The nuisance inspector is authorized to:
         a.   Perform all functions necessary to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
         b.   Inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as needed, all
buildings, structures, lots or places for the purpose of determining whether
such are in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Objectionable Conditions; Duty: If the inspector concludes there
exists an objectionable condition in violation of this chapter, the inspector
shall:
         a.   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants and descriptions
of the premises where such objects and conditions exist.
         b.   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of such
premises, either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to
the owner and occupant at their last known post office addresses as disclosed
by the records of the county assessor or as otherwise ascertained, requiring
such owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate or destroy
and remove the same within such time as the inspector may designate; provided,
that any person notified pursuant to this subsection shall be given at least
ten (10) but not more than twenty (20) days, as determined by the inspector
following the date of service of such notice, to correct the objectionable
condition. The notice shall:
            (1)   Contain a specific statement of the nature of the violation
and generally describe the premises upon which the violation exists.
            (2)   Inform the owner, occupant or other person that in the event
he disagrees with the determination of the inspector and does not wish to
comply with the provisions of the notice or that he objects to the factual or
legal basis for the notice, he may request in writing a hearing before the
governing body at a time and place to be set by the governing body. A written
application for a hearing shall state the time within which the person must
conform to the provisions of the notice.
            (3)   Inform the person that in the event he fails or neglects to
correct the objectionable condition, the city will correct the objectionable
condition and will collect the costs of so correcting the objectionable
condition by either a court action, in which case they will be assessed such
costs, together with reasonable attorney fees and court costs, or will charge
the cost of correcting the violation against the property as a tax.
         c.   In the event the owner or occupant makes such request for a
hearing, the governing body shall set the time and place for hearing
objections, and the city recorder shall notify the owner, occupant or other
persons in writing of the time and place at which they may appear and be heard.
The hearing shall not be heard within less than five (5) days from the date of
service or mailing of the notice of hearing.
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   At the written request of an owner, occupant or other person having
an interest in property which is the subject of a notice to remove or abate
weeds, objectionable conditions, or objects from the property, the governing
body shall conduct an informal hearing (which need not be reported) wherein
such person may present such evidence and argument as is pertinent to the
question of whether or not the removal or abatement of the objects or
conditions is properly within the purview of this chapter.
      2.   The governing body shall also permit the presentation of evidence
and argument by the inspector and other interested parties.
      3.   Thereafter within not less than five (5) nor more than ten (10)
days, the governing body shall, over the signature of the mayor or such other
member of the governing body as it may designate, render its written decision,
a copy of which shall be mailed to or served upon the owner or other person to
whom the original notice was given by the inspector.
      4.   In the event the decision of the governing body upholds the
determination of the inspector, the notice originally given by the inspector as
above provided shall be deemed to be sufficient to require the owner or
occupant to remove or abate the objectionable objects or conditions, and he
shall have up to ten (10) days from the date of notice of the decision within
which to conform thereto, unless additional time, not to exceed thirty (30)
days, is authorized by the inspector.
      5.   In the event that the decision of the governing body either
overrules or modifies the determination of the inspector, the written decision
of the governing body shall apprise the owner or occupant of the fact and set
forth the details and extent to which the owner or occupant must make removal
or other abatement of the objectionable objects or conditions, if any.
      6.   The owner or occupant shall be required to conform to the decision
of the governing body within ten (10) days after service or mailing of a copy
of the decision, and the decision shall be deemed to be the modified decision
of the inspector unless additional time is authorized by the governing body.
      7.   The inspector shall file an amended notice and proof of service of
notice and file the same in the office of the county treasurer.
   C.   Failure To Comply: If any owner, occupant or other person having an
interest in land described in such notice or decision to whom the notice was
given shall fail or neglect to conform to the requirements thereof relating to
the eradication, destruction or removal of such weeds, garbage, refuse, objects
or structures, the inspector shall employ all necessary assistance to cause
such objectionable objects or conditions to be removed or destroyed. Any costs
incurred for such necessary assistance shall be collected from the responsible
party per subsection A3b(3) of this section.
   D.   Itemized Statement:
      1.   The inspector shall prepare an itemized statement of all expenses
incurred in the removal and destruction of nuisances, and shall mail a copy
thereof to the owner or occupant, or both, or to persons having an interest in
the property, demanding payment within twenty (20) days of the date of mailing.
      2.   The notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by registered mail
addressed to the last known address of the property owner, occupant or person
having an interest in the property.
   E.   Failure To Make Payment: In the event the owner, occupant or person
having an interest in the property fails to make payment of the amount set
forth in the statement to the city treasurer within the twenty (20) days, the
inspector either may cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court of law or
may refer the matter to the county treasurer as provided in this section.
   F.   Collection By Lawsuit: In the event collection of expenses of
destruction and removal are pursued through the courts, the city shall sue for
and receive judgment for all of said expenses of destruction and removal,
together with reasonable attorney fees, interest and court costs, and shall
execute upon such judgment in the manner provided by law.
   G.   Collection Through Taxes:
      1.   In the event that the inspector elects to refer the expenses of
destruction or removal to the county treasurer for inclusion in the tax notice
of the property owner, he shall make in triplicate an itemized statement of all
expenses incurred in the destruction and removal of the same, and shall deliver
the three (3) copies of the statement to the county treasurer within ten (10)
days after the completion of the work of destroying or removing such weeds,
refuse, garbage, objects or structures.
      2.   Thereupon the costs of the work shall be pursued by the county
treasurer in accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 14,
chapter 4, as amended, and the recalcitrant owner shall have such rights and
shall be subject to such powers as are thereby granted.
   H.   Criminal Proceeding:
      1.   The commencement of criminal proceedings for the purpose of imposing
penalties for violations of this chapter shall not be conditioned upon prior
issuance of a notice or the granting to the defendant of an opportunity to
abate or remove the nuisance.
      2.   The provisions of this chapter relating to notice and abatement
shall be deemed merely alternative and additional methods of securing
conformity to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 04-02, 4-20-2004, eff. 4-
20-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-1-2 of this title.
5-6-10: PENALTY:
   A.   Any owner, occupant or person having an interest in the property
subject to this chapter who shall fail to comply with the notice or order given
pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for each offense for each and every day such failure to
comply continues beyond the date fixed for compliance.
   B.   Compliance by any owner, occupant or person to whom a notice has been
given as provided in this chapter shall not be admissible in any criminal
proceeding brought pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 04-02, 4-20-2004, eff. 4-20-
2004; amd. Ord. O-21-15, 11-10-2021)
CHAPTER 7
SWINE
SECTION:
5-7-1: Swine (Pigs) Prohibited
5-7-2: Penalty
5-7-1: SWINE (PIGS) PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the corporate
limits of the city to keep, maintain, feed, breed, house, shelter, pen or
corral or engage in the business of raising swine, commonly called pigs. (Ord.,
4-30-1961)
5-7-2: PENALTY:
Any person as principal, or any person as agent or employee, convicted of
violating any of the provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 4-30-1961; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 8
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
5-8-1: Traffic Code Adopted By Reference
5-8-2: Speed Restrictions
5-8-3: Parking Regulations
5-8-4: High School Parking
5-8-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, penalties,
provisions and sections of the Utah traffic code, Utah Code Annotated title 41,
as amended, with a corresponding penalty of infraction, class C misdemeanor or
class B misdemeanor, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation
shall be subject to the penalties provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 88-1, 6-21-1988, eff. 7-21-1988; amd. 2006 Code)
5-8-2: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Reasonable And Prudent Speed Required: No person shall drive a vehicle
within the corporate limits of the city at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent under the conditions and having regard to the actual and potential
hazards then existing. In every event, speed shall be so controlled as may be
necessary to avoid colliding with any person, vehicle or other conveyance on or
entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of all
persons to use due care.
   B.   Posted Speed Limits: Where no special hazard exists, the following
speeds shall be lawful, but any speed in excess of said limits shall be prima
facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable or prudent and that it is
unlawful:
      1.   Twenty (20) miles per hour when passing a school building or the
grounds thereof during school recess or while children are going to or leaving
school during opening or closing hours.
      2.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour in the business district and
residence district unless otherwise posted by local or state authorities. (1949
Code § 13-5-18; amd. 2006 Code)
5-8-3: PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Parallel Parking:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to park a motor vehicle on any street in this
city other than parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction
of lawful traffic movement and with the right wheels of the vehicle within
eighteen inches (18") of the curb or edge of the street, except as otherwise
provided in this section. (Ord. 85-1, 7-2-1985)
      2.   The following streets are restricted to forty five degree (45°)
parking only:
         a.   1st East from East Factory Street to 1st North Street, west side
of street only.
         b.   East half of block on 1st North Main Street to 1st East Street,
south side of street only. (Ord. 10-03, 6-16-2010)
   B.   Restrictions On Trucks And Buses: It shall be unlawful for trucks and
buses with an overall length greater than twenty feet (20') to park on either
side of Main Street and Factory Street between middle of town and 1st South
Main; between the middle of town and 1st North Main; between the middle of town
and 1st East Factory; between the middle of town and 1st West Factory Street.
   C.   All Night Parking Prohibited: No person shall park a commercially
licensed vehicle with a load capacity greater than nine thousand (9,000) pounds
on any street of the city for a period of time longer than one hour between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any day.
   D.   Double Parking Prohibited: It shall be unlawful, within the corporate
limits of the city, to park a motor vehicle parallel to and outside of the
marked lines or stalls so laid out and designed for parallel parking wherein
another vehicle is so parked within said lines or stalls, in a manner commonly
called double parking. (Ord. 85-1, 7-2-1985)
   E.   Restricted Areas; Red Curbs: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to park or cause to be parked any motor vehicle upon the streets
in front of any curb painted red or designated "no parking" by a sign or device
emplaced in said area. (Ord. 10-03, 6-16-2010)
   F.   Disabled Vehicles; Unlawful To Leave Or Dismantle On Public Street:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park or
cause to be left upon any public street in the city, any disabled vehicle for a
period no longer than forty eight (48) hours.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
dismantle or cause to be dismantled any disabled vehicle upon any street in the
city. The chief of police, or any police officer, is hereby empowered to
remove, or cause to be removed, from the streets of the city, at the expense of
the owner thereof, any disabled vehicle found left upon the public streets of
the city contrary to the provisions of this subsection.
   G.   Abandoned Vehicles; Removal:
      1.   No person shall abandon a vehicle upon any city street.
      2.   No person shall abandon a vehicle upon any public or private
property without the express or implied consent of the owner or person in
lawful possession or control of the property.
      3.   Any police officer who has reasonable grounds to believe that a
vehicle has been abandoned may remove the vehicle or cause it to be removed, at
the owner's expense, to the nearest state impound yard or, if none, to a garage
or to a place of safety and shall immediately send a written report of such
removal to the state tax commission, motor vehicle division, which report shall
include a description of the vehicle, the date, time and/or place where the
vehicle is stored.
      4.   For purpose of this section, a vehicle shall be presumed to be
abandoned if it is left unattended on any city street or alley for a period in
excess of forty eight (48) hours or on any public or private property without
express or implied consent of the owner or person in lawful possession or
control of the property for a period in excess of seven (7) days.
      5.   Any obstruction shall be presumed to be abandoned if it is left
unattended on any city street or alley for a period in excess of forty eight
(48) hours or on any public or private property without express or implied
consent of the owner or person in lawful possession or control of the property
for a period in excess of seven (7) days.
   H.   Motor Vehicles Left Unattended: No driver or person in charge of a
motor vehicle shall permit such vehicle to stand unattended without first
stopping the engine, locking the ignition and removing the keys, or when such
motor vehicle is standing upon a perceptible grade without effectively setting
the brakes thereon and turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the
street.
   I.   Police Officer Authorized To Move Vehicles:
      1.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street
in violation of any of the foregoing provisions of this chapter, such officer
is hereby authorized to move such vehicle, or require the driver or other
person in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the public
right of way in the city.
      2.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
street or bridge where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such
officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle or
obstruction to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
   J.   Stopping Or Parking On Street Outside Of Business Or Residential
District:
      1.   Upon any street outside of a business or residential district, no
person shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or
unattended, upon the paved or main traveled portion of the street when it is
practical to stop, park, or so leave such vehicle off such part of said street,
but in every event an unobstructed width of the street opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles and a clear view
of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of two hundred feet
(200') in each direction upon such street.
      2.   This subsection shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which
is disabled while on the paved or main traveled portion of a street in such
manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving such disabled vehicle in such position.
   K.   Prohibition To Stopping, Standing Or Parking:
      1.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the direction
of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
         a.   On a sidewalk.
         b.   In front of a public or private driveway.
         c.   Within an intersection.
         d.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
         e.   On a crosswalk.
         f.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
         g.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
beacon, stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of the street.
         h.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of the safety zone,
unless the traffic authority indicates a different length by signs or markings.
         i.   Within fifty feet (50') to the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing.
         j.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and, on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station,
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly sign posted.
         k.   Along or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
         l.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
         m.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street.
         n.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      2.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into
any such prohibited area or away from the curb where such distance is unlawful.
   L.   Approach To Parking Space:
      1.   No person shall move his vehicle in any manner or leave a parking
space and then reenter it to avoid the intent of this section.
      2.   Every driver about to enter a parking space being vacated shall stop
his vehicle and wait to the rear of the vehicle in the actual process of
vacating the parking space and having so waited, shall have prior right to the
parking space over all other drivers.
      3.   No driver shall stop his vehicle ahead of a parking space being
vacated and attempt to interfere with a driver who has waited properly to the
rear of a parking space being vacated.
      4.   No driver shall stop and wait for a parking space unless the vehicle
vacating the space is actually in motion of the process of vacating.
   M.   Parking Not To Obstruct Traffic:
      1.   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
      2.   No person shall park any vehicle in such a manner or under such
conditions as to obstruct any sidewalk, crossing, crosswalk, or public or
private driveway.
   N.   Parking In Alleys: No person shall park any vehicle within an alley
except during the necessary and expeditious loading and unloading of
merchandise, and no person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle within an
alley in such a position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting
property or interfere with the free movement of traffic through the alley.
   O.   Standing And Parking On One-Way Roadways: In the event a street
includes two (2) separate roadways and traffic is restricted to one direction
upon each of said roadways, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon the
left side of either of such roadways.
   P.   Parking Prohibited At All Times On Certain Hours On Certain Streets:
When proper signs or traffic markings are erected or in place giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle or permit such vehicle to remain
standing at any time upon any of the streets or parts of streets.
   Q.   Parking On Walk Or Curbing: It shall be unlawful for any person to
leave or cause to be left or parked, any vehicle upon, or across any public
parking or sidewalk or that area between the sidewalk and curb. (Ord. 85-1, 7-
2-1985)
   R.   Parking Prohibited During Snow Removal: No person shall leave any
vehicle parked on the streets in Garland City when snow removal operations are
in progress or at any other time when snow removal operations are required or
being performed. (Ord. 10-03, 6-16-2010)
   S.   Parking Prohibited In Business Areas: Parking or leaving standing any
vehicle upon any public street or alley in the business areas shall be
restricted to two (2) hours maximum and such shall be properly posted in those
designated areas. (Ord. 85-1, 7-2-1985; amd. 2006 Code)
   T.   Parking Time On North Main From Factory Street To 100 North:
      1.   The parking on North Main from Factory Street to 100 North on both
sides of the street shall be one hour parking from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to
five thirty o'clock (5:30) P.M.
      2.   Any person as principal, or any person as agent or employee,
convicted of violating any of the provisions of this subsection shall be guilty
of an infraction and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   U.   Limit Of Parking Time Where Posted:
      1.   The parking in the City limits shall be limited in the area and for
the times posted by the City Street Department.
      2.   Any person as principal, or any person as agent or employee,
convicted of violating any of the provisions of this subsection shall be guilty
of an infraction and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-04, 6-20-2018)
   V.   Prima Facie Evidence For Parking Violations: The presence of any
vehicle in or upon any public street in the City, parked in violation of any
City ordinance relating to this section, shall be prima facie evidence that the
person in whose name such vehicle is registered as owner, committed or
authorized the commission of such violation. (Ord. 85-1, 7-2-1985)
   W.   Parking Of Large Commercial Vehicles:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to park a commercial vehicle with a
vehicle or combination registered weight of greater than twelve thousand
(12,000) pounds, on any street, alley or private property within Garland City
for a period of time longer than four (4) hours unless parked in a commercial
zone or other area where the parking of a commercial vehicle for a longer
period of time is allowed, or unless parked for the purpose of relocating the
personal property of a business or residence, such as in the case of a moving
van, or U-Haul, but such parking shall be subject to the other terms of this
chapter, and provided that no commercial vehicle shall be parked or left
standing at any time during the year, on any public road, street, or alley
within fifty feet (50') from the intersection of any street frontage property
lines. It is intended by the last provision to prohibit the parking of all
commercial vehicles within fifty feet (50') of a street corner or intersection
so as to assist in maintaining a clear view at intersecting streets and at
street corners. Provided, however, that the parking of a commercial vehicle on
private property for longer than four (4) hours shall be allowed if the
commercial vehicle can be driven onto the private property without driving over
a publicly owned curb, gutter or sidewalk and without damaging or causing the
potential for damage to any public property or improvements, and provided that
no engine or refrigerator unit, if any, may be started or left running anywhere
in the City, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. the next day, except as allowed in the next sentence. Provided,
however, that the engine and/or refrigeration unit of a commercial vehicle may
be started and/or left running for up to twenty four (24) hours a day if it is
parked where permitted on private property which is located within any
commercial district as shown on the City's zoning map. Parking a commercial
vehicle on private property shall also be subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   For purposes of this subsection, a "commercial vehicle" shall be
defined as a motor vehicle, trailer, or semitrailer used or maintained for the
transportation of persons or property that operates:
         a.   As a carrier for hire, compensation, or profit; or
         b.   As a carrier to transport the vehicle owner's goods or property
in furtherance of the owner's commercial enterprise.
      3.   This subsection does not apply to persons, motor vehicles, and other
equipment involved with the repair or construction of a highway, utility strip,
sidewalks or rights-of-way belonging to Garland City during the construction
period. However, this entire chapter applies to those persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from the work.
   X.   Recreational Vehicles/Trailers/Boats; Prohibited Parking: It shall be
unlawful to park a recreational vehicle, trailer, boat or similar apparatus, in
a manner proscribed elsewhere in this chapter, or:
      1.   To park such an item on any public street except for the immediate
loading or unloading and never longer than twenty four (24) consecutive hours;
      2.   To park any vehicle, trailer, etc., in any fire lane or to otherwise
block or obstruct any fire lane established by the City;
      3.   To park any vehicle, trailer, etc., on any public property other
than in designated parking or obvious parking areas or as legally permissible
on roadways; or
      4.   To park any vehicle in any location that interferes with the
delivery and monitoring of essential services, such as utilities, postal
services, and refuse collection;
      5.   To park any vehicle, trailer, boat, or similar apparatus upon any
developed parcel at a location other than that designed for parking.
         a.   Parking Surface: Areas designed for parking must be concrete,
asphalt, or similar solid surface of sufficient size to house the entire
vehicle.
         b.   Exception: This section shall not apply to vehicles parked so as
to facilitate the immediate loading or unloading thereof or service vehicles
actively involved in the construction, repair, or servicing of the premises.
      6.   No person who owns or has possession, custody or control of any
recreational vehicle shall park or leave standing, at any time during the year,
any such recreational vehicle on any public road, street, alley or other
Municipal property, within fifty feet (50') from the intersection of any street
frontage property lines. It is intended by this provision to prohibit the
parking of all recreational vehicles within fifty feet (50') of a street corner
or intersection so as to assist in maintaining a clear view at intersecting
streets and at street corners.
      7.   For purposes of this subsection, a "recreational vehicle" shall be
defined as a vehicular unit other than a mobile home, primarily designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, or vacation use, which is either
self-propelled or pulled by another vehicle. "Recreational vehicle" includes a
travel trailer, a camping trailer, a motor home, a fifth wheel trailer, and a
van. Flatbed and utility trailers are also included in this subsection as
"trailers".
   Y.   Use Of Front Yard For Parking Prohibited: No portion of a front yard as
required in this Code shall be used for the parking of automobiles or other
vehicles unless developed as a public parking area in conjunction with a
permitted multi-family, commercial or industrial use.
No portion of a required front yard, other than driveways leading to a garage
or properly located parking area, shall be paved or improved so as to encourage
or make possible the parking of vehicles therein. Paved driveways leading to a
garage or properly located parking area may be used as an approved parking area
for additional vehicles to meet the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 09-01,
4-21-2009)
5-8-4: HIGH SCHOOL PARKING:
   A.   Areas Designated:
      1.   Section I. An area located immediately south of the vocational
educational building and designated for student parking. It will be unlawful to
park any vehicle of any type in this area, except if the vehicle is parked in a
designated parking stall, which will be outlined in yellow. Any violator of
this subsection will be fined the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      2.   Section II. An area designated for the purpose of faculty parking.
It will be unlawful to park any vehicle of any kind in this area unless the
vehicle has a Bear River High School faculty parking permit in or on the
vehicle. Any violator of this subsection will be fined the sum of twenty five
dollars ($25.00).
      3.   Section III. An area located immediately west of the vocational
educational building and designated for student parking. It will be unlawful to
park any vehicle of any type in this area unless the vehicle is parked in a
designated parking stall, which will be outlined in yellow. Any violator of
this subsection will be fined the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      4.   Section IV. An area located immediately north of the band room/
cafeteria and designated for the purpose of faculty parking. It will be
unlawful to park any vehicle of any kind in this area unless the vehicle has a
Bear River High School parking permit in or on the vehicle. Any violator of
this subsection will be fined the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      5.   Section V. An area located immediately north of the natatorium and
designated for student parking. It will be unlawful to park any vehicle of any
type in this area except if the vehicle is parked in a designated parking
stall, which will be outlined in yellow. Any violator of this subsection will
be fined the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      6.   Section VI. An area located immediately south of the natatorium and
designated as student parking during school hours only because it is the
driving range with no parking marks. Vehicles must be moved by three o'clock
(3:00) P.M. It will be expected that the parking will be in an orderly fashion.
Any vehicle not parked in an orderly fashion will be found in violation of this
subsection. Any violator of this subsection will be fined the sum of twenty
five dollars ($25.00). All vehicles must be moved immediately after school
because of use of the driving range. All vehicles will be towed away at the
owner's expense if left on the driving range.
   B.   Bus Turnout Areas: It will be unlawful to park a vehicle in a
designated bus turnout area, unless it is a school bus. Any vehicle, other than
a school bus, parked in this area will be in violation of this subsection. Any
violator of this subsection will be fined the sum of seventy five dollars
($75.00).
   C.   Fire Zones: It will be unlawful to park any vehicle in the fire zones
in any of the parking lots listed above. The fire zones will be designated with
red paint and/or signs. Any violator of any of the fire zones will be fined the
sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   D.   Handicap Stall: It will be unlawful to park a vehicle in a designated
handicap stall without a handicap sticker. Any vehicle without a sticker parked
in the handicap stalls on campus will be in violation of this subsection. Any
violator of this subsection will be fined the sum of one hundred twenty five
dollars ($125.00). (Res. 03-08, 7-15-2003)
   E.   Intersection Of 1500 South And Main: It is illegal to park within
twenty feet (20') from the intersection of 1500 South and Main, or where it is
painted red on 1500 South. This will be considered an infraction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   F.   1400 South: No parking on 1400 South between the no parking signs on
the south side of the street. This will be considered an infraction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 18-05, 6-20-2018)
   G.   Repeat Offenders: Repeat offenders for parking violations will risk the
possibility of their vehicles being towed away at the owner's expense.
   H.   Payment Of Violations: All of the above violations are to be paid at
the City Court on the day mentioned on the citation. (Res. 03-08, 7-15-2003;
amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 9
URBAN FOWL USE
SECTION:
5-9-1: Regulations
5-9-1: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Subject to the requirements of this section and any other applicable
provision of this code, only chickens, ducks and pigeons and no roosters
regardless of age, in the amount set forth below, may be kept on a lot or
parcel of land in a residential (R) zone for single-family homes. There shall
be no butchering or slaughtering of fowl on residential property. Multi-family
dwellings shall be prohibited from having any fowl on said property.
      1.   The number of chickens, ducks and pigeons which may be kept shall be
limited up to twenty (20) pigeons and/or six (6) chickens or ducks.
      2.   The principal use on the lot or parcel shall be a single- family
dwelling only.
   B.   Chickens, ducks and pigeons shall be confined within a secure outdoor
enclosed area.
      1.   The enclosed area shall include a covered, ventilated, and predator
resistant coop to protect against burrowing vermin such as rats and mice.
         a.   The coop shall have a minimum floor area of at least two (2)
square feet per fowl.
         b.   If chickens, ducks and pigeons are not allowed to roam within an
enclosed area outside the coop, the coop shall have a minimum floor area of six
(6) square feet per fowl.
      2.   The coop shall be located in a rear yard at least five feet (5')
from any property line and ten feet (10') from any dwelling.
         a.   Fowl are vectors for the West Nile virus, the bird flu and other
diseases. The coop and enclosed area shall be maintained in a neat and sanitary
condition and disease free and shall be cleaned as necessary to prevent any
odor detectable at a property line.
         b.   No chickens, ducks or pigeons shall be permitted to roam outside
the coop or enclosed area.
      3.   Fowl feed shall be stored and dispensed in rodent and predator proof
containers.
   C.   Chickens, ducks and pigeons shall not be kept on a residential lot or
parcel unless the person keeping them first registers with the city.
      1.   The registrant shall acknowledge the rules set forth in this section
and shall, as a condition of filing the registration, agree to comply with such
rules.
      2.   The cost of filing a registration (to cover administration and
enforcement) shall be adopted by the city council.
      3.   The registration shall be good for one year and shall be renewed
annually.
      4.   Authorized personnel may inspect the property at any time to
determine whether the owner is in compliance with this section in a manner
consistent with the U.S. constitution.
   D.   Fowl kept as provided in this section shall not be deemed to be
household pets.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any fowl in a manner
contrary to the provisions of this section. Any such violation shall be a class
C misdemeanor.
   F.   Any fowl not reclaimed by the owner may be humanely euthanized after
being impounded for four (4) hours.
      1.   Any impounded fowl, that appears to be suffering from extreme injury
or illness may be euthanized without regard to the four (4) hour period for
humane purposes to be determined by the authorized personnel or animal control
officer or designee.
   G.   Fowl currently existing in the city shall not be "grandfathered" or
permitted to remain after the effective date hereof; however, owners of the
fowl will have one hundred eighty (180) days from the effective date to come
into compliance with this section. (Ord. 10-01, 1-20-2010)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Supervisor Of Streets
6-1-2: Sidewalks And Shade Trees
6-1-3: Repairing Sidewalks
6-1-4: Encroachments
6-1-5: Defects Repaired
6-1-6: Building Material In Street
6-1-7: Obstructions
6-1-8: Driving On Sidewalks
6-1-9: Gates To Swing Inward
6-1-10: Sand, Gravel And Similar Substances
6-1-11: Snow Removal
6-1-12: Penalty
6-1-1: SUPERVISOR OF STREETS:
There shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council a
supervisor of streets whose duty it shall be to see that the provisions of this
chapter are faithfully carried out, and shall perform such other and further
duties as may be prescribed by the mayor and city council from time to time.
(1949 Code § 16-0-1; amd. 2006 Code)
6-1-2: SIDEWALKS AND SHADE TREES:
When required by the city council, the supervisor of streets shall, where the
same has not already been defined, cause a measurement to be made defining the
outside limits of the sidewalks on any street of the city and establish the
line for all shade trees thereon. All trees shall be planted under the
direction of the city council and no trees shall be removed without the consent
of the city council. (1949 Code § 16-0-2)
6-1-3: REPAIRING SIDEWALKS:
Whenever a sidewalk is out of repair by reason of the act or omission of any
person, firm or corporation, the same shall be repaired at his expense under
the direction of the superintendent of streets. (1949 Code § 16-0-3)
6-1-4: ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Authority To Remove: If any street is encroached upon by a fence,
building, pedestrian trip hazard or vision impairment: trees, shrubs, poles,
etc., the superintendent of streets shall, in writing, require the
encroachments to be removed.
   B.   Notice To Remove: Notice must be given to the occupant or owner of the
land, or person causing or owning the encroachments, or be left at their place
of residence, if they reside in the city; if not, it must be posted on the
encroachment, specifying the breadth of the street, the place and extent of the
encroachment and requiring them to remedy or repair the same within ten (10)
days thereafter.
   C.   Refusal: It shall be unlawful to leave or cause to be left by any
person, firm or corporation, any encroachment upon the streets of the city
after the expiration of the ten (10) days from the service or posting of a
notice to remove said encroachment. If the encroachment is such as to
effectually obstruct and prevent the use of the highway for vehicles and
pedestrians, the superintendent of streets must forthwith remove the same.
   D.   Court Action To Abate: If the encroachment is denied and the owner,
occupant or person controlling the matter or thing charged with being an
encroachment refuses either to remove or permit the removal thereof, the city
council must direct the city attorney to commence in the proper court action to
abate the same as a nuisance.
   E.   Refusal; Supervisor To Remove: If the encroachment is not denied but is
not removed for ten (10) days after the notice is complete, the supervisor of
streets may cause said encroachment to be removed at the expense of the owner,
occupant or person controlling the same, and recover their costs and expenses
in an action for that purpose. (Ord. 15-02, 7-22-2015)
6-1-5: DEFECTS REPAIRED:
All defects in public streets, coming to the knowledge of any officer or person
in the employ of the city, shall be by him at once communicated to the
supervisor of streets and sidewalks, and he or some competent person detailed
by him shall, without delay, repair or cause such defect to be immediately
repaired, and until such repair is completed, he shall do whatever shall be
necessary to protect the public from injury by reason of the defect. (1949 Code
§ 16-0-11)
6-1-6: BUILDING MATERIAL IN STREET:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to occupy or use any
portion of the public streets for the erection or repair of any building upon
land abutting thereon, without first making application to and receiving from
the city council a permit for the occupation or use, for building purposes, of
such portions of streets, and for such periods of time and under such
limitations and restrictions as may be required by the city council; provided,
that no permit shall be granted to occupy more footage than permitted by the
zoning ordinance of any street measured from the curb line, and any such permit
may be revoked by the city council at any time when the holder thereof fails to
comply with any rule or regulation under which it is granted, or when, in the
opinion of the city council, the public good requires such revocation. (1949
Code § 16-0-12; amd. 2006 Code)
6-1-7: OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Removal:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to put,
place or cause to be put or placed anywhere upon a public street or sidewalk,
and it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning, occupying
or having control of any premises after reasonable notice by the chief of
police or any police official, to suffer to be or remain in front thereof, upon
the sidewalk, on the half of the street next to such premises:
         a.   Any broken ware, glass, filth, rubbish or refuse matter on the
half of the street next to such premises;
         b.   Any wagons, old automobiles, lumber, wood, boxes, fencing,
building material, merchandise or other things which shall obstruct such public
streets or sidewalks, or any part thereof, or the free use and enjoyment
thereof, or the free passage over and upon the same, or any part thereof,
without the permission of the supervisor of streets;
         c.   Any goods, wares or merchandise for sale or show, or otherwise,
beyond three feet (3') of the front line of the lot where such goods, wares or
merchandise may be exposed.
      2.   No person receiving or delivering goods, wares or merchandise in
this city shall place or keep upon any sidewalk in said city any goods, wares,
or merchandise for a longer period than two (2) hours. Any person violating any
of the provisions of this subsection shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty
of an infraction, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Games Obstructing Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to
obstruct any sidewalk or street by games of any kind, playing of ball, quoits,
marbles, jumping, rolling of hoops, flying of kites or roller skating, to annoy
or obstruct the free travel of any pedestrian or vehicle. (1949 Code §§ 15-0-15
and 16-0-13; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. O-21-14, 11-10-2021)
6-1-8: DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a team or other vehicle, or lead,
ride or drive any animal upon any sidewalk in this city. (1949 Code § 16-0-14)
6-1-9: GATES TO SWING INWARD:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to allow or cause to
allow any gate to open outward and upon the sidewalks. (1949 Code § 16-0-16)
6-1-10: SAND, GRAVEL AND SIMILAR SUBSTANCES:
It shall be unlawful to place or pile, or to cause or permit to be placed or
piled, any sand, gravel, lime, cement, mortar, plaster, concrete or any like
substance or mixture, or allow the same to remain on any portion of any paved
street or sidewalk in the city; or to make or mix or to cause or permit to be
made or mixed, any mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance or mixture
on any portion of any paved street or sidewalk in the city, without first
obtaining a permit therefor from the supervisor of streets. (1949 Code § 16-0-
18)
6-1-11: SNOW REMOVAL:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, having charge or control of or
occupying any property, building, lot, part of lot, land or real estate
abutting on any street of the city to fail, refuse or neglect to remove
promptly and effectually every snowfall from the sidewalk in front of such
property. In case of such failure, refusal or neglect, the supervisor of
streets may cause the removal of the snow and charge the cost thereof to the
property owner. Snow from any such property may not be placed in any street or
right of way. (Ord. 16-01, 1-27-2016)
6-1-12: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions as contained in
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of an infraction, and subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1949 Code § 16-0-23; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. O-21-14, 11-10-
2021)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
6-2-1: Established
6-2-2: Special Fund
6-2-3: Claims
6-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
The Carnegie free public library of the city is hereby established, to be kept
and maintained at the said Carnegie library building provided for that purpose.
The library shall be controlled by the mayor and city council. The mayor shall
appoint and the city council shall ratify a librarian and such assistants as
shall be necessary and convenient to properly operate said library for the
benefit of the public. (1949 Code § 6-0-1)
6-2-2: SPECIAL FUND:
All monies realized from any levy made for the support of the public library
within the city shall be held by the city treasurer in separate fund to known
as the "library fund". (1949 Code § 6-0-2)
6-2-3: CLAIMS:
All claims for materials, merchandise, books or other property furnished, or
for services rendered, or for any other expense incurred on behalf of the
public library, shall be audited and recommended for either nonpayment or
payment by the librarian each month and shall then be delivered to the mayor
and city council to be acted upon in the same manner as other claims. (1949
Code § 6-0-3)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Permit Required
6-3-2: Fee For Permit
6-3-3: Bond Required
6-3-4: Subject And Excluded Excavations
6-3-5: Standards
6-3-6: Revocation Or Refusal Of Permit; Emergency Excavations
6-3-7: Cutting Of Newly Paved Streets
6-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to break, excavate, tunnel, undermine or in
any manner affect the surface or base of any street or public way, unless such
person shall first have obtained an excavation permit therefor from the public
works director or his authorized representative. (2006 Code)
6-3-2: FEE FOR PERMIT:
A fee shall accompany the application for street excavation permits in such
amount as established by resolution of the city council. (2006 Code)
6-3-3: BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Conditions: In order to ensure proper backfill and restoration of the
surface, the applicant shall call the public works department for inspections
of backfill, subgrade, base and asphalt. The applicant shall deposit a surety
bond or cash deposit with the city recorder, payable to the city, except that a
public utility operating or using any of the streets under a franchise from the
city will not be required to furnish such bond, providing such franchise
obligates the holder thereof to restore the streets and to hold the city
harmless in the event of any injury to any person or damage to any property due
to negligence of such holder in conducting excavation and restoration
operations under such franchise. The required surety bond must be:
      1.   With good and sufficient surety.
      2.   By a surety company authorized to transact business in the state.
      3.   Satisfactory to the city attorney in form and substance.
      4.   Conditioned upon the applicant's compliance with this chapter in
order to secure and hold the city and its officers harmless against any and all
claims, judgments or other costs arising from the excavation and other work
covered by the excavation permit or for which the municipal officer may be made
liable by reason of any accident or injury to any person or property through
the fault of the applicant arising out of failure to properly guard the
excavation or for any other negligence of the applicant.
      5.   Conditioned to fill up, restore and place in good and safe
condition, as near as may be to its original condition, and to the satisfaction
of the city, all openings and excavations made in streets, and to maintain any
street where excavation is made in as good condition for the period of one year
after the work shall be done, usual wear and tear excepted, as it was before
the work shall have been done.
   B.   Amount: The amount of the surety bond or cash deposit shall be
established by resolution and may be changed from time to time, but until such
resolution is passed, the amount of the surety or cash deposit shall be five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00). (2006 Code)
6-3-4: SUBJECT AND EXCLUDED EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Subject Excavations: The following types of excavations are subject to
the provisions of this chapter: Excavations for installation or repair of water
lines, sewer lines, gas lines, electrical cable and conduit, telephone cable
and conduits, and all other excavations for any other purposes within the
street rights of way of the city or in other public places.
   B.   Excluded Excavations: The following types of excavations do not come
within the scope of this chapter: Excavations of any kind in municipal streets
in projects designed, contracted for and inspected by the public works director
or his authorized representative. (2006 Code)
6-3-5: STANDARDS:
   A.   Preparation: The pavement sidewalk, driveway or other surface shall be
saw cut vertically along the lines forming the trench in such a manner as to
not damage the adjoining pavement or hard surfacing. An undercut bevel at the
rate of one inch (1") per foot of thickness will be provided at the proposed
junction between the old and new surfaces. The portion to be removed shall be
broken up in a manner that will not cause damage to the pavement outside the
limits of the trench; however, any pavement damaged by operations outside the
limits of the trench shall be replaced. All waste material resulting from the
excavation shall be removed immediately from the site of work and disposed of
in a legal manner.
   B.   Backfill:
      1.   Specifications:
         a.   Materials for backfill will be of select nature. All broken
concrete, asphalt, peat, decomposed vegetable matter and similar materials
obtained from excavation shall be removed from the site prior to beginning of
backfilling. All backfill shall be placed in layers not over eight inches (8")
loose measure in thickness. Compaction shall be obtained by mechanical rollers,
mechanical tampers or similar means. Material for backfilling shall have
optimum moisture to ensure compaction to a minimum of ninety six percent (96%)
of maximum dry density. Jetting or internal vibrating methods of compacting
sand fill or similar methods of compacting sand or similar granular free
draining materials will be permitted.
         b.   The type of material used in street excavations shall consist of
one inch (1") minus granular road base. If the bottom of the excavation is
saturated, then one inch (1") minus crushed rock must be used until it is
stable. Sand may be used to bed pipes, conduits or cable.
      2.   Density: The density (dry) of the backfill under pavements,
sidewalks, curbs or other structures shall not be less than ninety six percent
(96%) of maximum dry density.
      3.   Notification Prior To Backfilling: Notify the public works
department at least four (4) hours prior to backfilling, indicating the time
trench is to be backfilled.
   C.   Restoration Of Surfaces:
      1.   General: All street surfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, driveways
or other hard surfaces falling in the line of the excavation which must be
removed in performance of the work shall be restored in kind by the excavator
to a thickness equal to that thickness removed, plus one inch (1"), unless
otherwise directed by the public works director, in accordance with the
specifications contained herein governing the various types of surfaces
involved.
      2.   Protection Of Paved Surfaces: In order to avoid unnecessary damage
to paved surfaces, track equipment shall use pavement pads when operating on or
crossing paved surfaces.
      3.   Time: In traffic lanes of paved streets, the excavator shall provide
temporary gravel surfaces or patch asphalt immediately after backfill has been
placed, and shall complete permanent repairs on the street, sidewalk, curb,
gutter, driveway and other surfaces, within five (5) days from the date of
completion of the backfill, except for periods:
         a.   When permanent paving material is not available;
         b.   When weather conditions prevent permanent replacement;
         c.   When an extension of time is granted by the public works
director.
      4.   Temporary Repair: If temporary repair has been made on a paved
street with gravel, and permanent repair cannot be made within the time
specified above due to any of the above mentioned conditions, then the
excavator shall be required to patch the asphalt as soon as conditions permit.
   D.   Restoring Bituminous, Concrete Or Asphalt Street Surfaces:
      1.   Temporary Grade Surface: Where excavations are made in paved areas,
the surface shall be replaced with a temporary gravel surface. The gravel shall
be placed deep enough to provide a minimum of six inches (6") below the bottom
of the bituminous, or concrete surface. The gravel shall be placed in the
trench at the time it is backfilled. The temporary gravel surface shall be
maintained by grading, sprinkling, rolling, adding gravel to maintain a safe,
uniform surface satisfactory to the public works director or his authorized
representative until the final surface is laid. Excess material shall be
removed from the premises immediately. Material for use on temporary gravel
surfaces shall be obtained from sound, tough, durable gravel or rock meeting
the city standard specifications for design and construction.
      2.   Bituminous Surface: The exposed edges of existing pavement shall be
primed with type MC-1 bituminous material or equivalent. The type, grade and
mixture of the asphalt shall be as specified in the city standard
specifications for design and construction. The thickness shall be equal to the
adjacent surface thickness, plus one inch (1") but not less than three inches
(3"). The complete surface shall not deviate more than one-fourth inch (1/4")
between the old and new work. Hot plant bituminous material must be used.
   E.   Concrete Surfaces: The subbase for concrete surfaces shall be sprinkled
just before placing concrete. Joints and surfaces shall be made to match the
original surfaces. The thickness of concrete shall be equal to the adjacent
concrete but in no case less than six inches (6") thick, and placement of the
concrete shall be as specified in the city standard specifications for design
and construction. In no case shall the concrete have less compressive strength
than four thousand (4,000) pounds per square inch at the end of twenty eight
(28) calendar days.
   F.   Concrete Base, Bituminous Wearing Surfaces: This type of surfacing
shall be constructed as above described.
   G.   Gravel Surfaces: Trenches excavated through gravel surfaced area, such
as gravel roads and shoulders and unpaved driveways, shall be the gravel
restored and maintained as described in subsection D of this section, except
that the gravel shall be a minimum of one inch (1") more than the thickness of
the existing gravel.
   H.   Protection Of Public During Excavation Project: Excavation operations
shall be conducted in such a manner that a minimum amount of interference or
interruption of street traffic will result. Inconvenience to residents and
businesses fronting on public streets shall be minimized. Barricades shall be
available and used where necessary and shall comply with UDOT standards in
accordance with MUTCD to prevent accidents involving property or persons.
Barricades must be in place until all of the excavator's equipment is removed
from site, excavation has been backfilled and the street has been restored to
the same condition existing prior to the excavation or a proper temporary
gravel surface is in place. From sunset to sunrise, all barricades and
excavations must be clearly outlined by acceptable warning lights, lanterns,
flares and other devices. Police and fire departments shall be notified at
least twenty four (24) hours in advance of any planned excavation requiring
street closures or detours. No excavation shall remain open in any street for a
period of more than ten (10) calendar days. All traffic control shall be
performed in accordance with the manual on uniform traffic control devices
(MUTCD).
   I.   Relocation And Protection Of Utilities: An excavator shall not
interfere with any existing utility without the written consent of the
governing body and without advance notice to the owner of the utility. If it
becomes necessary to relocate an existing utility, it shall be done by its
owner unless the owner otherwise directs. No utility, whether owned by the city
or by a private enterprise, shall be moved to accommodate the applicant unless
the cost of such work is borne by the applicant or applicant provides proof to
the city of a written agreement in which the applicant and utility owner make
other arrangements relating to cost acceptable to the city. The applicant shall
support and protect all pipes, conduits, poles, wires or other apparatus which
may be in any way affected by the excavation work, and shall do everything
necessary to support, sustain and protect them under, over, along or across the
work. In case any of the pipes, conduits, poles, wires or apparatus should be
damaged (and for this purpose pipe coating or the encasement or devices are to
be considered as part of the substructure), they shall be repaired by the
entity owning them, but the utility owner shall be reimbursed for the expense
of such repairs by the applicant. It is the intent of this subsection that the
applicant shall assume all liability for damage to substructures, and any
resulting damage or injury to anyone because of such substructure damage and
such assumption of liability shall be deemed a contractual obligation which the
applicant accepts upon acceptance of an excavation permit. The city need not be
made a party to any action because of this subsection. The applicant shall
inform itself as to the existence and location of all underground utilities and
protect the same against danger.
   J.   Jetting Pipe: Jetting pipe by means of water under pressure or
compressed air is permitted only when approved by the city. (2006 Code)
6-3-6: REVOCATION OR REFUSAL OF PERMIT; EMERGENCY EXCAVATIONS:
All permits shall be subject to revocation and the city may refuse to issue a
permit for failure of the applicant to abide by the terms and conditions of
this chapter. Excavation permits will not be requested prior to the excavation
in case of emergency endangering life or property, providing the city is
notified as soon as practicable and a permit is applied for upon the next
regular working day following an emergency. (2006 Code)
6-3-7: CUTTING OF NEWLY PAVED STREETS:
   A.   The City's policy is not to cut newly paved streets for five (5) years
from the time of paving. This applies to new streets, streets that have been
reconstructed, and overlaid streets. However, in the situations where a street
must be cut during this time period, the street shall be restored per the APWA
Bituminous Pavement T Patch standard, latest edition.
   B.   A request for a road cut within the five years requires coming before
the City Council with specific facts and reasons to why the cutting of the
newly paved street is necessary at that time, and requires obtaining Council
approval, with the recommendation from the City Engineer. (Ord. O-24-06, 9-18-
2024)
CHAPTER 4
STREET AND BUILDING NUMBERING SYSTEM
SECTION:
6-4-1: Street Names Designated On Official Map
6-4-2: Street Name Changes Fee
6-4-3: Building Numbering System
6-4-4: House Numbers; Issuance; Use Required
6-4-5: House Numbers; Display Specifications
6-4-6: House Numbers; Using Different System Prohibited
6-4-1: STREET NAMES DESIGNATED ON OFFICIAL MAP:
   A.   All streets of the city shall be known by names by which they are so
designated on the official map of Garland City, filed in the office of the
county recorder's office on November 17, 2011, and such additions, changes and
corrections of the names of streets as shall from time to time be placed on
said official map by ordinance. (Ord. 12-01, 1-24-2012)
6-4-2: STREET NAME CHANGES FEE:
   A.   A nonrefundable fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be
paid by any person requesting consideration for a change of the name of any
street. Said fee shall not be payable where such street name change is
determined by the city to be necessary in order to eliminate duplication of
names or to avoid other confusion which would have a negative impact upon the
providing of emergency services if such street remains unchanged. (Ord. 12-01,
1-24-2012)
6-4-3: BUILDING NUMBERING SYSTEM:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the city engineer, in numbering the houses or
buildings upon the streets of the city, to adopt a numbering system in
accordance with the Garland addressing system, allowing for one number every
8.25 feet. The initial point shall be the junction of Main Street and Factory
Street, and the numbering shall extend east, west, north, and south with even
numbers always on the right, and odd numbers always on the left, looking away
from the initial point. In numbering such streets which do not strictly run in
a compass direction, the city engineer shall attempt to make such numbering as
consistent as possible with the scheme expressed above. (Ord. 12-01, 1-24-2012)
6-4-4: HOUSE NUMBERS; ISSUANCE; USE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to erect a house or building within the
limits of the city without numbering such house or building with the number
designated by the city engineer or for the occupant of any house or building,
or for the owner or agent of any unoccupied habitable house or building, to
fail for a longer period of ten (10) days notice from the city engineer so to
do, to number such a house or building with the number designated by the public
works director. (Ord. 12-01, 1-24-2012)
6-4-5: HOUSE NUMBERS; DISPLAY SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   When such number has been designated by the city engineer, the owner or
occupant of such house or building shall cause a painted, carved or cast
duplicate of such number at least three inches (3") in height and of a shade
contrast to the background upon which the number is mounted to be placed in a
conspicuous position upon the front of such house or building, in a permanent,
stationary and durable manner, unobstructed at all times by vines, screens or
anything that would tend to hide or obscure the number, and so that the number
will be clearly perceptible from a distance of one hundred fifty feet (150').
(Ord. 12-01, 1-24-2012)
6-4-6: HOUSE NUMBERS; USING DIFFERENT SYSTEM PROHIBITED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to number any house or building in any
different manner other than that prescribed in this chapter, and it is unlawful
for any block or row of houses to be hereafter designated by a distinct
numbering of the houses situated therein, and it shall be the duty of the
owners of all such blocks or rows of houses now numbered in any manner other
than described in this chapter to immediately cause such numbers to conform to
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 12-01, 1-24-2012)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Compliance
7-1-2: Regulations Generally
7-1-3: Supervision Of Water System
7-1-4: Application For Connection
7-1-5: Connection Costs
7-1-6: Deposits
7-1-7: Connection Fees And Water Rates
7-1-8: Meter Required
7-1-9: Billings; Payment And Delinquency
7-1-10: Turning Water On After Being Turned Off Prohibited
7-1-11: Separate Connections
7-1-12: Maintenance Of Service Connections
7-1-13: Waste Of Water
7-1-14: Permit For Installations
7-1-15: Services Outside City Limits
7-1-16: Nonliability For Damages
7-1-17: Landscape Irrigation
7-1-18: Penalty
7-1-1: COMPLIANCE:
This chapter shall comply with Utah Code Annotated title 10, and may be
enforced from appropriate sections in said title 10. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989)
7-1-2: REGULATIONS GENERALLY:
The city council shall have power and retains the right to adopt by resolution,
regulations and agreements controlling the manner and circumstances under which
the water system may be used, in addition to the regulatory provisions set
forth expressly in this chapter. Such regulatory provisions may include
regulations relating to the manner in which excavations shall be made for
purposes of making connection or repairs to the water service lines. (Ord. 89-
1, 5-16-1989)
7-1-3: SUPERVISION OF WATER SYSTEM:
The construction, repair, maintenance, control and supervision of the city
culinary water system shall be vested in the city council, and the mayor, by
and with the consent of the city council, may appoint a supervisor of the water
system, whose duties shall be to manage, care for and supervise the water
system. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989)
7-1-4: APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION:
Any person, firm or corporation who purchases or otherwise acquires ownership
within the municipal boundaries of the city, who desires a culinary water
connection to the water mains of the city, or is already connected to the city
water system, shall make application in writing with the city, which shall be
in substantially the following form:
   APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE
   Garland City, UT
Date:
TO: Garland City, Utah:
The undersigned hereby applies for water services from Garland City, for
premises located at:                               , and hereby agrees to be
bound by the ordinances, rules, regulations and resolutions enacted or adopted
by the city of Garland applicable to such water services and agrees to pay
charges for such water services furnished to such premises as fixed by the city
council by ordinance or by resolution prior to water meter installation and
until such time as I shall direct such service to be discontinued.
In the event of failure to pay for such water services or for failure to pay
for sewer and refuse services and/or penalties which may be billed with such
water services within the due dates therefor fixed by the city council, or of a
failure of the applicant or occupant of such premises to conform to the
ordinances and regulations established by the city council governing the use of
the water system, the city shall have the right to discontinue the water
service until all delinquencies and any reconnection fees imposed are paid in
full or until the said failure to conform to the ordinances and regulations of
Garland City is eliminated.
Additionally I understand and agree that Garland City shall have the right to
institute collection proceedings for any delinquent water, sewer or refuse
service charges, including penalties and reasonable costs of collection
therefor.
                              
Applicant 1
(Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989)
 
Notes
  1. "Applicant" is any person, firm or corporation who purchases or otherwise
1 acquires ownership of the premises to which water service is to be supplied.
   
7-1-5: CONNECTION COSTS:
   A.   Distance; Estimate: Application for water service shall contain, where
applicable, a statement of the distance from the applicant's property line to
the nearest point where said water connection can be made to the city lines,
together with necessary easements in favor of the city for the running of such
connecting lines. Upon determination by the water superintendent or the city
council that the city can feasibly connect such property to its water system,
the city shall cause to be made an estimate of the expense of running such
line, labor, equipment, excavation, installing a meter, stop cock, valves and
other hardware as may be required. A copy of such estimate of expense shall be
delivered to the applicant, and said applicant shall pay to the city in advance
the estimated expense of making such water connection, together with water
connection fees as fixed by ordinance or resolution of the city council. Upon
receipt of such water connection fee and estimated expenses as hereinabove set
forth, the city shall cause to be constructed the water connection line,
including the meter, stop cock, valves and other hardware to a point near the
applicant's property line at the applicant's expense. The applicant is
responsible to connect from the meter to and through the dwelling, business,
etc., using qualified/certified contractors/plumbers to perform the work. The
city shall supervise the work and type of materials used.
   B.   Cost In Excess Of Estimate: If the estimated cost so prepaid by the
applicant is in excess of the actual cost when said connection is made, the
city shall apply the excess to the credit of the water, sewer, and refuse
account of the applicant. If the said estimated expense is not sufficient to
pay for the actual costs of making said installation, then the applicant shall
pay the city any such difference in full at the time the water meter is read
and the first bill rendered therefor. The city and the applicant may enter into
an agreement providing in detail the terms under which part or all the cost of
such extended main line may be refunded from connections made within five (5)
years to the extended line by the parties connecting onto the main line
extension. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989)
7-1-6: DEPOSITS:
   A.   Required; Amount: Applicants shall deposit to the city as a guarantee
for payment of all such water services, sewer services, refuse services and
penalties billed by the city and with said water charges in such amount as
established by resolution of the city council. In the event the applicant shall
fail to pay his water charges, sewer charges, refuse charges and penalties
billed therewith, said deposit may be applied to the payment of the delinquent
charges. Upon termination of services, said deposit or any unconsumed portion
thereof, shall be returned to the depositor, provided all such charges have
been paid. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Not Advance Payment: Such deposit shall not be considered an advance
payment of any service charges and unpaid accounts which may be considered
delinquent, notwithstanding the existence of such deposit.
   C.   Builders: Builders requesting a water connection for construction
purposes shall place a two hundred dollar ($200.00) deposit with the city.
Water shall be charged at the standard rate as specified in this chapter. This
deposit shall entitle the contractor to use water for a period not to exceed
one year. At the end of the year or if he terminates the water service prior to
one year, any excess above the costs of water used shall be returned to him.
(Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989)
7-1-7: CONNECTION FEES AND WATER RATES:
   A.   Approval For Connection Required: Water connections shall be made to
the city water system only by qualified plumbers/contractors and only upon the
written approval as to materials and means of connection of the water
superintendent.
   B.   Line Size: All connections will be by three-fourths inch (3/4") line
for single dwellings and as specifically authorized by resolution of the city
council for commercial, school, church or other use. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989)
   C.   Connection Fees: Water connection fees shall be in such amount as
established by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989; amd. 2006
Code)
   D.   Rates Established By Resolution: Water service rates shall be
established by resolution.
   E.   Change In Fees And Rates: The connection fees and water rates are
subject to change by resolution of the city council duly passed and adopted;
provided, however, no change of connection size or rate will be made which may
impair the ability of the city to pay and discharge the bonds and or other
obligations incurred for the installation, maintenance or repair of the water
system. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989)
7-1-8: METER REQUIRED:
No connection to the culinary water system shall be made without a water meter
installed by or under the direction of the city and in compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989)
7-1-9: BILLINGS; PAYMENT AND DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Specified; Enforcement: The city shall bill each water user for each
calendar month for the water actually or constructively used and adjusted by
actual meter readings. The billing for said water service may be combined with
the city sewer and refuse service charges, including penalties, and one bill
only rendered to the user. Payment in full for such combined billing shall be
made to the city on or before the fifteenth day of each calendar month covering
the previous calendar month services. If any water user fails to pay his
combined billing, including penalties, within thirty (30) days of the due date,
the city may enforce collection in either or all of the following ways:
      1.   Any account having a balance due sixty (60) days or over shall be
past due and considered for termination. The amount of the balance due over
sixty (60) days shall be charged penalties, and a termination notice shall sent
or delivered with a minimum five (5) day notice, that failure to pay in full
shall result in the termination of water service to the residence.
      2.   Any service that is disconnected due to the failure to make payment
in full shall be subject to any reconnect/deposit/redeposit fees as shall be
imposed. All past due balances and fees shall be received in advance before
services be reconnected.
      3.   The administrative assistant, city recorder or the water
superintendent shall have authority to direct that all water services to the
premises involved be shut off until payment of the delinquent water, sewer and
refuse charges, including penalties, have been paid.
   B.   Collection Proceedings: The administrative assistant and assigns are
hereby authorized and empowered to institute collection proceedings by all
means available to the city, including suit in a court of proper jurisdiction
pursuant to which judgment may be sought and obtained to collect all
delinquencies and fees that may be due or become due and to seek judgement
requiring the defendant to pay all costs of collection, including court costs
and attorney fees.
   C.   Payment Prior To Service Restoration:
      1.   Before water service to said premises shall again be provided, all
delinquent water, sewer and refuse charges, including penalties, must have been
paid to the city treasurer, together with such extra charge for turning the
water on and off as the city council may have established by resolution.
Reconnection will only be done during regular working hours: eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. to four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M., Monday through Friday. (Ord. 89-1,
5-16-1989; amd. 2006 Code)
      2.   The fifty dollar ($50.00) water deposit shall be applied to
applicant's account in the first quarter after two (2) years from deposit date
if the applicant has not received a delinquent notice in said two (2) years.
(Ord. 91-1, 1-15-1991)
7-1-10: TURNING ON WATER AFTER BEING TURNED OFF PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person after the water has been turned off from
any premises for nonpayment of water, sewer or refuse charges, and penalties or
other violation of the rules and regulations pertaining to the water system, to
turn on or allow the water to be turned on or used without authority. (Ord. 89-
1, 5-16-1989)
7-1-11: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS:
Each dwelling, business, multiple-dwelling building, church, school or other
user shall have a separate meter and service connection to the water system and
it shall be unlawful for any user to attach or permit to be attached to his
service connection any pipe or connection to any other user or property. (Ord.
89-1, 5-16-1989)
7-1-12: MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Required: All users of water services shall keep their service pipes
and connections in good repair and protected from damage, deterioration or
pollution. All pipe, fittings, valves or other devices shall be of such
material, quality and specifications as specified in the building and plumbing
codes and as the city council shall require, and shall be installed as
specified by regulations duly adopted by resolution of the city council, and
shall be installed only after first obtaining approval and permit therefor from
the water superintendent. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989; amd. 2006 Code)
   B.   Responsible Parties: The city is responsible to their residents/
applicants to maintain the main lines and the service connections/laterals up
to and including the meter. The resident applicants are responsible to maintain
the service connection/lateral from the meter to end of the applicants
connection.
   C.   Entry By City Authorized: The city is granted easement or right to come
upon and cross over water users property for the purpose of installing,
repairing, removing, maintaining, reading, shutting off the water meter and
accessories or for such other purpose as may be necessary or incidental to the
enforcement or supervision of the system. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989)
7-1-13: WASTE OF WATER:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any water user to waste water, or
to allow it to be wasted, by imperfect stops, taps, valves, leaky joints or
pipes, or to allow tanks or troughs to leak or overflow, or to wastefully run
water from hydrants, faucets or stops, or to use the water for purposes other
than for those which he has paid, or to use the water in violation of the rules
and regulations adopted by the city for controlling the water supply.
   B.   Limitations May Be Permitted: The city council may at any time fix by
resolution the time of day of water to be used for lawn sprinkling or other
irrigation purposes, and may divide the city into districts for that purpose as
in the judgment of the city council may be necessary. In time of scarcity of
water, the city council may in its sole discretion, limit the use of water for
other domestic purposes.
   C.   Termination For Violation: If, in the judgment of the water
superintendent, a user of municipal water engages in practices which result in
the needless waste of water, and continues so to do after reasonable notice to
discontinue such wastefulness has been given, the superintendent shall refer
the matter to the city council for appropriate action, which may include
termination of water service to such user or his premises. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-
1989)
7-1-14: PERMIT FOR INSTALLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the laying, repairing,
altering or connecting of any water line to the culinary water system of the
city without first having received a construction/excavation permit from the
office of the city recorder or from the water superintendent. Permits shall be
issued only to qualified plumbers/contractors and only after compliance with
this chapter and applicable resolutions, regulations and agreements. (Ord. 89-
1, 5-16-1989)
7-1-15: SERVICES OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   It is the City's policy to provide water services to only those
properties located within incorporated City limits.
   B.   Repair Of Lines: Any user outside the city limits shall be responsible
for repair of the service line/lateral up to the main line. The city shall
repair, contract to repair or supervise repair at the user's expense. This
includes excavation, materials, parts, labor, equipment and any other costs
which may arise in the repair of the service line/lateral. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-
1989; amd. Ord. O-24-07, 9-18-2024)
7-1-16: NONLIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
The city shall not be liable for any damage to any water user by reason of
stoppage or interruption of his water supply caused by the scarcity of water,
accidents, fires, or as the result of water system maintenance or extension
operations, or from any other unavoidable cause. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989)
7-1-17: LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION:
During the months of June through August of each and every year, the use of
Garland City culinary water for sprinkler irrigation of all lawns and
landscapes is prohibited between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) P.M.
The provisions of this section shall apply to all landscapes within the city.
This section shall not apply to:
   A.   New lawns that require frequent irrigation for establishment purposes
within ninety (90) days of planting.
   B.   Short cycles required for testing, inspecting and maintaining
irrigation systems.
   C.   Other situations as permitted by the city upon application and approval
by the city council.
Violations of this section shall be punishable as an infraction punishable by a
fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 09-02, 5-19-
2009)
7-1-18: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which a penalty
is not otherwise specifically prescribed, shall be deemed guilty of a class C
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 89-1, 5-16-1989; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. 09-02, 5-19-
2009)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Administration Generally
7-2-3: Use Of Public Sewers Required
7-2-4: Individual Wastewater Disposal Systems
7-2-5: Sanitary Sewers, Building Sewers And Connections
7-2-6: Discharges Into Sewer
7-2-7: Damage To System Prohibited
7-2-8: Power And Authority Of Inspectors
7-2-9: City Engineer Authority
7-2-10: Service Rates And Fees
7-2-11: Penalty
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (15 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called house connection.
CITY: Garland City, Utah.
CITY COUNCIL: The body of people elected to act in the administrative,
legislative or advisory capacity in the government of the city.
CITY ENGINEER: The person elected or the person appointed by the city council
to represent the city as their engineer.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or business
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
MAY: Is permissive (see definition of Shall).
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground
water.
OWNER: Shall include other persons having charge of or occupying any premises
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other like purposes.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7.
PREMISES: Any structure built, erected and framed of component structural parts
designed for housing, shelter, enclosure or support of persons, animals or
property of any kind.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
SEWAGE: The spent water of a community. The preferred term is "wastewater".
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carried wastewater or drainage water.
SHALL: Is mandatory (see definition of May).
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty four (24)
hour concentration or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect
the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A drain or sewer for conveying
water, ground water, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of public works of the city or his
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of,
or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in standard methods for the
examination of water and wastewater and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "water
pollution control plant".
WATERCOURSES: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently. (Ord. 82-1, 2-22-1982)
7-2-2: ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY:
   A.   Superintendent: The sewer system of the city shall be under the
immediate care, supervision and control of the superintendent of public works,
who shall in this chapter be hereinafter referred to as the "superintendent".
The superintendent shall have charge of all the equipment and appurtenances
pertaining to the sewage system of the city. He shall have the direction of the
laying of the sewer main and of putting service pipes, and the regulation and
disposal of sewage, and shall perform such other duties as may be required of
him by law or ordinance or his contract of employment. He shall make reports to
the city council as the city council shall by resolution provide and shall make
such suggestions as the nature of the service may require.
   B.   Rules And Regulations: The mayor and the city council shall from time
to time enact by resolution regulations prescribing connection charges and
rates to be charged for the use of the sewer system, inspection and permit fees
and procedures, rules for levying, billing, guaranteeing and collecting the
charges for sewer service, rules governing the manner of making connections to
the sewer system, materials to be used and such other rules and regulations for
the management and control of sewage disposal as they shall deem fit.
   C.   Survey Conducted: The city council has caused a survey to be made of
sanitary conditions within the city, including the geological aspects in
relation to industrial, business and residential establishments as the same
affect the health and welfare of the inhabitants of the city, and has
determined and does hereby determine and require that it is necessary for the
protection of the public health that owners of improved property within the
city be required to connect their industrial, business and residential
establishments to the sewer system and to cease to use all other methods of
sewage disposal, if such establishments are capable of being served by and
through the municipal sewer system.
   D.   Contracts: The city council is hereby authorized to make and enter into
such contracts as may be necessary, convenient or proper with respect to the
carriage and treatment of sewage for improved property outside the territorial
limits of the city and with respect to the payment of property charges for such
service, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
connection charges justly related to but not less than the charges hereinabove
fixed; provided, that no such contract shall impair the ability of the city to
carry and treat properly the sanitary sewage furnished within the territorial
limits of the city. (Ord. 82-1, 2-22-1982)
7-2-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Unsanitary Deposit Of Waste Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the city or any area under the jurisdiction
of said city, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable
waste.
   B.   Unlawful Discharge To Natural Outlet: It shall be unlawful to discharge
to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the city, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Disposal Facilities Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy
vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of wastewater when a public sanitary sewer is within three hundred
feet (300') of the property line.
      2.   Septic tanks will be permitted only when the public sanitary sewer
is more than three hundred feet (300') from the property line or in cases of
undue hardship. In either case, justification for the use of the septic tank
must be certified to by the superintendent and the city engineer, and approved
in writing by the city council. Construction and use of septic tanks must
comply with section
7-2-4 of this chapter.
   D.   Connection Required; Violation: The owner of any property upon which
houses, buildings or other properties are located and used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other like purposes, situated within the city and
abutting or within three hundred feet (300') of any street, alley, right of way
or easement, or if the property contains an easement in which there is located
a public sanitary sewer, is hereby required, at the owner's expense, to connect
the houses, buildings or other properties directly to the public sanitary sewer
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Every such owner shall,
within ninety (90) calendar days after the date shown on the official written
notice to do so, connect said premises to the public sanitary sewer, and it
shall thereafter be unlawful for such owner to have the plumbing in said
premises remain unconnected to the public sanitary sewer or to maintain or use
or cause or permit to exist any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater. Failure of the
owner to comply with the requirements of this subsection within the time
prescribed may be a violation of this chapter and a penalty of one hundred
percent (100%) of the applicable hookup fee shall be added to the hookup fee,
together with interest levied at the legal rate effective at the time the
hookup is made and beginning with the date the violation began up to and
including the date of the application for sewer service. (Ord. 82-1, 2-22-1982)
7-2-4: INDIVIDUAL WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   When Permitted: Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under
the provisions of subsection 7-2-3D of this chapter, the building sewer shall
be connected to an individual wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of this section.
   B.   Permit; Inspection Fee: Before commencement of construction of an
individual wastewater disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written
permit signed by the superintendent. The application for such permit shall be
made on a form furnished by the city and shall include a letter from the county
sanitarian or Utah division of health approving the site for an individual
wastewater disposal system. The applicant shall supplement the application with
any plans, specifications or other information as are deemed necessary by the
superintendent. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the city at the
time the application is filed.
   C.   Inspection Of System: A permit for use of an individual wastewater
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the superintendent. The superintendent shall be allowed
to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event, the
applicant for the permit shall notify the superintendent when the work is ready
for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within forty eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice
by the superintendent.
   D.   Standards: The type, capacities, location and layout of individual
wastewater disposal systems shall comply with regulations of the Utah state
division of health. No septic tank shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   E.   Connection To Public Sewer Upon Availability: At such time as a public
sewer becomes available to a property served by an individual wastewater
disposal system, as provided in subsection 7-2-3D of this chapter, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer within ninety (90) calendar days
in compliance with this chapter, and the septic tanks and similar private
wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with
suitable material.
   F.   Maintenance Of System By Owner: The owner shall operate and maintain
the individual wastewater disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all
times, at no expense to the city. The sludge from the septic tanks is to be
removed by a scavenger licensed to do business in the city and disposed of in
the public sanitary sewer system at a location designated by the city. The city
shall collect a fee for permitting the disposal of the sludge in the sewer
system.
   G.   Additional Requirements: No statement contained in this section shall
be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed
by the city, county or state health officials. (Ord. 82-1, 2-22-1982)
7-2-5: SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, open any manhole, damage or
disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a
written permit from the superintendent.
   B.   Classification Of Permits; Contract For Sewer Service; Fee:
      1.   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: a) for
residential and commercial service; and b) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the contractor who is currently
licensed by the state to do this type of work and who also holds a valid city
license, shall make application for the owner or his agent on a special form
furnished by the city. The permit application shall include the "contract for
sewer service", duly signed by the owner or his authorized agent, and shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the superintendent. A permit and inspection fee
shall be paid to the city at the time the application is filed. If any work is
commenced that requires a permit, prior to obtaining the permit therefor, the
permit fee will be doubled at the time the permit is obtained and all work done
shall be uncovered, tested and made to comply with the provisions of this
chapter. If the public sewer has been tapped and/or the connection made thereto
prior to obtaining the required permit and without proper inspection by the
superintendent, the city license of the contractor doing the work shall be
revoked and not renewable with the city for a period of one year.
      2.   The permit shall be on the premises, readily available, during the
whole time that the work is in progress and must be exhibited, on request, to
the superintendent or his authorized agent.
   C.   Costs Borne By Owner; Nonliability Of City: All costs and expenses
incidental to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be
borne by the owner. The owner and his contractor shall indemnify the city from
any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
   D.   Separate Sewers Required; Exception: A separate and independent
building sewer shall be provided for every building; except where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer, but the city does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such single
connection aforementioned.
   E.   Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   F.   Construction Standards; Backflow:
      1.   The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of all
sanitary sewers, including building sewers, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench,
shall all conform to the requirements of the Utah plumbing code and/or the
applicable rules and regulations contained in the construction standards of the
city. All of the work related to this item shall be done by and/or under the
direct supervision of the contractor obtaining the permit.
      2.   Any person making application for a sewer connection shall, at his
own expense, before any connection is made with the sewer system, install a
back trap on his sewer pipe for the purpose of preventing a backflow into the
building and fixtures. The city shall not be liable for any damage caused to
the premises or property of any person by backflow from any sewer connection.
   G.   Elevation Of Plumbing Fixtures: No permit shall be issued for, nor
shall any connection be made with the public sanitary sewer where plumbing
fixtures in the building or premises are located lower than the elevation of
the public sanitary sewer in which the connection is to be made, without
written approval of the city council.
   H.   Surface Runoff And Ground Water: No person shall make connection of
roof downspouts, foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface
runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer unless such
connection is approved by the superintendent for purposes of disposal of
polluted surface drainage.
   I.   Code Compliance: The connection of the building sewer into the public
sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or
other applicable rules and regulations of the city. All such connections shall
be made gastight and watertight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
superintendent before installation. All sewer connections shall be put into
line on grades designated by the superintendent, who shall prepare a plat of
each connection and file such plat in his office.
   J.   Inspections:
      1.   The inspection of sewer connections between the main sewer and five
feet (5') outside of the building line shall be under the direction of the
superintendent of sewers. The entire length of the sewer, including the
connection at the main sewer, shall be fully exposed.
      2.   No backfilling shall be done until the inspection is made and the
work is accepted in writing. If any portion of the work is not done in
accordance with this chapter and the instructions of the superintendent, it
shall be rectified promptly or the city license of the contractor will be
revoked.
      3.   In the event that the superintendent finds the connections not
complete, or if the changes make necessary another inspection, a payment shall
be made to the city for each additional visit, as specified in the resolution
establishing permit fees and other costs.
      4.   The applicant for the sewer permit shall notify the superintendent
at least twenty four (24) hours prior to the time when the building sewer is to
be ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection and
testing shall be made under the supervision of the superintendent.
   K.   Contractor Responsibility:
      1.   The contractor obtaining the permit will be responsible for
initiating, maintaining and supervising all safety precautions and programs in
connection with the work. He will take all necessary precautions for the safety
of, and will provide the necessary protection to prevent damage, injury or loss
to all employees on the work and other persons who may be affected thereby, all
the work and all materials or equipment to be incorporated therein, whether in
storage on or off the site, and other property at the site or adjacent thereto,
including trees, shrubs, lawns, walks, pavements, roadways, structures and
utilities. All streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, grassed areas, parkways,
utilities, private property other than the owner's, and all of the public
property disturbed or damaged in the course of the work shall be restored in a
manner satisfactory to the city. The contractor will comply with all applicable
laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and orders of any public body having
jurisdiction. He will erect and maintain, as required by the conditions and
progress of the work, all necessary safeguards for safety and protection. He
will notify owners of adjacent utilities when prosecution of the work may
affect them. The contractor will remedy all damage, injury or loss to any
property caused, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by the
contractor, any subcontractor or anyone directly or indirectly employed by any
of them, or anyone whose acts cause any of them to be liable.
      2.   The contractor will supervise and direct the work. He will be solely
responsible for the means, methods, techniques, sequences and procedures of
construction.
   L.   Plumbing Requirements: Permits to connect to the public sanitary sewer
shall not be issued unless the plumbing on the premises is in accordance with
the requirements of the Utah plumbing code.
   M.   Unauthorized Use Of Plumber/Contractor Name: No licensed plumber or
contractor shall allow his name to be used by any person, directly or
indirectly, either for the purpose of obtaining a permit or to do any work
under his license. Licensed plumbers or contractors who violate this provision
will have their city license revoked for a period of one year, or they must pay
a fee of two hundred ninety nine dollars ($299.00) for reinstatement of their
city license. (Ord. 82-1, 2-22-1982)
7-2-6: DISCHARGES INTO SEWER:
   A.   Unpolluted Waters: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged
any unpolluted waters such as storm water, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sewer, except storm water
runoff from limited areas, which storm water may be polluted at times, may be
discharged to the sanitary sewer by written permission of the superintendent.
   B.   Storm Water Discharges: Storm water, other than that exempted under
subsection A of this section, and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the superintendent and other regulatory agencies.
Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged, on
approval of the superintendent, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   C.   Prohibited Water Or Wastes: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described water or wastes to any public sewer:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
contaminate the sludge of any municipal system, to injure or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a
public nuisance or create any hazard in or have an adverse effect on the waters
receiving any discharge from the treatment works.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
or any personnel of the wastewater works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, animal wastes, paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc.,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders. (Ord. 82-1, 2-22-1982)
   D.   Limitations: The following described substances, materials, waters or
waste shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process
or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or will
not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance.
The superintendent may set limitations lower than the limitations established
in the regulations below if, in his opinion, much more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his opinion as to the
acceptability, the superintendent will give consideration to such factors as
the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment
process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of
treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be violated without approval of the superintendent are as follows:
(Ord. 82-1, 2-22-1982; amd. 2006 Code)
      1.   Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred forty
degrees Fahrenheit (140°) (60°C).
      2.   Wastewater containing more than twenty five (25) milligrams per
liter of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or product of mineral oil
origin.
      3.   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded (see definition of
"properly shredded garbage" in section
7-2-1 of this chapter). Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food in kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when
served by caterers.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the superintendent for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing odor producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the superintendent.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both, which constitute a
"slug" as defined in section
7-2-1 of this chapter.
      9.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
      10.   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   E.   Authority Of Superintendent:
      1.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection D of this section, and which in
the judgment of the superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the
wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
superintendent may:
         a.   Reject the wastes;
         b.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition before discharge
to the public sewers;
         c.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge and/or
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
section
7-2-10 of this chapter.
      2.   When considering the above alternative, the superintendent shall
give consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the
discharger. If the superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the superintendent.
   F.   Interceptors: Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts as
specified in subsection D3 of this section, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining
of these interceptors, the owner shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal by appropriate means of the captivated material and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by the owner's personnel must be performed by currently licensed
waste disposal firms.
   G.   Maintenance Of Pretreatment Facilities: Where pretreatment of flow
equalizing facilities are provided or required for any waters or wastes, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense.
   H.   Structure For Testing And Observation: When required by the
superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure, together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such structures, when
required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the superintendent. The structure shall be
installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to
be safe and accessible at all times.
   I.   Information May Be Required: The superintendent may require a user of
sewer services to provide information needed to determine compliance with this
chapter. These requirements may include:
      1.   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period.
      2.   Chemical analysis of wastewaters.
      3.   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality.
      4.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent or
other materials important to sewer use control.
      5.   A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location.
      6.   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      7.   Details of systems to prevent and control the loss of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
   J.   Standards: All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics
of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of "standard methods for the
examination of water and wastewater", published by the American Public Health
Association. Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to
be determined on an individual basis, subject to approval by the
superintendent.
   K.   Special Agreements: No statement contained in this chapter shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city
and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the city for treatment. (Ord. 82-1, 2-22-1982)
7-2-7: DAMAGE TO SYSTEM PROHIBITED:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the wastewater facilities. Violation of this section shall
constitute a class C misdemeanor and persons found guilty thereof shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 82-1, 2-22-1982; amd. 2006 Code)
7-2-8: POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to any discharge to the wastewater facilities in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized to
obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing
on the kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system. The
industry may withhold information considered confidential. The industry must
establish that the revelation to the public of the information in question
might result in an advantage to competitors.
   C.   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection A of this section, the superintendent or duly authorized
employees of the city shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises
established by the industry.
   D.   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved. (Ord. 82-1, 2-
22-1982)
7-2-9: CITY ENGINEER AUTHORITY:
The city engineer, if there be one, shall be ex officio superintendent of
sewers. He shall act as the city council's professional representative in
assisting the superintendent in interpreting the intent of the requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 82-1, 2-22-1982)
7-2-10: SERVICE RATES AND FEES:
   A.   Revisions Authorized: The city council may, from time to time, by
resolution, revise the sewer service rates, permit fees, billing fees,
delinquency fees, penalties and such other fees and costs as are deemed
necessary or desirable to adequately fund the sewer system utility.
   B.   Rules And Regulations Enacted: The city council may, from time to time,
by resolution, enact rules and regulations deemed necessary or desirable for
the operation, control, construction and maintenance of the public sanitary
sewer system.
   C.   Special Rates And Conditions: The city council may, from time to time,
establish by agreement or resolution, special rates and conditions based upon
such terms as they deem necessary or desirable, for users of the public
sanitary sewer who are discharging wastes of unusual characteristics.
   D.   Complaints; Adjustments: The city council shall hear complaints, and
make any corrections or adjustments of any assessments or charges deemed to be
illegal, unequal or unjust. (Ord. 82-1, 2-22-1982)
7-2-11: PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter, except section
7-2-7 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Misdemeanor: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for in subsection A of this section, shall be guilty of a
class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Liability For Damage: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 82-1, 2-22-1982; amd.
2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE PICK UP AND DISPOSAL SERVICE
SECTION:
7-3-1: Subscription To Service Required Where Available
7-3-2: Billing And Rate
7-3-3: Billing; Payment And Delinquency
7-3-1: SUBSCRIPTION TO SERVICE REQUIRED WHERE AVAILABLE:
All utility users within the corporate limits of the city will be required to
subscribe to the provided refuse collection service as a part of their
municipal utility service where this service is available. (Ord. 82-2, 3-2-
1982, eff. 4-1-1982)
7-3-2: BILLING AND RATE:
Billing for this service shall be included with the billing for other utility
services received, with the rate to be set by separate resolution. (Ord. 82-2,
3-2-1982, eff. 4-1-1982)
7-3-3: BILLING; PAYMENT AND DELINQUENCY:
Billing, payment and delinquency of refuse collection rates shall be as
provided in section
7-1-9 of this title. (Ord. 82-2, 3-2-1982, eff. 4-1-1982; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
INTERNAL VISUAL INSPECTIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Internal Visual Inspections Required
7-4-1: INTERNAL VISUAL INSPECTIONS REQUIRED:
All storm drain and sewer lines to be adopted by the city will be required to
have an internal visual inspection. (Res. 02-03, 3-19-2002)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING AND RELATED CODES; REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose And Intent
8-1-2: Codes Adopted
8-1-3: Successor Codes
8-1-4: Moving Buildings And Structures
8-1-5: Building Permit Fees
8-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to establish the regulatory codes
and guidelines to govern construction within the city in a thorough and concise
manner while also providing for the adoption of changes to the codes and
guidelines without the necessity of adopting new ordinances for each change or
amendment to said codes and guidelines. (2006 Code)
8-1-2: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Building Code: The international building code (IBC), as adopted by the
state, is hereby adopted as the official building code for the city, subject to
section
8-1-3 of this chapter.
   B.   Fire Code: The international fire code (IFC), as adopted by the state,
is hereby adopted as the official fire code for the city, subject to section
8-1-3 of this chapter.
   C.   Other Codes As Approved: All other building, plumbing, electrical,
mechanical, energy and/or natural gas codes established and adopted as standard
by the state, including amendments thereto, shall hereby become established as
the adopted codes of the city, subject to section
8-1-3 of this chapter. (2006 Code)
8-1-3: SUCCESSOR CODES:
The adoption of any and all codes, as established herein, as the adopted codes
of the city, shall also adopt any replacement or successor codes as they become
adopted by the state and shall become effective by the city immediately upon
passage by the state. (2006 Code)
8-1-4: MOVING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Special Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to move over or across or along the streets of the city, any shack,
shed, building, house or other structure for the purpose of placing the same
upon private property within the city limits without first having obtained a
special building permit as hereinafter provided. (1949 Code § 5-0-1)
   B.   Terms And Conditions: The mayor and city council are hereby authorized
to issue special building permits to applicants who desire to move, transfer,
convey or carry a building that has been previously constructed onto lots in
the city, upon the following terms and conditions:
      1.   The applicant shall, at the time of making application, file with
the mayor and city council plans and specifications, together with a
description of the property upon which said building is to be moved.
      2.   Said plans and specifications shall show the proposed location of
the building in regard to each of its side property lines and its front
property line.
      3.   There shall be attached to the plans and specifications an agreement
that the building, as provided for by the plans and specifications, shall not
be occupied by any tenant or householder until the construction and
reconstruction, as set forth in the plans and specifications, have been
completed by the applicant or his agent.
      4.   The mayor and city council shall consider said application at their
next regular meeting and after investigating the properties and location in
person, and if, in their opinion, the proposed building structure will not
create a fire hazard within the proposed building district because of being of
inflammable material, or will not endanger the health of tenants who might
occupy said building because of the same not being sufficiently weatherproof or
built of materials of sufficient quality to meet the demands of the climate in
this area, and if said building will not endanger the health of other residents
within the city because of its lack of proper modern sanitary facilities, and
if the building shall not be so emplaced so that it will be unsightly when
compared with its immediate surroundings, then and in that event a special
building permit shall be issued, permitting said building to be so emplaced in
keeping with the plans and specifications of the applicant. (1949 Code § 5-0-2;
amd. 2006 Code)
   C.   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor, and shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1949 Code § 5-0-3; amd. 2006 Code)
8-1-5: BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
Building permit fees shall be in such amounts as established by resolution of
the city council. (Ord. 04-01, 4-20-2004; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
IMPACT FEES 1
SECTION:
8-2-1: Impact Fees Imposed
8-2-2: Service Areas
8-2-3: Time Of Collection
8-2-4: Adjustment Of Impact Fees
8-2-5: Accounting, Expenditure And Refund Of Impact Fees
8-2-6: Administrative Challenges And Appeals Procedure
8-2-7: Challenging Impact Fee By Arbitration
 
Notes
  1. The city council hereby approves and adopts the reports from Economic
1 Associates of Utah, Inc., entitled "Garland City Impact Fee Analysis,
  September 16, 2003" and the analysis reflected therein for each of the impact
  fees in question.
8-2-1: IMPACT FEES IMPOSED:
Impact fees are hereby imposed as a condition of the issuance of a building
permit by the city for any development activity which creates additional demand
and need for public facilities for the culinary water system, wastewater
(sewer) system, storm drain system, and parks and recreation system as set
forth in exhibit A which is attached to ordinance 2003-10 and incorporated
herein by this reference, which said exhibit may be amended from time to time
by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 2003-10, 10-21-2003; amd. 2006 Code)
8-2-2: SERVICE AREAS:
The entire area of the city and any areas outside the city serviced by such
systems are hereby designated and established as one service area with respect
to the culinary water system, the wastewater (sewer) system, and parks and
recreation system. The storm drain system is divided into three (3) service
areas as identified on the map in exhibit B which is attached to ordinance
2003-10 and incorporated herein by this reference. (Ord. 2003-10, 10-21-2003)
8-2-3: TIME OF COLLECTION:
Unless otherwise provided by the city council, impact fees shall be paid to the
city prior to the issuance of a building permit by the city. (Ord. 2003-10, 10-
21-2003)
8-2-4: ADJUSTMENT OF IMPACT FEES:
   A.   The city may adjust the impact fees imposed pursuant to this chapter as
necessary in order to:
      1.   Respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases;
      2.   Ensure that the impact fees are imposed fairly;
      3.   Permit the adjustment of the amount of the fee based upon studies
and data submitted by an applicant or developer, as approved by the city
council; and
      4.   Allow a credit against impact fees, as approved by the city council,
for dedication of land for, improvement to, or new construction of, any system
improvements by the applicant or developer if the facilities are identified in
the city facilities capital improvement plan or other reasonable plans and are
required by the city as a condition of approving the development activity. No
credits shall be given for project improvements as defined by the Utah impact
fees act.
   B.   The planning and zoning commission shall have the authority to make
such adjustments based upon information submitted by an applicant or developer
and any recommendations from other appropriate city officials or employees,
including the city engineer.
   C.   The city may adopt policies consistent with this chapter and any
resolutions passed by the city council to assist in the implementation,
administration and interpretation of this chapter related to municipal impact
fees.
   D.   If the applicant, developer, person or entity is not satisfied with the
planning and zoning commission's decision, an appeal may be made to the city
council under the procedures set forth in section
8-2-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-10, 10-21-2003)
8-2-5: ACCOUNTING, EXPENDITURE AND REFUND OF IMPACT FEES:
The city shall account for, expend and refund impact fees collected pursuant to
this chapter in accordance with the provisions of the Utah impact fees act.
(Ord. 2003-10, 10-21-2003)
8-2-6: ADMINISTRATIVE CHALLENGES AND APPEALS PROCEDURE:
   A.   Any person or entity required to pay an impact fee imposed by the city
who believes the fee does not meet the requirements of law may file a written
request for information with the city as provided by law.
   B.   Within two (2) weeks of the receipt of the request for information, the
city shall provide the person or entity with the written analysis required by
the act and with any other relevant information relating to the impact fee.
   C.   Within thirty (30) days after paying an impact fee, any person or
entity who has paid the fee and wishes to challenge the fee shall file a
written appeal with the city recorder setting forth in detail all factual and
legal grounds in support of the appeal and challenge to the impact fee, and
which is relied upon by the appealing party with respect to the fees
challenged. Upon receipt of the written appeal, the city recorder shall forward
the appeal, together with any recommendations from the city engineer, to the
city council and shall schedule a public hearing before the city council on the
appeal for the purpose of receiving input from all interested persons. The city
council shall thereafter render its decision on the appeal no later than thirty
(30) days after the date the appeal was filed with the city recorder. Any
person or entity who has failed to comply with the administrative remedies
established by this section, may not file or join an action challenging the
validity of any impact fee.
   D.   Any person or entity who was a party to an appeal under this section
who is adversely affected by the decision of the city council may petition the
district court for a review of the decision within ninety (90) days of a
decision upholding an impact fee by the city council or within one hundred
twenty (120) days after the date the challenge to the impact fee was filed,
whichever is earlier. The petition for review of the decision shall be filed in
the first district court for Box Elder County.
   E.   In the event a petition is filed with the district court, the city
shall transmit to the reviewing court the record of its proceedings, including
its minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a true and correct transcript
of its proceedings.
   F.   If the proceeding was tape recorded, a transcript of that tape
recording is a true and correct transcript for the purposes of subsection E of
this section.
   G.   If there is a record:
      1.   The district court's review is limited to the record provided by the
city; and
      2.   The district court may not accept or consider any evidence outside
the city's record unless that evidence was offered to the city and the court
determines that it was improperly excluded by the city.
   H.   If there is an inadequate record, the court may call witnesses and take
evidence.
   I.   The district court shall affirm the decision of the city if the
decision is supported by substantial evidence in the record.
   J.   The judge may award reasonable attorney fees and costs to the
prevailing party in an action brought under this section. (Ord. 2003-10, 10-21-
2003)
8-2-7: CHALLENGING IMPACT FEE BY ARBITRATION:
   A.   Each person or entity intending to challenge an impact fee under
section
8-2-6 of this chapter shall file a written request for arbitration with the
city within thirty (30) days.
   B.   If a person or entity files a written request for arbitration under
subsection A of this section, an arbitrator or arbitration panel shall be
selected as follows:
      1.   The city and the person or entity filing the request may agree on a
single arbitrator within ten (10) days after the day the request for
arbitration is filed; or
      2.   If a single arbitrator is not agreed to in accordance with
subsection B1 of this section, an arbitration panel shall be created with the
following members:
         a.   Each party shall select an arbitrator within twenty (20) days
after the day the request is filed; and
         b.   The arbitrators selected under subsection B2a of this section
shall select a third arbitrator.
   C.   The arbitration panel shall hold a hearing on the challenge within
thirty (30) days after the date:
      1.   The single arbitrator is agreed on under subsection B1 of this
section; or
      2.   The two (2) arbitrators are selected under subsection B2b of this
section.
   D.   The arbitrator or arbitration panel shall issue a decision in writing
within ten (10) days from the date the hearing under subsection C of this
section is completed.
   E.   Except as provided in this section, each arbitration shall be governed
by Utah Code Annotated title 78, chapter 31a, the Utah arbitration act.
   F.   The parties may agree to:
      1.   Binding arbitration;
      2.   Formal, nonbinding arbitration; or
      3.   Informal, nonbinding arbitration.
   G.   If the parties agree in writing to binding arbitration:
      1.   The arbitration shall be binding;
      2.   The decision of the arbitration panel shall be final;
      3.   Neither party may appeal the decision of the arbitration panel; and
      4.   Notwithstanding subsection J of this section, the person or entity
challenging the impact fee may not also challenge the impact fee under any
subsection of section
8-2-6 of this chapter, nor under Utah Code Annotated section 11-36-401(1), (4)
(c)(i) or (4)(c)(iii).
   H.   1. Except as provided in subsection H2 of this section, if the parties
agree to formal, nonbinding arbitration, the arbitration shall be governed by
the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 63, chapter 46b, the administrative
procedures act.
      2.   For purposes of applying Utah Code Annotated title 63, chapter 46b,
the administrative procedures act, to formal, nonbinding arbitration under this
section, notwithstanding section 63-46b-20, "agency" means Garland City.
   I.   1. An appeal from a decision in an informal, nonbinding arbitration may
be filed with the first district court.
      2.   Each appeal under subsection I1 of this section shall be filed
within thirty (30) days after the date the arbitration panel issues a decision
under subsection D of this section.
      3.   The district court shall consider de novo each appeal filed under
this subsection.
      4.   Notwithstanding subsection J of this section, a person or entity
that files an appeal under this subsection provision may not also challenge the
impact fee under any of section
8-2-6 of this chapter, nor under Utah Code Annotated section 11-36-401(1), (4)
(c)(i) or (4)(c)(iii).
   J.   1. Except as provided in subsections G4 and I4 of this section, this
section may not be construed to prohibit a person or entity from challenging an
impact fee as provided in section
8-2-6 of this chapter, or Utah Code Annotated section 11-36-401(1), (4)(c)(i)
or (4)(c)(iii).
      2.   The filing of a written request for arbitration with thirty (30)
days tolls all time limitations under section
8-2-6 of this chapter until the date the arbitration panel issues a decision.
   K.   The person or entity filing a request for arbitration and the city
shall equally share all costs of an arbitration proceeding under this section.
(Ord. 2003-10, 10-21-2003)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF CONDEMNATION
SECTION:
8-3-1: Created
8-3-2: Powers; Determining Nuisance
8-3-3: Condemnation; Notice; Hearing
8-3-4: Condemnation; Hearing By Mayor
8-3-5: Condemnation; Costs
8-3-6: Request For Appeal
8-3-7: Nuisance; Hearing By City Council
8-3-1: CREATED:
A board of condemnation ("board", hereafter) of the city is created and shall
consist of the fire chief, police chief, Garland planning and zoning commission
chair and two (2) volunteer citizens, appointed by the mayor, with the advice
and consent of the city council, who shall act without additional pay. (Ord.
16-02, 3-23-2016)
8-3-2: POWERS; DETERMINING NUISANCE:
The board is granted the power to find and determine whether any building or
other structure or condition in and about the same is a nuisance because it is
either:
   A.   Dangerous to human life or health; or
   B.   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of three (3)
or more persons; or
   C.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct any canal,
public park, square, street or highway; or
   D.   In any way renders three (3) or more persons insecure in life or the
use of the property. (Ord. 16-02, 3-23-2016)
8-3-3: CONDEMNATION; NOTICE; HEARING:
If the building or other structure or conditions in or about the same should be
abated, the board shall, through any of its members, request corrective action
by the owners of the premises. If such corrective action is not taken within
the time requested (which shall not be less than 10 days) the board shall give
notice that the mayor shall hear the matter. Notice of hearing shall be given
by personal service on any occupant of the property who is over the age of
fourteen (14) years and by posting in a conspicuous place on the property at
least ten (10) days prior to the date of hearing, a notice directed to "all
persons having or claiming any interest in this building, structure or
property", designating or describing the building or structure or conditions in
or about the same to be a nuisance to be removed or abated, and stating the
reasons therefor, and the time and place of hearing. A copy of the notice shall
be mailed to the owner of the property or the owner's agent at such person's
last known address, as disclosed by the records of the Box Elder County
assessor, by registered or certified mail at least ten (10) days prior to such
hearing. (Ord. 16-02, 3-23-2016)
8-3-4: CONDEMNATION; HEARING BY MAYOR:
At the time set for hearing by the board as required in section
8-3-3 of this chapter, the mayor shall meet and hear the matter and receive
evidence. The mayor shall find and determine what removal, repair or alteration
is necessary, if any, or whether partial or total destruction of such building
or structure, or any part thereof is required in order that the same shall not
constitute a nuisance. The mayor shall also determine and find the length of
time necessary to complete any such repairs, alterations, removal or
destruction; such time to begin to run upon the service of findings and order
of the mayor which may be sent by certified mail addressed to the owner of the
property at the owner's last known address, or which may be served personally
on the owner of the property. (Ord. 16-02, 3-23-2016)
8-3-5: CONDEMNATION; COSTS:
Every building or structure or condition in or about the same found by the
mayor to constitute a nuisance requiring the abatement thereof shall, if not
removed, destroyed, altered or repaired within the time allowed by and in
accordance with the findings and order of the mayor, be deemed, and every such
building, structure or condition are declared to be a public nuisance; and
every such nuisance may be abated summarily by the board, which may employ any
necessary assistance to cause such buildings, structures or conditions in or
about the same to be removed, altered, repaired or destroyed. The board shall
prepare an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in the alteration,
repair, removal or destruction of the same and shall mail a copy thereof to the
owner of the property demanding payment within thirty (30) days from the date
of mailing. The notice shall be deemed delivered when mailed by registered mail
addressed to the property owner's last known address. In the event the owner
fails to make payment of the amount set forth in the statement to the city
treasurer within such thirty (30) days, the board on behalf of the
municipality, may cause suit to be brought in an appropriate court of law or
may refer the matter to the county treasurer as hereinafter provided. In the
event the collection of the costs are pursued through the court, suit shall be
commenced in behalf of the city for all of the costs of removal, alteration,
repair or destruction together with reasonable attorney fees, interest and
court costs. In the event the board elects to refer the matter to the Box Elder
County treasurer's office for inclusion in the tax notices of the property
owner, it shall follow any procedures set forth by the Box Elder County
treasurer's office. The city shall deliver three (3) copies of the statement to
the county treasurer within ten (10) days after completion of the work. (Ord.
16-02, 3-23-2016)
8-3-6: REQUEST FOR APPEAL:
If the owner, purchaser or occupant disagrees with the board's findings of the
existence of a nuisance or the reasonableness of the city requested corrective
action, the owner, purchaser or occupant, or any or all of them, may, within
fifteen (15) days from the date of the board's request or the mayor's findings
and order, request that the city council review the board's or mayor's decision
complained of. Thereafter, the mayor shall set a date, time and place for the
city council to hear the appeal. (Ord. 16-02, 3-23-2016)
8-3-7: NUISANCE; HEARING BY CITY COUNCIL:
At the time set for hearing by the city council, the city council shall meet
and hear the matter and receive evidence. The owner, purchaser or occupant may
appear in person and/or be represented by counsel and may present testimony and
other evidence in his/her/their defense. The city council shall find and
determine whether a nuisance exists, and if so, what repairs or alterations or
other actions are necessary to remove or abate the nuisance. The city council
shall determine and find the length of time necessary to complete any such
repairs, alterations or other actions, such time to begin to run upon the
making of findings and order by the city council, which shall be reduced to
writing and served on the owner, purchaser and/or occupant of the property. The
city council or the owner, purchaser or occupant may choose to defer the appeal
hearing to the board of adjustments (see title 9, chapter 4 of this code)
before the appeal hearing begins. (Ord. 16-02, 3-23-2016)
CHAPTER 4
COMPLETION BOND AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Completion And Off-Site Bond Agreement To Assure Project Completion And
Final Condition Of Off-Site Improvements
8-4-2: Release Of Funds
8-4-1: COMPLETION AND OFF-SITE BOND AGREEMENT TO ASSURE PROJECT COMPLETION AND
FINAL CONDITION OF OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   All applications for building permits with the potential of damaging
improvements within the public right-of-way or that may result in a request for
occupancy prior to completion of all improvements, shall be accompanied by a
Permit Completion and Off-site Improvement Protection Agreement, hereinafter
referred to as a "Bond Agreement" to assure project completion and the
maintenance of Off-site improvements. The requirement for a bond shall be at
the determination of the Building Official. The Bond Agreement shall be
prepared by the City Recorder (or designee) and signed by the owner or his
authorized representative (referred to as "Builder") of the property to be
improved. The bond shall be in a sum set by resolution of the City Council or
by determining the cost of the improvements, whichever is greater. The purpose
of the bond shall be to assure the satisfactory completion of the project as
well as maintaining the satisfactory condition of the curb, gutter, sidewalk,
drive approach, landscaping, paving, patching, asphalt cut, and other public
improvement (protected items) theretofore installed on and in close proximity
to the individual property for which the building permit was sought. The Bond
Agreement shall terminate and the bond is released after satisfactory
completion of the project and the protected items are inspected and found to be
not damaged or are installed to meet city standards. Inspection of the
protected items shall be done by the Garland City Public Works Department.
Additionally, the building permit must be closed with issuance of a certificate
of occupancy or other notification of passing a final inspection by the city
Building Official.
   B.   After the final inspection of the protected items, if the structure for
which the permit was issued is habitable and any non-compliance items were
noted on the inspection form, this form shall be referred to as the Temporary
Certificate of Occupancy (TCO). The building inspector will provide a copy of
the TCO to Builder. Builder shall make the necessary repairs within 120 days of
receipt of the TCO.
   C.   In the event the TCO is not cleared and a Certificate of Occupancy or
other certification of completion of the building permit is not issued within
120 days after issuance of the TCO, the Bond Agreement shall terminate and
Builder shall have no further claim upon the Bond. The Building Official may
grant one extension, not to exceed, ninety (90) days to this Agreement when the
Builder and structure owner have indicated they have an agreeable schedule for
completion of the non-compliance items.
   D.   Once the Bond Agreement is terminated, the current owner of the
property may submit a Garland City Indemnification Request/Agreement to the
City for consideration by the Building Official. Upon the approval of the
Indemnification Request/Agreement by the Building Official and the completion
of all items noted on the TCO by the current owner, the Bond may be released to
the current owner. The current owner must complete all items noted on the TCO
within 90-days of approval of the Indemnification Request/Agreement by the
Building Official. The Building Official may grant one extension, not to
exceed, ninety (90) days to this Agreement when the owner has explained
extenuating circumstances and presented a timeline for completion of the non-
compliance items.
   E.   The City may file a Certificate of Notice of Non-Compliance with the
Box Elder County Recorder's Office, if the requirements outlined in the Bond
Agreement or Indemnification Request/Agreement are not met by the Builder/
owner.
   F.   The City may file a complaint with the State Division of Professional
Licensing against the Builder for failure to complete a project associated with
an issued building permit.
   G.   Nothing in this ordinance or any agreement established by this
ordinance prohibits the City from requiring the Builder to provide proof that
an escrow account, in the name of the purchaser of Lot and associated structure
related to the issued permit, to secure the completion of any items that the
Building Official feels are not covered by the amount of the bond established
by the Bond Agreement.
   H.   In the event that no certificate of occupancy has been issued within
the time period established in the Bond Agreement or Indemnification Request/
Agreement these agreements will be considered terminated and all funds being
held by the City will be forfeited to the City to cover costs associated with
repairs to public improvements and this process. Nothing in this ordinance or
any agreement established by this ordinance is intended to imply that the City
will complete items on the TCO associated with anything other than public
improvements and infrastructure. (Ord. O-24-08, 9-18-2024)
8-4-2: RELEASE OF FUNDS:
Funds held by the Bond Agreement shall be released to the individual/party
indicated on the Bond Agreement, through a properly executed Indemnification
Request/Agreement as approved by the Building Official or through forfeiture to
the City. (Ord. O-24-08, 9-18-2024)
TITLE 9
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Purpose
9-1-3: Interpretation
9-1-4: Conflict
9-1-5: Effect On Previous Ordinances And Maps
9-1-6: Definitions
9-1-7: Building Permit Required
9-1-8: Licensing
9-1-9: Certificate Of Occupancy
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF GARLAND CITY, UTAH. (Ord.,
9-3-1996)
9-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to divide the city into zones or districts,
restrict and regulate therein the location, erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration and use of buildings, structures and land for trade,
industry, residence and other specified uses; to regulate the intensity of the
use of lot areas, and to regulate and determine the area of open spaces
surrounding such buildings; to establish building lines and the location of
buildings designed for specified industrial, business, residential and other
uses within such areas; to fix standards to which buildings or structures
incompatible with the character of such districts, respectively; to prevent
additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing buildings or structures
in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and limitations lawfully imposed
hereunder; to limit congestion in the public streets by providing for off
street parking and loading and unloading of vehicles; providing for the gradual
elimination of nonconforming uses of land, buildings and structures; and
prescribing penalties for the violation of this title; to secure safety from
fire, panic or other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the
overcrowding of the land; to conserve the taxable value of land and buildings
throughout the city; and to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the city. (Ord., 9-3-1996;
amd. 2006 Code)
9-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements
contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for the purpose
set forth. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-1-4: CONFLICT:
This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants,
agreements, other ordinances or laws, but shall prevail over such provisions as
are less restrictive. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-1-5: EFFECT ON PREVIOUS ORDINANCES AND MAPS:
The existing ordinances of the city covering the zoning area of the city, in
their entirety and including the map heretofore adopted and made a part of this
title, are hereby superseded and amended to read as set forth herein; provided,
however, that this title shall be so interpreted upon all questions, including,
but not limited to, questions of construction, questions relating to tenure of
officers and boards established by previous ordinances, questions of conforming
or nonconforming uses, buildings and structures, and questions as to the dates
upon which such uses, buildings or structures became conforming or
nonconforming. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, certain words and terms are defined as follows.
Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular
number include the plural and the plural the singular; words not included
herein but defined in the building code shall be construed as defined therein.
ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING: A subordinate use or building, customarily
incidental to and located upon the same lot occupied by the main use or
building.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and
gardening, but not including the keeping or raising of domestic animals and
fowl, except household pets, and not including any agricultural industry or
business, such as fruit packing plants, fur farms, animal hospitals or similar
uses.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare less than twenty feet (20') wide.
APARTMENT HOTEL: Any building or group of buildings which contains dwelling
units, and also satisfies the definition of a "hotel", as defined in this
section.
APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple.
APARTMENT MOTEL: Any building or group of buildings which contains dwelling
units, and also satisfies the definition of a "motel", as defined in this
section.
BASEMENT: A story partly underground. A basement shall be counted as a story
for purposes of height measurement if its height is one-half (1/2) or more
above grade.
BILLBOARD: Any structure or portion thereof upon which are signs or
advertisements used on an outdoor display. This definition does not include any
bulletin boards used to display official court or public office notices, or
signs advertising the sale or lease of the premises on which the sign is
located.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A detached subordinate building incidental to and located
upon the same lot occupied by the main building.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point
of roof.
BUILDING, MAIN: The principal building or one of the principal buildings upon a
lot, or the building or one of the principal buildings housing a principal use
upon a lot.
CARPORT: A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the
purpose of this title, a carport shall be subject to all of the regulations
prescribed for a private garage.
CITY COUNCIL: The governing body of elected officials for the city.
CORRAL: A space, other than a building, less than one acre in area, or less
than one hundred feet (100') in width, used for the confinement of animals.
COURT: An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building or group of buildings, and which is bounded on two (2) or more sides
by such building or buildings. The width of a court is its least horizontal
dimension, measured between opposite sides in the same general direction as the
yard or lot line on which the court opens. The length of a court is its least
horizontal dimension measured at right angles to its width.
DAYCARE CENTER: A building in which the principal use gives group care to
children who need daytime care away from home. The department of human services
is responsible for the licensing of persons and organizations providing daycare
for children. Licensed centers will not be permitted to take "drop ins", as
defined in this section, on an hourly basis. Children under two (2) years of
age shall not be accepted for care.
DROP IN: A child who is not in regular attendance at least one day per week,
and/or who does not have a current medical and daycare register form on file.
DWELLING: Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed for use for
residential purposes, except hotels, apartment hotels, boarding houses, lodging
houses, tourist courts and apartment courts.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
more than two (2) families.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by one
family, the structure having only one dwelling unit.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two (2)
families, the structure having only two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling, apartment hotel or apartment
motel, designed for or occupied by one family for living or sleeping purposes
and having one but not more than one kitchen.
FAMILY: Any number of individuals related by blood, marriage or adoption within
two (2) degrees of consanguinity, or up to and including two (2) unrelated
individuals. A "family" is further defined to include one unrelated individual
living with the family.
FRONTAGE: All the property fronting one side of the street between intercepting
streets, or between a street and right of way, waterway, and of dead end
street, or political subdivision boundary, measured along the street line. An
intercepting street shall determine only the boundary of the frontage on the
side of the street which it intercepts.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building designed or used for the storage of not
more than four (4) automobiles, owned and used by the occupants of the building
to which it is necessary; provided, that on a lot occupied by a multiple
dwelling, the private garage may be designed and used for the storage of one
and one-half (11/2) times as many automobiles as there are dwelling units in
the multiple dwelling. A garage shall be considered part of a dwelling if the
garage and dwelling have a roof or wall in common.
GARAGE, PUBLIC AND SERVICE STATIONS: A building or portion thereof, other than
a private garage designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, selling
or storing motor driven vehicles.
GRADE: The average level or slope of ground (finished surface) adjacent to the
exterior walls of the building.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation carried on by the occupant of a dwelling, as a
secondary use of the dwelling, in connection with which there is no display
other than an unlighted nameplate, not more than two (2) square feet in area,
no stock in trade, and no person employed other than members of the family
residing in the dwelling.
HOTEL: A building designed for or occupied as the more or less temporary
abiding place of sixteen (16) or more individuals who are, for compensation,
lodged, with or without meals, and in which no provision is made for cooking in
any individual room or suite.
HOUSEHOLD PETS: Animals ordinarily permitted in the house and kept for company
or pleasure, such as dogs, cats and canaries, but not including a sufficient
number of dogs to constitute a "kennel", as defined in this section.
JUNK YARD OR AUTO WRECKING: The use of any lot, portion of a lot or tract of
land for the storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or
other scrap material; any place where two (2) or more motor vehicles not in
running condition or parts thereof are stored in the open and not being
restored to operation or are kept; provided, that this definition shall be
deemed not to include such uses which are clearly accessory and incidental to
any agricultural use permitted in the zone.
KENNEL: The keeping of three (3) or more dogs, at least four (4) months old.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a building or a group of
buildings, together with such yards, open spaces, lot width and lot area as are
required by this title, having frontage upon a street or upon a right of way as
defined on the city street plan or master plan. Not more than one dwelling
structure shall occupy any one lot. Except for two-family or group dwellings,
where more than one dwelling is placed on a lot, each dwelling structure shall
be provided with the minimum lot frontage, lot area, front yard, rear yard and
side yards as are required for any one such dwelling structure in the same
zone.
NATURAL WATERWAYS: Those areas (varying in width) along streams, creeks,
gulleys, springs or washes which are natural drainage channels as determined by
the building inspector and in which areas no buildings shall be constructed.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure, or portion
thereof, lawfully existing at the time the ordinance became effective, which
does not conform to all the height, area and yard regulations herein prescribed
in the zone in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the time
the ordinance became effective and which does not conform with the current use
regulations of the zone in which it is located.
NURSING HOME: A nursing home is a private home or private institution which is
established for or gives care, treatment or nursing service to persons ill, who
are crippled, infirm or in any way afflicted, and who are in need of at least
some assistance in bathing, dressing, other personal attention and/or some type
of supervision. Nursing homes have been classified by the welfare department as
licensed nursing homes and nonlicensed nursing homes.
   A.   Licensed Nursing Homes: The state department of health as authorized by
law to establish standards for and to license and inspect all nursing homes
when there are two (2) or more patients unrelated to the proprietor. A licensed
nursing home is one which meets requirements of the state department of health
and has been issued a license to operate as a licensed nursing home.
   B.   Nonlicensed Nursing Home: One which has not been licensed by the state
department of health. Such homes are usually those which care for only one
patient.
PARKING LOT: An open area, other than a street, used for the parking of more
than four (4) automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for
compensation, or as an accommodation for clients and customers.
STORY: The space within a building included between the surface of the floor,
and the surface of the ceiling next above.
STORY, HALF: A story with at least two (2) of its opposite sides situated under
a sloping roof, the floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds (2/3) of the
floor immediately below it.
STREET: A thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to the public and
accepted by proper public authority, or a thoroughfare, not less than twenty
three feet (23') wide, which has been made public by right of use and which
affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having a location on the ground.
TOURIST COURT (MOTEL): Any building or group of buildings containing sleeping
rooms, with or without fixed cooking facilities, designed for temporary use by
automobile tourists or transients, with garage attached or parking space
conveniently located to each unit, including auto courts, motels or motor
lodges.
TRAILER COURT: Any area or tract of land used to accommodate two (2) or more
trailers designed to be lived in.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged or
intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate use customarily incidental to and located upon
the same lot occupied by a main use.
WIDTH OF LOT: The distance between the side lot lines at the distance back from
the front lot line required for the depth of the front yard.
YARD: A space on the same lot, other that a court, unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward by buildings except as otherwise provided herein.
YARD, FRONT: A space on the same lot with a building, between the front line of
the building and the front lot line, and extending across the full width of the
lot. The "depth" of the front yard is the minimum distance between the front
lot line and the front line of the building.
YARD, LIVESTOCK FEED AND SALES: A yard kept and maintained by the owner or
owners for the commercial feeding of livestock as a business, where livestock
may be bought or sold or fattened and prepared for commercial market or sales.
YARD, REAR: A space on the same lot with a building, between the rear line of
the building and rear lot line, and extending the full width of the lot. The
"depth" of the rear yard is the minimum distance between the rear line of the
property and the rear line of the building.
YARD, SIDE: A space on the same lot with a building, between the side line of
the building and side lot line and extending from the front yard to the rear
yard. The width of the side yard shall be the minimum distance between the side
lot line and the side line of building. (Ord., 9-3-1996; amd. Ord. 98-3, 4-29-
1998)
9-1-7: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
The use of land or the construction, alteration, repair or removal of any
building or structure, or any part thereof, as provided or as restricted in
this title, shall not be commenced or proceeded with, except after the issuance
of a written permit for the same by the building inspector. (Ord., 9-3-1996;
amd. 2006 Code)
9-1-8: LICENSING:
All departments, officials and public employees of the city which are vested
with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the
provisions of this title and shall issue no permit or license for uses,
buildings or purposes where the same would be in conflict with the provisions
of this title, and any such permit or license, if issued in conflict with the
provisions of this title, shall be null and void. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-1-9: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
A. Required: No building or structure shall be used or occupied, and no change
in the existing occupancy classification of a building or structure, or portion
thereof, shall be made until the building official has issued a certificate of
occupancy.
B. Construction: Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed
as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this title or of other
ordinances of the jurisdiction. Certificates presuming to give authority to
violate or cancel the provisions of this title or other ordinances of the
jurisdiction shall not be valid.
C. Posting: The certificate of occupancy shall be posted in a conspicuous place
on the premises and shall not be removed except by the building official.
D. Revocation: The building official may, in writing, suspend or revoke a
certificate of occupancy issued under the provisions of this title whenever the
certificate is issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information
supplied, or when it is determined that the building or structure, or portion
thereof, is in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the
provisions of this title.
E. Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the person signing the
building permit as owner or contractor to see that a certificate of occupancy
is received before the building is used and the notice stating the requirement
stays on premises.
F. Penalty: Failure to comply with occupancy permit requirements or removal of
the notice stating the requirement to have occupancy permit, will be considered
a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 9-3-1996; amd. 2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-2-1: Building Inspector To Enforce
9-2-2: Permits To Comply; Penalty
9-2-3: Powers And Duties Of Building Inspector
9-2-1: BUILDING INSPECTOR TO ENFORCE:
The building inspector, appointed by the city council, and police, are hereby
designated and authorized as the officers charged with the enforcement of this
title, but the city council, by resolution or ordinance, may from time to time
entrust such administration, in whole or in part, to any other office of the
city without amendment of this title. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-2-2: PERMITS TO COMPLY; PENALTY:
From the time of the effective date hereof, the city council shall not grant a
permit for the construction or alteration of any building or structure, or the
moving of a building or a structure onto a lot, if such building or structure
would be in violation of any of the provisions of this title, nor shall any
city officer grant any permit or license for the use of any building or land if
such use would be in violation of this title. Violation of this title is a
class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, unless otherwise specified. The city has the right to
remove, at the landowner's cost, any construction done in violation of this
title after a thirty (30) day notification. The city also has the right to stop
all services to buildings in violation of this title. (Ord., 9-3-1996; amd.
2006 Code)
9-2-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR:
It shall be the duty of the building inspector to inspect or cause to be
inspected all buildings in the course of construction or repair. He shall
enforce all the provisions of this title, entering actions in the courts when
necessary, and his failure to do so shall not legalize any violation of such
provisions. The building inspector shall not issue any permit unless the plans
of the proposed erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and use
fully conform to all building codes and zoning regulations then in effect.
(Ord., 9-3-1996)
CHAPTER 3
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
9-3-1: Created; Appointment; Compensation
9-3-2: Officers And Organization
9-3-3: Powers And Duties; Reports; Hearings
9-3-4: Amendments
9-3-1: CREATED; APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created in and for the city, a planning and zoning commission,
to be composed of five (5) members and alternate members as necessary. An
alternate may be a voting member in the absence of a full quorum. The members
shall be appointed and approved by the mayor and/or the city council for a five
(5) year term. Members may be extended for one additional term, with no more
than two (2) members being changed at one time, from among the qualified
electors of the city, and compensation if any shall be set by the city council.
(Ord. 13-06, 3-27-2013)
9-3-2: OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers: The planning and zoning commission shall elect a chairperson
from among the appointive members of said commission, and also a secretary, who
need not be a member of the commission. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
   B.   Meetings: The planning and zoning commission will conduct a work
session meeting at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. which shall be followed by a
regular meeting at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M. which shall be held on the
Thursdays prior to the city council's work session and regular meetings each
month at the Garland City Civic Center, 72 North Main Street, Garland, Utah. If
the meeting date(s) is a legal holiday, then the meeting shall be held on a
date to be determined by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 12-09, 12-
18-2012)
9-3-3: POWERS AND DUTIES; REPORTS; HEARINGS:
It shall be the duty of the planning and zoning commission and it shall have
the power to make recommendations to the city council for the zoning of the
city, by dividing the city into districts of such number, shape and area as may
be best suited to make effective the proper zoning of the city, and to provide
within said districts for the regulation and restriction of the erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings,
structures and land, all of such regulations to be uniform for each class or
kind of building throughout the district, but such regulations in one district
may differ from those in other districts. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-3-4: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Recommendation Of Commission Required: The city council may from time
to time amend the number, shape, boundaries or area of any zone, or any
regulation or any other provision of this title, but any such amendment shall
not be made or become effective unless the same shall have been proposed by or
be first submitted for the approval, disapproval or change suggestions of the
planning and zoning commission. If disapproved by the commission, within thirty
(30) days after submission, the amendment shall receive the favorable vote of
not less than a majority of the entire membership of the city council to become
effective. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
   B.   Hearing And Publication Of Notice: Before finally adopting any such
amendment, the planning and zoning commission and city council shall comply
with the provisions of sections 10-9a-502 and 503, Utah Code Annotated,
regarding the adoption and amendment of the city's land use ordinance. The
planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing, after giving the
notice required by section 10-9a-205, Utah Code Annotated, before forwarding
its recommendations regarding any proposed amendment(s) to the city council.
The city council shall adopt any such amendment(s) only at a properly noticed
public meeting. (Ord. 13-03, 2-27-2013)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
9-4-1: Created; Appointment; Compensation
9-4-2: Organization
9-4-3: Appeals To Board
9-4-4: Stay Of Proceedings Pending Appeal
9-4-5: Notice Of Hearing On Appeal; Right Of Appearance
9-4-6: Powers And Duties
9-4-7: Vote Necessary For Reversal
9-4-8: Decision On Appeal
9-4-9: Judicial Review; Time Limitations
9-4-1: CREATED; APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION:
When a need arises, there shall be appointed by the city council, a board of
adjustment, consisting of five (5) members, who shall serve without pay, each
to be appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the city council, from among
the qualified electors of the city, and they shall serve without compensation.
Each member is to be appointed for a term of five (5) years; provided, that the
terms of the members of the first board appointed shall be such that the term
of one member shall expire each year. Any member may be removed for cause by
the appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearing, if such
public hearing is requested. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term
of any member whose office becomes vacant. One member, but not more than one,
of the planning and zoning commission shall be a member of the board of
adjustment. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-4-2: ORGANIZATION:
The board of adjustment shall organize and elect a chairperson, and adopt rules
in accordance with the provisions of this title and other laws. Meetings of the
board shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at such times as the
board may define. The chairperson, or in his absence the acting chairperson,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of
the board shall be open to the public. The board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent
and failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official action, all of which shall be immediately filed
in the office of the board and shall be a public record. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-4-3: APPEALS TO BOARD:
Appeals to the board of adjustment may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
any officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected by the decision
of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable
time as provided by the rules of the board by filing with the officer from whom
the appeal is taken and with the board of adjustment a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall
forthwith transmit to the board of adjustment all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-4-4: STAY OF PROCEEDINGS PENDING APPEAL:
An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from,
unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the board of
adjustment after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in his opinion cause
imminent peril to life and property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by restraining order, which may be granted by the board
of adjustment or by the district court on application and notice and on due
cause shown. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-4-5: NOTICE OF HEARING ON APPEAL; RIGHT OF APPEARANCE:
The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the
appeal, give public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties in
interest, and shall decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing,
any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-4-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of adjustment shall have the power and duty to:
   A.   Appeals: Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is
error in any order, requirement, decision or discrimination made by the
administrative official in the enforcement of this title, or of any ordinance
adopted pursuant thereto.
   B.   Special Exceptions: Hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of
this title upon which such board is required to pass under this title.
   C.   Variances: Authorize upon appeal such variance from the terms of this
title as will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to special
conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of this title will result in
unnecessary hardship; provided, that the spirit of this title shall be observed
and substantial justice done. Before any variance may be authorized, however,
it shall be shown that:
      1.   The variance will not substantially affect the comprehensive plan of
zoning in the city and that adherence to the strict letter of this title will
cause difficulties and hardships, the imposition of which upon the petitioner
is unnecessary in order to carry out the general purpose of the plan.
      2.   There are special circumstances attached to the property covered by
the application which do not generally apply to the other property in the same
district.
      3.   That because of said special circumstances, property covered by
application is deprived of privileges possessed by other properties in the same
district; and the granting of the variance is essential to the enjoyment of the
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same district.
(Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-4-7: VOTE NECESSARY FOR REVERSAL:
The concurring vote of all members of the board shall be necessary to reverse
any order, requirement or determination of any such administrative official, or
to decide in favor of the appellant on any matter upon which it is required to
pass under any such ordinance, or to effect any variation in this title. (Ord.,
9-3-1996)
9-4-8: DECISION ON APPEAL:
In exercising the above mentioned powers, such board may, in conformity with
the provisions of this title, reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may
modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may
make such order, requirement, decision or determination as ought to be done,
and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal
is taken. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-4-9: JUDICIAL REVIEW; TIME LIMITATIONS:
The city or any person aggrieved by any decision of the board of adjustment may
have and maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in any court of
competent jurisdiction; provided, petition for such relief is presented to the
court within thirty (30) days after the filing of such decision in the office
of the board of adjustment. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
0CHAPTER 5
ZONES AND DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Establishment Of Zones
9-5-2: Correct Land Use Designation Required
9-5-3: Filing Of Ordinance And Map
9-5-4: Rules For Locating Boundaries
9-5-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES:
For the purpose of this title, the land within the city to which this title
applies is divided into classes or zones as follows:
Agricultural zone         A1
Residential zone          R1
Residential zone          R2
Residential zone          R3
Residential zone          R4
Residential multiple zone RM12
Commercial zone           C1
Manufacturing zone        M1
Highway zone              H1
Manufactured home zone    MH1
Public facilities zone    PF
 
(Ord., 9-3-1996; amd. Ord. 14-07, 11-19-2014; Ord. 16-03, 4-27-2016; Ord. O-21-
16, 12-21-2021; Ord. O-24-04, 9-18-2024)
9-5-2: CORRECT LAND USE DESIGNATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Interpretation of Zoning Ordinance. Any use of land that is not plainly
designated as an allowed use in the zone is prohibited; examples include
residential units in a commercial zone or agricultural uses in a residential
zone, except where the zone explicitly defines a limited use (example, egg-
laying chickens in a yard as allowed by residential codes). If a land use has
been specified in the code, but it has not been listed as a permitted use in a
zone, it is prohibited in the zone, even if a use that is more general or
broader in scope is permitted in the zone.
   B.   Land Use Decision Required: No development may commence, or land use
changed or expanded, without a final land use decision which determines that
the development or the change or expansion, is allowed in the zone and complies
with all land use regulations. (Ord. O-22-06, 2-16-2022)
9-5-3: FILING OF ORDINANCE AND MAP:
The ordinance codified herein and the map shall be filed in the custody of the
city recorder, and may be examined by the public subject to any reasonable
regulations established by the city recorder. (Ord., 9-3-1996; amd. Ord. O-22-
06, 2-16-2022)
9-5-4: RULES FOR LOCATING BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules
shall apply:
   A.   Whenever the zone boundary is indicated as being approximately upon the
centerline of a street, alley or block, or along a property line, then, unless
otherwise definitely indicated on the map, the centerline of such street, alley
or block, or such property line, shall be construed to be the boundary of such
zone.
   B.   Whenever such boundary line of such zone is indicated as being
approximately at the line of any river, irrigation canal or other waterway or
railroad right of way, or public park or other public land, or any section
line, then in such case the center of such stream, canal, waterway, or of such
railroad right of way or the boundary line of such public land, or such section
line, shall be deemed to be the boundary of such zone.
   C.   Where such zone boundary lines cannot be determined by the above rules,
the zoning commission and/or city council shall interpret their location on the
map. (Ord., 9-3-1996; amd. Ord. O-22-06, 2-16-2022)
CHAPTER 6
AGRICULTURAL ZONE A1
SECTION:
9-6-1: Use Regulations
9-6-2: Area, Width, Yard And Height Regulations
9-6-1: USE REGULATIONS:
In agricultural zone A1, no building or structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed
to be used for other than one or more of the following uses:
Any use permitted in residential zone R3.
Raising and grazing of horses, cattle, sheep, rabbits or goats; provided, that
such raising grazing is not a part of, nor conducted in conjunction with, any
livestock feed yard, slaughter house, animal byproducts business or commercial
riding academy.
The minimum lot area for raising or grazing horses, cattle, sheep, rabbits, or
goats shall be o ne acre. A maximum of two (2) horses; or two (2) cattle; or
four (4) sheep, goats; or twenty (20) rabbits per acre.
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above. (Ord., 9-3-
1996; amd. Ord. O-22-09, 3-16-2022)
9-6-2: AREA, WIDTH, YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Area: The minimum lot area for any dwelling shall not be less than
forty-three thousand five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet.
   B.   Width: The minimum width of any lot which is required by this chapter
to contain a minimum area of one acre shall be one hundred thirty-two feet
(132').
   C.   Side Yard: Same as residential zone R3 for dwelling and accessory
buildings. For all other buildings, the minimum side yard shall be eight feet
(8') and the total width of the two (2) required side yards shall be not less
than sixteen feet (16').
   D.   Front And Rear Yard: Same as for residential zone R1.
   E.   Height: Same as for residential zone R1.
   F.   Maximum Lot Coverage: Twenty-five percent (25%) of the entire lot area.
(Ord., 9-3-1996; amd. Ord. O-22-09, 3-16-2022)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. RESIDENTIAL ZONE R1
SECTION:
9-7A-1: Use Regulations
9-7A-2: Area, Width, Yard And Height Regulations
9-7A-1: USE REGULATIONS:
In residential zone R1, no building or structure or land shall be used, and no
building shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used
for other than one or more of the following uses:
Agriculture.
Churches.
Home occupations.
Household pets.
Libraries, museums, art galleries.
Nameplates and signs as follows:
   A.   One nameplate for each dwelling unit, not exceeding two (2) square feet
in area, indicating the name of the occupant or a permitted home occupation.
   B.   One signboard not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area, appertaining
to the lease or sale of the property, or warning against trespassing.
   C.   One bulletin board not exceeding eighteen (18) square feet in area for
a church or other institution for the purpose of displaying the name and
character of services or other activities conducted therein.
   D.   One identification sign not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in area
for buildings other than dwellings.
   E.   All such bulletin boards and identification signs shall be attached to
and parallel with the front wall of the building. If any nameplate, bulletin
board or sign is illuminated, indirect lighting only shall be used, the course
of light shall not be visible from the street, and no flashing or intermittent
illumination shall be employed.
Public parks, public recreational grounds and buildings; public buildings;
public utilities; private recreation grounds and facilities, not open to the
general public, and to which no admission charge is made.
Public schools; private education institutions having a curriculum similar to
that ordinarily given in public schools; child daycare centers.
Single-family dwellings.
Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings
must be removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work.
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above. (Ord., 9-3-
1996)
9-7A-2: AREA, WIDTH, YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Area: The minimum lot area shall not be less than nine thousand five
hundred (9,500) square feet.
   B.   Width: The minimum width of any lot shall be eighty feet (80'), at a
distance thirty feet (30') back from the front lot line.
   C.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight feet
(8') and the total width of the two (2) required side yards shall be not less
than sixteen feet (16'). Other main buildings shall have a minimum side yard of
eight feet (8') and the total width of the two (2) required side yards shall
not be less than sixteen feet (16'). The minimum side yard for a private garage
shall be ten feet (10'), except that private garages and other accessory
buildings located at least six feet (6') in the rear of the main building may
have a minimum side yard of one foot (1'); provided, that no private garage or
other accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet (10') to a
dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard, which faces on a
street for both main and accessory buildings, shall be not less than twenty
feet (20'), or the average of existing buildings where more than fifty percent
(50%) of frontage is developed, but in no case shall the side yard be less than
fifteen feet (15'), or be required to be more than twenty feet (20').
   D.   Front Yard: The minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings and
for private garages which have a minimum side yard of ten feet (10') shall be
thirty feet (30'), or the average of the existing buildings where fifty percent
(50%) or more of the frontage is developed; provided, that in no case shall the
front yard be less than twenty feet (20') or be required to be more than thirty
feet (30'). All accessory buildings other than private garages which have a
side yard of at least eight feet (8') shall be located at least six feet (6')
in the rear of the main building.
   E.   Rear Yard: The minimum depth of the rear yard for any main building
shall be thirty feet (30'), and for accessory buildings one foot (1');
provided, that on corner lots which rear upon the side yard of another lot,
accessory buildings shall be located not closer than ten feet (10') to such
side yard.
   F.   Height: No building shall be erected to a height greater than two (2)
stories or thirty five feet (35'), and no dwelling structure shall be erected
to a height less than one story. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
ARTICLE B. RESIDENTIAL ZONE R2
SECTION:
9-7B-1: Use Regulations
9-7B-2: Area, Width, Yard And Height Regulations
9-7B-1: USE REGULATIONS:
In residential zone R2, no building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed
to be used for other than one or more of the following uses:
Any use permitted in residential R1.
Single-family dwelling. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-7B-2: AREA, WIDTH, YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Area: The minimum lot area shall be not less than eight thousand five
hundred (8,500) square feet.
   B.   Width: The minimum width of any lot shall be seventy four feet (74'),
at a distance thirty feet (30') back from the front lot line.
   C.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight feet
(8') and the total width of the two (2) required side yards shall be not less
than sixteen feet (16'). Other main buildings shall have a minimum side yard of
eight feet (8') and the total width of the two (2) yards shall be not less than
sixteen feet (16'). The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight
feet (8'), except that private garages and other accessory buildings located at
least six feet (6') to the rear of the main building, shall have a minimum side
yard of not less than one foot (1'); provided, that no private garage or other
accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet (10') to a dwelling on
an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street for both
main and accessory buildings shall be not less than twenty feet (20') or the
average of existing buildings where fifty percent (50%) or more of the frontage
is developed, but in no case less than fifteen feet (15') or be required to be
more than twenty feet (20').
   D.   Front Yard, Rear Yard And Height: Same as for residential zone R1.
(Ord., 9-3-1996)
ARTICLE C. RESIDENTIAL ZONE R3
SECTION:
9-7C-1: Use Regulations
9-7C-2: Area, Width, Yard And Height Regulations
9-7C-1: USE REGULATIONS:
In residential zone R3, no building, structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed
to be used for other than one or more of the following uses:
Any use permitted in residential zone R1. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-7C-2: AREA, WIDTH, YARD AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Area: The minimum lot area shall be not less than seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) square feet.
   B.   Width: The minimum width of any lot shall be sixty five feet (65'), at
a distance thirty feet (30') back from the front lot line.
   C.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard for any dwellings shall be eight feet
(8') and the total width of the two (2) required side yards shall be not less
than sixteen feet (16'). Other main buildings shall have a minimum side yard of
eight feet (8'), and the total width of the two (2) yards shall be not less
than sixteen feet (16'). The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be
eight feet (8'), except that private garages and other accessory buildings
located at least six feet (6') to the rear of the main building shall have a
minimum side yard of not less than one foot (1'); provided, that no private
garage or other accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet (10')
to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on
a street for both main and accessory buildings shall be not less than twenty
feet (20') or the average of existing buildings where fifty percent (50%) or
more of the frontage is developed, but in no case less than fifteen feet (15')
or be required to be more than twenty feet (20').
   D.   Front Yard, Rear Yard And Height: Same as for residential zones R1 and
R2. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
ARTICLE D. RESIDENTIAL ZONE R4
SECTION:
9-7D-1: Use Regulations
9-7D-2: Area, Width, Yard, Height And Coverage Regulations
9-7D-3: Group Dwellings
9-7D-1: USE REGULATIONS:
In residential zone R4, no building or structure or land shall be used and no
building or structure shall be erected which is arranged, intended or designed
to be used for other than one or more of the following uses:
Any use permitted in residential zones R1, R2 and R3.
Boarding houses and lodging houses.
Hospitals, sanitariums, clinics, except animal hospitals and clinics,
convalescent homes, nursing homes, child daycare centers, wedding chapels.
Hotels and apartment hotels.
Parking lots.
Two-family dwellings; multiple dwellings; group dwellings.
In a multiple dwelling designed, constructed and/or used for twenty four (24)
or more families and in a hotel designed, constructed and/or used for fifty
(50) or more guest rooms, there may be conducted a business incidental thereto,
for the convenience of the occupants and the guests thereof; provided, that
there shall be no entrance to such business except from inside the building in
which the same is located and that the floor area used for business purposes
shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the ground floor area of such
building.
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above. (Ord., 9-3-
1996)
9-7D-2: AREA, WIDTH, YARD, HEIGHT AND COVERAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Area: Multi-Family Dwellings may have reduced Lot Regulations in the R-
4 RM12. Site Plan Permit (see Chapter 1.26 of this Title) and subdivision
approval required.
The minimum lot area shall be six thousand (6,000) square feet for each one-
family dwelling, with seven hundred fifty (750) additional square feet for each
additional dwelling unit in a dwelling structure having more than one dwelling
unit; not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet for any other main
building.
Maximum density: The maximum number of dwelling units is limited initially to 8
units per acre. Density limit may be increased as defined below in section L.
   B.   Width: The minimum width of any lot shall be seventy feet (70').
   C.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard setback for any dwelling regulated by
this section shall be ten feet (10') except where a side yard is adjacent to an
R1, R2, or R3 zone in which the minimum setback shall be thirty feet (30').
   D.   Front Yard: The minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings and
for private garages shall be thirty feet (30').
   E.   Rear Yard: The minimum depth of the rear yard for main buildings and
for private garages shall be twenty five feet (25') except when rear yard is
adjacent to single family residential zone (R1, R2, R3) in which case the rear
yard minimum depth shall be forty feet (40').
Rear yards shall be separated from adjoining properties with a decorative wall
or decorative fence, sufficient to provide adequate aesthetics, screening,
separation, and security.
   F.   Height: No building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty-
six (36) feet, and no dwelling structure shall be erected to a height less than
one story.
   G.   Maximum Number of Stories above ground is 2 ½. The minimum height of a
dwelling in stories above grade: 1.
   H.   Accessory buildings:
The maximum height of an accessory building in feet: 15.
Accessory buildings adjacent to the front, side, or rear yard of any
residential zone, shall be shorter than 15 feet.
Accessory building larger than 800 sq ft shall follow the front, side, and rear
yard setback requirements as defined above.
No accessory building shall contain greater square foot floor area than the
principal building to which it is accessory. No accessory building or group of
accessory buildings in any residential district shall cover more than thirty
(30) percent of the rear yard.
   I.   Coverage: No building or group of buildings with their accessory
buildings shall cover more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of the lot.
   J.   Any multi-family building or group of buildings shall be managed by a
homeowner association (HOA), or similar, which manages common areas, including
green space, parking lot, accessory buildings, landscaping areas. The HOA shall
be responsible for the maintenance and appearance of the complex and shall be
liable for code violations levied by the city
   K.   Open space shall be provided to any building or group of buildings that
contains more than 2 dwelling units per building. A common open space shall be
provided at a rate of 220 sq ft per dwelling unit (~0.5 acre per 100 units),
with a minimum size of open space not less than 1000 sq ft.
      1.   Open space may be split into multiple areas, but no individual area
less than 1000 sq ft will count towards the open space requirement defined
above.
      2.   Open space shall be of semi-regular shape such that line of sight is
maintained from any two points within the space.
      3.   50% of retention/detention area may count toward the open space
requirement providing that the remaining open space is adjacent to the
retention/detention area.
      4.   Open space may include yard, playground, patio, sports court,
botanical, or vegetable garden, maintained natural trail, or similar.
      5.   Open space must be separated from vehicle parking and roadway in a
manner that prevent normal vehicle access.
      6.   Picnic/bowery/pergola structures which are open on at least 3 sides
and are less than 15 feet in height are considered part of the open space.
      7.   In a phased development 33% of total open space requirements shall
be contained in phase I land area and construction of open space shall be 50%
completed by the completion of phase I and 100% completed prior to the
commencement of the final phase of development.
      8.   Single building dwelling units do not need to be included in Open
Space calculations.
Sidewalks adjacent to roadways or parking lots shall not count towards Open
Space surface area requirements.
   L.   Density Increase Provision - The unit per acre density requirement
within the development may be increased from 8 units per acre up to 12 units
per acre if the following conditions are met:
      1.   A common open space shall be provided at a rate of 435 sq ft per
dwelling unit (~1 acre per 100 dwelling units), with a minimum size of open
space not less than 1500 sq ft.
      2.   Open space shall be made generally available for use by the public
without a fee.
         a.   Managing association may restrict/enforce usage times (to
daylight hours or similar) to prevent noise or other nuisance.
         b.    Managing association may also restrict and enforce prohibitions
against activities that risk property damage, public safety, or create a
nuisance (loud music performances, public protest, high risk sports activity,
etc.).
         c.   Managing associate may require reservation and assess reasonable
deposit or use fee for use of any individual amenities (bowery, fire pit,
sports court, vegetable garden) but cannot restrict general usage of open
space. (Ord., 9-3-1996; amd. Ord. O-21-16, 12-21-2021)
9-7D-3: GROUP DWELLINGS:
   A.   Yard Requirements: Group dwellings shall be considered as one building
for the purpose of front, side and rear yard requirements, the entire group as
a unit requiring one front, one rear and two (2) side yards as specified above
for dwellings.
   B.   Height: Group dwellings shall be not more than two (2) stories or
thirty five feet (35') in height.
   C.   Court Area: Each two (2) or two and one-half (21/2) story group
dwelling development shall have a minimum court of forty feet (40') in width
and forty feet (40') in length, in addition to its required yards, and each one
story group dwelling development shall have a minimum court of thirty feet
(30') in width, and thirty feet (30') in length, in addition to its required
yards.
   D.   Distance: In a group dwelling development, no two (2) separate dwelling
structures shall be closer to each other along the sides or end of a court than
fifteen feet (15').
   E.   Unoccupied Court Area: The court shall be unoccupied by any building or
other structures except fire hydrants, utility poles, or other street
improvements.
   F.   Width: The court shall have an unobstructed opening, of not less than
thirty feet (30') wide, onto the front yard of a lot which has a width not less
than that required for a lot in the zone in which it is located.
   G.   Facing: All dwelling structures of the group, except those facing a
public street, shall face upon the court.
   H.   Alterative To Court Area: An acceptable alternative to a shared court
area would be fenced private yards for each apartment and/or a landscaped
common area of approximately one thousand six hundred (1,600) square feet
minimum. A parking area may not be included as a part of the one thousand six
hundred (1,600) square foot requirement. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
ARTICLE E. RESIDENTIAL MULTIPLE ZONE RM12
SECTION:
9-7E-1: Use Regulations
9-7E-2: Area, Width, Yard, Height And Coverage Regulations
9-7E-1: USE REGULATIONS:
In residential zone RM12, no building or structure or land shall be used, and
no building or structure shall be erected which is arranged, intended or
designed to be used for other than one or more of the following uses:
   Any use permitted in residential zones R1, R2 and R3.
   Boarding houses and lodging houses.
   Hospitals, sanitariums, clinics, except animal hospitals and clinics,
convalescent homes, nursing homes, child daycare centers, wedding chapels.
   Parking lots.
   Two-family dwellings; multiple residential dwellings; group dwellings.
   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above. (Ord. O-
24-04, 9-18-2024)
9-7E-2: AREA, WIDTH, YARD, HEIGHT AND COVERAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Area: Multi-Family Dwellings may have reduced Lot Regulations in the
RM12. Site Plan Permit (see Chapter 16 of this Title) and subdivision approval
required.
      The minimum lot area shall be six thousand (6,000) square feet for each
one-family dwelling, with seven hundred fifty (750) additional square feet for
each additional dwelling unit in a dwelling structure having more than one
dwelling unit; not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet for any other
main building.
      Maximum density: The maximum number of dwelling units is limited
initially to 8 units per acre. Density limit may be increased as defined below
in section L.
   B.   Width: The minimum width of any lot shall be seventy feet (70').
   C.   Side Yard: The minimum side yard setback for any dwelling regulated by
this section shall be ten feet (10') except where a side yard is adjacent to an
R1, R2, or R3 zone in which the minimum setback shall be thirty feet (30').
   D.   Front Yard: The minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings and
for private garages shall be thirty feet (30').
   E.   Rear Yard: The minimum depth of the rear yard for main buildings and
for private garages shall be twenty-five feet (25') except when rear yard is
adjacent to single family residential zone (R1, R2, R3) in which case the rear
yard minimum depth shall be forty feet (40').
      Rear yards shall be separated from adjoining properties with a decorative
wall or decorative fence, sufficient to provide adequate aesthetics, screening,
separation, and security.
   F.   Height: No building shall be erected to a height greater than thirty-
six feet (36'), and no dwelling structure shall be erected to a height less
than one story.
   G.   Maximum Number of Stories above ground is 2 ½. The minimum height of a
dwelling in stories above grade: 1
   H.   Accessory buildings:
      1.   The maximum height of an accessory building in feet: 15
      2.   Accessory buildings adjacent to the front, side, or rear yard of any
residential zone, shall be shorter than 15 feet.
      3.   Accessory building larger than 800 sq ft shall follow the front,
side, and rear yard setback requirements as defined above.
      4.   No accessory building shall contain greater square foot floor area
than the principal building to which it is accessory. No accessory building or
group of accessory buildings in any residential district shall cover more than
thirty (30) percent of the rear yard.
    I.   Coverage: No building or group of buildings with their accessory
buildings shall cover more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of the lot.
(Ord., 9-3-1996)
   J.   Any multi-family building or group of buildings shall be managed by a
homeowner association (HOA), or similar, which manages common areas, including
green space, parking lot, accessory buildings, landscaping areas. The HOA shall
be responsible for the maintenance and appearance of the complex and shall be
liable for code violations levied by the city
   K.   Open space shall be provided to any building or group of buildings that
contains more than 2 dwelling units per building. A common open space shall be
provided at a rate of 220 sq ft per dwelling unit (~0.5 acre per 100 units),
with a minimum size of open space not less than 1000 sq ft.
      1.   Open space may be split into multiple areas, but no individual area
less than 1000 sq ft will count towards the open space requirement defined
above.
      2.   Open space shall be of semi-regular shape such that line of sight is
maintained from any two points within the space.
      3.   50% of retention/detention area may count toward the open space
requirement providing that the remaining open space is adjacent to the
retention/detention area.
      4.   Open space may include yard, playground, patio, sports court,
botanical, or vegetable garden, maintained natural trail, or similar.
      5.   Open space must be separated from vehicle parking and roadway in a
manner that prevent normal vehicle access.
      6.   Picnic/bowery/pergola structures which are open on at least 3 sides
and are less than 15 feet in height are considered part of the open space.
      7.   In a phased development 33% of total open space requirements shall
be contained in phase I land area and construction of open space shall be 50%
completed by the completion of phase I and 100% completed prior to the
commencement of the final phase of development.
      8.   Single building dwelling units do not need to be included in Open
Space calculations.
      Sidewalks adjacent to roadways or parking lots shall not count towards
Open Space surface area requirements.
   L.   Density Increase Provision - The unit per acre density requirement
within the development may be increased from 8 units per acre up to 12 units
per acre if the following conditions are met:
      1.   A common open space shall be provided at a rate of 435 sq ft per
dwelling unit (~1 acre per 100 dwelling units), with a minimum size of open
space not less than 1500 sq ft.
      2.   Open space shall be made generally available for use by the public
without a fee.
         a.   Managing association may restrict/enforce usage times (to
daylight hours or similar) to prevent noise or other nuisance.
         b.    Managing association may also restrict and enforce prohibitions
against activities that risk property damage, public safety, or create a
nuisance (loud music performances, public protest, high risk sports activity,
etc.).
         c.   Managing associate may require reservation and assess reasonable
deposit or use fee for use of any individual amenities (bowery, fire pit,
sports court, vegetable garden) but cannot restrict general usage of open
space. (Ord. O-24-04, 9-18-2024)
CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL ZONE C1
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose; Intent; Definitions
9-8-2: Use Regulations
9-8-3: Yard, Height And Coverage Regulations
9-8-4: Generally
9-8-4-1: Conflicting Ordinances, Applicability
9-8-4-2: Enforcing Officer
9-8-4-3: General Provisions
9-8-4-4: Disposal Of Violations
9-8-4-5: Effective Date
9-8-1: PURPOSE; INTENT; DEFINITIONS:
   A.   The purpose of the commercial zone is to provide suitable areas for the
location of nearly all commercial goods and services needed to serve the people
and commerce of the city. Retail commercial activities which serve the
residents of the city will be encouraged. Since the zone permits such a wide
variety of uses, the protective features which zoning normally affords to
adjacent properties are mostly nonexistent. Owners should develop and maintain
their property in recognition thereof.
   B.   The following definitions apply to this chapter:
    MANUFACTURING: Any facility, which is used in the manufacture or production
of tangible personal property, including the processing resulting in a change
in the condition of such property.
   RETAIL: The sale of goods to ultimate consumers, usually in small
quantities.
   WHOLESALE: The sale of goods in quantity, as to retailers or jobbers, for
resale.
   C.   Inasmuch as this zone may be surrounded by dwellings, it is intended
that residential amenities be maintained insofar as possible. Stores, shops or
businesses shall be wholesale/retail establishments and shall be permitted
under the following conditions:
      1.   Such businesses shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed
building except for the parking of automobiles and service to persons in
automobiles, unless otherwise permitted.
      2.   No building or structure shall be constructed or modified in such a
way that snow, sleet, hail, rain or other runoff falls onto adjacent property.
(Ord. 13-01, 4-24-2013)
9-8-2: USE REGULATIONS:
Stores, shops and businesses shall be wholesale/retail establishments and shall
be permitted under the following conditions:
   A.   Maintenance: All businesses which are on a public street shall maintain
yards and buildings in a neat and attractive manner.
   B.   Enclosure Of Merchandise And Materials: All materials and merchandise,
except vehicles in running order, shall be stored in an enclosed building or
within an enclosure surrounded by a sight obscuring (obscuring a minimum of 90
percent) fence or wall of not less than six feet (6') in height, and no
material or merchandise shall be stored to a height of more than the height of
the enclosing fence or wall.
   C.   Trash, Junk, Inoperable Vehicles, Vessels And Similar Items: No trash,
rubbish, weeds or other combustible material shall be allowed to remain on any
lot outside of approved containers in any commercial zone. No junk, debris,
abandoned, inoperable or dismantled vehicles or vessels or vehicle or vessel
parts or similar material shall be stored or allowed to remain on any lot in
any commercial zone.
   D.   Solid Waste Storage Facilities: All solid waste storage facilities
shall be located at the rear of the main building or else behind a sight
obscuring fence or wall which will prevent the facility from being seen from a
public street.
   E.   Protection Of Residential Property: Where a commercial development
adjoins any lot or parcel of ground in any residential zone, there shall be
provided along the adjoining property line a solid masonry wall and a minimum
ten foot (10') wide planting strip. The landscape requirements shall be
determined by the city planning department to make sure the buffer area
adequately protects the adjoining residential property.
   F.   Retail Sales: All products, whether primary or incidental, shall be
sold at retail on the premises; no beer shall be sold for consumption on the
premises, except in the pool halls and taverns; no entertainment, except music,
shall be permitted in cafes, confectioneries or refreshment stands.
   G.   Objectionable Uses Prohibited: All uses should be free from objections
because of odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or other similar offensive
nuisances to adjacent residential zones.
   H.   Signage: Any exterior sign displayed shall pertain only to a use
conducted within the building or on the lot or shall appertain to the lease or
sale of the property. In no case shall a sign project above the height of a
building. All signage will be approved by the planning and zoning commission
and/or city council prior to issuance of a building permit or business license.
(Ord. 13-01, 4-24-2013)
9-8-3: YARD, HEIGHT AND COVERAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Side Yard: None, except that wherever a building is located upon a lot
adjacent to a residential zone boundary, there shall be provided a side yard of
not less than ten feet (10') on the side of the building adjacent to the zone
boundary line, and on corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street shall
be not less than twenty feet (20').
   B.   Front Yard: The minimum depth of the front yard for all buildings,
walls or fences more than three feet (3') in height shall be twenty feet (20').
   C.   Rear Yard: None, except that on corner lots which rear upon the side
yard of another lot in a residential zone, the minimum rear yard shall be ten
feet (10').
   D.   Height: No building or structure shall be erected to a height greater
than two and one-half (21/2) stories or thirty five feet (35').
   E.   Coverage: No building, structure or group of buildings with their
accessory buildings shall cover more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of
the lot. (Ord. 13-01, 4-24-2013)
9-8-4: GENERALLY:
9-8-4-1: CONFLICTING ORDINANCES, APPLICABILITY:
The provisions established herein shall apply to all lands within the civil
jurisdiction of Garland City, Utah. Where there is conflict between the terms
and/or requirements contained in this chapter, as amended, or any other
ordinance, code, regulation of Garland City, Utah, the more strict shall apply.
(Ord. 13-01, 4-24-2013)
9-8-4-2: ENFORCING OFFICER:
An assigned enforcing officer (who may also be referred to herein as the
"building official" or "inspector") shall have the authority and the duty to
ensure that all buildings and structures and use of all land comply with the
provisions of this title. The enforcing officer shall be appointed by city
council. (Ord. 13-01, 4-24-2013)
9-8-4-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Any building or structure erected contrary to any of the provisions of
this chapter and any use of any building or land which is conducted, operated
or maintained contrary to any of the provisions of this chapter or the
provisions of any approval granted by the city under this chapter shall be a
violation of this chapter and the same declared to be unlawful.
   B.   Any person, whether owner, lessee, principal, agent, employee or
otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or permits any
such violation, or fails to comply with any of the requirements hereof, or who
erects any building or structure or uses any building, structure or land in
violation of the provisions of this chapter or provisions of any approval
granted by the city under this chapter shall be subject to the enforcement
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   In addition to the remedies provided in this chapter, the building
official may initiate injunctive action, mandamus, abatement or any other
appropriate action to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove any unlawful building,
structure or use.
   D.   If the person responsible for the alleged violation denies that a
violation exists, he may appeal the decision of the building official to the
city council in the same manner and within the same time deadline as stated in
section
9-16-4 of this title.
   E.   Whenever a violation occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person
may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the cause and basis
thereof shall be filed with the building official. The building official shall
record such complaint, investigate, and take action thereon as provided by this
chapter. (Ord. 13-01, 4-24-2013)
9-8-4-4: DISPOSAL OF VIOLATIONS:
If the building official concludes there exists an objectionable condition in
violation of this title, then he or she shall:
   A.   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants and descriptions of the
premises where such objects and conditions exist;
   B.   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of the premises,
either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner
and occupant at their last known post office addresses as disclosed by the
records of the county assessor or as otherwise ascertained, requiring such
owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate, destroy or remove
the objectionable condition/violation, and to bring the real property in
question into full compliance with the ordinances of the city, within such time
as the building official may designate, provided that any person notified
pursuant to this subsection shall be given not more than thirty (30) days, as
determined by the building official following the date of service of such
notice, to correct the objectionable condition or file an appeal with the city
council. The notice shall:
      1.   Contain a specific statement of the nature of the violation and
generally describe the premises on which the violation exists.
      2.   Inform the owner, occupant or other person that in the event he or
she disagrees with the determination of the building official and does not
intend to comply with the provisions of the notice or that he or she objects to
the factual or legal basis for the notice, he or she may appeal the
administrative finding in the notice to the city council within the time
deadline and per the other requirements found in section
9-16-4 of this title, provided such appeal is filed on or before the last day
of the time period stated in such notice within which to correct the
objectionable condition/violation.
      3.   Inform the person that in the event he or she fails or neglects to
correct the objectionable condition/violation, the building official will
issue, or cause to be issued, a citation pursuant to title 1, chapter 4 of this
code.
   C.   In the event the owner or occupant files an appeal disputing the
determination of the building official or objecting to the amount of time
allowed to mitigate and correct the noted objectionable condition/violation on
the notice served, the appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from in the same manner and subject to the same conditions as
stated in section
9-4-4 of this title. (Ord. 13-01, 4-24-2013)
9-8-4-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The provisions of this chapter shall take effect upon passage, signature of the
mayor and after being posted or published as required by law. (Ord. 13-01, 4-
24-2013)
CHAPTER 9
MANUFACTURING ZONE M1
SECTION:
9-9-1: Use Regulations
9-9-2: Permitted Uses
9-9-3: Conditional Uses
9-9-4: Area, Yard, Width, Height And Coverage Regulations
9-9-5: Maintenance Of Yards And Buildings; Screening
9-9-6: Stormwater Discharge
9-9-7: Adult Oriented Businesses
9-9-8: Public Utility Substations
9-9-9: Separability
9-9-10: Conflicting Ordinances, Applicability
9-9-11: Effective Date
9-9-1: USE REGULATIONS:
Manufacturing zone M1 has been designated as the required location within which
all manufacturing activity shall be established. All adult oriented business
enterprises will be located within the manufacturing zone M1. It is the policy
of the city council to review all enterprise which is considering building in
the city, with the intent of approving only those for which a mutual benefit
for both the enterprise and the city would exist. The city does not pre-endorse
any specific categories of enterprise, but rather will consider all proposals.
(Ord. 13-02, 4-24-2013)
9-9-2: PERMITTED USES:
No uses permitted, except by conditional use. (Ord. 13-02, 4-24-2013)
9-9-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
All uses will be considered as a conditional use on an individual basis,
including adult oriented businesses, which shall be allowed as a conditional
use in this M1 manufacturing zone only. Permits for conditional uses shall be
authorized only after approval thereof has been given by the city council upon
recommendation by the planning commission.
The planning commission review of conditional uses shall be made with the
general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and
harmonious development in accordance with existing and future needs. In making
a recommendation on conditional uses, the planning commission shall consider
the existing zoning and use of the surrounding property, the present and future
requirements for street, off street parking, and off street parking in relation
to exits and entrances from public streets, pedestrian and vehicular traffic
circulation, availability of water and other utilities, and other public
requirements. The city council, upon recommendation from the planning
commission or on its own motion, may impose reasonable conditions as are
necessary to protect the rights of surrounding property owners and tenants and
to carry out the purposes of this chapter and characteristics of this zone.
Factors which will be considered in deciding approval or disapproval will
include, but not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Water requirements and water availability and sewage treatment
requirements.
   B.   Storm drainage requirements.
   C.   Energy requirements and availability.
   D.   Raw material characteristics and means of delivery.
   E.   Manufactured goods characteristics and warehousing/shipping
requirements.
   F.   Potential pollutants used in or resulting from manufacturing process,
and plans for containment and/or control.
   G.   Inherent noises, odors or other undesirable factors or environmental
concerns.
   H.   Expected number and education requirements of employees by work shift.
   I.   Type of construction and size of planned facilities.
   J.   Any special requirements. (Ord. 13-02, 4-24-2013)
9-9-4: AREA, YARD, WIDTH, HEIGHT AND COVERAGE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Area: None, except that the minimum lot area for any single- family
dwelling, not incidental to the buildings located on the same piece of property
as for a commercial or industrial use permitted in the zone, shall be five (5)
acres; except further, that one single dwelling may be constructed on any
parcel of land though such parcel is less than five (5) acres in area, if such
parcel was cut off in separate ownership from adjacent lots and of record at
the time of passage of this section.
   B.   Yards, Width And Height: None, except side and rear yards and lot width
for single-family dwellings, not incidental to and located upon the same piece
of property as a commercial or industrial use permitted in this zone, shall be
the same as for residential R3 and R4, and no building or structure shall be
located closer than twenty feet (20') to any street or average of existing
buildings where at least fifty percent (50%) of the frontage is developed.
Within one hundred feet (100') of the boundary of any adjoining zone, no
building shall exceed the height limit established for main buildings in such
adjoining zone.
   C.   Coverage: No building, structure or group of buildings with their
accessory buildings shall cover more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of
the lot. A conditional use may be granted for buildings exceeding the sixty
percent (60%) parcel area, as determined by the planning commission and city
council. (Ord. 13-02, 4-24-2013)
9-9-5: MAINTENANCE OF YARDS AND BUILDINGS; SCREENING:
All businesses which are within or adjacent to a residential zone or front on a
public street shall maintain yards and buildings in a neat and attractive
manner. Where the nature of the business involves the storage of old vehicles,
building materials, machinery, etc., a solid masonry wall or other form of
screening wall or hedge shall be erected to present an aesthetically pleasing
appearance and block public view of unsightly storage. (Ord. 13-02, 4-24-2013)
9-9-6: STORMWATER DISCHARGE:
No building or structure shall be located and/or constructed as to discharge
stormwater onto an adjacent parcel. (Ord. 13-02, 4-24-2013)
9-9-7: ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose for the regulations contained in this section,
which supplement those stated in title 3, chapter 7 of this code, and any other
regulations applicable to the location of adult oriented businesses, is to
avoid, to the extent possible, the adverse secondary effects which may result
from the operation of such businesses. All provisions applicable to an adult
oriented business shall be construed to protect the governmental interests
recognized by these regulations in a manner consistent with protections
provided by the United States constitution and the Utah constitution.
   B.   Conditional Use: Any adult oriented business licensed in accordance
with title 3, chapter 7 of this code may be allowed as a conditional use, only
within an area zoned as M1 manufacturing zone, as shown on the city zoning map.
   C.   Location Restrictions: No adult oriented business shall be located:
      1.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any other adult oriented
business;
      2.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any residential use (no matter
which zoning district), or a residential zoning boundary;
      3.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any public or private schools,
public parks or parkways, public libraries, public recreation centers, churches
or other religious institutions or cemeteries;
      4.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of any "gateway or gateway
corridor", such as Main Street, East and West Factory Street, and 1400 South;
      5.   Within one thousand feet (1,000') of a business licensed for the
sale or consumption of alcohol or liquor.
   D.   Measurement Of Distance Requirements:
      1.   Distance requirements between structures and uses as specified in
this section shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or zoning districts, from the perimeter property
boundaries of a school, public park, library, recreation center, religious
institution, residential use or other adult oriented business, or from the edge
of the right of way of a gateway or gateway corridor, to the nearest point on
the perimeter property boundaries of the adult oriented business parcel.
      2.   Distance requirements from zoning districts for this section shall
be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
zoning districts, from the closest zoning boundary of a residential district to
the nearest point on the perimeter property boundaries of the adult oriented
business parcel.
   E.   Conditional Use Permit Required: An approved conditional use permit
shall be obtained by each applicant for an adult oriented business license
pursuant to chapter 16 of this title, before any building permit or other
permit or license shall be issued by any officer or employee of the city.
   F.   Area, Width And Yard Regulations; Development Standards: Each lot upon
which an adult oriented business is permitted shall conform to the area, width,
yard and height regulation for the R4 residential zone found in section
9-7D-2 of this title. In addition, each adult oriented business shall be
subject to all development standards for the M1 manufactured zone, including,
but not limited to, landscaping and off street parking.
   G.   Denial Or Hold Pending Processing: In the event an application is filed
for an adult oriented business license prior to the receipt by the applicant of
a conditional use permit for the premises on which the business is to be
located, the application for the business license may be denied, or held
pending, until the application for a conditional use permit has been processed
by the city.
   H.   Public Hearing: Before issuing a conditional use permit under the
provisions of this section, the planning commission shall hold a public
hearing, after notice as required by state statute for an amendment to this
title.
   I.   Term Of Permit: Each conditional use permit granted for an adult
oriented business shall be valid for a period of two (2) years from the date of
issuance, unless revoked or suspended prior to said date as provided in title
3, chapter 7 of this code, or other applicable provision of this code.
   J.   Renewal: Prior to the renewal of any conditional use permit for an
adult oriented business, the planning commission shall hold a properly noticed
public hearing and determine that the applicant remains in compliance with the
provisions of title 3, chapter 7 of this code, this title, and all other
applicable provisions of this code.
   K.   Conditions May Be Imposed: Reasonable conditions may be imposed by the
planning commission to address the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects
of the proposed adult oriented business; provided, that said conditions shall
be in addition to those imposed by title 3, chapter 7 of this code, and this
title, and are found to be necessary by reason of the specific location of the
real property, if allowed to be used for an adult oriented business. (Ord. 13-
02, 4-24-2013)
9-9-8: PUBLIC UTILITY SUBSTATIONS:
Public utility substations shall be located as provided in chapter 15 of this
title. (Ord. 13-02, 4-24-2013)
9-9-9: SEPARABILITY:
This chapter and each section and provision hereunder, are hereby declared to
be independent divisions and subdivisions and, notwithstanding any other
evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby declared to be the controlling
legislative intent that if any provisions of said chapter, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be invalid, the remaining
sections or provisions and the application of such sections and provisions to
any person or circumstances other than those to which it is held invalid, shall
not be affected thereby, and it is hereby declared that such sections and
provisions would have been passed independently of such section or provision so
known to be invalid. (Ord. 13-02, 4-24-2013)
9-9-10: CONFLICTING ORDINANCES, APPLICABILITY:
The provisions established herein shall apply to all lands within the civil
jurisdiction of Garland City, Utah. Where there is conflict between the terms
and/or requirements contained in this chapter, as amended, or any other
ordinance, code, regulation of Garland City, Utah, the more strict shall apply.
(Ord. 13-02, 4-24-2013)
9-9-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The provisions of this chapter shall take effect upon passage, signature of the
mayor and after being posted or published as required by law. (Ord. 13-02, 4-
24-2013)
CHAPTER 10
HIGHWAY ZONE H1
SECTION:
9-10-1: Use Regulations
9-10-2: Area, Yard, Width, Coverage And Height Regulations
9-10-1: USE REGULATIONS:
In highway zone H1, no building or land shall be used and no building shall be
erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used for other than one
or more of the following uses:
Grazing and pasturing of animals; agriculture.
Public and private parks and recreation grounds; recreational camps and
resorts; dude ranches.
Public schools; public buildings, churches; cemeteries, mortuaries.
Public utility substations and transmission lines; water pumping plants and
reservoirs; radio and television towers.
Signs pertaining to a use conducted within the building or on the lot, or
pertaining to the lease or sale of the property or identifying the use or
building on the property.
Single-family dwellings.
Tourist courts (motels).
Trailer courts.
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above. (Ord., 9-3-
1996)
9-10-2: AREA, YARD, WIDTH, COVERAGE AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Area: The minimum lot area for any dwelling shall be not less than one
acre.
   B.   Yard: No main building shall be erected or located closer than ten feet
(10') to any property line, and detached accessory buildings shall be located
not closer than one foot (1') to any property line.
   C.   Width, Coverage And Height: None. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
CHAPTER 11
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-11-1: Effect Of Chapter
9-11-2: Additional Height Allowed
9-11-3: Accessory Buildings
9-11-4: Animals; Distance To Dwellings
9-11-5: Area Of Accessory Buildings
9-11-6: Clear View Triangle; Fences And Walls
9-11-7: Effect Of Official Map
9-11-8: Every Dwelling To Be On A Lot
9-11-9: Lots And Dwellings On Private Right Of Way; Special Provisions
9-11-10: Lots In Separate Ownership
9-11-11: Maximum Height Of Accessory Building
9-11-12: Minimum Height Of Main Building
9-11-13: Sale Of Lots Below Minimum Space Requirements
9-11-14: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space
9-11-15: Substandard Lots Permitted
9-11-16: Trailers
9-11-17: Yard Space For One Building Only
9-11-18: Yards Unobstructed; Exceptions
9-11-19: Sidewalk, Curb And Gutter
9-11-20: Manufactured And Modular Homes
9-11-21: Swimming Pools
9-11-1: EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as
the case may be, the zone regulations appearing elsewhere in this title. (Ord.,
9-3-1996)
9-11-2: ADDITIONAL HEIGHT ALLOWED:
Public and semipublic utility buildings, when authorized in a zone, may be
erected to a height not exceeding seventy five feet (75'), if the building is
set back from each otherwise established building line at least one foot (1')
for each additional foot of building height above the normal height limit
required for the zone in which the building is erected. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-11-3: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Attached: Where an accessory building is structurally attached to a
main building, it shall be subject to, and must conform to, all regulations of
this title applicable to the main building.
   B.   Detached: No detached accessory building shall be located closer than
fifty feet (50') to any main building, except a detached private garage which
may be located adjacent to the dwelling, provided ample walkway separates the
garage and dwelling. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-11-4: ANIMALS; DISTANCE TO DWELLINGS:
No animal shall be kept or maintained closer than seventy five feet (75') from
any dwelling, and no barn, stable, pen or corral shall be kept closer than
fifty feet (50') from the street. (Ord. 98-3, 4-29-1998)
9-11-5: AREA OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
No accessory building nor group of accessory buildings in any residential zone
shall cover more than twenty five percent (25%) of the rear yard. (Ord., 9-3-
1996)
9-11-6: CLEAR VIEW TRIANGLE; FENCES AND WALLS:
   A.   Clear View Triangle: The clear view triangle is an area at
intersections (streets and driveways) that must remain unobstructed for a
height of two feet (2'), except for unobstructed chainlink that can be three
feet (3') above the ground. The drawing following this section depicts how to
conclude where those clear view areas are.
   B.   Limitations: Limitations are as follows:
      1.   Public Property Requires Approval: No private fence or wall shall be
erected, allowed or maintained on public property without city approval.
      2.   Interior Lots: On interior lots:
         a.   In side and rear yards, fences and walls shall be allowed to a
maximum height of eight feet (8').
         b.   In front yards, fences and walls shall be allowed to a maximum
height of two feet (2'), except for unobstructed chainlink that can be three
feet (3') for the first ten feet (10') from the property line.
      3.   Corner Lots: On corner lots:
         a.   In side and rear yards, fences and walls shall be allowed to a
maximum height of eight feet (8'), except that in street facing side and rear
yards which back onto front yards of adjoining lots, fences and walls shall be
limited to a maximum height of six feet (6'), after the first ten feet (10')
that is required to be two feet (2'), except for chainlink that can be three
feet (3').
         b.   In front yards, fences and walls shall be allowed to a maximum
height of two feet (2').
         c.   No driveway shall be closer than fifty feet (50') from the center
radius on a corner lot. Refer to clear vision triangle diagram.
   C.   Height Limitations: The height limitations for fences and walls are
further limited as follows:
      1.   In any district requiring a front yard, no obstruction to view above
three feet (3'):
         a.   The existing or future back of curb lines extended and a line
connecting them at points fifty feet (50') from the intersection of such lines;
or
         b.   The property lines and a line connecting them at points thirty
feet (30') from the intersection of such lines; whichever is the least
restrictive, except for a reasonable number of posts, telephone or power poles,
pruned trees and pedestal type identification signs. Within this clear view
triangular area, a chainlink fence of more than three feet (3') in height shall
be considered sight obscuring or view obstructing. No plants or objects over
two feet (2') tall can be placed in the city right of way, except for power
poles, street signs or mail boxes.
      2.   No view obstructing or sight obscuring fence exceeding two feet
(2'), except for unobstructed chainlink which may be three feet (3'), in height
above the level of the sidewalk or driveway elevation at property line, shall
be located or erected in the triangular area bounded by lines drawn from a
point on the centerline of a driveway on the same or adjacent property or
alley, set back fifteen feet (15') from the property line to points on the
centerline of the street abutting the property, eighty feet (80') either side
of the driveway or alley centerline.
      3.   The owner of any fence or wall shall have the duty and be required
to properly maintain the same by painting, treating, trimming, repairing or
removal.
      4.   Where a fence or wall is erected on or within five feet (5') of a
property line, upon a retaining wall, or where for other reasons there is a
difference in the elevation of the surface of the land on either side of a
fence, height of the fence shall be measured from a point halfway between the
top of the retaining wall and the land on the lower side or from the average
elevation of the surface of the land on either side and within ten feet (10')
of the fence, but nothing herein contained shall be construed to restrict the
fence or wall to less than four feet (4') in height measured from the surface
of the land on the side having the highest elevation.
      5.   The board of adjustment may grant special exceptions to the height
limits contained in this section for fences or walls surrounding tennis courts,
swimming pools, schools or other special type facilities, where it is shown
that the normal use or level of protection requires a greater height for safety
or other reasons; provided, however, that the rights of adjoining property
owners are equally considered.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/dd213fdbd3775d81355356e813ec69f408e66f1e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1098.gif]
(Ord. 03-04, 11-18-2003, eff. 11-18-2003)
9-11-7: EFFECT OF OFFICIAL MAP:
Wherever a front yard is required for a lot facing on a street, for which an
official map has been recorded in the office of the city recorder, the depth of
such front yard shall be measured from the mapped street line provided by the
official map. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-11-8: EVERY DWELLING TO BE ON A LOT:
Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a "lot", as defined in the
section
9-1-6 of this title. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-11-9: LOTS AND DWELLINGS ON PRIVATE RIGHT OF WAY; SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
Except where the requirements of this title are reduced by permit of the city
council, the minimum area for any lot fronting on a private right of way shall
be one-half (1/2) acre and the minimum setback of the dwelling from the center
of the right of way shall be fifty feet (50'). (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-11-10: LOTS IN SEPARATE OWNERSHIP:
The requirements of this title as to minimum lot area or lot width shall not be
construed to prevent the use for a single-family dwelling of any lot or parcel
of land in the event that such lot or parcel of land is held in separate
ownership at the time of the effective date hereof. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-11-11: MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF ACCESSORY BUILDING:
No building which is accessory to a one-family or two-family dwelling shall be
erected to a height greater than one story or twenty feet (20'). (Ord., 9-3-
1996)
9-11-12: MINIMUM HEIGHT OF MAIN BUILDING:
No dwelling shall be erected to a height less than one story aboveground.
(Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-11-13: SALE OF LOTS BELOW MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area requirements
for the zone in which it is located may be cut off from a larger parcel of land
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building or development as a
lot, except by permit of the city council. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-11-14: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE:
No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
requirements of this title for lot or building may be sold or leased away from
such lot or building. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-11-15: SUBSTANDARD LOTS PERMITTED:
Where a parcel of land is at least one and one-half (11/2) times as wide and
one and one and one-half (11/2) times as large in area as required for a lot in
the zone or two and one-fourth (21/4) times as wide and two and one-fourth (21/
4) times as large in area as required for the one lot in the zone, the parcel
may be divided into two (2) lots and three (3) lots respectively. (Ord., 9-3-
1996)
9-11-16: TRAILERS:
The parking of trailers in other than a trailer court or park for occupancy
therein shall not be permitted. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-11-17: YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY:
No required yard or other open space around an existing building or which is
hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this title, shall be considered as providing a yard or open space
for any other building, nor shall any yard or other required open space on an
adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon
a building is to be erected or established. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-11-18: YARDS UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed except for
accessory buildings. In a rear yard, the projections of skylights, sills,
cornices, chimneys, flues and other ornamental features shall not project into
a yard more than two and one-half feet (21/2'), and open or enclosed fire
escapes, or balconies may project into a yard not more than five feet (5').
(Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-11-19: SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER:
Sidewalk, curb and gutter are required in all zones and shall be constructed in
compliance with building code standards. Sidewalk, curb and gutter shall be
built on street right of way property or property which will be deeded to the
city, with the edge of the sidewalk nearest the home defining the start of the
private property. Cost of sidewalk, curb and gutter shall be the responsibility
of the subdivider or home builder. Where sidewalk, curb and gutter is installed
on existing streets, an asphalt apron shall also be installed between street
paving and start of the gutter. This cost shall also be the responsibility of
the home builder, owner or subdivider, except as specifically waived by the
city council. Maintenance of the strip between sidewalk and curb and gutter
will be the responsibility of the property owner. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-11-20: MANUFACTURED AND MODULAR HOMES:
   A.   Upon application and payment of a fee, a building permit may be issued
for the placement of a manufactured home (each reference in this chapter to a
manufactured home shall be deemed to also refer to a modular home, except where
the context of the language or requirements of the law provide for reference to
one type of home only), provided it meets or will be constructed to meet the
requirements of federal and state law and this code, as currently stated or as
may he amended; and further provided, that it shall be placed on a lot zoned
for single-family dwellings within the city. Application for such permit shall
be made to the designated building inspector, or other designated official or
department. The permit shall be granted upon evidence of compliance, or present
ability to comply to the satisfaction of the building department, with all the
local zoning, building code and subdivision requirements, including any
restrictive covenants applicable to single-family residences within the zone or
area proposed for construction; and provided further, that the manufactured
home will be attached to a permanent foundation in accordance with plans
providing for vertical loads, uplift and lateral forces and frost protection in
compliance with the applicable building code, and with the following provisions
and conditions:
      1.   Each manufactured home shall be attached to a permanent foundation,
in accordance with plans providing for vertical loads, uplift, lateral forces
and frost protection in compliance with all applicable building codes. Each
manufactured home shall also be installed on said foundation in accordance with
the manufacturer's installation instructions, if applicable. Each manufactured
home shall be installed with or without a basement on a site built, permanent
foundation system that meets or exceeds applicable requirements of the building
codes and the manufacturer's installation instructions, if applicable. This
shall include a permanent masonry/concrete perimeter enclosure for each
manufactured home installation and shall conform to the building code as
specified for footings and foundation walls. This shall also include the
removal of towing hitches and running gear, which includes tongues, axles,
brakes, wheels, lights and other parts of the chassis that operate only during
transport. Each manufactured home shall comply with all zoning, building code
and subdivision requirements, including restrictive covenants, applicable to
single-family residences within the zone or area in which it is to be located.
      2.   The lot upon which said manufactured home is to be placed shall
comply in all respects with the then existing zoning requirements for the
district in which it is located, including, but not limited to: lot size,
building setback, access, enclosures, yard requirements and the length of the
structure facing the street or roadway to which it will be addressed.
      3.   Each manufactured home shall be used strictly in accordance with the
purposes for which such structures may be used in the district in which the
applicant seeks to have it located; and each manufactured home shall be
compatible with the then existing structures in the district in which the
applicant seeks to have it located.
      4.   Each manufactured home shall have been constructed on or after June
15, 1976, according to the federal home construction and safety standards act
1974 (HUD code), and shall not have been altered or otherwise remodeled in
violation of the HUD code. Each manufactured home shall be identifiable by the
manufacturer's data plate bearing the date the unit was manufactured and a HUD
label attached to the exterior of the home certifying that the home was
manufactured to HUD standards.
      5.   Each manufactured home shall have a minimum width of twenty four
feet (24'), with width being the smallest dimension, and be multisectional or
multimodular. The width (sides) shall face the side yards and in no case face
the street to which the structure shall be addressed.
      6.   Each manufactured home shall have an exterior covering material
customarily used on site built dwellings. Exterior siding and trim materials
shall consist of durable, weather resilient materials approved for dwelling
construction in the building codes, such as masonry, stucco, wood, composition,
vinyl, steel or aluminum residential sidings. In no case may corrugated metal,
fiberglass, or typical trailer coach or recreational vehicle type coverings be
used. (Ord. 03-01, 4-15-2003)
      7.   Each manufactured home shall have a roof with a pitch of not less
than three inches (3") of vertical rise for each two feet (2') of horizontal
run. Roofing materials shall be composition asphalt shingles of other shingle
materials preapproved by the building department. In addition, the roof shall
have a minimum eave overhang of not less than eight inches (8") to provide for
runoff and four inch (4") overhang where the roof line is not parallel to the
base of the unit. (The 8 inches may include rain gutter.) (Ord. 03-01, 4-15-
2003; amd. 2006 Code)
      8.   Any and all appendages to each manufactured home and for accessory
uses, such as steps and stoops, carports or garages, storage buildings,
antennas, satellite dishes, patios, awnings, additions or alterations shall be
built in compliance with and conform to the applicable building codes. Main
entry steps, stoops and porches shall be concrete or masonry and shall have
required guardrails and handrails, if appropriate.
      9.   Each manufactured home shall have permanent connection of all
services of local utilities, with local authority approval being required. This
shall include two (2) hose bibs when not contained with the manufactured home.
   B.   The owner of each manufactured home shall cause the document of title,
as soon as the same is received from the manufacturer, to be delivered to the
Box Elder County assessor in the manner required by law, and said home shall
thereafter be subject to taxation as real property.
   C.   Nothing in this section is intended, nor should it be construed as
being intended, to limit or exclude the construction or placement of a
permanent dwelling on a lot zoned for single-family dwellings as heretofore may
have been permitted by the existing legislation. (Ord. 03-01, 4-15-2003)
9-11-21: SWIMMING POOLS:
   A.   Applicability:
      1.   This section shall apply to all swimming pools located within
Garland City other than those swimming pools specifically exempted by a
provision of this section.
      2.   For purposes of this section, a "swimming pool" is defined as any
receptacle for water, other than one that is entirely enclosed by a roof and
walls within a home or other structure, that:
         a.   Is used or intended to be used for the purpose of immersion or
partial immersion of human beings for swimming, bathing or diving;
         b.   Is capable of being filled, at any point, to a depth of twenty
four (24) or more inches.
      3.   A swimming pool that is under construction shall not be subject to
this section until construction is complete or until it fills with water to a
depth of twenty four (24) or more inches, whichever occurs first.
      4.   Any swimming pool whose use for swimming, bathing or diving has been
discontinued or abandoned shall remain subject to this section unless filled to
the surface with earth or other similar material.
      5.   This section shall not apply to any irrigation ditches, retaining
ponds and/or animal feeding equipment.
   B.   Swimming Pool Standards:
      1.   Unless it is equipped with a safety cover meeting the requirements
of subsection B4 of this section, every swimming pool shall be completely
enclosed by a ridge, fence, barrier or other substantial structure not less
than four feet (4') in height as measured on the outside of the enclosure. No
openings other than doors and gates with any dimensions greater than four
inches (4") shall be permitted therein, except that picket fences may be
erected or maintained having horizontal spacing between pickets of not more
than four inches (4").
      2.   All doors or gates in the pool enclosures required by subsection B1
of this section shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices
designed to keep, and capable of keeping, such doors or gates securely closed
at all times when not in actual use; provided, however, that the door of any
dwelling occupied by human beings forming any part of the enclosure hereinabove
required need not be so equipped. Any self-latching device accessible from the
outside of the pool enclosure shall be located at least four feet (4') above
the ground or otherwise equally inaccessible to small children.
      3.   The vertical walls of an on ground or aboveground pool structure
shall satisfy the enclosure requirement of subsection B1 of this section,
provided that such walls comply with all standards of subsection B1 of this
section (including, but not limited to, the 4 foot height requirement), and
subject to the further requirement that if access is provided by a ladder,
steps, or similar means, the means of access shall either be surrounded by an
enclosure meeting the standards of subsection B1 of this section or must be
removed and stored to prevent access.
      4.   A swimming pool without an enclosure meeting the standards of
subsection B1 of this section shall nevertheless be deemed to comply with this
section if it is equipped with a cover which complies with the standards set
forth in ASTM F 1346-91.
   C.   Violations And Enforcement:
      1.   It shall be a violation of this section for any landowner to own,
maintain, use or operate a swimming pool on his or her property that does not
comply with the standards set forth in subsection B of this section, unless the
swimming pool is specifically exempted by a provision of this section.
      2.   Any violation of this section shall be enforced as an ordinance
violation. The chief of police or their designee shall sign the complaints for
violations of this section.
   D.   Penalty:
      1.   Any violation of this section is a class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 16-07,
7-27-2016)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
SECTION:
9-12-1: Additions, Enlargement And Moving
9-12-2: Change Of Use
9-12-3: Continuation Of Use
9-12-4: Expansion Of Use Permitted
9-12-5: Maintenance Permitted
9-12-6: Nonconforming Use Of Land
9-12-7: Occupation Within One Year
9-12-8: One Year Vacancy
9-12-9: Repairs And Alterations
9-12-10: Restoration Of Damaged Buildings
9-12-11: Applicability To Amendments, Subdivisions Annexed
9-12-1: ADDITIONS, ENLARGEMENT AND MOVING:
A building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use and a building or
structure nonconforming as to height, area or yard regulations shall not be
added to or enlarged in any manner or moved to another location on a lot within
the city. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-12-2: CHANGE OF USE:
The nonconforming use of a building or structure may not be changed except to a
conforming use. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-12-3: CONTINUATION OF USE:
The occupancy of a building or structure by a nonconforming use, existing at
the time the ordinance codified herein became effective, may be continued.
(Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-12-4: EXPANSION OF USE PERMITTED:
A nonconforming use may be extended to include the entire floor area of the
existing building in which it is conducted at the time this use became
nonconforming, provided no structural alterations except those required by
ordinance or law are made therein, and provided approval is granted by the city
council. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-12-5: MAINTENANCE PERMITTED:
A nonconforming building or structure may be maintained. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-12-6: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land, existing at the time the ordinance became
effective, may be continued; provided, that no such nonconforming use of land
shall in any way be expanded or extended either on the same or adjoining
property; and provided, that if such nonconforming use of land, or any portion
thereof, is abandoned or changed, any future use of such land shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this title. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-12-7: OCCUPATION WITHIN ONE YEAR:
A vacant building or structure may be occupied by a use for which the building
or structure was designed or intended if so occupied within a period of one
year after the use became nonconforming. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-12-8: ONE YEAR VACANCY:
Any nonconforming use of land or building or structure, or portion thereof,
which has ceased by discontinuance or abandonment for a continuous period of
one year, shall not thereafter be occupied except by a use which conforms to
the use regulations of the zone in which it is located. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-12-9: REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS:
Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a nonconforming building
which houses a nonconforming use. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-12-10: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS:
A nonconforming building or structure which is damaged or partially destroyed
by fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other calamity, or act of God, or the
public enemy, to the extent of not more than two and one-half (21/2) times its
assessed value at the time, may be restored, and the occupancy or use of such
building or structure or part thereof, which existed at the time of such
partial destruction, may be continued or resumed; provided, that such
restoration is started within a period of one year and is diligently prosecuted
to completion. In the event such damage or destruction exceeds two and one-half
(21/2) times the assessed valuation of such nonconforming building or
structure, no repairs or reconstruction, except in the case of dwelling
structures and accessory farm buildings, shall be made unless every part of
such building or structure is made to conform to all regulations for new
buildings in the zone in which it is located. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-12-11: APPLICABILITY TO AMENDMENTS, SUBDIVISIONS ANNEXED:
The foregoing provisions shall also apply to nonconforming uses in districts
hereafter changed by amendment to this title or to new subdivisions annexed
into the city. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
CHAPTER 13
PARKING AND LOADING SPACES
SECTION:
9-13-1: Off Street Parking Required
9-13-2: Dwellings
9-13-3: Buildings Or Uses Other Than Dwellings
9-13-4: Location Of Parking Spaces
9-13-5: Parking Lot Regulations
9-13-6: Off Street Loading Spaces
9-13-1: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIRED:
   A.   There shall be provided at the time of erection of any building or at
the time any main building is enlarged or increased in capacity, minimum off
street parking space with adequate provisions for ingress and egress by
standard sized automobiles as hereinafter provided.
   B.   For the purpose of this section, one hundred eighty (180) square feet
of lot or floor area which has a means of ingress or egress from an alley or
street, shall be deemed parking space for one vehicle. Such space shall not
occupy any part of any required front yard, but, where open, may be included as
part of a required open space for side or rear yard. On corner or through lots,
parking space may not be included as part of required yards lying adjacent to
either street. Such parking space and access driveways required in residential
districts when used in compliance with the provisions of this title, shall be
paved or otherwise surfaced with an all weather, dustproof material. That part
of the driveway connecting from the curb line to the property line shall be
paved with concrete or asphaltic materials.
   C.   Parking areas serving nonresidential uses of property shall be hard
surfaced and graded so as to drain off all surface water to storm sewer inlets.
When such parking areas or lots abut upon adjacent residential properties,
there shall be provided a wall or solid screen planting of appropriate shrubs
to a height of not less than four feet (4') along the entire boundary common to
both the residential and parking areas. Walls or solid screen plantings to a
height of not less than four feet (4') shall also be placed along the street
line where a parking lot abuts upon a street which provides access to adjacent
residential properties. Walls, fences or shrubbery adjacent to streets shall be
of such height so not to impair driver vision for at least ten feet (10') from
street. Lights used to illuminate such parking lots shall be so arranged as to
reflect lighting away from the adjoining premises in the residential district.
Such parking spaces shall be reserved for the sole use of the occupants of the
building or lots, their customers and the visitors thereto. Churches, theaters
and other places of assembly may make arrangements for joint use of parking
spaces as hereinafter specified.
   D.   In any district, except as noted below, every building built or
structurally altered, enlarged or increased in capacity and every land use
initiated subsequent to the adoption of this chapter shall be provided with
minimum off street parking facilities. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-13-2: DWELLINGS:
In all residential zones, there shall be provided in a private carport, garage
or driveway in an area properly located for a future garage, space for the
parking of three (3) automobiles for each dwelling unit in a new dwelling, or
each dwelling unit added in the case of the enlargement of an existing
building. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-13-3: BUILDINGS OR USES OTHER THAN DWELLINGS:
Boarding houses, lodging houses,        At least 1 off street space for every
dormitories                             person for whose accommodation the
                                        building is designed or used.
Church and school auditoriums, stadiums At least 1 parking space is required
and gymnasiums, theaters; and other     for every 5 fixed seats provided in
similar places of assembly              said buildings or structures.
                                        For the purpose of this type of use,
                                        parking spaces already provided to meet
                                        off street parking requirements for
                                        stores, office buildings and industrial
                                        establishments, off street parking
                                       facilities provided by the
                                        municipality, lying within 300 feet of
                                        the place of public assembly are made
                                        available for other parking, may be
                                        used to meet up to 75 percent of the
                                        total requirements of parking space for
                                        places of public assembly.
                                        At least 1 off street parking space for
                                        each 2 beds' capacity, including
                                        infants' cribs and children's beds. For
                                        medical and dental clinics, at least 10
Hospitals                               off street parking spaces, provided
                                        that 3 additional off street parking
                                        spaces shall be provided for each
                                        doctor or dentist having offices in
                                        each clinic in excess of 3 doctors or
                                        dentists.
Liquor stores                           At least 10 off street parking spaces.
Mortuaries                              At least 30 off street parking spaces.
Restaurants or establishments that      At least 1 off street space for each
serve meals, lunches, or drinks to      employee working on the highest
patrons either in their cars or in the  employment shift, or 5 off street
building;retail stores selling directly parking spaces, whichever requirement
to the public, and dance halls and      is greater.
recreational places of assembly
                                        At least 1 off street parking space for
                                        each individual sleeping or living
Tourist courts and apartment motels     unit; for hotels and apartment motels
                                        at least 1 off street parking space for
                                        each sleeping room, up to and including
                                        the first 20 sleeping rooms.
All business or industrial uses not     1 off street parking space for each
listed above                            employee working on the highest
                                        employment shift.
 
(Ord., 9-3-1996; amd. 2006 Code)
9-13-4: LOCATION OF PARKING SPACES:
Parking spaces as required above shall be on the same lot with the main
building or in the case of a building other than a dwelling, may be located not
farther than five hundred feet (500') therefrom. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-13-5: PARKING LOT REGULATIONS:
Every parcel of land hereafter used as a parking lot shall be paved with a
surfacing material of asphalt or concrete construction and shall have
appropriate bumper guards where needed as determined by the building inspector.
Any lights used to illuminate the lot shall be so arranged as to reflect the
light away from adjoining premises in any residential zone. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-13-6: OFF STREET LOADING SPACES:
On the same premises with every building, structure or part thereof, erected
and occupied, or increased in capacity after the effective date hereof, for
manufacturing storage warehouse, laundry, dry cleaning, goods display,
department stores, grocery, hotel, hospital, mortuary, or other use similarly
involving the receipt or distribution by vehicle of materials or merchandise,
there shall be provided and maintained on the lot adequate space for loading
and unloading services in order to avoid undue interference with public use of
the streets or alley. Such space, unless otherwise adequately provided for,
shall include a minimum ten feet by twenty five feet (10' x 25') loading space
with a minimum fourteen foot (14') height clearance, for every three thousand
(3,000) square feet of building floor use for above mentioned purposes, or for
twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or fraction thereof in excess of three
thousand (3,000) square feet of land used for above mentioned purposes. (Ord.,
9-3-1996)
CHAPTER 14
MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS
SECTION:
9-14-1: Businesses Requiring Access
9-14-2: Roadways And Curbs
9-14-3: Location Of Gasoline Pumps
9-14-1: BUSINESSES REQUIRING ACCESS:
Service stations, roadside stands, public parking lots and all other businesses
requiring motor vehicle access shall meet the requirements as hereinafter
provided. (Ord., 9-3-1996)
9-14-2: ROADWAYS AND CURBS:
Access to the station or other structure or parking lot shall be controlled as
follows:
   A.   Access shall be by not more than two (2) roadways for each one hundred
feet (100') or fraction thereof of frontage on any street.
   B.   Said roadways shall not be closer to a side property line than three
feet (3').
   C.   Each roadway shall be not more than thirty five feet (35') in width,
measured at right angles to the centerlines of the driveway, except as
increased by permissible curb return radii. The entire flare of any return
radius shall fall within the right of way.
   D.   No roadway shall be closer than ten feet (10') to the point of
intersection of two (2) property lines at any corner as measured along the
property line, and no roadway shall extend across such extended property line.
   E.   In all cases where there is an existing curb and gutter or sidewalk on
the street, the applicant for a permit shall provide paving or provide a safety
island along the entire frontage of the property. If a safety island is
installed, the two (2) ends and street side of each such island shall have a
concrete curb, the height, location and structural specifications of which
shall be approved by the building inspector.
   F.   All new construction shall require sidewalk and curb and gutter. (Ord.,
9-3-1996)
9-14-3: LOCATION OF GASOLINE PUMPS:
Gasoline pumps shall be set back not less than eighteen feet (18') from any
street line to which the pump island is perpendicular and twelve feet (12')
from any street line to which the pump island is parallel, and not less than
ten feet (10') from any residential or agricultural zone boundary line. If the
pump island is set at an angle on the property, it shall be so located that
automobiles stopped for service will not extend over the property line. (Ord.,
9-3-1996)
CHAPTER 15
PUBLIC UTILITY SUBSTATIONS
SECTION:
9-15-1: Requirements
9-15-2: Lot Area
9-15-3: Yards
9-15-4: Street Access
9-15-5: Location To Be Approved
9-15-6: Conditional Use
9-15-7: Effective Date
9-15-1: REQUIREMENTS:
Public utility substations shall not be allowed as a permitted or conditional
use in any zone within the city except in the manufacturing zone (M1). All
public utility substations shall be allowed as a conditional use only, in the
manufacturing zone (M1). (See chapters 9 and 16 of this title.) All public
utility substations shall meet the requirements of this chapter. All other
chapters of this title are hereby amended to be consistent with this chapter.
(Ord. 13-05, 3-13-2013)
9-15-2: LOT AREA:
Each public utility substation shall be located on a lot not less than ten
thousand (10,000) square feet in area. See section
9-15-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 13-05, 3-13-2013)
9-15-3: YARDS:
Each public utility substation shall be fenced or housed and shall be provided
with a yard on each of the four (4) sides, or all sides, if less than or more
than four (4) sides, not less than five feet (5') in width, except that for
such substations located on lots fronting on a street abutted by one or more
residential lots, the front, side and rear yards shall equal those required for
a single-family residence in the R1 zone. (Ord. 13-05, 3-13-2013)
9-15-4: STREET ACCESS:
Each public utility substation shall be located on a lot which has adequate
access from a street, alley or easement. (Ord. 13-05, 3-13-2013)
9-15-5: LOCATION TO BE APPROVED:
The location of public utility substations shall be approved by the city
council after receiving the recommendations of the planning commission. (Ord.
13-05, 3-13-2013)
9-15-6: CONDITIONAL USE:
All public utility substations shall be permitted only after the issuance of an
approved conditional use permit for such substation, in accordance with the
provisions of chapters 9 and 16 of this title. (Ord. 13-05, 3-13-2013)
9-15-7: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The provisions of this chapter shall take effect upon passage, signature of the
mayor and after being posted or published as required by law. (Ord. 13-05, 3-
13-2013)
CHAPTER 16
CONDITIONAL USES AND SITE PLANS
SECTION:
9-16-1: Purpose And Intent
9-16-2: Conditional Use Permit
9-16-3: Site Plan Approval Required
9-16-4: Review Procedure
9-16-5: Review Criteria
9-16-6: Determination
9-16-7: Installation And Guarantee Of Improvements
9-16-8: Building Permit
9-16-9: Amendments Or Modifications Of An Approved Conditional Use Or Site Plan
9-16-10: Expiration
9-16-11: Conditional Use Permit Revocation Or Nonrenewal
9-16-12: Appeals
9-16-13: Fees And Charges
9-16-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The purpose and intent of conditional uses is to allow in certain areas
compatible integration of uses which are related to the permitted uses of the
zone, but which may be suitable and desirable only in certain locations in that
particular zone due to conditions and circumstances peculiar to that location
and/or upon certain conditions which make the uses suitable and/or only if such
uses are conducted, designed, laid out, and constructed on the proposed site in
a particular manner.
   B.   The purpose and intent of site plan review is to assure compatible and
complimentary design of sites, buildings and infrastructure that further the
goals and policies of the City's General or Master Plans.
   C.   It is intended that site plans for conditional uses be included with
and reviewed simultaneous with conditional use permit review. (Ord. O-24-05, 9-
4-2024)
9-16-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as
conditional uses in the zone regulations.
   B.   A conditional use shall be approved if reasonable conditions are
proposed, or can be imposed, to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental
effects of the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards.
   C.   If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed
conditional use cannot be mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of
reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the
conditional use may be denied.
   D.   A conditional use permit may be revoked by the Planning Commission,
upon failure to comply with the conditions imposed with the original approval
of the permit.
   E.   The consideration of a conditional use permit shall also include the
consideration of a site plan as contained in this chapter and the Planning
Commission may impose any conditions or requirements designated or specified to
meet the provisions of this chapter and the City's General or Master plans.
(Ord. O-24-05, 9-4-2024)
9-16-3: SITE PLAN APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Site plan approval shall be required of all proposed uses (except
single family dwellings and related accessory buildings) in the Commercial,
Manufacturing/lndustrial, and Multi-Family (RM) Zones prior to issuance of a
building permit. The location of buildings on the site and in relation to one
another, the traffic circulation features within the site, the height and bulk
of buildings, the design features and materials of the buildings and site, the
provision of off-street parking space, the provision for driveways for ingress
and egress, the provision of landscaping and open space on the site, desired or
necessary connections to adjacent sites, access to adjacent roadways, and the
display of signs shall be in accordance with a site plan or plans or subsequent
amendment thereof as approved by the planning commission prior to issuance of a
building, or land use permit. In approving site plans, the Planning Commission
may impose any conditions or requirements designated or specified to meet the
provisions of this chapter and Garland City's General or Master plans.
   B.   A site plan shall include all items as designated by the city in check
lists supplied with the application forms and as needed to evaluate the
requirements of this chapter and the zone in which it is located. In
considering any site plan, the Planning Commission shall endeavor to assure
safety and convenience of traffic movement both within the land area considered
and in relation to street access, harmonious and beneficial relation among the
buildings and uses in the land area considered, and the satisfactory and
harmonious relation between such area and contiguous land and buildings and
with adjacent neighborhoods.
   C.   The requirements established in the site plan approval, and the zoning
regulations of the city shall be provided and maintained as a condition of the
establishment and maintenance of any use to which they are appurtenant. (Ord.
O-24-05, 9-4-2024)
9-16-4: REVIEW PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application on forms provided by the city for a conditional use permit
or site plan approval shall be made to the City.
   B.   Detailed location, site and building plans according to the check list
provided with the application forms shall accompany the completed application
forms.
   C.   Once a completed application and all the required site plan documents
have been submitted to the City, the submittal package shall be forwarded to
appropriate staff or agencies for review and comment. The applicant will
receive review comments and will need to address the review comments and
resubmit revised plans to the City. Once the revised plans are received, the
City will forward the re-submittal package to the appropriate staff and
agencies for the second review and any remaining comments will be generated and
provided to the applicant.
   D.   Once the review comments have been appropriately addressed, and upon
recommendation from the reviewing committee, who may do so with conditions or
list of requirements, the applicant shall be scheduled for review and
consideration at the next applicable Planning Commission meeting.
   E.   The Planning Commission may approve, deny or approve with conditions.
(Ord. O-24-05, 9-4-2024)
9-16-5: REVIEW CRITERIA:
The Planning Commission shall not approve a conditional use permit or site plan
unless evidence is presented to establish that:
   A.   Such use will not, under the circumstance of the particular case and
the conditions imposed, be detrimental to the health, safety and general
welfare of persons nor injurious to property or improvements in the community,
but will be compatible with and complementary to the existing surrounding and/
or planned future uses, buildings and structures when considering traffic
generation, parking, building design and location, landscaping and signs; and
   B.   Conditional Use Permit and Site Plan review considerations listed in
Diagram 9-16-A were included in the analysis; and
   C.   The proposed use will comply with the regulations and conditions
specified in this title for such use including the design standards of the city
and the standards of this chapter; and
   D.   The proposed use conforms to the goals, policies, governing principles,
and the land uses found in the General Plan of the city; and
   E.   The proposed use will not lead to the deterioration of the environment
or ecology of the general area, nor will produce conditions or emit pollutants
of such a type or of such a quantity so as to detrimentally effect, to any
appreciable degree, public and private properties including the operation of
existing uses thereon, in the immediate vicinity, or the community or area as a
whole. (Ord. O-24-05, 9-4-2024)
9-16-6: DETERMINATION:
The Planning Commission may review any application for a conditional use or
site plan to be located within any zone in which the particular use is allowed
by the use regulations of that zone. In reviewing any conditional use or site
plan application, the Planning Commission shall include such requirements and
conditions necessary for the protection of adjacent properties and the public
welfare, and those needed to be in conformance with the General Plan, city
ordinances, and the standards of this chapter. (Ord. O-24-05, 9-4-2024)
9-16-7: INSTALLATION AND GUARANTEE OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Consistent with city approvals under this chapter, prior to any
building permit being issued or any property being developed, subdivided or
used, the property owner or developer shall agree to install all approved and
required improvements, including but not limited to: landscaping, parking lots,
fences, walls and utilities (sewer, water, gas lines, utilities, streets, storm
sewer and others as set forth in the subdivision ordinances of the city) to the
property line or such location as required by the city to facilitate the
orderly and proper development of the surrounding property.
   B.   When such improvements are required an escrow guarantee for the public
portion of those improvements shall be required under the requirements and
conditions as set forth in the subdivision ordinances before building or
development may begin.
   C.   Occupancy of any building or the beginning of any approved use shall
not commence until all required improvements, whether public or private, are in
place or unless additional escrow is established.
   D.   Any required public right of way or easement shall be deeded or
dedicated to the city prior to the issuance of any permits for construction or
use. (Ord. O-24-05, 9-4-2024)
9-16-8: BUILDING PERMIT:
Following the approval of a conditional use permit or site plan application,
the Community Development Department may approve an application for a building
permit and shall insure that development is undertaken and completed in
compliance with the approvals and conditions pertaining thereto. (Ord. O-24-05,
9-4-2024)
9-16-9: AMENDMENTS OR MODIFICATIONS OF AN APPROVED CONDITIONAL USE OR SITE
PLAN.
   A.   Once granted, a conditional use shall not be enlarged, changed,
extended, increased in intensity, or relocated unless a new conditional use
application is made and approved by the planning commission, except as next
provided:
      Modifications to an approved conditional use permit or site plan may only
be granted when it can be determined that such changes or modifications are
necessary to accommodate special circumstances related to the location, site,
or implementation of the approved development and where such modifications are
found to be insignificant and minor so as not to measurably change the approved
conditional use permit or the intent of conditions that may have been imposed.
The request for amendment shall be made in writing and documented on the site
plan of the project. (Ord. O-24-05, 9-4-2024)
9-16-10: EXPIRATION:
Unless there is substantial action under a conditional use permit or site plan
approval within a maximum period of 12 months of its issuance or approval, the
approval or permit shall expire. The Planning Commission may grant a maximum
extension of twelve months under exceptional circumstances. (Ord. O-24-05, 9-4-
2024)
9-16-11: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REVOCATION OR NONRENEWAL:
   A.   A conditional use permit may be revoked upon failure to comply with the
conditions imposed with the original approval of the permit. If all conditions
are not completed to the satisfaction of the planning commission prior to
occupancy, no occupancy permit will be issued until all conditions are
fulfilled to the satisfaction of the planning commission.
   B.   In addition, the renewal of any conditional use permit may be denied at
the annual or other periodic renewal time (e.g. at annual business license
renewal), or at any other time regardless of the issue date of the permit, and
any conditional use permit may also be revoked, for good cause. Good cause
shall include, but not be limited to, the following, within the discretion of
the planning commission: circumstances which are detrimental to or have a
negative impact on the health, safety and welfare concerns of the citizens and
residents of Garland City, incompatible zoning or land use, complaints of
noise, odor, failure to comply with the conditions imposed at the time the
original approval of the permit was given, the creation and existence of a
public or private nuisance, failure of the permit holder or his/her agent or
employees to comply with the conditions and requirements of applicable state,
county and/or federal laws, rules and regulations, unlawful activities
conducted and permitted on the premises for which the conditional use permit
was issued and/or other legitimate factors.
   C.   Prior to the revocation of a conditional use permit or the denial of an
application to renew a conditional use permit, the permit holder shall be given
a notice which shall state in substance that the planning commission intends to
revoke the conditional use permit or deny the application to renew it, together
with the reason or reasons therefor, at a regular or special meeting of the
planning commission (which shall be at least 10 days and not more than 30 days
from the date notice is sent) and the permit holder shall have the right to
appear and hear the evidence against him/her, and will have the opportunity to
present evidence as to why the permit should not be revoked or the renewal
application denied.
   D.   The provisions of the immediately preceding paragraph shall not apply
to original applications for conditional use permits which have not previously
been issued or approved by the planning commission, and such applicants need
only be informed that their application has been denied and the reasons for
such denial. (Ord. O-24-05, 9-4-2024)
9-16-12: APPEALS:
For purposes of this chapter, the City Council shall be the Appeal Authority.
All appeals of actions taken under the authority of this chapter shall be heard
by the City Council. Appeal requests must be submitted to the City Recorder
within 30 days of the action appealed. (Ord. O-24-05, 9-4-2024)
9-16-13: FEES AND CHARGES:
The City Council shall establish all necessary fees and charges payable for
subdivision applications, public notices, planning and engineering review, and
inspection services of this Ordinance by Resolution. Such fees and charges may
be amended from time to time, as considered necessary, by Resolution of the
City Council. The applicant(s) for subdivision approval shall pay all costs
that may be incurred by the City to review the Development Application
materials (e.g. site plans, conditional use permits, subdivisions/plats, etc.)
for conformity to the requirements of this Ordinance, other applicable City
Ordinances, other applicable Local, State, and Federal requirements, and
accepted civil engineering and zoning practices. Such costs shall include those
necessary for the provision of engineering services, provided by a licensed
engineer, land planning and attorney services for review of required documents.
All development review costs, including reviews and construction inspections,
shall be the responsibility of the applicant/developer. (Ord. O-24-05, 9-4-
2024)
Diagram 9-16-A
Conditional Use Permit and Site Plan Review Considerations
   1.   Will the proposed use generate enough traffic to be detrimental or
adversely affect general traffic patterns in the area?
   2.   Will the proposed development overload (heavy vehicle traffic) the
carrying capacity for which local streets are designed?
   3.   Will internal traffic circulation adversely affect adjacent residential
property?
   4.   Will parking facilities’ location adversely affect adjacent residential
property or internal circulation or access to public street circulation?
   5.   Will parking facilities be effectively screened from adjacent
residential property?
   6.   Will building design be compatible with or complementary to already
established adjacent structures?
   7.   Will the relationship of structures and parking be complementary to the
aesthetics of the general area?
   8.   Will building location create a pedestrian traffic hazard by causing
blind approaches to sidewalks?
   9.   If the development is adjacent to a residential zone or use, will the
building location, lighting, parking or traffic circulation adversely affect
the adjacent residential use or zone?
   10.   Will the proposed signs adversely affect the development itself and
the overall aesthetics of the immediate area?
   11.   Will the proposed landscaping be sufficient to enhance the aesthetic
acceptability of the development?
   12.   If the proposed use may emit pollutants of any type, will such
pollutants detrimentally affect residential, commercial or manufacturing
properties in the vicinity?
   13.   And other reasonable considerations related to the Site Plan or
Conditional Use Permit.
(Ord. O-24-05, 9-4-2024)
CHAPTER 17
MANUFACTURED HOME ZONE MH1
SECTION:
9-17-1: Use Regulations
9-17-2: Special Provisions
9-17-3: Generally
9-17-3-1: Conflicting Ordinances, Applicability
9-17-3-2: Enforcing Officer
9-17-3-3: General Provisions
9-17-3-4: Disposal Of Violations
9-17-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The purpose of the manufactured home zone is to provide an appropriate area for
suitable development for manufactured home subdivisions. It is also to ensure
that such facilities receive adequate planning and services and blend
harmoniously with surrounding neighborhoods and other uses.
   A.   Permitted uses:
Accessory building and use customarily incidental to any permitted use.
Manufactured home, singlewide or wider, in an approved manufactured home
subdivision or development.
Temporary building or use incidental to construction work. Such building(s)
shall be removed within sixty (60) days of completion or abandonment of the
construction work.
   B.   Conditional uses:
Manufactured home subdivision in accordance with the site development standards
prescribed by the Garland City subdivision ordinance.
Public utility substations in accordance with chapter 15 of this title.
   C.   Site development standards:
      1.   Area: Development minimum area will be three (3) acres. Minimum lot
size will be three thousand three hundred (3,300) square feet. Average lot size
of entire development will be four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet
minimum. Minimum lot width will be thirty feet (30').
      2.   Yard Setbacks: Front yard setback will be fifteen feet (15') minimum
and all frontages on the street will match. Side yard setbacks will be five
feet (5') minimum each side from property line. For lot on the periphery of a
manufactured home subdivision abutting a different land use a greater setback
may be required as part of conditional use permit review. Corner lots will have
a fifteen foot (15') minimum side yard on side facing the street.
      3.   Accessory Building: See R1 requirements for outbuildings.
      4.   Lot Coverage: No main structure or accessory structures shall cover
more than sixty percent (60%) of the lot area.
      5.   Main Building Height: Maximum one story with a fifteen foot (15')
maximum height. Accessory building height will not exceed main structure
height. (Ord. 14-07, 11-19-2014)
9-17-2: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Each manufactured home must have wheels and tow tongue removed prior to
occupancy.
   B.   There shall be two (2) off street parking spaces provided on the same
lot with each manufactured home. Required parking spaces may be in tandem, but
may not be located in the front yard setback.
   C.   No manufactured home containing less than four hundred (400) square
feet of habitable floor area shall be permitted to locate in a manufactured
home subdivision.
   D.   Each manufactured home shall be skirted with either a concrete
foundation, decorative masonry, concrete block, aluminum, vinyl, or a
continuation of the facing material of the manufactured home.
   E.   Each manufactured home shall meet construction standards and as
specified by the department of housing and urban development, mobile home
construction and safety standards. No occupancy permit will be granted for a
manufactured home older than twenty (20) years at time of permit acquisition.
(Ord. 14-07, 11-19-2014)
9-17-3: GENERALLY:
9-17-3-1: CONFLICTING ORDINANCES, APPLICABILITY:
The provisions established herein shall apply to all lands within the civil
jurisdiction of Garland City, Utah. Where there is conflict between the terms
and/or requirements contained in this section and any other section contained
in this chapter, as amended, or any other ordinance, code, regulation of
Garland City, Utah, the more strict shall apply. (Ord. 14-07, 11-19-2014)
9-17-3-2: ENFORCING OFFICER:
An assigned enforcing officer (who may also be referred to herein as the
"building official" or "inspector") shall have the authority and the duty to
ensure that all buildings and structures and use of all land comply with the
provisions of this title. The enforcing officer shall be appointed by city
council. (Ord. 14-07, 11-19-2014)
9-17-3-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Any building or structure erected contrary to any of the provisions of
this chapter and any use of any building or land which is conducted, operated
or maintained contrary to any of the provisions of this chapter or the
provisions of any approval granted by the city under this chapter shall be a
violation of this chapter and the same declared to be unlawful.
   B.   Any person, whether owner, lessee, principal, agent, employee or
otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this chapter, or permits any
such violation, or fails to comply with any of the requirements hereof, or who
erects any building or structure or uses any building, structure or land in
violation of the provisions of this chapter or provisions of any approval
granted by the city under this chapter shall be subject to the enforcement
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   In addition to the remedies provided in this chapter, the building
official may initiate injunctive action, mandamus, abatement or any other
appropriate action to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove any unlawful building,
structure or use.
   D.   If the person responsible for the alleged violation denies that a
violation exists, he may appeal the decision of the building official to the
city council in the same manner and within the same time deadline as stated in
section
9-16-4 of this title.
   E.   Whenever a violation occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person
may file a written complaint. Such complaint stating fully the cause and basis
thereof shall be filed with the building official. The building official shall
record such complaint, investigate, and take action thereon as provided by this
chapter. (Ord. 14-07, 11-19-2014)
9-17-3-4: DISPOSAL OF VIOLATIONS:
If the building official concludes there exists an objectionable condition in
violation of this title, then he or she shall:
   A.   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants and descriptions of the
premises where such objects and conditions exist;
   B.   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of the premises,
either personally or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner
and occupant at their last known post office addresses as disclosed by the
records of the county assessor or as otherwise ascertained, requiring such
owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate, destroy or remove
the objectionable condition/violation, and to bring the real property in
question into full compliance with the ordinances of the city, within such time
as the building official may designate, provided that any person notified
pursuant to this subsection shall be given not more than thirty (30) days, as
determined by the building official following the date of service of such
notice, to correct the objectionable condition or file an appeal with the city
council. The notice shall:
      1.   Contain a specific statement of the nature of the violation and
generally describe the premises on which the violation exists.
      2.   Inform the owner, occupant or other person that in the event he or
she disagrees with the determination of the building official and does not
intend to comply with the provisions of the notice or that he or she objects to
the factual or legal basis for the notice, he or she may appeal the
administrative finding in the notice to the city council within the time
deadline and per the other requirements found in section
9-16-4 of this title, provided such appeal is filed on or before the last day
of the time period stated in such notice within which to correct the
objectionable condition/violation.
      3.   Inform the person that in the event he or she fails or neglects to
correct the objectionable condition/violation, the building official will
issue, or cause to be issued, a citation pursuant to title 1, chapter 4 of this
code.
   C.   In the event the owner or occupant files an appeal disputing the
determination of the building official or objecting to the amount of time
allowed to mitigate and correct the noted objectionable condition/violation on
the notice served, the appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from in the same manner and subject to the same conditions as
stated in section
9-4-4 of this title. (Ord. 14-07, 11-19-2014)
CHAPTER 18
PUBLIC FACILITIES ZONE PF
SECTION:
9-18-1: Purpose
9-18-2: Permitted Uses
9-18-3: Conditional Uses
9-18-4: Lot Regulations
9-18-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the public facilities PF zone is to designate those areas within
the city that are owned by a political subdivision of the state. The purpose of
these facilities is to provide services or land uses that benefit the citizens
of Garland City. (Ord. 16-03, 4-27-2016)
9-18-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the PF zone, and must adhere to title 5,
chapter 6, "Nuisances", of this code, and other uses that the planning and
zoning commission interprets as similar in purpose or use:
Accessory buildings and outdoor storage.
Animal shelter.
Cemetery.
Communication towers and antennas.
Educational activities.
Libraries.
Office space.
Public and special events.
Public facilities.
Public safety related activities (including fire and police stations).
Public services.
Public trails and parks.
Recycling and green waste collection areas.
Schools.
Stormwater drainage and basins.
Utilities, transmission, pad, facility, etc.
Warehouse.
Wastewater treatment facilities. (Ord. 16-03, 4-27-2016)
9-18-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
None. (Ord. 16-03, 4-27-2016)
9-18-4: LOT REGULATIONS:
None. (Ord. 16-03, 4-27-2016)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Definitions
10-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this title shall have the following
meaning unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Planning Commission shall act as the approval authority for the
Preliminary Plat.
   B.   The City Engineer, after consultation with the City's Development
Review Committee (DRC), shall act as the approval authority for the Final Plat.
ATTORNEY: The person selected or appointed by the governing body to represent
Garland City as the city attorney.
BENCH MARK: The mark affixed on a permanent or semipermanent object along a
line of survey to furnish a datum level.
BONA FIDE DIVISION OF AGRICULTURAL LAND:
   Bona Fide Division Of Agricultural Land For Agricultural Purposes: The
division of agricultural land into two (2) or more parcels for which the
planning and zoning commission makes the following written findings of fact
upon petition for such findings by a landowner:
   A.   No urban services will be required by said division of agricultural
land.
   B.   The purpose and use of each of the lots in the division shall be
agricultural industry or business, or recreational.
   C.   Each of the parcels created has access to an existing public street or
to a private street approved by the planning and zoning commission and the
governing body.
   D.   Each of the lots created shall be found by the planning and zoning
commission to be capable of producing an income from the sale of agricultural
products sufficient to justify its existence as the controlling facets used in
making a decision as to whether a division of land is or is not a bona fide
division or partition of agricultural land for agricultural purposes. The
planning and zoning commission and the governing body shall make findings as to
the availability of water for irrigation or stock watering purposes; the class
of the soil and depth of the soil mantle; the slope of the land, past history
of agricultural production, and the present state of agricultural technology.
BUILDABLE AREA: The portion of a lot remaining after the required yards have
been provided, and having a slope less than fifteen percent (15%). Land with an
average slope exceeding fifteen percent (15%) shall not be considered buildable
unless it is approved by a conditional use permit.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: The person designated by the governing body as the building
official or building inspector.
CITY: Garland City.
CITY COUNCIL: The governing body representing the city.
CITY ENGINEER: The City Engineer of Garland City, Utah, or a consulting
engineering firm designated as the City Engineer by the City Council.
CITY PLANNER: Consulting planning firm designated as the City Planner by the
City Council.
CONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE: A written notice to the subdivider establishing the
date beginning his two (2) year guarantee period.
CONDOMINIUM: The ownership of a single unit in multi-unit project, together
with an individual interest in common in the common areas and facilities of the
property as provided by state law. A condominium development is comparable to a
subdivision in that each development is characterized by multiple individual
ownerships in structures, whereas in subdivisions, such ownerships are in land.
For regulation purposes, the development of a condominium project is treated by
state law and by this title as a subdivision; therefore, condominium
developments must comply with the subdivision regulations of this title.
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS: The minimum public works construction standards and
specifications adopted by the city, which include, but shall not be limited to,
drawings, tables, charts and references which establish minimum standards for
the design and construction of subdivision requirements.
COST SHARING AGREEMENT: An agreement entered into between the subdivider and
intervening property owners (and in some cases, Garland City), whereby the
subdivider will be reimbursed proportionately for installing improvements over
intervening properties.
CROSSWALK OR WALKWAY: A right of way designated for use by pedestrians and not
intended for use by motor vehicles of any kind; a crosswalk, walkway or
pedestrianway may be located within or without a street right of way, at grade,
or grade separated from vehicular traffic.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street which is designated to remain permanently closed at one
end, with the closed end terminated by a vehicular turnaround. For purposes of
this title, the length of a cul-de-sac shall be measured from the centerline of
the intersecting street along the centerline of the cul-de-sac, to the center
of the turnaround.
CULINARY WATER FACILITIES: Water, water supply, pipelines, pumps, springs,
wells and/or any other physical facilities necessary to provide a sufficient
quantity of approved quality water to each lot.
DEVELOPER: See definition of Subdivider.
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE (DRC): A committee responsible to provide general
and technical reviews and recommendations for all subdivision applications. The
Garland City DRC designated members are Public Works Director, City Recorder,
City Engineer, City Planner, Fire Chief, Building Official, Mayor and the
Planning Commission Councilmember Liaison.
DISTRICT SANITARIAN: The local health officer from the Bear River district
health department. The district sanitarian must approve and issue permits for
individual waste and disposal systems, if connection to the city public sewer
system is not required by the city sewer ordinance 1.
EASEMENT: That portion of a lot or lots reserved for present or future use by a
person or agency other than the legal owner of said property. The easement may
be for use on, under or above said lot or lots.
ESSENTIAL FACILITIES: Each subdivider shall provide or make provisions for the
full and beneficial use of each owner in the subdivision, the following minimum
facilities:
   A.   Culinary water supply in adequate supply and quantity to each dwelling
unit, and adequate water for irrigation of lawns, gardens and shrubs.
   B.   Where irrigation or secondary water is available to the property, the
subdivider shall provide facilities to irrigate lawns, gardens and other
landscaping from the available irrigation or secondary water.
   C.   Sanitary sewers and sewage disposal facilities.
   D.   Storm water collection, detention and disposal facilities.
   E.   Improved roads, including sidewalk and curb and gutter (except where
sidewalk, curb and gutter is waived at the discretion of the planning and
zoning commission and city council).
   F.   Electricity and distribution system.
   G.   Telephone.
   H.   Natural gas and distribution facilities where gas is available.
FINAL ACCEPTANCE: A written notice to the subdivider establishing the date of
termination of the subdivider's guarantee period. This notice shall be given
only after all defective improvements have been repaired and/or replaced. All
of the improvements shall be inspected by the city engineer and certified to as
complying with the construction standards before the governing body can issue a
notice of final acceptance.
FINAL PLAT: A map or chart of a subdivision which has been accurately surveyed,
and such survey marked on the ground so that streets, lots and other divisions
thereof can be identified. The plat must be drawn accurately to scale with
permanent black ink on approved Mylar and have all measurements, data,
certificates and dedications required for approval and acceptance by the proper
agencies and for recording in the office of the county recorder.
FIREFIGHTING FACILITIES: Such water supply, water lines, fire hydrants and
other protective devices as may be required in accordance with the provision of
this title for fire suppression.
FLOOD HAZARD: A water hazard to land or improvements due to inundation or due
to overflow; water having sufficient velocity to transport or deposit debris,
scour the surface soils, dislodge or damage buildings, erode the banks of water
channels and/or flood basements.
FLOODPLAIN: Areas adjacent to any streams, ponds or lakes which are subject to
the 100-year recurrence interval floods as shown on maps prepared by the U.S.
army corps of engineers, or a similar study conducted by anyone else expert and
experienced in the preparation of hydrological studies and the determination of
flood lines.
GEOLOGICAL HAZARD: A hazard inherent in the crust of the earth, or artificially
created, which is dangerous or potentially dangerous to life, property or
improvements, due to the movement, failure or shifting of the earth. "Geologic
hazards" include, but are not limited to, rockfills, slide areas, floodplains,
fault lines, high water tables and other groundwater problems such as
liquefaction, etc.
GOVERNING BODY: The city council of Garland City.
HEALTH OFFICER: See definition of District Sanitarian.
IMPROVEMENTS AGREEMENT: An agreement between the governing body and subdivider,
wherein the subdivider agrees to install the subdivision improvements required
by this title, the construction standards or by the planning and zoning
commission and/or the governing body for the necessary property development of
the proposed land development.
IMPROVEMENTS, SUBDIVISION: Work, objects, devices, facilities or utilities
required to be constructed or installed for the development of land for
residential, commercial, industrial or recreational uses. Such improvements may
include, but are not limited to, street construction to required standards,
water facilities, sewer facilities, sidewalks, curbs and gutters, drainage
facilities, street trees, street signs, streetlights, traffic control or safety
devices, fire hydrants, and such other facilities or construction necessary for
the proper development of the proposed land development project as required by
this title, the construction standards, or by the planning and zoning
commission and/or the governing body.
INTERVENING PROPERTY: Any property located between the legally described
perimeter of the subdivision and any existing public facilities or utilities.
LOT: A parcel or unit of land abutting a public street or approved private
street, described by metes and bounds and held or intended to be held in
separate lease or ownership, or a parcel or unit of land shown as a lot or
parcel on a subdivision plat or condominium plot map.
LOT AREA: The area contained within property lines of the individual parcels of
land shown on the subdivision plat or required by this title, including the
area of any easements, excluding any area within an existing street, right of
way or any area required as open space under this title.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection
or upon two (2) parts of the same street, where such streets or parts of the
same street form an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five degrees
(135o).
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot lines
measured in the main direction of the side lot lines.
LOT FRONTAGE: The length, in feet, of the front lot line which is coterminous
with the front street line.
LOT FRONTAGE, REQUIRED: The length, in feet, of the front lot line which is
coterminous with the front street line.
LOT HELD IN SEPARATE OWNERSHIP: All contiguous land held in one ownership at
the time of the passage of this title or at any time hereafter, whether or not
such land has been or is described separately, has separate chains of title, is
described on one or more than one property tax notice, or is otherwise divided
on paper.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: For an interior lot, the lot line adjoining the street; for a
corner lot or through lot, the lot line adjoining either street, as elected by
the lot owner.
LOT LINE, REAR: Ordinarily, that line or lines of a lot which are opposite and
most distant from the front line of the lot.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot boundary line not a front or rear lot line. A side lot
line separating a lot from another lot or lots is an interior side lot line; a
side lot line separating a lot from a street is a street side lot line.
LOT LINES: The property lines bounding the lot.
LOT RESTRICTED: A lot having an average slope of fifteen percent (15%) or more;
a lot which does not contain a buildable area at least seventy five feet by one
hundred feet (75' x 100'); a lot which because of type of soils, flood hazard,
geology or topography requires special engineering and/or architectural designs
and/or considerations. Building on restricted lots is prohibited unless
geotechnical design solutions to problems associated with such lots have been
prepared by a qualified professional team and approved by the planning and
zoning commission.
LOT, UNRESTRICTED: A lot having an average slope of less than fifteen percent
(15%) and containing a buildable area of at least seventy five feet by one
hundred feet (75' x 100'), which buildable area is designated as such on the
subdivision plat.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at the
required front yard setback line or rear yard setback line, whichever is
shorter.
MARKET ANALYSIS: An economic analysis of the feasibility of a project.
MASTER PLAN: A plan which has been prepared and adopted for the purpose of
guiding development and which has been adopted by Garland City as the
"Comprehensive Plan of Garland City, Utah".
MASTER STREET PLAN: A map which shows existing public streets and which has
been officially adopted by the planning and zoning commission as the master
street plan.
MAYOR: The mayor of Garland City.
OFF SITE FACILITIES AND UTILITIES: Facilities and utilities installed in,
under, upon or over other property outside the legally described perimeter of a
subdivision which are required for the proper development of such subdivision
and which may be located and designed to serve such other property.
OFFICIAL MAP: A map which has been officially adopted by the governing body
according to state law and which includes the major street plan.
ON SITE FACILITIES AND UTILITIES: Facilities and utilities installed in, under,
upon or over public streets, rights of way or easements within the legally
described perimeter of a subdivision.
OPEN SPACE: Land used for recreation, agriculture, resource protection or
buffers, and is freely accessible to all residents of the subdivision, except
in the case of agricultural lands where access may be restricted. The open
space land shall be shown on the subdivision plats with the necessary
instruments being filed with the county recorder to ensure that it remains in
perpetuity for such uses as defined in the covenants and agreements
establishing the open space. Open space does not include land occupied by
nonrecreational buildings, roads or road rights of way; nor does it include the
yards or lots of single-family or multiple-family dwelling units or parking
areas as required by the provisions of this title. Open space should be left in
a natural state, except in the case of recreational uses which may require the
construction of certain improvements for the benefit of the residents of the
subdivision.
OPEN SPACE, USABLE: Usable open space shall be any portion of a lot or building
which meets all the following conditions:
   A.   The open space shall be open to the sky and shall be open to view on at
least two (2) sides.
   B.   The space shall be readily accessible by foot traffic from the dwelling
unit to which it is accessory.
   C.   If the space is provided on a balcony, roof or other facility above
grade, it shall have such protective devices as are deemed necessary by the
building official to assure reasonably safe usage by children and adults.
   D.   The space shall not be provided from any required front or side yard,
parking area or driveway space.
OVERSIZED FACILITIES AND UTILITIES: Facilities and utilities which are
designed, with added capacity, width, depth, etc., with the express purpose of
making service available to other properties outside the legally described
perimeter of the subdivision.
PARCEL OF LAND: A contiguous area of land in the possession or ownership of a
person described by one or more descriptions on file with the county recorder.
PERMANENT MONUMENT: Any structure of concrete, masonry and/or metal permanently
placed on or in the ground, including those expressly placed for surveying
reference, which meets the requirements of this title.
PERMITTED USE: A use of land which is allowed within a particular zoning
district without the necessity of obtaining a conditional use permit.
PERPETUAL CARE FUND (Also Referred To As PERPETUAL MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND): A
fund set aside by the developer for the purpose of maintaining open spaces
within a development that has been set aside for recreational or park use. The
amount of the fund set aside must be satisfactory to and approved by the
governing body.
PERSON: An individual, tenants in common, joint tenants, corporation,
partnership, firm, limited partnership or association of individuals, however
styled or designated.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of Garland
City.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A drawing to scale, representing a proposal to subdivide a
tract, lot or parcel of land, but which does not have the certificates and
dedications necessary for acceptance by the city.
PROTECTION STRIP: A strip of land between the boundary of a subdivision and a
street within the subdivision, for the purpose of controlling the access to the
street by the property owners abutting the subdivision.
REVIEW CYCLE: The process for review of a complete subdivision application.
There may be multiple thirty (30) business day reviews for the preliminary plat
review cycle. There shall be no more than four (4) total review cycles of forty
(40) business days for a final plat.
   A.   A single review cycle shall be considered complete when:
      1.   Complete Application is submitted to the Administrative Land Use
Authority;
      2.   The Administrative Land Use Authority Review is complete;
      3.   The Applicant Response to Review is complete; and
      4.   The Administrative Land Use Authority provides a written statement
to the Applicant stating completion of the review cycle and next required steps
for approval.
   B.   Review Cycle, exceptions as follows:
      1.   Additional Review Cycle(s). May be required when a modification or
correction is necessary to protect public health and safety or to enforce state
or federal law when a change or correction is necessitated by the Applicant's
adjustment to a plan set or an update to a phase plan that adjusts
infrastructure needed for the specific development.
      2.   Additional Time for Review. If the Applicant does not submit a
revised plat within forty (40) business days after the Administrative Land Use
Authority requires a modification or correction, the Administrative Land Use
Authority shall have an additional twenty (20) business days to respond.
RIGHT OF WAY: That portion of land dedicated to public use for street and/or
utility purposes or maintained in private ownership for similar purposes.
ROADWAY WIDTH: The distance back to back of curb or curb-gutter. On roadways
where gutter or curb-gutter has been waived, the width shall be the actual
width of the paved area.
SEWAGE FACILITIES: Sanitary sewage collection systems, sewage treatment plants
or approved individual sewage disposal facilities as may be permitted by the
city sewer ordinance2.
STREET, COLLECTOR: A street, existing or proposed, which is the main means of
access to the major street system, and shall have a right of way equal to that
shown on the master street plan.
STREET, CUL-DE-SAC: A minor terminal street provided with a turnaround (see
definition of Cul-De-Sac).
STREET, MAJOR: A street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended to
serve as a major trafficway and is designated on the master street plan as a
controlled access highway, major street, parkway or other equivalent term
identifying those streets comprising the basic structure of the master street
plan.
STREET, MINOR: A street, existing or proposed, which is supplementary to a
collector street and of limited continuity which serves or is intended to serve
the local needs of a neighborhood, and shall have a right of way equal to that
shown on the master street plan.
STREET, PRIVATE: A thoroughfare at least fifty feet (50') in width, within a
subdivision which has been reserved by dedication unto the subdivider or lot
owners to be used as private access to serve the lots platted within the
subdivision and complying with the adopted street cross section standards of
the city and to be maintained by the subdivider or other private agency.
STREET, PUBLIC: A thoroughfare at least fifty feet (50') in width which has
been accepted and is or will be maintained by the city and which:
   A.   The city has acquired by prescriptive right.
   B.   The city owns.
   C.   Has been approved by the planning and zoning commission and offered for
dedication on an approved final subdivision plat.
   D.   Is a thoroughfare that has been privately abandoned or made public by
right of use.
   E.   Provides access to abutting property.
STREET, STUB: A street extending from within the subdivision to the boundary
thereof and temporarily terminating there with no permanent vehicular
turnaround. Stub streets are provided to permit access to adjacent parcels of
land.
SUBDIVIDER: An individual, corporation or registered partnership owning or
controlling any tract, lot or parcel of land to be subdivided; or a group of
two (2) or more persons owning any tract, lot or parcel of land to be
subdivided who have given their power of attorney to one of their group or to
another individual to act on their behalf in planning, negotiating for, in
representing or executing the purpose of the subdivision.
SUBDIVISION:
   A. Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided into two
(2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for
the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or
development either on the installment plan, or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions.
   B.   "Subdivision" includes:
      1.   The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, lease, map, plat or other recorded
instrument; and
      2.   Except as provided in subsection C of this definition, divisions of
land for all residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be
used for commercial, agricultural and industrial purposes.
   C.   "Subdivision" does not include:
      1.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable land
use ordinance;
      2.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties
adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         a.   No new lot is created; and
         b.   The adjustment does not violate applicable land use ordinances;
or
      3.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record:
         a.   Revising the legal description of more than one contiguous
unsubdivided parcel of property into one legal description encompassing all
such parcels of property; or
         b.   Joining a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided, if the joinder does not violate
applicable land use ordinances.
   D.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a "subdivision" under
this definition as to the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the
unsubdivided parcel to this title.
SURVEYOR: The person elected or appointed by the governing body to represent
Garland City as their surveyor.
URBAN SERVICES: Those services normally associated with urban living,
including, but not limited to, the following: electricity, natural gas,
streets, schools, culinary water, secondary or irrigation water, where
applicable, sewage collection and treatment facilities, police and fire
protection.
UTILITIES: Includes culinary water lines, pressure and gravity irrigation
lines, sanitary and storm sewer lines, electric power, gas and telephone
transmission lines, underground conduits and their appurtenances.
VICINITY MAP: A map or drawing to scale of any area proposed for development,
showing the location of the proposed subdivision, existing and proposed
streets, buildings, public facilities and utilities within the general
influence area of the proposed subdivision within a one mile radius; boundaries
of zoning districts, taxing districts and other special districts on and in the
immediate vicinity of the land proposed for subdivision; watercourses,
impoundments, streams, springs, wells and areas subject to continuous or
occasional flooding on and in the immediate vicinity of the land proposed for
subdivision; and significant vegetative patterns on and in the immediate
vicinity of the land proposed for subdivision.
WATER FACILITIES: Culinary water facilities include the water, water supply,
springs, wells, transmission and distribution pipelines, service laterals,
pumps, valves, fittings, reservoirs, fire hydrants, and all appurtenant
facilities necessary to provide and deliver a sufficient quantity of an
approved quality of water to each lot and/or dwelling unit. A "sufficient
quantity of water" shall be defined as follows:
   A.   For lots not served by a secondary water system, the culinary water
facilities shall be designed and constructed so as to furnish 3.4 gallons per
minute of water at forty (40) psi minimum to each dwelling unit, or each ten
thousand (10,000) square foot lot of area.
   B.   For lots with a secondary source of water, the quantity of water may be
reduced to 1.7 gallons per minute for each lot and/or dwelling unit.
   C.   Fire suppression water facilities shall be included in the culinary
water facilities and shall include the water supply and delivery capabilities
adequate to furnish five hundred (500) gallons per minute, with a residual
pressure of no less than twenty (20) psi, from each of two (2) fire hydrants
located not more than three hundred fifty feet (350') from any single fire
(dwelling unit).
ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance of Garland City, "Garland City, Utah
Zoning Ordinance" and map. (Ord., 2-29-1996; amd. 2006 Code; Ord. O-24-09, 11-
6-2024)
CHAPTER 2
DOCUMENT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
SECTION:
10-2-1: General Requirements
10-2-2: Approval Process
10-2-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Review; Application Materials: All applications and submittals are to
be reviewed at regularly scheduled planning and zoning commission meetings.
Whenever applications to the planning and zoning commission for formal action
are required by this title, application materials must be submitted to the city
recorder two (2) weeks prior to the regularly scheduled public meeting of the
planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Time Periods For Planning And Zoning Commission Action: Time periods
for planning and zoning commission action shall not begin to run until after
all fees are paid and complete applications are officially received and
reviewed at the planning and zoning commission meeting.
   C.   Presubmittal Procedures: To facilitate the handling of applications,
the planning and zoning commission may, from time to time, adopt additional
presubmittal procedures to allow for adequate investigations and staff review
and may require compliance with such presubmittal review procedures as a
prerequisite to formal receipt and action by the planning and zoning
commission. Presubmittal review shall in no way be interpreted to mean a review
by the planning and zoning commission.
   D.   Fees: Fees may be charged applicants for subdivision applications,
zoning amendments, conditional use permits, design review, and such other
services as are required by this title. Such fees shall be established by the
governing body by resolution and shall be in amounts reasonably needed to
defray costs to the public.
   E.   Docketing For Review: Upon receipt of all required writings, fees and
materials for any specific stage of the review procedure, the planning and
zoning commission shall docket the application for review. Incomplete
submittals shall not be docketed for planning and zoning commission review but
shall be returned to the subdivider for completion.
   F.   Approval Or Disapproval: At each step of the review procedure, the
planning and zoning commission shall approve or disapprove of the writings and
materials submitted to it, and where applicable, shall approve or disapprove of
the entire application or any portion thereof. Any approval or disapproval made
by the planning and zoning commission shall be in the form of written findings
of fact and conclusions, which findings and conclusions shall be made available
to the applicant and all parties concerned, by the planning and zoning
commission, within twenty five (25) calendar days of the planning and zoning
commission meeting at which the application was reviewed.
   G.   Copies: A minimum of five (5) copies of all required materials shall be
submitted to the planning and zoning commission at each step of the review
process. Additional copies may be required by resolution of the planning and
zoning commission.
   H.   Formal Action: Formal action on any application, i.e., action approving
or denying any application, shall be taken only at regularly scheduled or
officially called meetings of the planning and zoning commission.
   I.   Public Meeting: Unless specifically required by this title or other
applicable law, no public hearing need be held for subdivision review. However,
a hearing may be held when the planning and zoning commission shall deem such a
hearing to be necessary and in the public interest. Whenever a public hearing
is held, notice thereof shall be given as required by applicable law or, if
there is not otherwise applicable law, then by a method reasonably calculated
to give notice to interested parties. Such notice shall be given a minimum of
fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the public hearing or as required by state
law, whichever period of time is greater. Failure of interested parties to
receive actual notice of said hearing shall in no way affect the validity of
action taken.
   J.   Application Forms: Application for any required planning and zoning
commission action shall be submitted on forms prepared for that purpose by the
planning and zoning commission.
   K.   Retention Of Plans: Plans, specifications and reports for all
applications submitted to the planning and zoning commission shall become the
property of the public and shall be retained by the city for a minimum period
of two (2) years.
   L.   Plans And Plats Required: Sketch plans, preliminary plats and final
plats are required for all subdivisions, mobile home parks, mobile home
subdivisions and recreational vehicle parks.
   M.   Subdivider Responsibility: Approval of the sketch, preliminary and/or
final plat and the supporting documents by the planning and zoning commission
and/or the city engineer shall not be construed to waive the responsibility of
the subdivider and/or his engineer/surveyor of complying with any section of
this title, unless such waiver is in writing signed by the chairperson of the
planning and zoning commission and approved by the governing body, or of
complying with all other applicable laws, rules and regulations applicable to
the development of the subdivision.
   N.   Resubmittal Design Review Fee:
      1.   In order to minimize the cost of reviewing the plans, drawings and
data for compliance with local ordinances, the subdivider and his engineer
shall assure themselves that they have read and are completely familiar with
the local ordinances relating to the subdivision of lands within the city
boundaries.
      2.   The initial design review fee shall entitle the subdivider to a
preliminary and a final review of the preliminary plat and its supporting data,
and a preliminary and final review of the final plat, plans and drawings. Plans
and drawings which are incomplete, inaccurate and not in compliance with this
title will be returned without action. If plats, plans or drawings are
resubmitted for additional review which requires additional work on the part of
the city engineer, then the subdivider and/or his engineer shall be required to
pay any and all costs incurred by the city for such additional reviews before
the plat will be approved by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord., 2-29-
1996)
10-2-2: APPROVAL PROCESS:
Applications and documents are to be submitted and reviewed in four (4) steps.
Each step shall be reviewed by the appropriate personnel and their
recommendations shall be forwarded to and reviewed by the planning and zoning
commission before any action shall be taken by that body. The steps in the
approval process are as follows:
   A.   Step 1; Sketch Plan: Prior to subdividing any tract of land, a
subdivider and his engineer shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Meeting: Obtain or possess a copy of the current subdivision
ordinance and become completely familiar with all of its requirements. The
subdivider and his engineer shall meet with the city planner and/or city
engineer, who shall review the proposed subdivision with them to determine
general appropriateness of the location, the zoning, the location of the
nearest utilities and vehicle access, and advise the applicant regarding
preparation of the documents required by this title. This meeting with the city
planner and/or city engineer shall not relieve the subdivider of his
responsibility to comply with all of the provisions of this title. The
governing body, upon receipt of a recommendation from the planning and zoning
commission, is the only authority that can waive, modify or vary the
requirements of this title. (See section
10-4-9 of this title, conditional use permit.)
      2.   Submit Sketch Plan To Planning And Zoning Commission: Applicants
shall submit a sketch plan to the planning and zoning commission, which shall
enable the applicant and the planning and zoning commission to have an informal
review of a proposed project for general scope and conditions which might
affect the proposed project and/or the local area. The planning and zoning
commission shall either approve or reject the sketch plan, with or without
conditions. Items to be included in sketch plan are listed in section
10-5-5 of this title.
      3.   Plan Review: The sketch plan review procedure is as follows: The
planning and zoning commission, or its authorized representatives, shall, upon
receipt of the complete sketch plan submission, distribute copies of the plan
to such governmental departments and other agencies for review and comment as
in the opinion of the planning and zoning commission may contribute to a
decision in the best interests of the public. The planning and zoning
commission, or its authorized representative, shall review the sketch plan
submittals for substantive content, for compliance with the master plan,
ordinances and other regulations of the city. The planning and zoning
commission, after completion of their review, shall notify the subdivider, in
writing, of the sketch plan review findings, including approval or denial of
the application, as well as reasons for denial, such as questionable design or
engineering feasibility, inadequacy of submittals, noncompliance with local
regulations, and the need for other information which may assist the planning
and zoning commission to evaluate the proposed subdivision. If it is determined
by the planning and zoning commission that the proposed development would
violate local ordinances and regulations, no further review of the proposed
development shall be made and it shall be returned to the subdivider with
written notification. Other than mentioned above, the denial of the application
for the sketch plan approval shall not constitute an absolute disapproval of
the proposed development, but rather shall operate in such a manner as to give
the subdivider guidance as to the requirements and constraints for development
within the city. Once sketch plan approval is granted, the subdivider may
proceed to step 2 and submit the preliminary plat. If the preliminary plat
approval for a proposed development has not been obtained within one year of
the date on which the sketch plan was approved, a resubmittal of the sketch
plan shall be made to the planning and zoning commission and approved by them
prior to filling an application for preliminary plat approval.
   B.   Step 2; Preliminary Plat: Submit preliminary plat to the planning and
zoning commission and pay the required application and design review fees. The
preliminary plat shall provide design solutions to problems identified in the
approved sketch plan and ascertained during the design process. The planning
and zoning commission shall either approve, conditionally approve or reject the
preliminary plat. Conditional approval shall require the subdivider to resubmit
a preliminary plat that has satisfied the conditions stated in the conditional
approval.
      1.   Submission Of Preliminary Plat: At least two (2) weeks prior to the
date of a regularly scheduled meeting of the planning and zoning commission,
the subdivider shall submit fifteen (15) copies of the preliminary plat and all
required supporting documents of the proposed subdivision to the city recorder,
together with the required filing fees. Incomplete plats and supporting
documents will be returned to the subdivider without action and will not be
accepted for review until complete and resubmitted at least two (2) weeks prior
to another regularly scheduled meeting of the planning and zoning commission.
      2.   Requirements: Plat requirements are included in section
10-5-6 of this title.
      3.   Documents: Plat and required supporting documents:
         a.   One copy of an application for approval of a preliminary plat and
all other following required supporting documents.
         b.   A minimum of fifteen (15) copies of the preliminary plat.
         c.   One additional print is required when the property being
subdivided abuts a state highway.
         d.   If services are to be provided by some agency other than the
city, a letter is required from the municipality, district or other public
agency which is to provide water and/or sewage service to the proposed
subdivision. The letter should state that they have the required capacity and
capability to provide the required service and include the conditions upon
which the service will be provided.
         e.   A letter from each utility company involved addressed to the
planning and zoning commission, stating that they have reviewed the plan and
are setting forth their comments concerning the extent of services and the
design of utility easements. The plan as approved by the utility company shall
be initialed by an official of the company and furnished to the planning and
zoning commission.
         f.   Statement of the estimated starting and completion dates for each
phase of development, including the grading work proposed and any landscape
work that may be required.
         g.   A certificate of title insurance for land to be dedicated to the
city.
         h.   Trust agreement for perpetual care funds.
         i.   A copy of proposed protective covenants, articles of
incorporation, association or condominium, bonds and guarantees.
         j.   Appropriate supporting documents showing that potable water will
be available to the subdivider in the quantities required by this title.
         k.   Estimated construction cost and proposed method of financing of
all improvements, including the streets and related facilities; water
facilities; sewage facilities; storm drainage facilities; electrical
distribution system; and all such other utilities as may be necessary.
         l.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient financial capability
and adequate control over the land to effectuate the proposed use. (Ord., 2-29-
1996)
         m.   Names and addresses of owners within three hundred feet (300').
The city recorder shall issue a receipt to the subdivider for the preliminary
plat application and supporting documents when it has been determined that the
submission includes all of the requirements set forth in these regulations. The
date of the planning and zoning commission meeting to review the plans shall be
specified on the receipt, said date shall be not less than twenty five (25)
calendar days, nor more than forty five (45) calendar days from the date of
receipt by the planning and zoning commission.
      4.   Plat Review: The preliminary plat review procedure is as follows:
         a.   The planning and zoning commission, or its authorized
representative, shall, upon receipt of the complete preliminary plat
submission, distribute three (3) copies of the plat to the city engineer and
one copy each to such other governmental departments and other agencies for
review and comment as in the opinion of the planning and zoning commission may
contribute to a decision in the best interests of the public. One print shall
be delivered by the planning and zoning commission staff to each of the
following for the information and recommendation: school district, fire
department and to each company or agency furnishing water, sewage collection
and treatment, electric, gas and telephone service. Each district, department,
company or agency shall be requested to review the plat and the site, and
prepare recommendations concerning feasibility of providing services and the
placement of easements. The district, department, company or agency may sketch
recommended alterations on a copy of the plat and return that copy with
comments directly to the city recorder at least fifteen (15) calendar days in
advance of the proposed presentation of the preliminary plat to the planning
and zoning commission. The city recorder shall promptly furnish all data
received to the city engineer for inclusion on his copies of the preliminary
plat. Failure of any of the recipient departments or agencies to respond to the
planning and zoning commission with comments concerning the development within
fifteen (15) days of receipt of a copy of the preliminary plat from the
planning and zoning commission shall be construed as indicating that such
agency or department has no adverse concern with the proposed development. The
planning and zoning commission shall consider the application for preliminary
plat approval at its next regularly scheduled public meeting following the
twenty five (25) to forty five (45) day review and processing period. The
review and processing period shall be measured from the date on which the
preliminary plat application is officially receipted. (Ord., 2-29-1996; amd.
2006 Code)
         b.   The planning and zoning commission shall approve those
preliminary plats which the commission finds:
            (1)   To be developed in accordance with the intent, standards and
criteria specified in this title, the zoning ordinance, the major street plan,
the master plan, and all other applicable local regulations.
            (2)   To be in conformance with the approved sketch plan.
            (3)   That the development will not create a financial obligation
for the city.
            (4)   That the development will not create an environmental impact
which will adversely affect the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants
of the city.
         c.   The planning and zoning commission shall determine from the
review of the preliminary plat the need for an environmental impact analysis,
which would take into account the soil, slope, vegetation, drainage and other
geological characteristics of the site. If development of the subdivision site
requires substantial cutting, clearing, grading or other earth moving
operations or will otherwise create, augment or expand an erosion or other
geologic hazard, the planning and zoning commission shall require the
subdivider to provide soil erosion, geological hazard and sedimentation control
plans and specifications. Such control plans and specifications shall be
prepared by a qualified professional with the cost of preparation of such plans
and specifications being borne by the subdivider.
         d.   When the master plan indicates a public facility or facilities
are to be located within the boundaries of the proposed subdivision, the
subdivider shall reserve a site appropriate in area and location for such
public facility. Such site shall be reserved by the subdivider for a period of
not to exceed one year from the date of preliminary plat approval, to provide
the appropriate public agency an opportunity to purchase the site. A
determination by the planning and zoning commission to require such a
reservation by a subdivider shall be made in writing and shall state the
reasons for such requirements.
         e.   Within forty five (45) days after the date established as the
commencement of the planning and zoning commission review period and at a
regularly scheduled meeting, the planning and zoning commission shall approve,
disapprove or approve with conditions the preliminary plat and notify the
subdivider in writing of such action, or may postpone action to allow the
subdivider time to provide additional material or information as needed by the
planning and zoning commission.
         f.   At least seven (7) days prior to the planning and zoning
commission meeting, the city recorder will notify the owners of property
abutting the boundary of the proposed subdivision, by a written notice stating
the time, date and place where the planning and zoning commission will consider
giving preliminary approval to the subdivision. The subdivider shall provide
the planning and zoning commission with the names of all persons to whom the
notice is to be given. Failure of adjacent landowners to receive actual notice
of meeting shall in no way affect the validity of the action taken.
         g.   The planning and zoning commission may approve or reject the
preliminary plat, or conditionally grant approval. The planning and zoning
commission's conditional approval shall include those written conditions
necessary to cause the subdivision plat to be in compliance with the
requirements of this title. Approval of the preliminary plat by the planning
and zoning commission shall not constitute final acceptance of the subdivision
by the planning and zoning commission. One copy of the approved preliminary
plat with written conditions attached and signed by the chairperson of the
planning and zoning commission shall be given to the subdivider and one copy to
the city engineer. Receipt of this signed copy shall be authorization for the
subdivider to proceed to step 3, and with preparation of plans and
specifications for the minimum improvements required in this title, and with
the preparation of the final plat. Prior to the construction of any
improvements required in this title and prior to the submission of any
guarantee, the subdivider shall furnish and receive approval of all plans,
information and data necessary for subdividing the land and installing the
improvements. The construction of buildings or improvements shall not begin
until after recording of the final plat. The approval of the preliminary plat
shall expire unless a final plat based thereon is submitted within one year
from the date of such approval.
   C.   Step 3; Final Plat: Submit the final plat, construction drawings and
supporting documents to the planning and zoning commission, accompanied with
the appropriate design review fees. The final plat and drawings shall provide
complete technical and engineering solutions in order that the land may be
properly subdivided and all improvements located and constructed in compliance
with this title and the construction standards of the city.
      1.   Submission Of Final Plat: At least two (2) weeks prior to the next
established planning and zoning commission meeting, the subdivider shall submit
at least three (3) copies of the final plat, construction drawings and
supporting documents to the city recorder, together with the required design
review fees. Plats, plans and supporting documents not received as required
herein shall not be considered as accepted until the next regularly scheduled
planning and zoning commission meeting. Incomplete plats, plans and supporting
documents will be returned without action and shall be considered as having
received a preliminary review. The date of the regularly scheduled planning and
zoning commission meeting at which the final plat and supporting documents are
officially received shall be the starting date for the review period.
      2.   Plat Preparation: The final plat, covering all or part of the
subdivision, as approved by the planning and zoning commission in step 2, shall
be prepared and certified to by a licensed engineer and/or land surveyor not in
the employ of the city, in conformance with the design standards contained
herein. The final plat, plans and supporting documents must be submitted within
one year from the date of preliminary plat approval unless the time is, in
writing, extended by the planning and zoning commission. Otherwise, such
approval shall be deemed to have lapsed, and the subdivider shall revert to
reapplication to the planning and zoning commission.
      3.   Phase Development: Final plat approval may be granted on less than
the entire project covered by the preliminary plan approval. Final plat
approval on projects containing more than twenty five (25) lots shall be done
in phases, except as provided herein. Each phase shall consist of the number of
lots which can be completely developed with both off site improvements within a
two (2) year period. The development of the project shall be in an orderly
manner and in such a way that all the phases will be contiguous. The required
improvements will be made available for the full, effective and practical use
and enjoyment thereof by the lessees or the grantees of any of the lands within
the subdivision. When the off site improvements have been one hundred percent
(100%) completed within the boundaries of the recorded plat of any phase and
approved by the city engineer, and on site improvements are seventy percent
(70%) completed, the subdivider may submit the next phase of the proposed
subdivision in accordance with the rules and regulations of this title. A final
plat including more than twenty five (25) lots will be accepted only upon the
submission of qualified evidence indicating that the market absorption rate is
such, and the financial ability of the subdivider is such, that the off site
improvements for all lots in such final plat will be completed within two (2)
years, and that on site improvements will be competed on at least seventy
percent (70%) of the lots within two (2) years of such approval.
      4.   Distribution And Review: The planning and zoning commission shall
circulate for comment and review copies of the final plat to all departments of
the city, the city engineer, the city attorney, and any special purpose
district, including school districts. The city engineer shall approve or
disapprove the plat within thirty (30) days after the plat is submitted to the
planning and zoning commission. If he disapproves, he shall state in writing to
the planning and zoning commission the reasons for the disapproval. The
planning and zoning commission shall have sixty two (62) calendar days after
the plat was received from the subdivider to approve or disapprove the plat. If
the planning and zoning commission disapproves the final plat it will so notify
the subdivider in writing which states that the plat has been disapproved and
the reasons therefor. The reason for rejection of a final plat shall be its
nonconformance to adopted rules, regulations, ordinances and state laws
currently in force and affecting the land and its development, its lack of
conformance with the approved preliminary plat or technical inaccuracies.
      5.   Approvals By Planning And Zoning Commission, City Engineer And City
Attorney:
         a.   The planning and zoning commission shall approve the subdivision
if it finds that the subdivision complies with the physical development
standards of this title, the zoning ordinance, the laws of the state and the
rules and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, and that the subdivision
will have adequate fire protection; all of the essential facilities; an
adequate water supply with individual, public or private supplies and, if
public or private, that the addition of the subdivision will not decrease the
pressure in the culinary water system at any point within the city or
subdivision to less than forty (40) pounds per square inch; that the
subdivision will have an approved sewage disposal method or system and will not
cause the existing sewer system to exceed its capacity to deliver or treat
sewage; that the traffic created thereby will not unduly congest existing
traffic; that it will not create a substantial burden on the school districts
or create a financial obligation on the city.
         b.   The city engineer shall approve the final plat if he finds that
the subdivision and proposed improvements comply with the minimum requirements
of this title, that the survey description is correct and that the easements
are appropriately located.
         c.   The city attorney shall approve the final plat if he finds that:
            (1)   There is a current title opinion from a licensed title
company showing that the person dedicating the property described on the final
plat is the title owner as shown on the records of the county recorder of the
county in which the subdivision is located.
            (2)   The bond, escrow, letter of credit, trust deed or the
agreement deposited with the city recorder is in appropriate form and signed by
the necessary parties.
            (3)   That the subdivider has executed an agreement signed by the
property owners adjacent to a protection strip in a form sufficient for
recordation in the office of the county recorder.
            (4)   That the subdivider has executed the subdivision agreement
required by this title.
            (5)   That the subdivision does not, in his or her opinion, violate
any ordinance of the city or the laws of the state, or the rules and
regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.
      6.   Certification Of Approval; Required Signed Instruments: The planning
and zoning commission shall review the final plat at a regularly scheduled
public meeting. If the final plat and all supplementary data complies with the
applicable requirement of these regulations and the requirements of the
approved preliminary plat, the planning and zoning commission shall certify
approval of the plat providing the following instruments are properly signed
and dated:
         a.   Surveyor's certificate.
         b.   Owner's dedication.
         c.   Notary and/or corporate acknowledgements.
         d.   City engineer's approval.
         e.   City attorney's approval.
The planning and zoning commission shall either approve or reject the final
plat. Conditional approval shall not be given.
      7.   Notification Of Action To Governing Body: Within ten (10) days after
review of the final plat at the public meeting, the planning and zoning
commission shall send written notification of its review and official action
taken to the governing body. This notification shall specify the modifications
of the final plat, if any, which were made incidental to approval of such plat
by the planning and zoning commission.
   D.   Step 4; Governing Body Approval: Following final plat approval, the
planning and zoning commission shall forward the approved final plat to the
governing body for review. The applicant shall appear before the governing body
to answer any questions. The governing body shall either approve or reject the
final plat if it finds that all other persons required to approve the plat have
given their approval and that the final plat meets all of the requirements of
the ordinances and that all fees and assessments have been fully paid.
Acceptance of dedication of proposed public lands or streets, or street rights
of way in an approved final plat can be made only by the governing body. Final
plat approval by the governing body will be deemed an acceptance of dedication,
unless streets and other public spaces are shown as "not intended for
dedication", or unless the governing body expressly repudiates the presumed
dedication. The final plat, bearing all official approvals as above required,
shall be deposited in the office of the county recorder for recording at the
expense of the subdivider, who shall be notified of such deposit by the office
of the county recorder. No subdivision shall be recorded in the office of the
county recorder and no lot included in such subdivision shall be sold or
exchanged and no offer shall be made to sell or exchange any such lot unless
and until the plat is so approved, accepted and recorded. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
CHAPTER 3
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Improvements Required
10-3-2: Essential Facilities
10-3-3: Order Of Making Improvements
10-3-4: Minimum Improvements Required Prior To Occupancy Permit
10-3-5: Improvements Completion
10-3-6: Partial Development; Improvements Continuous And Orderly
10-3-7: Cost Distribution For Improvements
10-3-8: Oversized Facilities
10-3-9: Cost Sharing Agreement
10-3-10: Inspection
10-3-11: Guarantee Of Work
10-3-12: Improvements Guarantee Agreement
10-3-13: Partial Release Of Agreement Funds
10-3-14: Conditional Acceptance
10-3-15: Final Acceptance And Release
10-3-16: Acceptance Period
10-3-1: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
   A.   No final plat of a subdivision of land shall be recorded without
receiving a statement signed by the city engineer certifying that the
improvements described in the subdivider's plans and specifications meet the
minimum requirements of all ordinances of the city, that they comply with the
recommendations of the local and/or state board of health, the planning and
zoning commission, the fire and other city departments and with the standards,
rules and regulations for subdivisions approved by the governing body, which
standards, rules and regulations are hereby incorporated in this title by
reference.
   B.   No final plat of a subdivision of land shall be recorded unless the
subdivider shall furnish to the city a guarantee in an amount equal to one
hundred fifteen percent (115%) of the reasonable cost of the improvements
required by this chapter. The amount of the guarantee shall be estimated by the
subdivider's engineer and approved by the city engineer, and conditioned upon
payment by the subdivider of all expenses incurred and for all labor or
material used in the construction of required improvements. The provisions of
the guarantee shall be for the protection of laborers and materialmen and to
guarantee the quality, quantity and performance of all improvements as required
herein. In no event shall the city be deemed liable under this chapter on any
claim asserted by a laborer or materialman. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-3-2: ESSENTIAL FACILITIES:
The subdivider of any land shall install or guarantee the installation of the
following essential facilities in compliance with the construction standards of
the city:
   A.   Water Supply: Subdividers must gain approval from the city council for
water rights and connections to the city culinary water system. In cases where
it is not feasible to hook into the city water system, subdividers must develop
a water system that conforms with the standards of the state bureau of drinking
water and sanitation and the city standards, including fire protection
standards. Newly developed systems shall be dedicated to the city.
   B.   Secondary Water Supply:
      1.   Where secondary water rights are available to property to be
subdivided, the subdivider shall install the water main valves, turnouts and
service lines or laterals for such main prior to the installation of road base,
surfacing, curb, gutters and sidewalks.
      2.   Where culinary water is of insufficient quantity to satisfy
irrigation needs of the property to be subdivided, the subdivider must develop
a secondary water system as required by the planning and zoning commission.
   C.   Sewage Disposal:
      1.   Sewage disposal shall be achieved by connecting to the city public
sanitary sewer collection system as specified and required by the city sewer
ordinance 1 .
      2.   If the city sewer ordinance defines conditions where connection to
the public sanitary sewer system is not required, the Bear River district
health department must issue a permit for each lot according to its capacity to
support an individual sewage disposal system. In such case and before a final
plat may be recorded, the district sanitarian must certify that soil exams,
completed at the subdivider's expense, indicate that individual sewage disposal
systems are feasible.
      3.   Where the subdivider is not proposing a public sewer system and
individual sewage disposal systems are permitted by the city sewer ordinance
and other local jurisdictions, the words "No proposed public sewage disposal
system" shall appear on the final plat.
   D.   Storm Water Drainage:
      1.   The subdivider must obtain approval from the city engineer for plans
to control storm water to assure that any increase in storm water runoff will
not flow from the subdivision to adjacent properties, unless drainage easements
have first been obtained from such properties.
      2.   The final plans for the drainage system shall be prepared by a
licensed engineer and shall include all pipe, inlets, manholes, detention
ponds, outlet structures and appurtenant works, including such bridges and
culverts as may be needed. The width of bridges or lengths of culverts shall be
equal to the width of the street right of way, but not more than sixty six feet
(66') for any one bridge or culvert. The complete storm water drainage system
shall be installed prior to the surfacing of streets and the installation of
road base, curbs, gutters and sidewalks.
   E.   Road Improvements:
      1.   Unless otherwise specified or waived by the planning and zoning
commission, all roads to be constructed and dedicated to the city shall meet
city standards and shall have a minimum improved width consisting of thirty
five feet (35') of bituminous surfacing and two and one-half foot (21/2') wide
curb-gutter on each side for a total improved width of forty feet (40').
Sidewalks shall be required on each side between the curb-gutter and right of
way line in conformance with the public works construction standards. The width
of a dedicated road right of way, if it is an extension of an existing street,
shall be equal to the width of said existing street right of way width, which
shall be either fifty feet (50'), sixty feet (60'), sixty six feet (66') or
ninety feet (90'). The widths of improvements shall match the width of existing
improvements unless required otherwise by the planning and zoning commission.
Unless specified otherwise by the planning and zoning commission, minor roads
which are not extensions of existing streets shall have a right of way of sixty
feet (60'), and minor roads serving only cul-de-sacs shall have fifty foot
(50') rights of way with a fifty five foot (55') radius turnaround.
      2.   Developers of subdivisions adjacent to substandard roads shall
dedicate additional rights of way and improve the adjacent one-half (1/2) width
of said road to conform to city standards. Said improvements shall be made to
the nearest improved collector street.
   F.   Fire Protection: Fire hydrants shall be placed within seven hundred
feet (700') of one another throughout the subdivision. They will be installed
according to the city standards.
   G.   Electricity And Distribution System: The subdivider shall be
responsible for securing service agreements with Utah Power And Light and shall
be financially responsible for any associated costs to extend electrical
service and distribution to the development.
   H.   Telephone: The subdivider shall be responsible for securing service
agreements with the utility franchise providing local telephone service and
shall be financially responsible for any associated costs to extending
telephone service to the development. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
   I.   Natural Gas And Distribution Facilities: The subdivider shall be
responsible for securing service agreements with Questar and shall be
financially responsible for any associated costs to extending natural gas
service to the development. (Ord., 2-29-1996; amd. 2006 Code)
   J.   Street Signs: The contractor will furnish and install all necessary
street signs at required locations and in conformance with city standards.
   K.   Monuments: Permanent monuments shall be accurately set and established
at such points as are necessary to definitely establish all lines of the plat,
except those outlining individual lots. Monuments shall be of a type approved
by the city engineer. All subdivision plats shall be tied to a section corner,
a monument of record, or an established land office survey corner. (Ord., 2-29-
1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
10-3-3: ORDER OF MAKING IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   The improvements required in this title shall be installed in
compliance with the construction standards. No improvements shall be installed
until their location and specifications are approved by the city engineer.
   B.   Unless waived in writing by the city engineer, all underground
utilities, water, sewer and gas laterals and fire hydrants shall be installed
prior to road base, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and surfacing the streets. (Ord.,
2-29-1996)
10-3-4: MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED PRIOR TO OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
No occupancy permit shall be issued until the following improvements are
installed and approved, in writing, by the city engineer:
   A.   All underground utilities, including telephone, electrical, gas and
water facilities;
   B.   Sanitary sewer and storm systems;
   C.   Curb, gutter, sidewalk and road base. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-3-5: IMPROVEMENTS COMPLETION:
All improvements, including the street paving, shall be completed within twelve
(12) months after issuance of the first building permit in the subdivision. The
seal and chip portion of the paving shall be completed within two (2) years
after approval of the final plat of the subdivision. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-3-6: PARTIAL DEVELOPMENT; IMPROVEMENTS CONTINUOUS AND ORDERLY:
Whenever the subdivider shall develop a subdivision one phase at a time, such
development shall be in an orderly manner and in such a way that the required
improvements will be continuous and all of the said improvements will be made
available for the full, effective and practical use and enjoyment thereof by
the purchasers, lessees, grantees, assignees or transferrers of any of the
lands subdivided within the time herein before specified or within the phases
specified. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-3-7: COST DISTRIBUTION FOR IMPROVEMENTS:
Cost of improvements which are required under the provisions of this title, as
well as the cost of other improvements which the subdivider may be required to
install, shall be shared between the subdivider and the city according to the
following schedule. The city shall not share in the cost of any improvements
not expressly noted within this section:
Improvement Description Subdivider % Of Cost Or City % Cost Or Responsibility
                        Responsibility
Improvement Description   Subdivider % Of Cost Or    City % Cost Or
                          Responsibility             Responsibility
Easements and rights of
way; grading of streets,
curb and gutter; cross
drains; dip stones and
connecting piping;        100%                       0%
driveways; sidewalks;
monuments; street signs;
fire hydrants and
companion valves; thrust
blocks.
Base gravel course;       100% for all streets       100% for all additional
street paving; seal and   required road widths of 60 width by the planning
chip, bridges and         feet back to back of curb  commission in excess of 60
culverts.                 and gutter or less.        feet back to back of curb
                                                     and gutter.
Street lighting.          100% of easements, rights  0%
                          of way and facilities.
                          100% of all facilities,
                          including easements and    0%. See sections
Electric utilities.       rights of way necessary to 10-3-8 and
                          serve subdivision and      10-3-9 of thischapter.
                          comply with this title.
Culinary water and        100% of all costs of all   0%. See sections
secondary water           facilities necessary to    10-3-8 and
facilities.               serve the subdivision and  10-3-9 of this chapter.
                          comply with this title.
                          100% of all costs of all   0%. See sections
Sanitary sewer and storm  facilities necessary to    10-3-8 and
sewer facilities.         serve the subdivision and  10-3-9 of this chapter.
                          comply with this title.
Extension of culinary
water and secondary water 100% and/or cost sharing   0%. See sections
facilities, storm sewer   agreement.                 10-3-8 and
facilities and sanitary                              10-3-9 of this chapter.
sewer facilities.
Extension of electrical   100% and/or cost sharing   0%. See sections
distribution system.      agreement.                 10-3-8 and
                                                     10-3-9 of this chapter.
                                                     0%. See sections including
Extension of streets.     100% of all costs          rights of10-3-8 and way.
                                                     10-3-9 of this chapter.
 
(Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-3-8: OVERSIZED FACILITIES:
When it is determined by the city engineer that specifications for subdivision
improvements are not adequate to meet the demands above and beyond the demands
within the subdivision and it is necessary for said improvements to serve
intervening or other properties, the subdivider will be required to install
"oversized" facilities. Reimbursement for costs will be handled through a cost
sharing agreement with the property owners to reap the benefits. In some cases,
a modified cost sharing agreement may be entered into with the city. (Ord., 2-
29-1996)
10-3-9: COST SHARING AGREEMENT:
   A.   Permitted: Whenever any intervening property is located between the
terminus of an existing service facility and the proposed subdivision, and the
intervening property will be benefitted by the installation of any of the
required facilities, the subdivider shall pay for having all facilities not
installed by a utility company, constructed over, under and/or across the
intervening property. If approved by the governing body before approval of the
final plat and prior to any construction, the subdivider may enter into an
agreement with the city for a partial cost reimbursement, otherwise agreements
will be made with intervening property owners.
   B.   Costs Included In Agreement: The cost of the facilities to be included
in the agreement shall be the actual construction cost as determined by
competitive bids and shall include all cost for having the facilities
installed, including legal, administrative and engineering costs.
   C.   Proportionate Share Stated: The agreement shall state the proportionate
share of the costs to be borne by the subdivider and the proportionate share to
be reimbursed to the subdivider from fees collected from the intervening
property owners.
   D.   Charges And Reimbursement: The city shall thereafter enter a deferred
credit in its book and records and shall charge the benefitted property owners
the fee rates for sewer, water and electrical connections in effect at the time
such connections are made. Such fees, not to exceed the maximum stated in the
agreement, shall then be returned to the subdivider to reimburse the subdivider
for the proportionate share of the costs of the installation of the facilities.
The city may also elect to reimburse the subdivider for such "off site"
facilities after the subdivider has furnished the city with acceptable evidence
that an agreed number of housing units are occupied. No interest shall accrue
or become payable on such reimbursement. Engineering drawings showing
benefitted property shall be prepared by the city engineer. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-3-10: INSPECTION:
   A.   Continuous Inspections: All construction work involving the
installation of improvements in subdivisions shall be subject to inspection by
the city and the construction standards of the following types of improvements.
The inspector shall make continuous inspections on the following improvements:
      1.   Street surfacing, including seal coats.
      2.   Preparation of base and pouring of concrete for curb and gutter,
sidewalks and other structures.
      3.   Laying of sewer pipe, drainage pipe, water pipe, valves, hydrants
and all pipe testing.
      4.   Installation of any mechanical equipment.
Arrangement for inspection must be made with the city engineer at least seven
(7) days prior to beginning construction of the improvements requiring
continuous inspection.
   B.   Periodic Inspections: The inspector shall make periodic inspections on
the following improvements:
      1.   Street grading and gravel base.
      2.   Excavations for curb and gutter and sidewalks.
      3.   Excavations for structures.
      4.   Trenches for laying pipe.
      5.   Forms for curb and gutter, sidewalk and structures.
Notice to the city engineer shall be given three (3) days in advance of the
starting of work requiring periodic inspection.
   C.   Inspections By Subdivider's Engineer: The subdivider shall require his
engineer to make inspections as often as necessary in order to assure the
subdivider that the improvements are being properly installed, that the
improvements comply with the intent of the construction standards and that all
improvements are laid to the proper grade, alignment and depth, and are
constructed of the required quality of materials and that errors in design and/
or construction are corrected before acceptance by the city.
   D.   Certificate Of Acceptability: Prior to making a request for partial
release of escrow funds or conditional acceptance of the subdivision
improvements, the subdivider shall request that his engineer inspect the
improvements and certify as to their acceptability. This certificate shall be
attached to all partial release requests and the request for conditional
acceptance.
   E.   Materials And Equipment Used In Construction: All materials and
equipment used in the construction of the improvements shall be subject to
adequate inspection and testing in accordance with generally accepted
standards, as required and defined in the construction standards.
   F.   Payment For Inspection And Testing Services: In order to further assure
the city that the intent of the construction standards and this title are being
complied with, the city shall provide the continuous inspection and testing
services at the expense of the subdivider. Payment for this service will be
made monthly from the escrow account or from funds deposited with the city by
the subdivider.
   G.   City Engineer Responsibilities: The city engineer shall act as the city
representative during the construction period. He shall decide questions which
may arise as to quality and acceptability of materials furnished and work
performed. He shall interpret the intent of the construction standards in a
fair and unbiased manner. The city engineer will make periodic visits to the
site and determine if the work is proceeding in accordance with this title.
   H.   Subdivider Responsibilities:
      1.   The subdivider will be solely responsible for complying with the
intent of the construction standards and this title in regard to the quality of
materials, workmanship and execution of the work.
      2.   The subdivider's engineer will be responsible for the construction
means, controls, techniques, sequences, procedures or construction safety.
      3.   Inspections, test or approvals by the city engineer or other agent
representing the city shall not relieve the subdivider from his obligation to
perform the work in accordance with the requirements of the construction
standards and this title. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-3-11: GUARANTEE OF WORK:
   A.   Time Required: The subdivider shall warrant and guarantee, for a
minimum period of two (2) years from the date of "conditional acceptance", that
all of the improvements are free from defects due to faulty materials or
workmanship, and the subdivider shall, at no cost to the city, promptly make
such corrections as may be necessary by reason of such defects, including the
repairs of any damage to other improvements resulting from such defects. The
city will give notice of observed defects with reasonable promptness. In the
event that the subdivider should fail to make such repairs, adjustments or
other work that may be made necessary by such defects, the city may do so and
charge the subdivider the cost thereby incurred. The improvements guarantee
shall remain in full force and effect through the guarantee period and until
the subdivider receives a written final acceptance from the governing body.
   B.   City Engineer To Determine Necessity For Repairs And Maintenance: The
subdivider shall agree and understand that the determination of the necessity
for repairs and maintenance of the work rests with the city engineer. His
decision upon the matter shall be final and binding upon the subdivider, and
the guarantee hereby stipulated shall extend and include, but shall not be
limited to, the entire street base, all pipes, joints, valves, backfill and
compacting, as well as the working surface, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and other
accessories that are, or may be, affected by the construction operations, and
whenever, in the judgment of the city engineer, said work shall be in need of
repair, maintenance or rebuilding, he shall cause a written notice to be served
the subdivider and thereupon the subdivider shall undertake and complete such
repair, maintenance or rebuilding, and upon the subdivider's failure to do so
or make arrangements therefor within ten (10) days from the date of the service
of such notice, the city engineer shall, upon approval of the governing body,
have such repairs made, and the cost of such repairs shall be paid by the
subdivider, together with twenty five percent (25%) in addition thereto as and
for stipulated damages for such failure on the part of the subdivider to make
such repairs. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-3-12: IMPROVEMENTS GUARANTEE AGREEMENT:
   A.   Required: The subdivider shall execute, acknowledge and cause to be
recorded in the office of the city recorder, a written agreement with the city
by which he will covenant and agree that he will not lease or convey any of the
subdivided property to anyone whomever unless he shall first, as a condition
precedent thereto, either:
      1.   Install and pay for all of the improvements aforesaid necessary to
the full, effective and practical use and enjoyment thereof by the lessee or
grantee of the lands so to be conveyed, including, but not limited to, all
street improvements in front of such property and thence along the dedicated
streets to a connection with existing improvements, whichever is required as a
condition of the subdivision approval; or
      2.   In lieu of actual construction of the improvements, the subdivider
may furnish the city, at the time a subdivision final plat is approved, one of
the following guarantees that the improvements, not then installed, will be
constructed and paid for within a period of two (2) years from the date of
approval of the subdivision:
         a.   A bond with a corporate surety in an amount equal to one hundred
fifteen percent (115%) of the cost of the improvements.
         b.   Deposit in escrow with an escrow holder approved by the governing
body an amount of money equal to one hundred fifteen percent (115%) of the cost
of the improvements.
         c.   File an irrevocable letter of credit from a duly chartered bank
or savings and loan institution, which shall contain provisions substantially
similar to that required in the escrow agreement.
   B.   Agreement Deemed Covenant; Lien: The said agreement shall specifically
provide that it shall be deemed to be a covenant running with the subdivided
lands for the benefit of the city and shall particularly and accurately
describe said lands. By said agreement, the subdivider shall further give and
grant to the city a lien on said lands to secure the installation of all of the
improvements required by this chapter, together with the payment of all costs,
including reasonable attorney fees which the city may incur in enforcing any of
the terms and provisions of said agreement.
   C.   Approval As To Form: The covenant and agreement aforesaid shall be
approved as to form by the city attorney. The governing body is authorized to
prescribe, by administrative rule or regulation filed for record with the city
recorder, the forms and applications for the approval of a proposed subdivision
and the strict compliance with the requirements of this title. The agreement
shall be restricted to the guaranteeing and paying for the improvements
required by this title. It shall be separated from any other financing or
funding programs required by the subdivider. Funds can be released, or the
amount of the bond or letter of credit decreased, only upon receipt of written
authorization signed by the mayor. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-3-13: PARTIAL RELEASE OF AGREEMENT FUNDS:
The governing body is authorized and directed from time to time at the request
of the subdivider or his successors in interest to release from the bonds,
release from the escrow agreement, and release from the burdens of the covenant
and lien the estimated costs of the improvements installed and approved by the
city engineer.
   A.   Applications For Partial Release:
      1.   At least ten (10) days before each partial release is required (but
not more often than once a month), the subdivider will submit to the city
engineer for review, the application for release, filled out and signed by the
subdivider covering the work completed as of the date of the application and
supported by such data as the city engineer may reasonably require. The
subdivider shall include with his application for release of funds a written
statement of the current status of the escrow account signed by an officer of
the bonding company, the escrow agent or the institution issuing the letter of
credit. The statement shall show the total dollars included in the agreement,
the date and the amount of the releases and the current funds.
      2.   The subdivider warrants and guarantees that title to all work,
materials and equipment covered by an application for release, whether
incorporated in the work or not, will have passed to the city prior to the
making of the application, free and clear of all liens, claims, security
interest and encumbrances; and that no work, materials or equipment covered by
an application for release will have been acquired by the subdivider or by any
other person performing the work at the site or furnishing materials and
equipment for the project.
      3.   The city engineer will, within ten (10) days after receipt of each
application for release, either indicate, in writing, his approval of release
and present the application to the city or return the application to the
subdivider, indicating, in writing, his reasons for refusing to approve
release. In the latter case, the subdivider may make the necessary corrections
and resubmit the application. The city will, within ten (10) days of
presentation to it of an approved application for release, release the amount
approved by the city engineer.
   B.   Approval Of Requested Payment: The city engineer's approval of any
requested release shall constitute a representation by him to the city, based
on the city engineer's on site observations of the work in progress as an
experienced and qualified design professional and on his review of the
application for release and the supporting data, that the work has progressed
to the point indicated; that, to the best of his knowledge, information and
belief, the quality of the work is in accordance with the construction
standards (subject to an evaluation of the work as a functioning project upon
substantial completion, to the results of any subsequent test for in the
construction standards and any qualifications stated in his approval); and that
the subdivider is entitled to a release of the amount approved. However, by
approving any such payment, the city engineer shall not thereby be deemed to
have represented that he made exhaustive or continuous on site inspections to
check the quality or quantity of the work or that he has reviewed the means,
methods, techniques, sequences and procedures of construction, or that he has
made any examination to ascertain how or for what purpose the subdivider has
used the monies released.
   C.   Refusal To Release: The city engineer may refuse to approve the whole
or any part of any release if, in his opinion, he is unable to make such
foregoing representation to the city. He may also refuse to approve any such
release, or because of subsequently discovered evidence, or the results of
subsequent inspections or tests, nullify any such release previously approved,
to such extent as may be necessary in his opinion to protect the city from
loss, because:
      1.   The work is defective;
      2.   Claims have been filed or there is reasonable evidence indicating
the probable filing thereof;
      3.   The city has been required to correct defective work or complete the
work; or
      4.   Unsatisfactory prosecution of the work, including failure to clean
up as required.
   D.   Maximum Percentage Of Release: The subdivider shall not obtain a
release from the bonds, or withdraw from the covenant and lien improvements
guarantee any amount in excess of one hundred percent (100%) of the estimated
cost of the improvements, but shall pay from other sources any costs for such
improvements which exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the costs approved by
the city engineer.
   E.   Installation Prior To Final Plat Approval: If the subdivider installs
any or all of the required improvements prior to the final plat approval, the
subdivider shall furnish the city one of the three (3) guarantees listed in
subsection 10-3-12A2 of this chapter at the time the final plat is approved, in
an amount equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the cost of the improvements as a
guarantee that the improvements, as installed, shall remain free from defects
and shall be maintained by the subdivider until final acceptance by the
governing body.
   F.   Hold Of Fifteen Percent:
      1.   If the subdivider furnishes a bond, an escrow or letter of credit,
the governing body shall hold the remaining fifteen percent (15%) as a
guarantee that the improvements, as installed, shall remain free from defects
and shall be maintained by the subdivider until final acceptance by the
governing body.
      2.   If the fifteen percent (15%) retainage is in the form of money
deposited in an escrow account, release of said retained funds may be effected
by the subdivider, providing the subdivider files a bond, or furnishes an
irrevocable letter of credit with the governing body in an amount equal to the
fifteen percent (15%) being retained.
   G.   Defective Improvements: At any time during the guarantee period and in
the event the required improvements are not installed within the two (2) years
provided, or are not being maintained during the guarantee period, after
conditional acceptance, or are found to have latent defects, the city engineer
shall, by written notice, advise the subdivider has thirty (30) days to make
the necessary installation, construction, repair or replacement, which time may
be extended by the governing body at its sole discretion, and that the city
will make the necessary installation, construction, repair or replacement if
the subdivider does not do so within the time permitted and that the city will
exercise its rights, as contained in the agreement, to obtain the funds and/or
pay for the installation, construction, repair or replacement of the required
improvements. If, after one year after the city has conditionally accepted the
improvements required by its title, the required improvements remain
substantially free from latent defects, the governing body may release to the
subdivider the balance of the bonds, escrow account and/or letter of credit.
This release and any prior approval of the city engineer shall not relieve the
subdivider of any of his responsibilities as required by this title, which
includes guaranteeing the improvements for a total of two (2) years from the
date of conditional acceptance. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-3-14: CONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE:
   A.   Request: After all required improvements are complete, the subdivider
shall, in writing, notify the city and the city engineer that the subdivision
is complete and request conditional acceptance by the city. The conditional
acceptance request shall be accompanied with:
      1.   A certificate, signed by the subdivider's engineer attesting to the
fact that all improvements are installed, free from defects and that they
comply with the intent of the construction standards. Any variation from said
standards shall be noted in the certificate.
      2.   A Mylar copy of the as built construction drawings.
   B.   Inspection: The city engineer shall make an inspection within ten (10)
days of receipt of the notice, and notify the subdivider in writing of any
particulars in which this inspection reveals that the work is defective. The
subdivider shall immediately make such corrections as are necessary to remedy
such defects.
   C.   Notification Of Approval: The city engineer shall, as soon as the
improvements are acceptable and after receipt of the as built drawings, notify
the governing body, in writing, his approval of the improvements. The governing
body shall, within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the city engineer's
approval, present to the subdivider a notice of conditional acceptance
establishing the date for beginning his two (2) year guarantee period. (Ord.,
2-29-1996)
10-3-15: FINAL ACCEPTANCE AND RELEASE:
   A.   Request: The subdivider shall be responsible for requesting final
acceptance and release. The subdivider shall send the city a written request
for final acceptance and release at least twenty (20) days prior to the
terminal date of his guarantee period. The city engineer shall, within ten (10)
days, make an inspection of the subdivision improvements. If defects exist in
the improvements, the city engineer shall notify the subdivider, in writing,
who shall promptly replace and/or repair all defective work.
   B.   Letter Of Final Acceptance And Release: When the improvements are
acceptable, the city engineer shall notify the governing body, in writing, who
shall within fifteen (15) days of receipt of said notice, issue a letter of
final acceptance and release. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-3-16: ACCEPTANCE PERIOD:
Requests for conditional and final acceptance shall be made during periods when
all of the improvements can be visually inspected by the city engineer. Any
improvements buried with soil or snow, or otherwise not visible, shall not be
approved. Generally, no acceptances will be made during the months of November
through and including March. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
CHAPTER 4
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Resubdivision Procedure
10-4-2: Amending Recorded Subdivision Plat
10-4-3: Issuance Of Permit Or License In Violation Prohibited
10-4-4: Administrative Body
10-4-5: Administrative Officer
10-4-6: Appeal To Governing Body
10-4-7: Decision Of Governing Body And Judicial Review
10-4-8: Protection Strip
10-4-9: Conditional Uses
10-4-10: Prohibited Acts
10-4-11: Impact Fees
10-4-1: RESUBDIVISION PROCEDURE:
   A.   Street Improvements Required: Prior to the resubdivision of a recorded
plat, or a portion thereof, where street improvements are required as part of
the resubdivision, a plat complying with the requirements for a preliminary
plan indicating the existing lots, their ownership, the proposed resubdivision,
and a petition for vacation of the recorded plat or portion thereof, signed by
all the owners of the land contained in the plat or the portion thereof to be
resubdivided, shall be made to the planning and zoning commission for their
approval.
   B.   Street Improvements Not Required: Where street improvements will not be
required as a part of the resubdivision of a recorded plat, a concept drawing
complying with the requirements for a concept plan indicating the existing
lots, their ownership, the proposed resubdivision, and a petition for vacation
of the recorded plat or portion thereof, signed by all the owners of the land
contained in the plat or the portion thereof to be resubdivided, shall be made
to the planning and zoning commission for their approval.
   C.   Public Hearing Required: Before considering the concept plan or
preliminary resubdivision plat, a public hearing shall be held in the manner
prescribed in subsection 10-2-1I of this title.
   D.   Final Plat: After the public hearing and subsequent approval of the
concept plan or preliminary resubdivision plat, a final plat complying with the
provisions of this title shall be submitted to the planning and zoning
commission for approval, accompanied with those construction drawings and cost
estimates as may be necessary to establish any changes required in existing or
proposed improvements and the guarantee of their installation. Owners of land
contiguous or bordering the plat or the portion thereof to be resubdivided,
shall be notified, in writing, of the intent to resubdivide an existing
recorded subdivision plat.
   E.   Order Of Vacation: The city council shall, after receipt of the
completed petition and a plat approved by all signatories required on the final
plat, order the vacation of the plat or a portion thereof as defined in the
petition of vacation.
   F.   Filing: The vacation order and resubdivision plat shall be
consecutively filed in the office of the county recorder of the county where
such land is situated. The title of the resubdivision plat shall include
reference that this is a resubdivision of an "existing plat" (specify name for
"existing plat") or a resubdivision of "portion" (specify existing lots and/or
blocks for "portion") and the month and year of the resubdivision. (Ord., 2-29-
1996)
10-4-2: AMENDING RECORDED SUBDIVISION PLAT:
A recorded subdivision plat may be amended only to correct minor surveying or
drafting errors. All other changes in a recorded plat shall be allowed only
upon compliance with the resubdivision procedures of this title. The planning
and zoning commission shall determine whether the recorded plat may be amended,
or first vacated and resubdivided, in accordance with the intent of this
chapter. If it is discovered that there is a minor survey or drafting error in
a recorded final plat, the subdivider shall be required to file a final plat
with an affidavit witnessed by the surveyor concerning the change, which shall
be approved by the planning and zoning commission and the city council. If,
however, the correction of the error results in such major alterations that the
corrected plat no longer meets the design standards and criteria of these
regulations, then the filing of a corrected plat shall comply with the
resubdivision procedures. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-4-3: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT OR LICENSE IN VIOLATION PROHIBITED:
No officer of the city shall grant any permit or license for the use of any
building or land if such would be in violation of this title. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-4-4: ADMINISTRATIVE BODY:
The planning and zoning commission shall be the administrative body to
administer this title. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-4-5: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER:
The planning and zoning commission chairperson shall be the administrative
officer. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-4-6: APPEAL TO GOVERNING BODY:
Any party aggrieved by a decision of the planning and zoning commission may
appeal such decision to the city council. Such appeal shall be taken within
thirty (30) calendar days of the official action of the planning and zoning
commission by filing a notice of appeal with the city council. The notice of
appeal shall specify the grounds of appeal and all previous actions of the
planning and zoning commission related thereto. Upon receipt of the notice of
appeal, the city council shall immediately notify the planning and zoning
commission, and said planning and zoning commission shall notify all aggrieved
parties of the date of such meeting. Any party may appear at the public meeting
in person or by agent or by attorney and may call witnesses in support or
opposition to the issues raised by the appeal. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-4-7: DECISION OF GOVERNING BODY AND JUDICIAL REVIEW:
   A.   The decision of the city council shall be final as to the
administrative action taken by the city, and such decision may affirm or
reverse the decision of the planning and zoning commission in whole or in part.
   B.   Any party aggrieved by the decision of the city council may seek and
maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in any court of competent
jurisdiction; provided petition for such relief is presented to the court
within thirty (30) calendar days after the regularly scheduled public meeting
at which the city council rendered its decision. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-4-8: PROTECTION STRIP:
Where subdivision streets parallel contiguous property of others, the
subdivider may, upon approval of the planning and zoning commission, retain a
protection strip not less than one foot (1') in width between said street and
adjacent property; provided, that an agreement approved by the city attorney
has been made by the subdivider contracting to deed to the owners of the
contiguous property the one foot (1') or larger protection strip for a
consideration named in the agreement, such consideration to be not more than
the fair cost of the land in the contiguous property, plus the value of one-
half (1/2) the land in the street at the time of agreement. One copy of the
agreement shall be submitted to and approved by the city attorney and the
planning and zoning commission prior to approval of the final plat. Protection
strips shall not be submitted at the end of a public street or proposed street.
(Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-4-9: CONDITIONAL USES:
Where because of the size of the tract to be subdivided, its topography, the
condition or nature of adjoining areas or the existence of other unusual
physical conditions, strict compliance with the provisions of this title would
cause an unusual and unnecessary hardship on the subdivider, the planning and
zoning commission may allow specific variances or exceptions to this title. The
planning and zoning commission may require such additional conditions which
will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the standards or
requirements so varied or modified. The governing body may, upon receipt of
written recommendations from the planning and zoning commission, require such
other conditions as will further secure, insofar as practicable, the objectives
of the standards or requirements varied or modified. Any special use authorized
shall be entered in the minutes of the planning and zoning commission and the
governing body, together with the circumstances that justified the special use.
The planning and zoning commission will prepare a conditional use permit which
specifies the certain specific variations and/or exceptions to this title for
specific parcels of land. Said document shall be approved by the governing body
and signed by the mayor, becoming part of the official minutes of the city.
(Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-4-10: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to subdivide for the purpose of
transferring, selling, conveying or assigning any tract or parcel of land which
is located wholly or in part in the city, except in compliance with this title.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or exchange or offer to
sell or exchange any parcel of land which is part of a subdivision of a larger
tract of land, or record in the office of the county recorder any subdivision
plat unless the subdivision has been approved by the city and meets the
provisions of this title.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to receive a building permit until
the road base, sidewalk and curb-gutter, where required, and all underground
utilities are installed. It shall be the responsibility of the building
official to see that there is no human occupancy until the improvements have
been accepted by the city, the lot fully complies with the subdivision and
zoning ordinances and the building complies with the building code of the city.
It shall be unlawful for any subdivider to sell any portion of an approved
subdivision until the prospective buyer or builder has been advised, in
writing, that occupancy permits will not be issued until the improvements are
completed. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-4-11: IMPACT FEES 1 :
Impact fees will be based on the relative burden already borne and yet to be
borne by the newly developed properties and other properties, as illustrated by
the following indicators:
   A.   The cost of existing capital facilities;
   B.   The manner of financing existing capital facilities (such as user
charges, special assessments, bonded indebtedness, general taxes or federal
grants);
   C.   The relative extent to which the newly developed properties and the
other properties in the city have already contributed to the cost of existing
capital facilities (by such means as user charges, special assessments or
payment from the proceeds of general taxes);
   D.   The relative extent to which the newly developed properties and the
other properties in the city will contribute to the cost of existing capital
facilities in the future;
   E.   The extent to which the newly developed properties are entitled to a
credit because the city is requiring developers or owners (by contractual
agreement or otherwise) to provide common facilities (inside or outside the
proposed development) that have been provided by the city and financed through
general taxation or other means (apart from user charges) in other parts of the
city;
   F.   Extraordinary costs, if any, in servicing the newly developed
properties; and
   G.   The time-price differential in fair comparisons of amounts paid at
different times. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 2 of this code.
CHAPTER 5
CONSTRUCTION AND DRAWING STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Adoption Of Standards
10-5-2: Construction Standards
10-5-3: Design Standards
10-5-4: Drawing Standards
10-5-5: Sketch Plan (Rep. By Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-5-6: Preliminary Plat
10-5-7: Final Plat
10-5-1: ADOPTION OF STANDARDS:
Minimum standards of design, specifications for materials, and specifications
for construction and inspection shall be prepared by the city engineer and,
after approval by the planning and zoning commission and governing body, shall
be adopted, by resolution of the governing body, as the minimum public works
construction standards and specifications for public improvements. These
standards shall be applicable to all subdivision improvements. (Ord., 2-29-
1996)
10-5-2: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Intent: It is the intent of these construction standards to describe
the minimum acceptable requirements necessary to complete the improvements
required by the city. Any work or improvements that may be reasonably inferred
from these standards as being required to produce the intended result, shall be
supplied whether or not it is specifically called for. Work, materials or
equipment described in words which so applied have a well known technical or
trade meaning shall be deemed to refer to such recognized standards. Details
and specifications for public works facilities construction shall be as shown
and called for in the minimum public works construction standards and
specifications adopted by the city.
   B.   Supplementary Definitions: Whenever used in these documents, the
following terms shall have the meaning indicated, which shall be applicable to
both the singular and plural thereof: (Ord., 2-29-1996)
CITY: Garland City, Utah.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer or his duly authorized representatives, which
shall at all times include the director of public works of the city.
CONTRACT DOCUMENTS: Construction standards of the city, plans and
specifications of the subdivider as approved by the city engineer.
CONTRACTOR: The person, firm or corporation who is to perform the work.
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS: Minimum public works construction standards and
specifications or public improvements of the city.
DRAWINGS: The drawings and plans which show the character and scope of the work
to be performed and which have been prepared or approved by the city engineer.
FINAL RELEASE: A release granted by the governing body, at the request of the
subdivider, for the balance of the bond, escrow funds or covenant and lien
after receipt by the subdivider of written approval by the city engineer of the
installation of the improvements represented by said bonds, escrow funds or
covenant and lien.
PARTIAL RELEASE: A release granted by the governing body, at the request of the
subdivider, of that portion of the bond, escrow funds or covenant and lien
which is attributable to those lands on which the installation of the
improvements has been fully performed. The city shall release an amount equal
to eighty five percent (85%) of the cost of said improvements as approved by
the city engineer. The fifteen percent (15%) retainage shall be retained by the
city until final acceptance is granted.
PROJECT: The entire construction to be performed as required by this title.
SPECIFICATIONS: The general term, comprising all the directions, provisions and
requirements contained herein, together with such as may be added, adopted or
approved for inclusion in the contract documents as supplemental specifications
or special provisions, all of which are necessary for the proper performance of
the work.
SUBCONTRACTOR: An individual, firm or corporation having a direct contract with
the subdivider or his contractor, or with any other subcontractor for the
performance of a part of the work at the site.
SUBDIVIDER: The person proposing to do the work necessary to improve or develop
a subdivision within the city.
WORK: Any and all obligations, duties and responsibilities necessary to the
successful completion of the improvements assigned to or undertaken by the
subdivider under the requirements of this title, including the furnishing of
all labor, materials, equipment and other incidentals. (Ord., 2-29-1996; amd.
2006 Code)
   C. Employment Of Contractors And Subcontractors:
      1. Prior to construction, the subdivider will submit to the city and the
city engineer for approval, a list of the names of all contractors and/or
subcontractors the subdivider proposes to employ in constructing the
improvements required herein.
      2. The subdivider will not employ any contractor or subcontractor
(whether initially or as a substitute) against whom the city or the city
engineer may have reasonable objection, nor will the subdivider be required to
employ any contractor or subcontractor against whom he has reasonable
objection.
      3. The subdivider will be fully responsible for all acts and omissions of
his contractors and subcontractors and of persons directly or indirectly
employed by him.
      4. Nothing in the contract documents shall create any contractual
relationship between any contractor or subcontractor and the city or the city
engineer, or any obligations on the part of the city or the city engineer to
pay or to see to the payment of any monies due any contractor or subcontractor,
except as may otherwise be required by law.
      5. The subdivider shall agree to specifically bind every contractor and
subcontractor to all of the applicable terms and conditions of the construction
standards. Every contractor or subcontractor, by undertaking to perform any of
the work, will thereby automatically be deemed to be bound by such terms and
conditions. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-5-3: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A. Streets:
      1. Arrangement:
         a. The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision
for the continuation of the existing streets in adjoining areas and shall
provide access to unsubdivided adjoining areas in so far as such continuation
or access shall be deemed necessary by the planning and zoning commission. The
new street must connect with existing public streets.
         b. The street arrangement should be such as to cause no unnecessary
hardship to owners of adjoining property when they plat their own land and seek
to provide for convenient access to it. If the adjoining land is zoned for
residential use, streets shall be located so that the adjacent land may be most
efficiently subdivided. Half streets, consisting of half of a standard road
right of way width and half of a fully developed street, on the boundary of a
subdivision are prohibited. Sharing of road development costs with abutting
property owners and recovery of same is provided for with a protection strip as
described in section
10-4-8 of this title.
      2. Road Right Of Way Widths: Major and collector streets shall conform to
the width designated on the master street plan wherever a subdivision is in an
area for which a master street plan has been adopted. For territory where such
street plan has not been completed at the time the subdivision preliminary plat
is submitted to the planning and zoning commission, streets shall be provided
as required by the planning and zoning commission, with minimum widths of
ninety feet (90') for collector streets and extensions of existing ninety foot
(90') wide streets, and sixty feet (60') for minor streets. Minor streets
serving cul-de-sacs only, shall have a minimum width of fifty feet (50').
      3. Stub Streets: Stub streets shall be collector streets provided where
needed to connect to adjacent undeveloped land and new streets and must be
provided where needed to connect to existing stub streets in adjacent
subdivisions. Not more than six (6) lots shall front on a stub street, except
where a temporary cul-de-sac turnaround is provided.
      4. Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs (dead end streets) not more than six hundred
fifty feet (650') long and serving no more than ten (10) lots, whichever is
more restrictive, shall be used only where unusual conditions exist which make
other designs undesirable. Each cul-de-sac must be terminated by a turnaround
of not less than one hundred feet (100') in diameter, and the face of curb or
pavement edge radius shall be forty feet (40') or more. If surface water
drainage is into the turnaround due to the grade of the street, necessary catch
basins and drainage easements shall be provided. All temporary cul-de-sacs or
dead end streets shall be provided with a turning area at the dead end thereof
satisfying the foregoing requirements and shall be available for public use as
long as the dead end condition exists.
      5. Road Obstructions And Termination: In the event that any road or
street in any subdivision shall terminate at or within fifty feet (50') of any
ditch, canal, creek, waterway or other obstruction which will, at the opinion
of the city engineer, require a bridge or other structure in order to continue
the road over or across the canal, ditch, creek, waterway or other obstruction,
the subdivider shall deposit with the city a sum of money equal to one-half (1/
2) of the city engineer's estimate of the cost for constructing a proper and
suitable bridge over the same. The city engineer shall, on request, furnish the
subdivider a cost breakdown for any such structure. At such time, in the
opinion of the governing body, as it becomes desirable to construct such
structure, the same shall be constructed by the city applying such deposit
toward the construction costs and charging the other one-half (1/2) of such
cost to the person developing the opposite side of such obstruction, or if
there is no person so developing the other side, the one-half (1/2) shall be
borne as a city expense.
      6. Frontage On Major Highways: Where a residential subdivision abuts a
major highway, frontage roads may be required.
      7. Street Names: Streets shall have the names of existing streets which
are in alignment. There shall be no duplication of street names within the
area. All street names must be approved by the planning and zoning commission,
and opportunity shall be given the city recorder for review and recommendation
prior to the approval of street names by the planning and zoning commission.
      8. Design Criteria:
         a. No more than four (4) streets shall enter an intersection.
         b. Streets shall intersect at ninety degrees (90o), except where
otherwise approved as necessary by the planning and zoning commission.
         c. The centerlines of two (2) subordinate streets meeting a through
street from opposite sides shall extend as a continuous line, or the
centerlines shall be offset at least one hundred fifty feet (150').
      9. Curvature And Alignment:
         a. To ensure adequate sight distances, street roadway line connections
shall be made by horizontal curves. The minimum centerline radius for minor
streets shall be one hundred fifty feet (150') and all other streets shall be
three hundred feet (300'). On collector and major streets, a minimum tangent of
one hundred feet (100') shall be required between a curve and street
intersection; a minimum tangent of one hundred feet (100') shall be required
between reverse curves.
         b. Vertical curves shall be used at all changes of grades exceeding
one percent (1%) and shall be designed to provide minimum sight distances of
two hundred feet (200') for minor streets and three hundred feet (300') for all
other streets, except that vertical curves for major streets shall be as
determined by the current specifications of the state department of
transportation (UDOT). The minimum acceptable horizontal length of vertical
curves from beginning of the vertical curve to the end of the vertical curve is
two hundred feet (200') for collector and minor streets and three hundred feet
(300') for major streets.
      10. Street Grades: All street grades shall be designed as follows:
         a. Major and collector streets shall be limited to a maximum grade of
eight percent (8%). Sustained grades shall be limited to five percent (5%).
         b. Minor streets shall be limited to a maximum grade of ten percent
(10%). Sustained grades shall be limited to seven percent (7%).
         c. Cul-de-sacs with a negative grade progressing toward the turnaround
shall be limited to a maximum grade of six percent (6%). The cul-de-sac shall
terminate with a grade not to exceed three percent (3%) for the last one
hundred feet (100') of traveled surface. The cul-de-sac shall be limited to a
maximum length of six hundred fifty feet (650') and have adequate easement for
drainage.
         d. Street intersections shall have a vertical alignment such that the
grade shall not exceed three percent (3%) for a minimum distance of fifty feet
(50') each way from the centerline of the intersection.
         e. Maximum grades shall be approved only when accompanied by changes
to a lesser grade, and where length of that portion of that road at maximum
grade is less than six hundred feet (600').
         f. Streets in mountainous terrain shall be designed at less than
maximum allowable grade in order that they can be safely negotiated and that
snow can be removed during winter.
      11. Shoulders And Pavement:
         a. Four foot (4') shoulders shall be provided where curbs are waived.
Design shall comply with city construction standards.
         b. Pavements shall be designed in accordance with the procedures
promulgated by the state department of transportation and contained in part 8
"materials", of their manual of instruction. The subdivider's engineer shall
submit his design calculations and supporting data with the final plat. The
minimum base thickness is eight inches (8"). The minimum acceptable pavement
thickness is two and one-half inches (21/2"). All pavements shall be seal
coated during following construction season. The seal coat shall comply with
the UDOT standard specification for bituminous seal coat type A.
      12. Sidewalk, Curbs And Gutters:
         a. Sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be provided on streets to be
dedicated to the public, unless waived by the planning and zoning commission.
Sidewalks, curbs and gutters may be required by the governing body on existing
streets bordering the subdivision. Minimum grade of streets and curb-gutter is
four-tenths percent (0.4%).
         b. All curb corners shall have a radius of not less than twenty five
feet (25').
         c. On curb returns, at least one additional control point for
elevation besides those at points of curvature shall be established. Control
points shall be staked in the field to ensure drainage of intersections.
         d. Curbs and gutters on all urban streets shall be concrete of the
standard high back type design being thirty inches (30") wide from back of curb
to lip of gutter and not less than six inches (6") thick where the curb abuts
the street pavement. The top of the curb shall be approximately three and one-
half inches (31/2") higher in elevation than the lip of the gutter.
   B. Easement Standards:
      1. Easements shall follow rear and side lot lines whenever practical and
shall have a minimum total width of twenty feet (20'), apportioned equally (10
feet on each side) to abutting properties.
      2. Where front lot line easements are required, a minimum of ten feet
(10') shall be allocated as a utility easement. Perimeter easements shall be
not less than fifteen feet (15') in width, extending throughout the peripheral
area of the development, as required by the planning and zoning commission.
      3. All easements shall be designed so as to provide efficient
installation of utilities or street planting. Special guying easements at
corners may be required if any utilities are to be overhead. Public utility
installation shall be located so as to permit multiple installations within the
easements. The subdivider shall establish final utility grades prior to utility
installation.
      4. Whenever any stream or important surface drainage course is located in
an area that is being subdivided, the subdivider shall dedicate an adequate
easement along each side of the stream for the purpose of widening, deepening,
sloping, improving or protecting the stream from drainage, parkway or
recreational use.
      5. The planning and zoning commission shall, unless waived for good and
sufficient cause, require that easements for drainage through a subdivision and
adjoining property be provided by the subdivider.
   C. Utilities Underground:
      1. Unless the planning and zoning commission and governing body
determine, upon application by the subdivider, supported by recommendation of
the city engineer, that it is not feasible to do so, all power lines, telephone
lines and other normally overhead utility lines shall be placed underground by
the subdivider.
      2. The subdivider, by designating the location for easements for all
utility lines and installations thereof, shall agree, as one of the conditions
for the approval of any plan, that he will at his own expense remove any
obstruction that, in the opinion of the city engineer, makes such location
impracticable for use until the obstruction is removed or altered. If
additional expense is required for underground installation of power or other
utility, the subdivider shall agree to pay any additional expense occasioned
thereby and sign an agreement with the city for the purpose of carrying out
this requirement to completion.
   D. Blocks:
      1. Blocks shall not exceed one thousand three hundred feet (1,300') in
length. Blocks over eight hundred feet (800') in length shall be provided with
a dedicated walkway through the block at its approximate center. Such walkways
shall be not less than ten feet (10') in width. The width of blocks generally
shall be sufficient to allow two (2) tiers of lots. Blocks intended for
business or industrial uses shall be designed specifically for such purposes
with adequate space set aside for off street parking and delivery facilities.
      2. Property lines at all street intersections shall be rounded with
curves having a minimum radius of fifteen feet (15').
   E. Lots:
      1. The lot arrangement and design shall be such that lots will provide
satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings and be properly related to
topography and to existing and probable future requirements.
   2. All lots shown on the subdivision plan must conform to the minimum
requirements of the zone in which the subdivision is located, and to the
minimum requirements for sewage disposal.
      3. Each lot shall abut on a street dedicated by the recording of a
subdivision or on an existing publicly dedicated street, or on a street which
has become public by right of use and is at least fifty feet (50') wide, or on
a private street approved by the planning and zoning commission and the
governing body.
      4. Double frontage lots are prohibited unless approved by the planning
and zoning commission for reasons of topography.
      5. No wedge shaped lot shall be less than thirty feet (30') in width at
the front property line, or less than the lot frontage at the front setback
line required in the zoning district, whichever is larger.
      6. Side lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to street lines,
except where justified by the subdivider and approved by the planning and
zoning commission.
      7. Corner lots shall have extra width sufficient for maintenance of
required building lines on both streets.
      8. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after subdividing of
a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots, rather than allowed to remain as
unusable parcels.
      9. Where the land covered by a subdivision includes two (2) or more
parcels in separate ownership and the lot arrangement is such that a property
ownership line divides one or more lots, the land in each lot so divided shall
be transferred by deed to either single or joint ownership before approval of
the final plat, and such transfer certified to the planning and zoning
commission by the city recorder.
      10. No single lot shall be divided by a municipal or county boundary
line.
      11. A lot shall not be divided by a road, alley or other lots.
   F. Storm Drainage And Floodplains: Complete drainage systems for the entire
subdivision area shall be designed by a professional engineer, licensed in the
state and qualified to perform such work, and shall be shown graphically. All
existing drainage features which are to be incorporated in the design shall be
so identified. If the final plat is to be presented in phases, a general
drainage plan for the entire area shall be provided with the preliminary plat,
and appropriate development stages for the drainage system for each section
indicated.
      1. The drainage and floodplain systems shall be designed to:
         a. Permit the unimpeded flow of natural watercourses.
         b. Ensure adequate drainage of all low points.
         c. Ensure application of the following regulations regarding
development in designated floodplains.
      2. The use of land in floodplains shall be limited as follows:
         a. Construction of buildings shall not be permitted in a designated
floodway with a return frequency of one hundred (100) years or more.
         b. Building construction may occur in that portion of the designated
floodway where the return frequency is less than one hundred (100) years;
provided, the main floor space is constructed above the designated maximum
probable flood level, and provisions are made in the design and construction of
the buildings to prevent entry of floodwaters into the lower levels.
         c. Where floodway velocities are generally determined to be under five
feet (5') per second and maximum flood depth will not exceed three feet (3'),
such uses as cultivated agriculture, nurseries, parks and recreation facilities
and accessory parking may be permitted.
         d. Any use of land is prohibited where flooding would create a public
health hazard or problem. This includes shallow wells, uncased deep wells,
sanitary landfills, septic tank and on lot sewage disposal systems, water
treatment plants and sewage disposal systems not completely protected from
inundation.
         e. Any contemplated floodplain encroachment or channeling shall be
thoroughly analyzed and its effect on stream flow determined before such
encroachment is undertaken. Any construction, dumping and filling operations in
a designated floodway constitutes an encroachment and must be approved by the
city engineer and the planning and zoning commission before any work is done.
         f. No lot one acre or less in area shall include floodplains. All lots
more than one acre shall contain not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet of land which is at an elevation at least one foot (1') above the
elevation of 100-year recurrence interval flood or, where such data is not
available, three feet (3') above the elevation of the maximum flood record.
      3. The design of the storm system shall:
         a. Consider the drainage system as a whole and shall include:
            (1) Runoff from the subdivision area.
            (2) Where applicable, the system shall be designed to accommodate
the runoff from those areas adjacent to and "upstream" from the subdivision.
            (3) The effects of the storm waters on lands downstream.
            (4) Limit peak runoff discharge from any new development area to
0.2 cfs per acre. Detention ponds with discharge control structures shall be
used to store storm water runoff in excess of the peak permissible discharge.
         b. Include all facilities necessary to accommodate that quantity of
water attributable to a storm having a minimum 10-year frequency.
            (1) Gutter capacities will be limited to that flow which will not
create a hazard, damage or flood adjacent properties and which can be safely
intercepted at the inlets.
            (2) Storm water inlets and catch basins shall be provided within
the roadway improvements at points approved by the city engineer.
            (3) No ditch or canal shall be approved as suitable for the
disposal of storm drainage water without the written permission of the
appropriate ditch, canal company or of the water users of said ditch or canal.
No ditch or canal shall be used for storm water disposal unless adequately
improved to handle such water as might be reasonably expected to flow in the
canal or ditch as irrigation water, the subdivision runoff water, and any other
water expected to reach such canal or ditch. No ditch, canal or other waterway
shall be permitted within property dedicated or to be dedicated for public use
except as specifically approved by planning and zoning commission and governing
body. The subdivider shall remove such waterways from property to be dedicated
before the submission of the final plat.
            (4) Complete design calculations shall be submitted with the plans
for the storm sewer system.
   G. Sewage Disposal: Except as otherwise provided below, the subdivider shall
provide, or have provided, a piped sanitary sewage system to the property line
of every lot in the subdivision. The sewage system shall meet the minimum
standards and requirements of the district sanitarian, the state division of
environmental health and this code.
      1. Sanitary Sewer Mains, Laterals And House Connections:
         a. All sewer mains shall be a minimum of eight inches (8") in diameter
and shall be designed with adequate capacity for the current and future
development.
         b. All sewer laterals and house connections shall be a minimum of four
inches (4") in diameter.
         c. Where local, county and regional master plans indicate that
construction or extension of sanitary sewers may serve the subdivision area
within a reasonable time, the planning and zoning commission may require the
installation and capping of sanitary sewer mains and house connections by the
subdivider, in addition to the installation of temporary individual on site
sanitary disposal systems.
   2. On Site Sewage Disposal:
         a. Septic tank systems and drain fields are generally not permitted,
unless specifically provided for in unusual conditions in the city sewer
ordinance 1 . Properties situated east of the Malad River may be permitted to
use on site sewage disposal systems if approved by the planning and zoning
commission.
         b. Whenever individual septic tanks are proposed as sanitary sewage
disposal systems, the subdivider shall either install such facilities or
require by deed restrictions, or otherwise, as a condition of the sale of each
lot or parcel within such subdivision, that on lot sanitary sewage disposal
facilities be installed by the purchaser of said lot at the time the principal
building permit shall be issued, until such installation is assured.
         c. Each subdivided lot to be served by an on site soil absorption
sewage disposal system shall contain an adequate site for such system and shall
meet minimum requirements of the Utah department of health regulations for
individual wastewater disposal systems and must be approved, in writing, by the
district sanitarian. In general, unless specifically required by said health
department requirements, an adequate site requires a minimum depth of eight
feet (8') from the surface of the ground to impermeable bedrock, and a minimum
depth of six feet (6') from the surface of the ground to the ground water
surface (based on annual high water level). Each site must also be at least one
thousand five hundred feet (1,500') from any shallow water supply well and one
hundred feet (100') from any stream or watercourse, and at least two hundred
feet (200') from any major live stream; at least ten feet (10') from any
dwelling or property line and shall not be subject to flooding or inundation.
   H. Water Of Sufficient Quantity Obligation Of Subdivider: Where connection
to the existing culinary water system is not feasible and a private
noncommunity water system is proposed to serve a subdivision development, the
procurement of water, whether by purchase of water rights, water shares,
exchange or service agreement, shall be the responsibility of the subdivider.
Water shall be provided for the exclusive use of the subdivision in an amount
sufficient to meet the following flow standards, unless it can be proved to the
planning and zoning commission that a lesser amount is adequate:
         1. Separate System Not Available: Where a separate secondary water
system is not available for each lot:
            a. A minimum of two hundred ninety two thousand (292,000) gallons
per year per dwelling unit for the first ten thousand (10,000) square feet of
lot area. Approximately two-thirds (2/3) of this water shall be available for
use during the months of May through October. Each additional ten thousand
(10,000) square feet of lot area shall require an additional two hundred twenty
five thousand (225,000) gallons, which shall be available for use during the
months of May through October.
         b. The distribution system shall be designed to deliver the above
quantities of water at a minimum pressure of forty (40) psi. In no case shall
the capacity of the system be less than 1.6 gallons per minute per dwelling
unit in addition to the water required for fire suppression.
      2. Separate System Available: Where a separate secondary water system is
available at each lot:
         a. A minimum of one hundred forty six thousand (146,000) gallons per
year per dwelling unit.
         b. The distribution system shall be designed to deliver the above
quantity of water at a minimum pressure of forty (40) psi. In no case shall the
capacity of the system be less than 1.6 gallons per minute per dwelling unit in
addition to the water required for fire suppression.
      3. Design Calculations: When requested, complete design calculations
shall be furnished to the city engineer.
         I. Culinary Water System: Where connection to the existing community
water system is feasible and required, the culinary water system for the
subdivision shall meet the following requirements:
      1. Requirements: The culinary water facility shall extend to the property
line of every lot and shall be capable of delivering the flows required in
subsection H of this section. All water mains shall be a minimum of six inches
(6") in diameter, except in cul-de-sacs where the diameter may be four inches
(4") if no fire hydrant is connected to the pipe. The storage capacity of
reservoirs shall provide a minimum of one thousand one hundred (1,100) gallons
for each dwelling unit in addition to the required storage for fire
suppression.
      2. Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be installed in accordance with the
regulations of the city fire department and in no case:
         a. Connected to a pipe less than six inches (6") in diameter.
         b. Located more than seven hundred feet (700') from any other fire
hydrant.
         c. Located such that any single dwelling unit would be more than three
hundred fifty feet (350') from the nearest fire hydrant when measured along the
most probable access route.
      3. Construction Standards: Water line construction shall comply with the
city construction standards.
   J. Secondary Water Systems:
      1. Availability: When a pressurized secondary water system for irrigation
is located within three hundred feet (300') of the subdivision boundary, and
secondary water rights are available to the property from said secondary water
system, to be subdivided, it shall be piped to the subdivision and made
available for the full and beneficial use of each lot owner.
      2. Identification: All pressure irrigation systems in a proposed
subdivision shall be identified and otherwise color coded, as to pipe and valve
color, to meet state standards and regulations.
      3. Adequate Capacity: The capacity of the pipe system shall be adequate
to serve the demand of the subdivision.
      4. Approval Of Plans And Specifications: Plans and specifications for the
system must be approved, in writing, by the agency furnishing the water and the
city engineer.
      5. Turnouts Or Valves Required: Turnouts or valves must be located on
each lot.
      6. Open Ditches:
         a. Where an existing irrigation system consisting of open ditches is
located on or adjacent to a proposed subdivision, complete plans for relocation
or covering and other safety precautions shall be submitted with an application
for preliminary approval of a plat.
      b. The open ditches or canals shall not be allowed within or adjoining a
subdivision, except when fenced along rear or side lot lines. The subdivider
shall work with irrigation, drainage or ditch companies regarding:
            (1) Methods of covering, realigning or eliminating ditches or
canals within or adjoining the subdivision.
            (2) The size of pipe and culverts required.
         c. The responsibility for the periodic inspection, cleaning and
maintenance of such ditches, pipes and culverts, in cases where canals or
ditches cross public roads or proposed public roads, specifications and grades
for pipe or culvert must be approved by the city engineer.
   K. Safety Fences: The subdivider shall install a six foot (6'), nonclimbable
chainlink fence, or its equivalent, along all open ditches, canals or
waterways, nonaccess streets, open reservoirs or bodies of water, railroad
right of way and other such features of potentially hazardous nature, crossing
or contiguous to the property being subdivided, except on those features which
the planning and zoning commission shall determine would not be a hazard to
life. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 2 of this code.
10-5-4: DRAWING STANDARDS:
   A. Purpose: The following instructions are for the purpose of standardizing
the preparation of drawings to obtain uniformity in appearance, clarity, size
and style.
   B. Number Submitted: The construction plans shall be submitted in triplicate
(minimum) with two (2) approved sets to be retained by the city engineer and
one approved set returned to the subdivider. This set shall be kept available
at the construction site. Specifications shall accompany the plans where
pertinent.
   C. Information Required: The plans and designs shall meet the standards and
specifications hereinafter outlined. The minimum information required on
drawings for public works improvements are as follows:
      1. Plans And Profiles: Plans and profiles and all construction drawings
shall be submitted in triplicate on twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x
36") drawings. Drawings shall have a one and one-half inch (11/2") border on
the left and a one-half inch (1/2") border on the three (3) remaining sides.
All drawings shall be complete, clear and legible and shall conform to the
accepted standards of the profession. Illegible or poorly drawn drawings shall
be returned without action and will be considered as having received a
preliminary review. In general, the following should be included on drawings:
         a. North arrow (plan).
         b. Scale, benchmark datum and elevations, including the location of
permanent bench marks and their true elevations according to USGS or the city's
datum. All profiles and construction drawings shall be drawn using true
elevation.
         c. Complete data for field layout and office checking.
         d. Stationing and elevations for profiles.
         e. Title block, located in lower right corner of sheet to include:
            (1) Name of city.
            (2) Project title (subdivision, etc.).
            (3) Specific type and location of work.
            (4) Space for approval signature of city engineer and date.
            (5) Name of engineer or firm preparing drawings with license number
and sealed by the responsible engineer.
         f. As built drawings shall be reproducible on Mylar and shall be
furnished to the city engineer upon completion of the improvements. The city
will retain the improvement guarantee until such plans have been furnished in a
manner acceptable to the city engineer.
         g. All printing and drawing shall be done using black India ink or
waterproof plotter ink with clear, legible and uniformly sized letters, numbers
and lines. The size of the lettering and width of lines shall vary according to
the needs of clarifying and identifying the various items constructed and
establishing clear and concise vertical and horizontal control.
         h. Plan and profile drawings will include details of curb and gutter;
sidewalks; street cross sections; locations and elevations of manholes, catch
basins, storm sewers and their appurtenant works; elevations and location of
fire hydrants, water mains, type of pipe, valves and their appurtenant works;
location, size and elevations of sanitary sewer mains, their grades and type of
pipe (rubber gasket mandatory); manholes, cleanouts; and other appurtenant
works. The drawing shall include the details for a nonculinary (irrigation)
water system, indicating size, location and kind of pipe, valves and turnouts.
All stationing must coincide with existing stationing as shown on existing city
drawings. Engineer's station equations will not be approved except at street
intersections where the stationing of the intercepting street will be shown as
well as the stationing of the intercepted street.
      2. Curbs And Gutters, Drainage Structures, Sidewalks And Streets: Curb
and gutter, drains and drainage structures, sidewalks and street surfacing
drawings should show:
         a. Scale one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50') horizontal, one inch
equals five feet (1" = 5') or one inch equals ten feet (1" = 10') vertical.
         b. Profiles shall indicate finished and existing grades for the
centerline and each side of the street at the curb-gutter line, and shall
extend a minimum of two hundred feet (200') beyond the limits of the proposed
project. Cross sections shall be provided when requested by the city engineer.
         c. Stationing and top of curb elevations with curve data must be shown
for all curb returns, and at least one additional control point for elevations
besides those at the PC (point of curvature) and PT (point of tangency), shall
be indicated on the plans and staked in the field to ensure drainage at the
intersections.
         d. Type of cross drainage structures at intersections with adequate
flow line elevations.
         e. Benchmark location and elevation (use USGS datum where possible).
         f. Type of curb and gutter and distance back to back of curb.
         g. Elevations for the top of curbs and road centerlines shall be shown
on the plans for all PCs, PT and at all BVCs (begin vertical curve) and EVCs
(end vertical curve).
         h. Complete curve data must be shown for all horizontal and vertical
curves. The minimum length of vertical curve is two hundred feet (200') unless
otherwise approved.
         i. Street monuments to be installed by the subdivider's engineer or
land surveyor and shall be designated on the final drawings and approved by the
city engineer. The monuments must be accurately set at the approved locations
prior to release of the improvement bond.
         j. The subdivider's engineer will, when requested by the city
engineer, furnish copies of the field notes relating to any or all of the work
prepared or done.
      3. Sewer: Sewer drawings should show:
         a. Scale one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50') or one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100') horizontal, one inch equals five feet (1" = 5') or one
inch equals ten feet (1" = 10') vertical.
         b. Location, size and grade of pipe.
         c. Location and elevation of catch basins and all appurtenant
facilities.
         d. Manhole size, location and flow elevation.
         e. Type of pipe (rubber gasket joints required).
         f. Benchmark location and elevation.
      4. Water: Culinary and secondary water drawings should show:
         a. Scale (not specified).
         b. Size and location of water mains, valves, fittings and hydrants.
         c. Kind of pipe.
         d. Minimum cover.
      5. Detail Drawings: Each set of plans shall be accompanied by a separate
sheet of structure details which are to be constructed. All structures shall be
designed in accordance with minimum standards of these specification drawings
requirements:
         a. Drawing size: Twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36").
         b. Scale of each detail.
         c. Title block, lower right hand corner (same format on all sheets)
including the name of the subdivider.
         d. Completely dimensioned and described. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-5-5: SKETCH PLAN:
   (Rep. By Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-5-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   The preliminary plat shall be drawn to a scale on standard twenty four inch
by thirty six inch (24" x 36") tracing vellum or Mylar. The accuracy of
location of alignments, boundaries and monuments shall be certified by a
registered land surveyor licensed to do such work in the state. A workmanlike
execution of the plat shall be made in every detail. A poorly drawn or
illegible plat is sufficient cause for rejection. The following data shall be
submitted as part of the preliminary plat submission:
   A. Subdivision Name: The proposed name of the subdivision.
   B. Partial Tract Development: Where the plat submitted covers only a part of
the subdivider's tract, or is part of a larger vacant area, the plat shall show
the location of the subdivision as it forms part of a larger tract or parcel.
In such case, a sketch of the prospective future street system of the unplanned
parts shall be submitted and the street system of the part submitted shall be
considered in the light of adjustments and connections with the future street
system of the larger area.
   C. Property Location: Sufficient information to locate accurately the
property shown on the plat.
   D. Boundary Traverse Map: A boundary traverse map of the perimeter of the
proposed subdivision. The surveying shall have an error of closure of not
greater than one part in ten thousand (10,000). The boundary survey and
traverse shall be certified by a land surveyor, registered to practice in the
state.
   E. Vicinity Map: A vicinity map showing perimeter outline of the plan,
accesses, abutting subdivision outlines and names, and other relevant
information within one-half (1/2) mile distance of the perimeter of the
proposed plat. Scale not less than one inch equals two thousand feet (1" =
2,000').
   F. Names And Addresses: The names and addresses of the subdivider, the
engineer or surveyor of the subdivision, and the owners of the land immediately
adjoining the land to be subdivided.
   G. Zoning Changes: Proposed changes to existing zoning district boundaries
or zoning classifications, if any.
   H. Existing Conditions:
         1. Existing sanitary sewers, storm drains, water supply mains and
culverts within the tract or within five hundred feet (500') thereof.
         2. The location, widths and other dimensions of proposed lots,
streets, alleys, easements, parks and other open spaces with proper labeling of
spaces to be dedicated to the public.
         3. The location, principal dimension and names of all existing or
recorded streets, alleys and easements, both within the proposed subdivision
and within six hundred feet (600') of the boundary thereof, showing whether
recorded or claimed by usage; the location and principal dimensions for all
watercourses, including ditches, canals and natural drainage channels, public
utilities and other important features and existing structures within the land
and adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, including railroads, exceptional
topography, airports and approaches to the airport.
         4. The location of existing bridges, culverts, surface or subsurface
drainageways, areas subject to occasional flooding, marshy areas, swamps,
utilities, buildings, pumping stations or appurtenances within the subdivision
or within three hundred feet (300') thereof.
         5. The location of the nearest elevation bench mark and survey control
monument.
         6. The owners of the land immediately adjoining the land to be
subdivided and the boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided land,
showing ownership and property monuments.
         7. The existing contours at two foot (2') intervals for predominant
ground slopes within the tract between level and five percent (5%) grade and
five foot (5') contours for predominant ground slopes within the tract over
five percent (5%) grade. Elevations shall be based on national geodetic survey
sea level data. In cases of level topography through a subdivision, one foot
(1') contours may be required.
         8. A soils report prepared by a registered civil engineer, soil
engineer or engineering geologist, that certifies to the types of soils, the
geologic hazards, development restrictions and suitability of the area for
subdivision development.
         9. Copies of any agreements with adjacent property owners relevant to
the proposed subdivision and the substance of all other covenants, grants of
easements or restrictions to be imposed upon the use of the land, buildings and
structures.
   I. Proposed Development:
      1. Lot and street layout.
      2. Dimension of all lots to nearest foot (which may be scaled values).
      3. Total acreage of entire proposed subdivision.
      4. Lots and blocks numbered consecutively.
      5. Locations and identification of all existing and proposed public and
private easements.
      6. Existing and proposed street names.
      7. Street plans to show proposed grades, curb-gutter and sidewalks.
      8. Typical street cross sections.
      9. Proposed water facilities, including pipe diameters, valve locations,
fire hydrant locations, water sources, water rights, reservoirs, pumps and
design calculations.
      10. Excavation or grading of areas requiring in excess of three foot (3')
cuts or fills.
      11. Proposed sanitary and storm sewer systems, indicating pipe diameters,
location of detention ponds, manholes, inlets and other pertinent appurtenances
with the design calculations.
      12. Approximate boundaries of areas subject to inundation or storm water
overflows of an intensity estimated to occur with a return frequency of once
every one hundred (100) years.
      13. The plat shall be drawn to a scale not less than one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100'), and shall indicate the basis of bearings, true north
point, name of subdivision, name of city, township, range, section and quarter
section, block and lot number of the property under consideration.
      14. An affidavit that the applicant is the owner, the equitable owner or
authorized by the owner, in writing, to make application for the proposed
subdivision.
      15. Sites, if any, to be reserved or dedicated for parks, playgrounds,
schools or other public uses.
      16. Sites, if any, for multi-family dwelling, shopping center, community
facilities, industry or other uses, exclusive of single-family dwellings.
      17. Proposed phases of development. All development and improvements to
be continuous and contiguous to abutting developments.
   J. Plat Format: The preliminary plat and drawings shall be prepared in the
same format as the final plat and shall include the following instruments
signed or to be signed and dated:
      1. Subdivider's engineer and/or surveyor's signature and seal.
      2. Owner's approval.
      3. Planning and zoning commission approval.
      4. City engineer's approval.
      5. District sanitarian's approval. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
10-5-7: FINAL PLAT:
   A. Information Required: The final plat shall consist of a sheet of approved
Mylar to the outside of trimline dimensions of twenty four inches by thirty six
inches (24" x 36"). The borderline of the plat shall be drawn in heavy lines
leaving a space of at least one and one-half inches (11/2") on the left side
and at least one-half inch (1/2") margins on other sides. The plat shall be so
drawn that the top of the drawing faces either north or east, whichever
accommodates the drawing best. All lines, dimensions and markings shall be made
on the tracing linen or Mylar with approved waterproof blue ink or black India
drawing ink. The plat shall be made to a scale large enough to clearly show all
details and in any case not smaller than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" =
100'). Surveying, calculations, angular data, linear dimensions and bearings
shall be limited to an error of closure of not greater than one part in ten
thousand (10,000). The workmanship on the finished drawing shall be neat, clean
and readable. The final plat shall contain the following information:
      1. Subdivision name, which must be approved by the planning and zoning
commission, and the general location of the subdivision in bold letters at the
top of the sheet.
      2. North point, scale and graphic scale of the drawing and the date.
      3. Description of land to be included in the subdivision.
      4. Accurately drawn boundaries, showing the bearings and dimensions of
all boundary lines of the subdivision, properly tied to public survey
monuments. These lines should be slightly heavier than street and lot lines.
When the plan is bounded by an irregular shoreline of a body of water, the
bearings and distances of a closing meander traverse should be given and a
notation made that the plan included all land to the water's edge as
established on the date of the survey. Accurate angular and linear dimensions
shall be shown for all lines, angles and curves used to describe boundaries,
streets, lots, easements, areas to be reserved for public use and other
important features. Parcels not contiguous shall not be included on one plat.
Contiguous parcels owned by different parties may be embraced in one plat,
provided all owners join in dedication and acknowledgement.
      5. Lengths shown to hundredths of a foot, and angles and bearings shown
to seconds of arc.
      6. True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines or
official monuments which are accurately described on the plat and shown by
appropriate symbol.
      7. Radius, internal angles, points of curvature, tangent lengths and
bearings, long tangent and bearings, the length of all arcs and the lengths of
each intercepted arc.
      8. Accurate location of all monuments to be installed shown by an
appropriate symbol. All United States, state, county or other official bench
marks, monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property,
shown and preserved in precise position.
      9. Bearings, distances and curve data of all perimeter boundary lines
indicated outside the boundary line, not inside with the lot dimensions.
      10. All lots and blocks numbered consecutively under a definite system
approved by the planning and zoning commission. All proposed streets named or
numbered in accordance with and in conformity with the adopted street naming
and numbering system. All lot street addresses assigned thereto, with corner
lots multiple addressed for each part of the lot having frontage on separate
streets.
      11. Accurate outlines and dimensions of any areas to be dedicated or
reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and any area to
be reserved by deed or covenant for common use of all property owners.
      12. All lands within the boundaries of the plan which shall be accounted
for as either lots, walkways, streets or reserved as excepted parcels. Excepted
parcels shall be marked "not included in this development" and the boundary
completely indicated by bearings and distances.
      13. All streets, walkways and easements, designated as such. Streets
shall be named and/or numbered as required by the planning and zoning
commission.
      14. A dedication to the city of all streets, highways, easements and
other lands intended for public use that are included in the proposed
subdivision.
      15. Street monuments shall be installed by the subdivider's engineer or
land surveyor at such points designated on the final plat as are approved by
the city engineer. Standard monuments will be furnished by the subdivider and
placed as approved.
      16. Pipes or other such iron markers as shall be placed at each lot
corner prior to final approval.
   B. Instruments: The instruments to be included on the final plat are as
follows:
      1. The registered professional engineer and/or land surveyor's
"certificate of dedication".
      2. The owner's certificate of dedication.
      3. A notary public's acknowledgement.
      4. The city engineer's approval.
      5. District sanitarian's approval.
      6. The planning and zoning commission's approval.
      7. The city attorney's approval.
      8. The governing body's approval.
      9. Signature for the mayor and attestation by the city recorder.
      10. An occupancy restriction.
   C. Form Of Instruments:
      1. The form of the professional surveyor's or engineer's certificate
shall be substantially as follows:
      SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
I,                  , a registered professional engineer and/or land surveyor,
holding certificate no.    , as prescribed by the state of Utah, and do hereby
certify that by authority of the owners, I have made a survey of the tract of
land shown on this plat and described herewith, and have subdivided said tract
of land into lots and streets to be hereafter known as              , and that
the same has been surveyed and staked on the ground as shown on this plat.
Signed on this             day of             , 20  .
                             
   Registered Land Surveyor
   2. The form of the owner's dedication shall be substantially as follows:
      OWNER'S DEDICATION
Know all by these presents that we, the undersigned owners of the described
tract of land below, having caused the same to be subdivided into lots and
streets to hereafter be known as                       , do hereby dedicate for
perpetual use of the public all parcels of lands owned on this plat as intended
for public use, and do warrant, defend and save the city harmless against any
easements or other incumberances on the dedicated streets which will interfere
with the city's use, operation and maintenance of the streets, and do further
dedicate the easements as shown.
In witness thereof, we have hereunto set our hands this                      
day of                , 20  .
                                                 
   Signed   Signed
      ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
   State of Utah   )
         ) ss
      County of         )
On the             day of                AD, 20  , John Doe personally appeared
before me, the undersigned notary public, in and for said county of
             , in the state of Utah, the signer(s), of the above owner's
dedication,               in number, who dully acknowledged to me that
              signed it freely and voluntarily and for the uses and purposes
therein mentioned.
                        
      Notary public
                        
   Residing at
My commission expires:                       
   CORPORATE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
      State of Utah   )
            ) ss
      County of                )
On this                 day of                AD, 20     ,                
personally appeared before me, the undersigned notary public, in and for the
state and county of              , who after being a duly sworn, acknowledged
to me that             , a               corporation, that signed the owner's
dedication freely and voluntarily for and in behalf of the corporation for the
purpose therein mentioned and that the corporation executed the same.
                        
      Notary public
                        
   Residing at
My commission expires:                       
3. The form of the occupancy restriction shall be substantially as follows:
   OCCUPANCY RESTRICTION
Garland City has an ordinance which restricts the occupancy of buildings within
this subdivision. Accordingly, it is unlawful to occupy a building located
within this subdivision without first having obtained a certificate of
occupancy issued by the city building inspector.
4. The form of the approvals and certificate shall be substantially as follows:
   GARLAND CITY PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION APPROVAL
Approved this            day of              AD, 20  , by the Garland City
planning and zoning commission.
                           
      Chairperson
   GARLAND CITY ATTORNEY APPROVAL AS TO FORM
Approved as to form this day of              AD, 20  .
                           
   Garland City Attorney
   DISTRICT HEALTH DEPARTMENT APPROVAL**
Waste disposal system and culinary water system approval this              day
of              AD, 20  .
                           
District Sanitarian
**Required only if development is not to be served by public sewer and water
systems.
   GARLAND CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL AND ACCEPTANCE
Presented to the                  this            day of                  AD,
20  , at which time this subdivision was approved and accepted.
Attest:
                            
   City Recorder
                            
   Mayor
   GARLAND CITY ENGINEER CERTIFICATE
I certify that I have had this plat examined and find that it is correct and in
accordance with the information on file in this office.
                            
   Date
                            
   City Engineer
   COUNTY'S SURVEYOR CERTIFICATE
I certify that I have had this plat examined and find that it is correct and in
accordance with the information on file in this office.
                            
   Date
                            
   County Surveyor
County Recorder No.                  
State of Utah, county of              , recorded and filed at the request of
                 .
Date                   
   Time                   
Fee                    
   Abstracted             
Index                  
Filed:                 
                       
   County Recorder
D. As Built Drawings: After all required improvements have been satisfactorily
installed and approved by the city engineer, and as a requirement of
"conditional acceptance", the subdivider shall furnish a Mylar or Mylar copy of
all original construction drawings. These drawings shall show the "as
constructed" condition of all improvements. (Ord., 2-29-1996)
CHAPTER 6
CLUSTER SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose And Intent
10-6-2: Design And Development Standards
10-6-3: Common Open Space
10-6-4: Guarantee Of Common Open Space Improvements
10-6-5: Continuation Of Common Open Space
10-6-6: Preservation, Maintenance And Ownership Of Open Space
10-6-7: Developer Agreement
10-6-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Cluster subdivisions are intended to allow flexibility in neighborhood and
subdivision lot design by permitting the development of dwellings on lots
smaller than normal density requires for the zone in which the subdivision is
located and by dedicating or reserving the remaining land so saved to needed
common space or public uses such as open space, trails and/or recreation. (Ord.
09-03, 5-19-2009)
10-6-2: DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Design Of Plats: The design of the preliminary and final plats of the
subdivision in relation to streets, blocks, lots, common open spaces and other
design factors should be compatible with the surrounding land use and shall be
in harmony with the intent of zoning elements of the general plan that has been
adopted by the planning and zoning commission and approved by the governing
body.
   B.   Streets: Streets shall be so designed as to take advantage of open
space vistas and create drives with a rural or open space character. All city
streets shall conform to the Garland City public works construction standards
for all streets including curb and gutter. Thoroughfare streets with
intersections allowing better traffic flow, emergency vehicles and snow removal
are preferred to cul-de-sacs.
   C.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area for dwellings may be reduced below the
area normally required in the zone in which the cluster subdivision is located,
but the overall density of the cluster subdivision shall not exceed the density
allowed in the zone in which the cluster development is located and approved.
   D.   Reduction In Minimum Lot Area: Where land is proposed for subdivision
into lots and a developer dedicates or permanently reserves land within the
subdivision for recreational use or open space, a reduction in the minimum lot
area required for the zone in which the cluster subdivision is located may be
recommended for approval by the planning commission to the city council,
provided the provisions of this chapter are met and further provided that the
cluster subdivision receives subdivision approval.
   E.   Open Space: A cluster subdivision shall provide a minimum of fifteen
percent (15%) and a maximum of fifty percent (50%) of the total acreage of
property within the subdivision as dedicated open space in accordance with the
open space standards.
   F.   Minimum Dwelling Units: No such cluster subdivision shall contain fewer
than ten (10) dwelling units. (Ord. 09-03, 5-19-2009)
10-6-3: COMMON OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Plans Submitted: The developer of a cluster subdivision shall submit
plans of landscaping and improvements for the common open space. The developer
shall also explain the intended use of the open space and provide detailed
provisions of how the subdivision must meet the requirements of the zoning
ordinance, must assure proper use, construction and maintenance of open space
facilities and must result in a development superior to conventional
development in terms of its benefit to future residents of the subdivision,
surrounding residents and the general public.
   B.   Additional Conditions May Be Placed: The planning and zoning commission
may place whatever additional conditions and/or restrictions it may deem
necessary to ensure development and maintenance of the desired residential
character, including plans for disposition or reuse of property if the open
space is not maintained in the manner agreed upon or is abandoned by the
owners. Where the intent of the general plan and city ordinances is being met
to the fullest extent, additional lots may be approved by the planning and
zoning commission and city council.
      1.   In the event the association does not maintain the common open space
and improvements as proposed and indicated at the time of subdivision, the city
may at its option, do or contract to have done the required maintenance and
recover the costs incident thereto by means of a lien against the involved
properties of the members of the association.
      2.   Garland City shall have the right, but not the duty, to require, and
if necessary, perform, at the association's expense, landscaping, maintenance,
and snow removal within the common areas if the association fails adequately to
perform such. In the event Garland City exercises this right, the city shall be
entitled to recover any associated costs and attorney fees. This section shall
not be amended or deleted without the approval of Garland City.
      3.   Garland City has the right, but not the duty to form, under state
statutes, a special service district (SSD) for the purpose of ongoing
maintenance or a special improvement district (SID) for the purpose of making
needed improvements within the project. The city may take this action when
either asked to take over improvements or maintenance tasks by the homeowners'
association, or by an owner. The city council may also take one or both of
these actions when it determines the need based on a historical pattern of a
lack of care and maintenance.
   C.   Areas Not Considered Open Space: Parking areas, any lot; retention
basins; roads/streets and associated rights of way shall not be considered open
space. For the purpose of this section open space shall not be considered lands
used for schools, churches, public facilities or other similar encumbered uses.
Some public facilities included in public parks dedicated by the developer may
be eligible as open space controlled by the community.
   D.   Small Cluster Subdivisions: A small cluster subdivision with a small
parcel for the sole purpose of providing detention or total retention shall not
be considered open space. However, these small areas need to be maintained as
landscaped areas or lined with weed barrier overlaid by rock of some other
landscaping material. Detention pond areas situated within a larger proposed
private or public park area where the detention area is only used to provide
storage for storm flows generated from 10-year frequency storms may be
considered as part of the open space areas calculated for the development. In
this instance, storm flows generated from storms which are less intense than a
10-year frequency storm must be bypassed through the pipe system without
flowing in and through the pond.
   E.   Required: There shall be permanently reserved within the subdivision
for recreation and/or open space, parcels of land whose total area is not less
than the amount by which the areas of residential lots are reduced below the
minimum area normally required in the zone in which the cluster subdivision is
located.
   F.   Open Space Network Connection: Open space within a cluster subdivision
shall be designed and laid out as part of a larger continuous and integrated
open space system to ensure that an interconnected network of open space will
be provided throughout the city in hopes of supporting a network of connecting
trails as defined in the city general plan.
   G.   Pedestrian Access: Developer shall provide adequate pedestrian access
to open space land which is open to public or resident use. (Ord. 09-03, 5-19-
2009)
10-6-4: GUARANTEE OF COMMON OPEN SPACE IMPROVEMENTS:
As assurance of completion of common open space improvements, the developer, at
the request of the governing body, shall be required to file with the city a
surety or cash bond, or other agreement, in a form satisfactory to the city
attorney, guaranteeing such completion within two (2) years after such filing.
Upon completion of the improvements for which a surety or cash bond or other
agreement has been filed, the developer shall call for inspection by the
planning and zoning commission, such inspection to be made within fifteen (15)
days from the date of request. If inspection shows that landscaping and
construction have been completed in compliance with the approved plan, the
bonds or surety therefor shall be released. If the bonds or surety are not
released, refusal to release and the reasons therefor shall be given the
developer, in writing. (Ord. 09-03, 5-19-2009)
10-6-5: CONTINUATION OF COMMON OPEN SPACE:
As assurance of continuation of common open space used in accordance with the
plans approved by the planning and zoning commission, the developer shall grant
to the city an "open space easement" on and over the common open space prior to
the recording of the final plat, which easement will not give the general
public the right of access but will provide that the common open space remains
open. (Ord. 09-03, 5-19-2009)
10-6-6: PRESERVATION, MAINTENANCE AND OWNERSHIP OF OPEN SPACE:
The preservation, maintenance and ownership of open spaces within a subdivision
development shall be accomplished by:
   A.   Dedication of the land to the city as a public park or parkway system,
including a certificate of title insurance; or
   B.   Granting to the city a permanent, open space easement on and over the
said private open spaces to guarantee that the open space remain perpetually in
recreational or park use, with ownership and maintenance being the
responsibility of an owners' association established with articles of
association and bylaws which are satisfactory to the governing body; or
   C.   Granting to the city a permanent, open space easement on and over the
said private open spaces to guarantee that the open space remain perpetually in
recreational or park use, to be maintained from the proceeds of a perpetual
maintenance trust fund established by the developer in an amount satisfactory
to the governing body; or
   D.   Complying with the provisions of the condominium ownership act, Utah
Code Annotated title 57, chapter 8, as amended, which provides for the payment
of common expenses for the upkeep of the common areas and facilities, and
requires that the developer, prior to the recording of the final plat, cause to
be incorporated under the laws of the state, a lot owners' association. By
proper covenants running with the land and through the articles of
incorporation and bylaws of the association, it shall, among other things, be
provided that:
      1.   Membership in the association shall be mandatory for each lot
purchaser, their guarantees, successors and assigns.
      2.   The common open space restrictions shall be permanent and not just
for a period of years.
      3.   The association shall be responsible for maintaining liability
insurance, paying general property taxes and maintaining recreational and all
other facilities.
      4.   All lot owners shall pay their pro rata share of the costs of
upkeep, maintenance and operation.
      5.   Any assessment levied by the association may become a lien on the
real property of any lot owner, which may be foreclosed and the property sold
as on sales under execution. (Ord. 09-03, 5-19-2009)
10-6-7: DEVELOPER AGREEMENT:
The developer and city shall enter into a development agreement to further
specify and clarify the agreed upon characteristics and conditions of the
proposed development, especially where a certain amount of flexibility is being
provided for. Development agreements would spell out all of the agreed upon
items and terms which were negotiated between the developer and the planning
commission as a planned cluster development. (Ord. 09-03, 5-19-2009)
CHAPTER 7
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Short Title
10-7-2: Purpose
10-7-3: Scope
10-7-4: Authority
10-7-5: Jurisdiction, Definition and Applicability
10-7-6: Subdivision Defined
10-7-7: Subdivision Not To Include
10-7-8: Vesting
10-7-9: Fees And Charges
10-7-10: Exactions
10-7-11: Impact Fees
10-7-12: Violation
10-7-13: Enforcement
10-7-14: Licenses And Permits
10-7-15: Appeal Of City Actions
10-7-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Garland City Subdivision
Ordinance and may be identified within this document as "the Ordinance", "this
Ordinance" or "Subdivision Ordinance." (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-7-2: PURPOSE:
The Garland City Subdivision Ordinance is established to promote the purposes
of Section 10-9a of State Code to provide for the orderly division of lands,
and to secure the provision of necessary infrastructure and services in an
efficient and economical manner for existing and future residents. (Ord. O-24-
09, 11-6-2024)
10-7-3: SCOPE:
No person shall subdivide any tract of land which is located wholly or in part
within the corporate limits of the city, except in compliance with this title.
No person shall sell or exchange or offer to sell or exchange any parcel of
land which is any part of a subdivision of a larger tract of land, nor offer
for recording in the office of the county recorder, any deed conveying such
parcel of land, or any interest therein, unless such subdivision has been
created pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of this title and
other local regulations. This title shall not apply to lots legally created
prior to the adoption of the ordinance codified herein, unless they are further
subdivided after the creation of this title.
   A.   A "subdivision" is as defined in section
10-7-6 below.
   B.   Building permits will not be issued on parcels which have been created
in violation of this title. Furthermore, those improvements which are required
to be in place prior to the issuance of building permits must be completed
before such issuance.
   C.   Any land divided for any purpose into two (2) or more parts after the
adoption of this title shall be subject to the provisions and regulations
herein, except for the bona fide divisions for partitions of commercial land
for commercial purposes; and industrial land for industrial purposes, as
defined herein.
   D.   All lots, plots or tracts of land located within a subdivision shall be
subject to this title whether the tract is owned by the subdivider or a
subsequent purchaser, transferrer or holder of the land. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-
2024)
10-7-4: AUTHORITY:
This Ordinance is enacted and authorized under the provisions of Title 10,
Chapter 9a, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-7-5: JURISDICTION, DEFINITION AND APPLICABILITY:
Upon its adoption by the Garland City Council, this Ordinance shall govern and
apply to the subdivision and platting of all lands within the corporate limits
of the City. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-7-6: SUBDIVISION DEFINED:
Subdivision Approval Required for all Development Approvals and Building
Permits: For the purposes of this Ordinance, and as provided by the laws of the
State of Utah, a subdivision shall be, and shall mean:
   A.   Any land that is divided, re-subdivided or proposed to be divided into
two (2) or more lots, plots, parcels, sites, units, or other division of and
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or
development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms, and conditions. No person shall subdivide any land, nor shall any
building permit be issued by the City for any lot or parcel of land, which is
located wholly or in part within the corporate limits of the City, except in
compliance with this Ordinance, and all applicable Local, State and Federal
laws.
   B.   Any subdivision filed or recorded, without the approvals required by
this Ordinance, is void.
   C.   Any owner, or agent of the owner, of any land located in a subdivision,
as defined herein, who transfers or sells any land located within the
subdivision before such subdivision has been approved and recorded, consistent
with the requirements of this Ordinance, is guilty of a violation of this
Ordinance, and State law, for each lot or parcel transferred or sold.
   D.   The description by metes and bounds, or other instrument used in the
process of selling or transferring of any lot or parcel of land, does not
exempt the transaction from a violation of this Ordinance and the laws of the
State of Utah, or from the penalties as provided by this Ordinance and the laws
of the State of Utah.
   E.   There may be instances where a single lot subdivision is required, if
no other mechanism is available to accomplish the coordination required for new
or additional development in the City. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-7-7: SUBDIVISION NOT TO INCLUDE:
For the purposes of this Ordinance "subdivision" does not include:
   A.    A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purpose
of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of un-
subdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel, nor the
parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable zoning
ordinance.
   B.   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties adjusting
their mutual boundary if no new lot is created, no remnant of land is created
or remains, and the adjustment does not result in a violation of any applicable
zoning requirements.
   C.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising the
legal description of more than one contiguous parcel of property into one legal
description encompassing all such parcels of property; or the joining of a
subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of property that has not been
subdivided, so as to subject the un-subdivided parcel to the subdivision
ordinance of the City. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-7-8: VESTING:
Subject to verification of a complete application as found herein:
   A.   An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the
application conforms to the requirements of the city's zoning map and
applicable land use ordinances in effect when a complete application is
submitted and all fees have been paid, unless:
      1.   The governing body, on the record, finds that a compelling,
countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by approving the
application; or
      2.   In the manner provided by local ordinance and before the application
is submitted, the municipality has formally initiated proceedings to amend its
ordinances in a manner that would prohibit approval of the application as
submitted.
   B.   The city shall process an application without regard to proceedings
initiated to amend the municipality's ordinances if:
      1.   180 days have passed since the proceedings were initiated; and
      2.   The proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits the
approval of the application as submitted.
   C.   An application for a land use approval is considered submitted and
complete when the application is provided in a form that complies with the
requirements of applicable ordinances and all applicable fees have been paid.
   D.   The continuing validity of an approval of a land use application is
conditioned upon the applicant proceeding, with reasonable diligence, to
implement the approval in accordance with the requirements of the approval and
city ordinances and standards.
   E.   The city shall not impose on a holder of an issued land use permit a
requirement that is not expressed:
      1.   In the land use permit or in documents on which the land use permit
is based; or
      2.   In the city's ordinances.
   F.   The city will not withhold issuance of a certificate of occupancy
because of an applicant's failure to comply with a requirement that is not
expressed:
      1.   in the building permit or in documents on which the building permit
is based; or
      2.   in the city's ordinances.
   G.   The city is bound by the terms and standards of applicable land use
ordinances and shall comply with mandatory provisions of those ordinances.
   H.   False information provided by the applicant could void vesting.
   I.   Applications are not transferable. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-7-9: FEES AND CHARGES:
The City Council shall establish all necessary fees and charges payable for
subdivision applications, public notices, planning and engineering review, and
inspection services of this Ordinance by Resolution. Such fees and charges may
be amended from time to time, as considered necessary, by Resolution of the
City Council. The applicant(s) for subdivision approval shall pay all costs
that may be incurred by the City to review the Subdivision Application
materials for conformity to the requirements of this Ordinance, other
applicable City Ordinances, other applicable Local, State, and Federal
requirements, and accepted civil engineering practices. Such costs shall
include those necessary for the provision of planning and engineering services,
provided by a professional planner, licensed engineer and attorney services for
review of required documents. All subdivision costs, including reviews and
construction inspections, shall be the responsibility of the applicant/
developer. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
 EXACTIONS:
The City may impose an exaction or exactions on proposed land use development
if:
   A.   An essential nexus exists between a legitimate governmental interest
and each exaction; and
   B.   Each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent, to
the impact of the proposed development. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
 IMPACT FEES:
Impact fees be assessed according to current rates as adopted by City Council
through resolution, pursuant to Utah State Code 11-36a rules and procedures.
(Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
 VIOLATION:
Any violation of this title shall be a class C misdemeanor. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-
6-2024)
 ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any City Staff designated and authorized by the City are responsible
for the enforcement of this Ordinance. Failure of the City Staff to enforce any
provision or seek remedies to a violation of this Ordinance shall not legalize
any such violation.
   B.   In addition to any criminal prosecution, the city may pursue any other
legal remedy to ensure compliance with this chapter. Such actions may include,
but are not limited to:
      1.   Injunctions, mandamus, abatement, or any other appropriate action;
      2.   Proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove the unlawful use,
building, or act;
      3.   The withholding of permits or approvals.
   C.   Administrative Actions.
      1.   Permit Issuance. The department shall not issue any permit unless
the plans for the proposed erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration
or use fully conform to all provisions of this title, including the payment of
required fees. No officer of the city shall grant any permit or license for the
use of any building, structure or land when such land is part of a subdivision
which has not been approved and recorded in the county recorder's office. Any
license or permit issued in conflict with this title shall be null and void.
      2.   Special Developments. In cases where the city has approved a special
development (e.g. PRUD, Cluster Development, Business Park, or other planned
development) with specific design criteria or special development requirements,
the city may take action to enforce such design criteria or special development
requirements. If the city determines, in its discretion, that: (i) a special
development is not proceeding according to the plans approved by the city or
according to the language of the documents approved with the special
development: or (ii) a proposed building is not consistent with said plans or
documents, the city may take any or all of the following actions:
         a.   Withhold approval of the building permit until either;
            (1)   The architectural review committee of the special development
certifies that the proposed building meets the design criteria or special
development requirements of the project; or
            (2)   The city determines that the proposed building meets the
design criteria or special development requirements of the project.
         b.   Require the applicant or developer to submit specific plans,
specifications, and details of construction sufficient to allow the city to
analyze compliance with the approved design criteria and special development
requirements of the project. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
 LICENSES AND PERMITS:
From the effective date of this Ordinance, no license or permit, including the
issuance of a building permit for the construction, alteration, or modification
of any building or structure, shall be issued by the City unless such permit or
license complies with the requirements and provisions of this Ordinance,
including a determination that the lot or parcel, proposed for the license or
permit, is a legal lot created pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance, or
subsequent Subdivision Ordinances, or is a legal lot of record. Any license or
permit issued in conflict with the provisions and requirements of this
Ordinance shall be void. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
 APPEAL OF CITY ACTIONS:
   A.   Appeals of decisions on an applicant's preliminary or final plat
application shall be filed with the City Recorder and heard by a three-person
panel comprised of one licensed engineer designated by the City, one licensed
engineer designated by the land use applicant, and one licensed engineer agreed
upon by the two earlier designated engineers. Unless otherwise agreed in
writing, the hearing of the appeal panel shall commence within 10-business days
of receiving a request from the applicant.
      1.   No panel member shall have an ownership interest in the application
in question.
      2.   The applicant shall pay 50% of the total cost of the panel and the
City's appeal fee. The City shall pay the remaining 50%.
      3.   The panel's decision is final. Any further appeal of the panel's
decision must be filed with the district court within 30 days of the date of
the panel's decision.
   B.   An appeal of any issue that is not related to approval of a subdivision
(e.g., City standards, regulations, etc.) shall follow the procedures and
requirements for appeals under Title 4. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
CHAPTER 8
CONCEPT PLAN REVIEW
SECTION:
10-8-1: Concept Plan
10-8-2: Application Contents
10-8-1: CONCEPT PLAN:
The Concept Plan Review is an opportunity for an applicant to obtain additional
understanding of the City's applicable subdivision requirements, ordinance and
process information as it pertains to a specific proposal. This is an optional
review that may be requested by an applicant.
   A.   The Concept Plan is a discussion document only, designed to allow for a
review of project designs as they relate to the existing natural environment
and the compatibility with surrounding property uses and potential uses, the
identification of application procedures, requirements and standards, the
compatibility of the proposed project with the elements of the General Plan,
the City's Code, development standards and other items that may be considered
in the subdivision approval process once a formal subdivision application is
received by the City.
   B.   A Concept Plan Application shall not constitute an application for
subdivision approval and is in no way binding on the City or the applicant. Any
discussion with or comments from the Development Review Committee (DRC) shall
not be considered as any indication of subdivision approval, either actual or
implied by the City.
   C.   The Concept Plan procedures are described in the APPENDIX: Concept Plan
Review Procedures. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-8-2: APPLICATION CONTENTS:
   A.   An application for a Concept Plan, on forms provided by the City, must
be completed and submitted to the City Clerk.
   B.   Application fees must be paid in full.
   C.   Applicant must provide a Concept Plan and all related documents and
drawings, as found in the check list provided with the application, with the
completed application.
      1.   Concept Plan should include a conceptual layout of proposed lots
including minimum development requirements in the Zoning District, provided by
Title 9 the City's Zoning Ordinance, in which the subject subdivision is
located. The conceptual layout of streets, accounting for adjacent development
and master planned streets, must be provided.
      2.   A letter of explanation should be included which briefly describes
the proposal and it may include any questions the Applicant has for City Staff.
(Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
CHAPTER 9
PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND APPROVAL
SECTION:
10-9-1: Intent
10-9-2: Complete Application
10-9-3: Preliminary Subdivision Submittal Contents:
10-9-4: Preliminary Plat Procedures
10-9-5: Site Preparation Work Prohibited
10-9-6: Amendments To Preliminary Plat Or Phasing Plans
10-9-1: INTENT:
   A.   It is the intent of this Ordinance that Preliminary Subdivision
Application approval is a formal action by the Planning Commission, following
the receipt of the Development Review Committee (DRC) recommendation.
   B.   It is the intent of this Ordinance that all items applicable to a
Preliminary Subdivision Application be fully addressed by the Applicant, the
City, and all other applicable reviewing agencies prior to any action by the
Planning Commission.
   C.   For the purposes of this Ordinance, the procedures and requirements for
the consideration of Preliminary Subdivision Applications are provided to allow
for the consideration of all items in relation to the subdivision of land. The
DRC shall identify and address all items applicable to a Preliminary
Subdivision Application prior to providing a recommendation to the Planning
Commission.
   D.   It is intended that the DRC shall provide both a general compatibility
and design analysis and technical evaluation of the construction elements of a
subdivision in preparing recommendation to the Planning Commission. Conformance
with the City's zoning and development standards shall be confirmed.
   E.   It is intended that the Planning Commission shall identify and address
all items applicable to a Preliminary Subdivision Application, including
special consideration of DRC recommendations, prior to approving, approving
with conditions, or denying a Preliminary Subdivision Application. (Ord. O-24-
09, 11-6-2024)
10-9-2: COMPLETE APPLICATION:
A complete application is required to be filed with the City before a Review
Cycle commences. The determination of whether an application is complete is
made by the City Clerk (or designee). An application shall not be considered
complete, and the first review cycle shall not begin unless and until the
Applicant has submitted the following items:
   A.   A completed application as provided by the City.
   B.   Payment of all applicable fees.
   C.   A signed Owner-Agent Affidavit (if the Owner is being represented by
another party).
   D.   A recent Title Report (within the last six months) covering the
proposed subdivided property identifying ownership, easements of record, liens
or other encumbrances and verifies payment of taxes and assessments.
   E.   Current Box Elder County ownership plat depicting property proposed for
subdivision and all contiguous property around land proposed to be subdivided.
   F.   Property Survey and Existing Conditions Drawing
   G.   A digital copy of the preliminary plat.
   H.   A digital copy of the preliminary plans to include at a minimum the
following:
      1.   Grading and drainage plan.
      2.   Utility plan.
      3.   Storm Drain calculations.
      4.   Phasing Plan (if applicable).
      5.   Preliminary Site Plan.
      6.   Preliminary Landscape Plan.
      7.   Fencing Plan.
      8.   Preliminary Water Report.
      9.   Preliminary Wastewater Report.
      10.   Preliminary Storm Drain Report.
      11.   Low Impact Design (LID) analysis and Water Quality Report, if
applicable.
      12.   Will serve letters from all affected entities (if applicable).
   I.   Additional studies and information as listed on the application form
and as necessary to show feasible compliance with applicable codes and
regulations. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-9-3: PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION SUBMITTAL CONTENTS:
All Preliminary Subdivision Applications, filed with the City are required to
provide the following information:
   A.   Application. A Preliminary Subdivision Application form, provided by
the City, shall be completed and signed by the owner(s) as identified on the
property assessment rolls of Box Elder County, or authorized agent of the owner
(s), of the lands proposed to be subdivided. The Preliminary Subdivision
Application shall be accompanied by the application fees, those items found on
the check list provided with the application, and listed below:
   B.   Property Survey. A survey of the property including boundaries,
easements, encroachments, and existing conditions shall be submitted. This can
be an ALTA survey.
   C.   Preliminary Subdivision Plat. A preliminary plat, prepared by a
licensed land surveyor, or engineer, shall be provided. The preliminary
subdivision plat shall be prepared in permanent ink and all sheets shall be
numbered.
   D.   The preliminary subdivision plat shall show the following:
      1.   A layout plan of the proposed subdivision, at a scale generally of
no more than 1" = 100' (or as recommended by the City Planner and/or City
Engineer).
      2.   The proposed name of the subdivision and the section, City, range,
principal median, and County of its location shall be located at the top and
center of the preliminary plat.
      3.   A title block, placed on the lower right-hand corner of the plat
showing:
         a.   Name and address of owner of record and the name and address of
the licensed surveyor responsible for preparing the preliminary plat.
         b.   Date of preparation of the preliminary subdivision plat, and all
revision dates.
      4.   North arrow, graphic and written scale, and basis of bearings used.
      5.   All proposed lots, rights-of-way, and easements created by the
proposed subdivision and their bearings, lengths, widths, name, number, or
purpose. Each proposed lot shall identify required setback lines (the buildable
area) including front, side, and rear as required by the Zoning District in
which the proposed subdivision is located.
      6.   A vicinity map of the site at a minimum scale of 1" = 1000' (or as
recommended by City Planner and/or City Engineer).
      7.   Surveyed boundary of the proposed subdivision; accurate in scale,
dimension and bearing, and giving the location of and ties to the nearest
survey monument.
      8.   The location of the property with respect to surrounding property
and roads, and the names of all adjoining property owners of record.
      9.   The legal description of the entire subdivision site boundary.
      10.   Existing site contours at intervals of no greater than ten feet
(major) and two feet (minor), unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer,
overlaid with the proposed subdivision layout. Slope calculations, according to
the requirements of this title, shall also be provided.
      11.   Plans or written statements regarding the width and type of
proposed pavement, location, size and type of proposed sanitary sewers or other
sewage disposal facilities, proposed water mains and hydrants and other
proposed utilities, proposed stormwater drainage facilities and other proposed
improvements, such as sidewalks, planting and parks, and any grading of
individual lots.
      12.   The location, widths, and other dimensions of all existing or
platted streets and other important features such as railroad lines,
watercourses, exceptional topography, and buildings within or immediately
adjacent to the tract to be subdivided.
      13.   The location of any common space or open space areas including the
location of all property proposed to be set aside for public or private
reservation, with the designation of the purpose of those set aside, and
conditions, if any, of the dedication or reservation.
   E.   Other Drawings and Documents. Additional drawings that may be required
for review in conjunction with the preliminary plat are the following:
      1.   Site Plan, for non-residential and multi-family projects.
      2.   Preliminary Landscape Plans, for non-residential and multi-family
projects. Required for single family homes when there is an HOA that has common
open space.
      3.   Fencing Exhibit, when applicable.
      4.   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide the
necessary information, materials and/or reports with the preliminary plat as
required by the City to evaluate the following systems:
         a.   Culinary Water Preliminary
         b.   Wastewater (Sewer) Preliminary
         c.   Storm Drainage Preliminary
   F.   Subdivision Roads and Streets. The preliminary subdivision plat, and
other application materials, shall identify the proposed road and street
layout. Proposed subdivision streets shall make provision for the continuation
of existing streets, as required by the City.
      1.   All subdivision streets shall be designed as required by the City.
The City shall review the proposed street and road design for compliance with
the requirements of the City.
      2.   The proposed street and road layout shall provide adequate and safe
access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets, and
adjacent properties.
      3.   If the subdivision will be accessed from a State Highway, proof of
preliminary application for an appropriate access permit from the State of Utah
Department of Transportation, shall be provided with the application materials.
   G.   Inter-Agency Coordination. The following information is necessary to
establish the availability of basic services to the proposed subdivision. The
City may refer plans to other agencies for their review as applicable. It shall
be the responsibility of the applicant to provide the necessary information and
materials as required by the different agencies. The applicant shall also be
responsible for any fees charged by such agencies.
      1.   Fire Protection. The City's Fire Department will evaluate the
proposed fire protection capacity and system design in the development area.
The fire department may provide additional information to the applicant in the
Development Review of requirements relating to fire protection.
      2.   Water Conveyance. If the developing property lies within a water
conveyance district, it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to
coordinate with the district and provide them the necessary information and
materials to evaluate the proposed development and any possible changes to
existing systems. The applicant shall obtain a preliminary letter from the
Water Conveyance District that they acknowledge receipt of a copy of the
preliminary plat submittal, and if applicable, a brief description of any
information the applicant and the City need to know regarding the development
as it may or may not affect the existing systems.
      3.   Special Service District or Special Service Area. If the proposed
subdivision is located within the boundaries of a Special Service District or a
Special Service Area, a letter shall be provided from the governing board
acknowledging the proposed subdivision, which letter may identify any potential
impacts resulting from the proposed subdivision.
      4.   UDOT. If the subdivision will be accessed from a State Highway,
proof of preliminary application for an appropriate access permit from the
State of Utah Department of Transportation, shall be provided with the
application materials.
   H.   Additional Information and Materials when Necessary. When the City
Staff or Planning Commission deem necessary, the Applicant may be required to
provide other information or letters of feasibility, conduct studies, and
provide evidence indicating the suitability of the area for the proposed
subdivision, including, but not limited to, adequacy of public safety and fire
protection, traffic impact studies, ground water protection, plant cover
maintenance, geologic or flood hazard, erosion control, and access to existing
and planned trails.
   I.   Phasing Permitted: A preliminary plat may be divided into two or more
phases and the Planning Commission may impose such conditions upon the filing
of the phases as it may deem necessary to assure the orderly development of the
subdivision.
      1.   Review and subsequent approval of phasing plans will take into
consideration the specific order and areas of phasing in regard to utilities,
amenities, and roadways to ensure timely completion.
      2.   Cash escrows for certain project improvements and amenities may be
utilized in conjunction with Development Agreements. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-9-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Review Cycles and Review Considerations: Upon an application being
deemed complete, the first review cycle will commence.
      1.   The DRC will proceed to complete a technical review of the
preliminary plat and associated documents for conformance to the City Code and
Development Standards.
      2.   The DRC may recommend specific project designs, onsite and offsite
improvements, facilities and amenities, for preliminary subdivision approval,
which are consistent with the City Code and Development Standards, including
but not limited to:
         a.   Road and street improvements, including layout and design and
construction elements.
         b.   Flood control facilities.
         c.   Culinary Water facilities.
         d.   Sanitary Sewer facilities.
         e.   Storm Drainage facilities.
         f.   Lot and/or Site Drainage facilities.
         g.   Park and open space areas and facilities.
         h.   Pedestrian walkways to have neighborhood connectivity.
         i.   Trail accesses and connections to existing and planned trails.
         j.   Fire protection facilities, including fire hydrants and water
storage facilities.
         k.   Power, gas, telephone, cable, and any other public utility
facilities.
         l.   Fencing and buffering treatments.
         m.   Street lighting and streetscape enhancements including street
trees and park strip improvements.
         n.   The protection and preservation of the natural environment.
   B.   Subsequent Review Cycles and Scheduling: Subsequent review cycles may
occur until the City is in receipt of conforming plans and reports, at which
time the Preliminary Plat application shall be scheduled for a public meeting
and consideration by the Planning Commission.
   C.   Public Notification. The preliminary plat application will be placed on
the agenda of a regular Planning Commission meeting. Unless otherwise specified
by Utah State Code, there are no other public noticing requirements for
preliminary plat applications.
   D.   Public Meeting. The Planning Commission shall conduct the public
meeting and consider the Preliminary Subdivision Application at a regular
Planning Commission meeting.
      1.   During the consideration of the Preliminary Subdivision Application,
and upon all available information and materials presented, the Planning
Commission will make a decision based on findings of fact to approve, approve
with conditions, or deny the Preliminary Plat.
   E.   Decision Letter. A notice of action shall be provided by the City to
the applicant of the decision of the Planning Commission, along with the any
conditions of approval, requirements for approval or reasons for denial.
      1.   Notice of action on the preliminary plat shall be authorization for
the applicant to proceed with the preparation of the final plat and
specifications for the minimum improvements required in this Title.
   F.   Preliminary Plat Approval: The approval of a Preliminary Subdivision
Application shall be effective for a period of one (1) year from the date of
approval by the Planning Commission, at the end of which time the applicant
shall have submitted a final subdivision application for approval.
      1.   If a final subdivision application is not received by the City
within the one (1) year period, the preliminary subdivision approval shall be
void, and the applicant shall be required to submit a new Preliminary
Subdivision Application, subject to the then existing application and approval
requirements in effect, and all other applicable City, State and Federal
requirements.
      2.   For developments designed to be done in phases, the subsequent
phases should be submitted within two (2) years of the previous phase being
approved. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-9-5: SITE PREPARATION WORK PROHIBITED:
   A.   No excavation, grading or re-grading shall take place on any land until
Final Subdivision approval has been granted by the City and a pre-construction
meeting held.
   B.   No installation of improvements shall take place on any subdivision
site until a final subdivision plat has been recorded in the Office of the Box
Elder County Recorder, or until the City has received, reviewed and approved an
engineer's estimate on the subdivision's improvements and have a draft escrow
agreement written.
      1.   An executed escrow agreement signed by the developer, escrow agent
and City must be in place prior to recordation of the final plat.
   C.   No lots shall be sold and no building permits shall be issued by the
City, until a final subdivision plat has been recorded in the Office of Box
Elder Recorder and improvements as required by the City Code have either been
installed, or a subdivision improvement escrow agreement has been fully
executed. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-9-6: AMENDMENTS TO PRELIMINARY PLAT OR PHASING PLANS:
At any time after preliminary plat approval and before submission of a final
plat, the applicant may request of the City that an amendment be made in the
approval or conditional approval of the preliminary plat.
   A.   A major amendment shall include, but is not limited to, any amendment
that results in or has the effect of decreasing open space in the subdivision
by ten percent (10%) or more or increasing density in the subdivision by ten
percent (10%) or more.
   B.   If the proposed amendment is major, the revised plat would proceed
through a review city with the DRC and referred to the Planning Commission for
consideration at their next available regular meeting.
      1.   The Planning Commission shall approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove any proposed major amendment and may make any modifications in the
terms and conditions of preliminary plat approval reasonably related to the
proposed amendment.
   C.   If the applicant is unwilling to accept the proposed major amendment
under the terms and conditions required by the Planning Commission, the
applicant may withdraw the proposed major amendment. An applicant may not
propose more than two (2) major amendments to any preliminary plat.
   D.   The City Engineer, in consultation with and recommendation from the DRC
may administratively approve the proposed amendments that are deemed to be
minor. A decision letter of the approval, or conditional approval, of the
amended plat (with a copy of the revised preliminary plat) shall be provided to
the applicant.
      1.   If consensus is not reached that the proposed changes are minor it
may be referred to the Planning Commission for review and action.
   E.   The City Engineer, in consultation with and recommendation from the DRC
may administratively approve amended phasing plans. A decision letter of the
approval, or conditional approval, of the amended phasing plan (with a copy of
the revised phasing plan) shall be provided to the applicant.
      1.   If the amended phasing plan creates complexities that the DRC
identifies, the phasing plan may be referred to the Planning Commission for
review and action. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
CHAPTER 10
FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND APPROVAL
SECTION:
10-10-1: Intent
10-10-2: Complete Application
10-10-3: Final Subdivision Submittal Contents
10-10-4: Final Plat Procedures
10-10-5: Final Plat Approval
10-10-6: Site Preparation Work Prohibited
10-10-7: Final Plat Recordation
10-10-1: INTENT:
   A.   It is the intent of this Ordinance that the City Engineer, in
consultation and with the recommendation from the Development Review Committee
(DRC) shall review all Final Subdivision Applications.
   B.   It is the intent of this Ordinance that all items applicable to a Final
Subdivision Application be fully addressed by the Applicant, as the City, and
all other applicable reviewing agencies prior to any action by the City
Engineer.
   C.   For the purposes of this Ordinance, the procedures and requirements for
the consideration of Final Subdivision Applications are provided to allow for
the consideration of all items in relation to the subdivision of land. The DRC
shall identify and address all items applicable to a Final Subdivision
Application prior to providing a final recommendation to the City Engineer.
   D.   It is intended that the DRC shall provide both a general compatibility
and design analysis and technical evaluation of the construction elements of a
subdivision in preparing recommendation to the City Engineer. Conformance with
the City's zoning and development standards shall be again confirmed.
Compliance with preliminary plat conditions of approval and required
modifications made during the Preliminary Plat Development Review process shall
also be verified.
   E.   It is intended that the City Engineer, in coordination with the DRC
shall review, identify and address all items applicable to a Final Subdivision
Application, including review and approval of construction drawings, prior to
approving, approving with conditions, or denying a Final Subdivision
Application. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-10-2: COMPLETE APPLICATION:
A complete application is required to be filed with the City before a Review
Cycle commences. The determination of whether an application is complete is
made by the City Clerk (or designee). An application shall not be considered
complete, and the first review cycle shall not begin unless and until the
Applicant has submitted the following items:
   A.   A completed application as provided by the City.
   B.   Payment of all applicable fees.
   C.   A signed Owner-Agent Affidavit (if the Owner is being represented by
another party).
   D.   A recent Title Report (within the last six months) covering the
proposed subdivided property identifying ownership, easements of record, liens
or other encumbrances and verifies payment of taxes and assessments.
   E.   Tax Clearance Letter from Box Elder County
   F.   A digital copy of the final plat as outlined in the Public Works
Standards.
   G.   A digital copy of the final plans to include at a minimum the
following:
      1.   Grading and drainage plan.
   2   Utility plan.
   3   Storm Drain calculations.
      4.   Final Site Plan (if applicable)
      5.   Final Landscape Plan (if applicable)
      6.   Fencing Plan (if applicable)
      7.   Final Water Report
      8.   Final Wastewater Report
      9.   Final Storm Drain Report
      10.   Low Impact Design (LID) analysis and Water Quality Report, if
applicable
   H.   Will serve letters from all affected entities, if applicable.
   I.   Additional studies and information as listed on the application form
and as necessary to show feasible compliance with applicable codes and
regulations. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-10-3: FINAL SUBDIVISION SUBMITTAL CONTENTS:
All Final Subdivision Applications shall provide the following information:
   A.   Application. A Final Subdivision Application, provided by the City,
completed and signed by the owner(s) as identified on the property assessment
rolls of Box Elder County, or authorized agent of the owner(s), of the lands
proposed to be subdivided. The Final Subdivision Application shall be
accompanied by the application fees, those items found on the check list
provided with the application, and documents and items as found herein.
   B.   Final Subdivision Plat. The applicant shall submit a final subdivision
plat, prepared by a licensed land surveyor, conforming to current surveying
practice and in a form acceptable to the Box Elder County Recorder for
recordation together with plans as required herein. The final subdivision plat
shall be prepared in permanent ink and all sheets shall be numbered. All
required certificates shall appear on a single sheet (along with the index and
vicinity maps). The final subdivision plans shall include any revisions or
additions, as required by the Planning Commission, that were part of
preliminary subdivision approval.
   C.   The final subdivision plat shall show the following:
      1.   Notation of any self-imposed restrictions, including proposed final
restrictive covenants, and all other restrictions as required by the City in
accordance with this Ordinance, signature lines for all owners of interest and
the acknowledgment of a public notary.
      2.   Endorsement lines on the final plat by every person having a
security interest in the subdivision property subordinating their liens to all
covenants, servitudes and easements imposed on the property.
      3.   The location of all monuments erected, corners, and other points
established in the field. The material of which the monuments, corners, or
other points are made shall be noted. Bearings shall be shown to the nearest
second; lengths to the nearest hundredth of a foot; areas to the nearest
hundredth acre.
      4.   The owner's certificate of dedication(s) including the dedication of
any public ways or spaces. The owner's certificate shall include a reference to
any covenants that may be declared and blanks where the County Recorder may
enter the book and page number of their recording.
      5.   A legal description of the subdivision boundaries.
      6.   Signature blocks prepared for the dated signatures of the City
Engineer and the Mayor in a form acceptable to the city.
   D.   Title Report. A Title Report, not older than 6 months, shall be
provided.
   E.   Tax Clearance. A tax clearance from the Box Elder County Treasurer
indicating that all taxes, interest and penalties owing for the property have
been paid.
   F.   Construction Drawings and Plan. Final design and construction drawings
for all proposed or required public improvements, prepared as required by the
City Engineer and designed as required by the City, including the profiles and
cross sections of all existing and proposed streets, all storm drainage and
flood control facilities, the elevations and location of fire hydrants,
required culinary and secondary water facilities, sanitary sewer facilities,
land drain facilities, storm water pollution prevention plans, and all other
provided and required public facilities and improvements. The following
documents are also required:
      1.   Storm Drain calculations.
      2.   Landscape Plans, for non-residential and multi-family projects.
Required for single family homes when there is an HOA that has common open
space.
      3.   Fencing Exhibit.
      4.   Site Plan, for non-residential and multi-family projects.
      5.   Culinary Water, Wastewater and Storm Drain final reports, if
applicable.
   G.   Inter-Agency Coordination. The following information is necessary to
confirm the availability of basic services to the proposed subdivision. The
City may refer plans to other agencies for their review as applicable. It shall
be the responsibility of the applicant to provide the necessary information and
materials as required by the different agencies. The applicant shall also be
responsible for any fees charged by such agencies.
      1.   Fire Protection. The City's Fire Department will evaluate the
proposed fire protection capacity and system design in the development area.
The fire department may provide additional information to the applicant in the
Development Review of requirements relating to fire protection.
      2.   Water Conveyance. If the developing property lies within a water
conveyance district, it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to
coordinate with the district and provide them the necessary information and
materials to evaluate the proposed development and any possible changes to
existing systems. The applicant shall obtain a final review letter from the
Water Conveyance District that they acknowledge receipt of a copy of the final
plat submittal, and if applicable, a brief description of any information the
applicant and the City need to know regarding the development as it may or may
not affect the existing systems.
      3.   Special Service District or Special Service Area. If the proposed
subdivision is located within the boundaries of a Special Service District or a
Special Service Area, a letter shall be provided from the governing board
acknowledging the proposed subdivision, which letter may identify any potential
impacts resulting from the proposed subdivision.
      4.   UDOT. If the subdivision will be accessed from a State Highway,
proof of application and ultimately approval for an appropriate access permit
from the State of Utah Department of Transportation, shall be provided with the
application materials.
   H.   Other Final Subdivision Application Information and Materials. The
following information is required to be presented as part of the Final
Subdivision Application:
      1.   Any proposed or required bonds and agreements.
      2.   Copies of CCR's and any other project specific document, signed by
the applicant. (The final mylar plat and all relevant documents must be
reviewed and approved by appropriate city staff before final signatures and
attests are added for recording purposes). (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-10-4: FINAL PLAT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Review Cycles and Review Considerations: Upon an application being
deemed complete, the first review cycle will commence.
      1.   The DRC will proceed to complete a technical review of the final
plat, improvements drawings and associated documents for conformance to the
City Code and Development Standards.
      2.   The DRC may recommend specific project designs, onsite and offsite
improvements, facilities and amenities, for final subdivision approval, which
are consistent with the City Code and Development Standards, including but not
limited to:
         a.   Road and street improvements, including layout and design and
construction elements.
         b.   Flood control facilities.
         c.   Culinary Water facilities.
         d.   Sanitary Sewer facilities.
         e.   Storm Drainage facilities.
         f.   Lot and/or Site Drainage facilities.
         g.   Park and open space areas and facilities.
         h.   Pedestrian walkways to have neighborhood connectivity.
         i.   Trail accesses and connections to existing and planned trails.
         j.   Fire protection facilities, including fire hydrants and water
storage facilities.
         k.   Power, gas, telephone, cable, and any other public utility
facilities.
         l.   Fencing and buffering treatments.
         m.   Street lighting and streetscape enhancements including street
trees and park strip improvements.
         n.   The protection and preservation of the natural environment.
   B.   Subsequent Review Cycles. Up to three (3) subsequent review cycles may
occur until the City is in receipt of conforming plans and reports, at which
time the DRC will make final recommendation to the City Engineer of approval,
conditional approval or denial of the Final Plat application.
      1.   Waiver. If the applicant desires to have an additional review cycle,
to address what would otherwise be a decision of denial at the fourth review,
the applicant may specify in writing and submit a signed letter to the City
requesting an additional review cycle to be completed on the project.
   C.   Public Notification. Unless otherwise specified by Utah State Code,
there are no public noticing requirements for final plat applications.
   D.   Decision Letter. A notice of action shall be provided by the City to
the applicant of the decision of the City Engineer, along with the any
conditions of approval, requirements for approval or reasons for denial.
      1.   Notice of action on the final plat shall be authorization for the
applicant to proceed with addressing any remaining conditions of approval,
preparing information (engineer's estimates, improvement bids, etc.) for the
establishing a subdivision improvement escrow agreement and submitting any
other outstanding item for the City to review and approve prior to a pre-
construction meeting.
   E.   Pre-Construction Meeting. When the applicant is ready to start
construction on the site, a request to the City for a pre-construction meeting
shall be made.
      1.   Prior to the City scheduling the meeting the applicant will the
following completed:
         a.   Any remaining conditions of approval addressed. With submittals
of any outstanding items already made and approved.
         b.   The State's NOI for grading and land disturbance.
         c.   An engineer's estimate or improvement bid submitted for review by
City in preparation for the establishment of subdivision improvement escrow
account. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-10-5: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
The approval of a Final Subdivision Application shall be effective for a period
of two (2) years from the date of approval by the City Engineer.
         a.   If a final plat is not recorded within the two (2) year period, a
request may be made to the City for an extension of time for up to one year.
The extension request will be considered by the DRC and recommendation made to
the City Engineer, who will provide in writing a decision on the extension
request.
      1.   If after the one year extension, a final plat is still not recorded
but the installation of subdivision improvements have already begun, but not
completed, the City shall complete an inspection to determine what has been
completed, what needs to be completed and the City may begin coordination with
the escrow agent to obtain the escrow funds to go toward completing the
subdivision improvements as originally designed and approved.
      2.   Should the project have started construction and escrow either not
yet been established and/or no escrow funds are available for the subdivision,
the City reserves the right to record a lien on the property for the costs
related to completing the subdivision improvements that are necessary for the
public's health and safety.
         b.   For developments designed to be done in phases, the subsequent
phases should be recorded within two (2) years of the previous phase being
recorded. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-10-6: SITE PREPARATION WORK PROHIBITED:
   A.   No excavation, grading or re-grading shall take place on any land until
Final Subdivision approval has been granted by the City and a pre-construction
meeting held.
   B.   No installation of improvements shall take place on any subdivision
site until a final subdivision plat has been recorded in the Office of the Box
Elder County Recorder, or until the City has received, reviewed and approved an
engineer's estimate on the subdivision's improvements and have a draft escrow
agreement written.
      1.   An executed escrow agreement signed by the developer, escrow agent
and City must be in place prior to recordation of the final plat.
   C.   No lots shall be sold and no building permits shall be issued by the
City, until a final subdivision plat has been recorded in the Office of Box
Elder Recorder and improvements as required by the City Code have either been
installed, or a subdivision improvement escrow agreement has been fully
executed. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
10-10-7: FINAL PLAT RECORDATION:
Recordation of Final Subdivision Plats: The City Clerk, or City designee, shall
take all appropriate Final Subdivision Application documents including the
signed final plat to the Office of the Box Elder County Recorder for
recordation. The applicant is required to pay all fees, including copies, for
the recording of all final subdivision documents and final plats.
   A.   Signing of Plat: The signing of the mylar (plat) and the escrow
agreement should typically happen concurrently. The applicant should obtain any
needed signatures on the mylar from signing utility companies or other outside
agencies first, then the mylar should be submitted to the City Clerk who will
then obtain the signatures of the City Engineer, and the Mayor. The City
Engineer will specifically review that all of the conditions of the final plat
approval have been satisfied.
   B.   Recordation of Plat: It shall be the responsibility of the City Clerk
to file the final plat with the County Recorder's Office within ten (10)
business days of the date of the last signature on the final plat.
Simultaneously with the filing of the final plat, the City Clerk shall record
any agreements of dedication, HOA Declarations, CC&Rs, deed restrictions, etc.
that are associated with the plat. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
APPENDIX A
SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCEDURES
ATTACHMENTS:
Attachment 1: Concept Plan Application And Review Procedures
Attachment 2: Preliminary Subdivision Application Review And Approval
Procedures
Attachment 3: Final Subdivision Application Review And Approval Procedures
ATTACHMENT 1 CONCEPT PLAN APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
   1.   Applicant coordinates with City Clerk to obtain the Concept Plan
Application.
   2.   Concept Plan is electronically filed with City Clerk.
   3.   City Clerk distributes the concept plan application and submittal
package to the Development Review Committee (DRC), appropriate staff, and
others needed to provide review of the concept plan. Feedback may include
comments specific to the project, information on applicable city land use
regulations and development standards, and formal application checklists.
   4.   Within fifteen (15) business days feedback is compiled from the DRC,
and any other reviewing agency providing comment and the City Clerk distributes
them to the Applicant for their use in preparing for the formal application and
submittal.
   5.   A concept plan shall not constitute a formal application for
subdivision approval and is in no way binding on the City or the applicant(s).
Discussions and comments shall not be considered any indication of subdivision
approval, either actual or implied by the City. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
ATTACHMENT 2 PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATION REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES
   1.   Preliminary Subdivision Application filed with City Clerk. The City
Clerk (in consultation with the DRC) determines application completeness.
   2.   Once deemed complete, the City Clerk distributes the submittal package
and application information to the Development Review Committee (DRC),
appropriate staff, and others needed to provide review of the preliminary
subdivision application.
   3.   Development Review Committee (DRC) completes a preliminary technical
review of the Preliminary Subdivision Application for compliance with all
applicable ordinances, development standards and zoning requirements within
thirty (30) business days.
   4.   The review comments from the DRC and any other reviewing agency are
compiled and the City Clerk distributes to the Applicant. If the City Planner,
Engineer or other DRC member determines that comments are extensive enough to
warrant a meeting for the first review comments, the City Planner will schedule
a meeting to be held with the Development Review Committee (DRC) and the
Applicant to discuss the review.
   5.   The Applicant revises the plans to address all the review comments from
the DRC and resubmits the documents to the City Clerk. The City Clerk
distributes the re-submittal package to the Development Review Committee (DRC),
appropriate staff, and others needed to provide second review of the
preliminary subdivision application within thirty (30) business days. This step
is repeated until the plans meet the City's development standards and address
the comments from the DRC technical reviews.
   6.   Once the plans have been revised and the DRC have indicated acceptance
of the plans, the City Clerk (in consultation with the City Planner) schedules
the meeting with the Planning Commission and places it on the Planning
Commission agenda for consideration and action.
   7.   The Planning Commission holds a public meeting and considers the
Preliminary Subdivision Application and all information received. By motion,
the Planning Commission approves, approves with conditions, or denies the
Preliminary Subdivision Application.
   8.   The City Clerk (in consultation with the City Planner) shall provide
written notice of decision to the Applicant regarding the Preliminary
Subdivision Application of either approval, approval with conditions or denial.
(Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
ATTACHMENT 3 FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES
   1.   Final Subdivision Application filed with City Clerk. The City Clerk (in
consultation with the DRC) determines application completeness.
   2.   Once deemed complete, the City Clerk distributes the submittal package
and application information to the Development Review Committee (DRC),
appropriate staff, and others needed to provide review of the preliminary
subdivision application.
   3.   Development Review Committee (DRC) completes a final technical review
of the Final Subdivision Application in compliance with the approved
Preliminary Subdivision Application conditions required by the Planning
Commission, and for compliance with all applicable ordinances, development
standards and zoning requirements within forty (40) business days.
   4.   The review comments from the DRC and any other reviewing agency are
compiled and the City Clerk distributes to the Applicant. If the City Planner,
Engineer or other DRC member determines that comments are extensive enough to
warrant a meeting for the first review comments, the City Planner will schedule
a meeting to be held with the Development Review Committee (DRC) and the
Applicant to discuss the review.
   5.   The Applicant revises the plans to address all the review comments from
the DRC and resubmits the documents to the City Clerk. The City Clerk
distributes the re-submittal package to the Development Review Committee (DRC),
appropriate staff, and others needed to provide second review of the final
subdivision application within forty (40) business days. This step is repeated
until the plans meet the City's development standards and address the comments
from the DRC technical reviews, up to a maximum of four reviews.
      H.   If City's development standards are not met and technical review
comments are not yet addressed by the fourth review cycle, the following may
occur:
         i.   Applicant will receive written notification of the application
being denied.
         ii.   Alternatively, the Applicant may sign waiver for an additional
review.
   6.   Once the plans have been revised and the DRC have indicated acceptance
of the plans, the City Engineer (in consultation with the City Planner) shall
provide written notice of decision to the Applicant regarding the Final
Subdivision Application of either approval, approval with conditions or denial.
   7.   Once any remaining conditions of approval have been met (if
applicable), the City Engineer will schedule a pre-construction meeting to be
held with the Applicant's development team and the DRC to review the City's
construction process and requirements. (Ord. O-24-09, 11-6-2024)
TITLE 11
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Statutory Authorization
11-1-2: Findings Of Fact
11-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
11-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
11-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Utah has delegated the responsibility of local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, Garland, Utah, does ordain as provided in this title. (Ord. 10-07,
10-20-2010)
11-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Garland are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
11-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
11-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this title uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Words And Phrases Defined
11-2-1: WORDS AND PHRASES DEFINED:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give this
title its most reasonable application.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform, which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a building
in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor
elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers),
or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water and b) adequately anchored so
as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building" also includes a building elevated by
means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-30,
VE, or V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise meeting the
definition of "elevated building", even though the lower area is enclosed by
means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls met the standards of section
60.3(e)(5) of the national flood insurance program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act (Pub. L. 97-348), includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications,
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this title when
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this title. (For full requirements see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Lands Applicable
11-3-2: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
11-3-3: Establishment Of Development Permit
11-3-4: Compliance
11-3-5: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
11-3-6: Interpretation
11-3-7: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
11-3-1: LANDS APPLICABLE:
This title shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of Garland. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
11-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood
Insurance Study For Wasatch County", with accompanying flood insurance rate
maps and flood boundary- floodway maps (FIRM and FBFM) and any revisions
thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
title. Garland automatically adopts all effective FEMA flood insurance rate
maps and all effective FEMA flood insurance studies. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
11-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this title. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
11-3-4: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this title and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
11-3-5: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this title and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 10-07,
10-20-2010)
11-3-6: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
11-3-7: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall
not create liability on the part of the community or any official or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this title or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
11-4-1: Designation Of Floodplain Administrator
11-4-2: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Floodplain Administrator
11-4-3: Permit Procedures
11-4-4: Variance Procedures
11-4-1: DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The mayor's designee is hereby appointed the floodplain administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this title and other appropriate
sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance program regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
11-4-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   A.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this title.
   B.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building site,
including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   C.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this title.
   D.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
   E.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   F.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is the Utah national flood insurance coordinator,
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of
such notification to the federal emergency management agency.
   G.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated
portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   H.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
section
11-3-2 of this title, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
11-4-3: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection 11-5-2B of this title;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection 11-4-2A of this chapter.
   B.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this title and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
11-4-4: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The appeal board as established by the community shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this title.
   B.   The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this title.
   C.   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may
appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the national register of historic places or
the state inventory of historic places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this title.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection 11-4-3B of
this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the
one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
title, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of variances
as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of section
11-1-3 of this title.
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   K.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in subsections A through I of this section are
met, and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
11-5-1: General Standards
11-5-2: Specific Standards
11-5-3: Standards For Subdivision Proposals
11-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   A.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   B.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   D.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   E.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   F.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
   G.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
11-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in section
11-3-2 or subsection 11-4-2H of this title, or subsection 11-5-3C of this
chapter, the following provisions are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection as proposed in
subsection 11-4-3A1 of this title, is satisfied.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator.
   C.   Manufactured Homes: Require that all manufactured homes to be placed
within zone A on a community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods
and practices which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this
requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
11-5-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
   A.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with sections
11-1-2,
11-1-3 and
11-1-4 of this title.
   B.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of sections
11-3-3 and
11-4-3 of this title, and the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to section
11-3-2 or subsection 11-4-2H of this title.
   D.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   E.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 10-07, 10-20-2010)
0CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION
SECTION:
3-6-1: Purpose
3-6-2: No Other City License Or Approval Required
3-6-3: Definitions
3-6-4: Exemptions From Chapter
3-6-5: Solicitation Prohibited
3-6-6: Registration Of Solicitors
3-6-7: Application Form
3-6-8: Written Disclosures
3-6-9: When Registration Begins
3-6-10: Issuance Of Certificates
3-6-11: Form Of Certificate And Identification Badge
3-6-12: Maintenance Of Registry
3-6-13: Nontransferability Of Certificates
3-6-14: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of A Certificate Of Registration
3-6-15: Appeal
3-6-16: Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited
3-6-17: "No Solicitation" Notice
3-6-18: Duties Of Solicitors
3-6-19: Time Of Day Restrictions
3-6-20: Buyer's Right To Cancel
3-6-21: Penalties
3-6-1: PURPOSE:
Residents of the city have an inalienable interest in their personal safety,
well being, and privacy in their residences, as well as their ability to
provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief, political
or charitable activities, and goods and services lawfully in commerce. The city
has a substantial interest in protecting the well being, tranquility, personal
safety, and privacy of its citizens, which includes the ability to protect
citizens from unwanted intrusions upon residential property. The city also has
a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud or otherwise unfair
consumer sales practices as well as criminal activity.
There must be a balance between these substantial interests of the city and its
citizens, and the effect of the regulations in this chapter on the rights of
those who are regulated. Based on the collective experiences of city officials
derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and property from
criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens regarding door to
door solicitation, the experience of its law enforcement officers and those
affected by door to door canvassing and solicitation, as well as judicial
decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional protections afforded and
denied persons seeking to engage in door to door solicitation, the city adopts
this chapter to promote the city's substantial interests in:
   A.   Respecting citizens' decisions regarding privacy in their residences;
   B.   Protecting persons from criminal conduct;
   C.   Providing equal opportunity to advocate for and against religious
belief, political position, or charitable activities; and
   D.   Permitting truthful and nonmisleading door to door solicitation
regarding lawful goods or services in intrastate or interstate commerce.
The city finds that the procedures, rules and regulations set forth in this
chapter are narrowly tailored to preserve and protect the city interests
referred to herein while at the same time balancing the rights of those
regulated. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-2: NO OTHER CITY LICENSE OR APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Registered solicitors and persons exempt from registration need not
apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or registration from the city
to engage in door to door solicitation.
   B.   Any business licensed by the city under another city ordinance that
uses employees, independent contractors, or agents for door to door
solicitation in an effort to provide any tangible or intangible benefit to the
business, shall be required to have such solicitors obtain a certificate,
unless otherwise exempt from registration.
   C.   Those responsible persons or entities associated with registered
solicitors need not apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit, or
registration from the city, provided they do not establish a temporary or fixed
place of business in the city.
   D.   Nothing herein is intended to interfere with or supplant any other
requirement of federal, state, or other local government law regarding any
license, permit, or certificate that a registered solicitor is otherwise
required to have or maintain. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ADVOCATING: Speech or conduct intended to inform, promote, or support a
religious belief, political position, or charitable activities.
APPEALS OFFICER: The city council or designee of the city responsible for
receiving the information from the city and appellant regarding the denial or
suspension of a certificate and issuing a decision as required by this chapter.
APPELLANT: The person or entity appealing the denial or suspension of a
certificate, either personally as an applicant or registered solicitor, or on
behalf of the applicant or registered solicitor.
APPLICANT: An individual who is at least sixteen (16) years of age and not a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other lawful entity who
applies for a certificate permitting door to door solicitation.
APPLICATION FORM: A standardized form provided by the city to an applicant to
be completed and submitted as part of registration.
BCI: An original or copy, dated no older than one hundred eighty (180) days
prior to the date of the application, of either: a) a Utah department of public
safety bureau of criminal identification verified criminal history report
personal to the applicant; or b) verification by the Utah department of public
safety bureau of criminal identification that no criminal history rising to the
level of a disqualifying status exists for the applicant.
BUSINESS: A commercial enterprise licensed by the city as a person or entity
under this title, having a fixed or temporary physical location within the
city.
CERTIFICATE: A temporary, annual, or renewal certificate permitting door to
door solicitation in the city applied for or issued pursuant to the terms of
this chapter.
CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES: Advocating by persons or entities that either are, or
support, a charitable organization.
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION: Includes any person, joint venture, partnership,
limited liability company, corporation, association, group, or other entity:
   A.   That is:
      1.   A benevolent, educational, voluntary health, philanthropic, humane,
patriotic, religious or eleemosynary, social welfare or advocacy, public
health, environmental or conservation, or civic organization;
      2.   For the benefit of a public safety, law enforcement, or firefighter
fraternal association; or
      3.   Established for any charitable purpose; and
   B.   That is tax exempt under applicable provisions of the internal revenue
code of 1986 as amended, and qualified to solicit and receive tax deductible
contributions from the public for charitable purposes.
   C.   Charitable organization includes a chapter, branch, area, or office, or
similar affiliate or any person soliciting contributions within the state for a
charitable organization that has its principal place of business outside the
city or state of Utah 1 .
COMPETENT INDIVIDUAL: A person claiming or appearing to be at least eighteen
(18) years of age and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage
in rational thought, conversation, and conduct.
COMPLETED APPLICATION: A fully completed application form, a BCI, two (2)
copies of the original identification relied on by the applicant to establish
proof of identity, and the tendering of fees.
CRIMINALLY CONVICTED: The final entry of a conviction, whether by a plea of no
contest, guilty, entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt, which has not
been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The criminal
conviction is that offense of which the applicant or registered solicitor was
convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion
of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed under a plea in
abeyance or diversion agreement.
DISQUALIFYING STATUS: Anything specifically defined in this chapter as
requiring the denial or suspension of a certificate, and any of the following:
   A.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of:
1) felony homicide, 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a
minor, 3) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or 4) sexual
assault of any kind;
   B.   Criminal charges currently pending against the applicant or registered
solicitor for: 1) felony homicide, 2) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or
exploiting a minor, 3) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or 4)
sexual assault of any kind;
   C.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a felony within the last ten (10) years;
   D.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been incarcerated in a
federal or state prison within the past five (5) years;
   E.   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a misdemeanor within the past five (5) years involving a crime of: 1) moral
turpitude, or 2) violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
   F.   A final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant or
registered solicitor within the last five (5) years indicating that: 1) the
applicant or registered solicitor had either engaged in fraud, or intentional
misrepresentation, or 2) that a debt of the applicant or registered solicitor
was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)
(6), or (a)(19);
   G.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently on parole or
probation to any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including
being under house arrest or subject to a tracking device;
   H.   The applicant or registered solicitor has an outstanding arrest warrant
from any jurisdiction; or
   I.   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently subject to a
protective order based on physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
DOOR TO DOOR SOLICITATION: The practice of engaging in or attempting to engage
in conversation with any person at a residence, whether or not that person is a
competent individual, while making or seeking to make or facilitate a home
solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and/or services.
ENTITY: Includes a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or
other lawful entity, organization, society or association.
FEES: The cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for the
issuance of a certificate and/or identification badge, which shall not exceed
the reasonable costs of processing the application and issuing the certificate
and/or identification badge.
FINAL CIVIL JUDGMENT: A civil judgment that would be recognized under state law
as a judgment to which collateral estoppel would apply.
GOODS: One or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise, perishables
of any kind, subscriptions, or manufactured products offered, provided, or
sold.
HOME SOLICITATION SALE: To make or attempt to make a sale of goods or services
by a solicitor at a residence by means of door to door solicitation, regardless
of:
   A.   The means of payment or consideration used for the purchase;
   B.   The time of delivery of the goods or services; or
   C.   The previous or present classification of the solicitor as a solicitor,
peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, or similar designation.
LICENSING OFFICER: The city employee(s) or agent(s) responsible for receiving
from an applicant or registered solicitor the completed application and either
granting, suspending, or denying the applicant's certificate.
NO SOLICITATION SIGN: A reasonably visible and legible sign that states "No
Soliciting", "No Solicitors", "No Salespersons", "No Trespassing", or words of
similar import.
POLITICAL POSITION: Any actually held belief, or information for, against, or
in conjunction with any political, social, environmental, or humanitarian
belief or practice.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Any person who has been issued a current certificate by
the city.
REGISTRATION: The process used by the city licensing officer to accept a
completed application and determine whether or not a certificate will be
denied, granted, or suspended.
RELIGIOUS BELIEF: Any sincerely held belief, or information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any theistic, agnostic, or atheistic assumption, presumption
or position, or religious doctrine, dogma, or practice regardless of whether or
not the belief or information is endorsed by any other person or public or
private entity.
RESIDENCE: Any living unit contained within any building or structure that is
occupied by any person as a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of the
city, together with the lot or other real property on which the living unit is
located. This does not include the sidewalk, public street or public rights of
way.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON OR ENTITY: That person or entity responsible to provide the
following to an applicant, registered solicitor, and the competent individual
in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or attempted to be
made by means of a home solicitation sale:
   A.   Maintaining a state sales tax number, a special events sales tax
number, computing the sales taxes owing from any sale of goods or services,
paying the sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;
   B.   Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire to
cancel the sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law; and
   C.   Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those
persons who timely rescind any sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights
or law.
SALE OF GOODS OR SERVICES: The conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the
competent individual in a residence regarding a particular good(s) or service
(s) that entitles the consumer to rescind the same within three (3) days under
any applicable federal, state, or local law.
SERVICES: Those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided, or
sold to a competent individual of a residence.
SOLICITING OR SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: Any of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought;
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase
insurance, subscriptions to publications, or publications;
   C.   Seeking to obtain contributions of money or any other thing of value
for the benefit of any person or entity;
   D.   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or
services;
   E.   Seeking to engage an individual in conversation at a residence for the
purpose of promoting or facilitating the receipt of information regarding
religious belief, political position, charitable conduct, or a home
solicitation sale;
   F.   Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of
soliciting, such as hawking or peddling.
SOLICITOR OR SOLICITORS: A person(s) engaged in door to door solicitation.
SUBMITTED IN WRITING: The information for an appeal of a denial or suspension
of a certificate, submitted in any type of written statement to the city
offices by certified, registered, priority, overnight or delivery confirmation
mail, facsimile, or hand delivery.
SUBSTANTIATED REPORT: An oral, written, or electronic report:
   A.   That is submitted to and documented by the city;
   B.   By any of the following:
      1.   A competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement or
other city employees with publicly available identification of their name,
address, and any other reliable means of contact;
      2.   City law enforcement or licensing officer; or
      3.   Any other regularly established law enforcement agency at any level
of government;
   C.   That provides any of the following information regarding a registered
solicitor:
      1.   Documented verification of a previously undisclosed disqualifying
status of a registered solicitor;
      2.   Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a
disqualifying status which has not yet been determined to be a disqualifying
status;
      3.   Documented, eyewitness accounts that the registered solicitor has
engaged in repeated patterns of behavior that demonstrates failure by the
registered solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this chapter; or
      4.   Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered solicitor
creates exigent circumstances that threaten the health, safety, or welfare of
any individuals or entities within the city.
WAIVER: The written form provided to applicant by the city wherein applicant
agrees that the city may obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on
the applicant for licensing purposes under this chapter, and which contains
applicant's notarized signature. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. Charitable solicitation act, UCA §§ 13-22-2(1)(a), (b).
3-6-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER:
The following are exempt from registration under this chapter:
   A.   Persons specifically invited to a residence by a competent individual
prior to the time of the person's arrival at the residence;
   B.   Persons whose license, permit, certificate or registration with the
state of Utah permits them to engage in door to door solicitation to offer
goods or services to an occupant of the residence;
   C.   Persons delivering goods to a residence pursuant to a previously made
order, or persons providing services at a residence pursuant to a previously
made request by a competent individual;
   D.   Persons advocating or disseminating information for, against, or in
conjunction with, any religious belief, or political position regardless of
whether goods, services, or any other consideration is offered or given, with
or without any form of commitment, contribution, donation, pledge, or purchase;
and
   E.   Persons representing a charitable organization. The charitable
exemption shall apply to students soliciting contributions to finance
extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs,
provided that the solicitation has been approved in writing by the school
administration, and that such student solicitors carry current picture student
identification from the educational institution for which they are soliciting.
Those persons exempt from registration are not exempt from the duties and
prohibitions outlined in sections
3-6-17,
3-6-18 and
3-6-19 of this chapter while advocating or soliciting. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006,
eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-5: SOLICITATION PROHIBITED:
Unless otherwise authorized, permitted, or exempted pursuant to the terms and
provisions of this chapter, the practice of being in and upon a private
residence within the city by solicitors, for the purpose of home solicitation
sales or to provide goods or services, is prohibited and is punishable as set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-6: REGISTRATION OF SOLICITORS:
Unless otherwise exempt under this chapter, all persons desiring to engage in
door to door solicitation within the city, prior to doing so, shall submit a
completed application to the licensing officer and obtain a certificate. (Ord.
06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-7: APPLICATION FORM:
The licensing officer shall provide a standard application form for use for the
registration of solicitors. Upon request to the licensing officer, or as
otherwise provided, any person or entity may obtain in person, by mail, or
facsimile, a copy of this application form. Each application form shall require
disclosure and reporting by the applicant of the following information,
documentation, and fee:
   A.   Review Of Written Disclosures: An affirmation that the applicant has
received and reviewed the disclosure information required by this chapter.
   B.   Contact Information:
      1.   Applicant's true, correct and legal name, including any former names
or aliases used during the last ten (10) years;
      2.   Applicant's telephone number, home address and mailing address, if
different;
      3.   If different from the applicant, the name, address, and telephone
number of the responsible person or entity; and
      4.   The address by which all notices to the applicant required under
this chapter are to be sent.
   C.   Proof Of Identity: An in person verification by the licensing officer
of the applicant's true identity by use of any of the following which bear a
photograph of said applicant:
      1.   A valid driver's license issued by any state;
      2.   A valid passport issued by the United States;
      3.   A valid identification card issued by any state;
      4.   A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States
military.
Upon verification of identity, the original identification submitted to
establish proof of identity shall be returned to the applicant.
   D.   Proof Of Registration With Department Of Commerce: The applicant shall
provide proof that either the applicant, or the responsible person or entity,
has registered with the Utah state department of commerce.
   E.   Special Events Sales Tax Number: The applicant shall provide a special
events sales tax number for either the applicant, or for the responsible person
or entity for which the applicant will be soliciting.
   F.   Marketing Information:
      1.   The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any
commonly known, registered or trademarked names;
      2.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits,
registrations, or other qualifications required by federal or state law to
promote, provide, or render advice regarding the offered goods or services.
   G.   BCI Background Check: The applicant shall provide:
      1.   An original or a copy of a "BCI" background check as defined in
section
3-6-3 of this chapter; and
      2.   A signed copy of a waiver whereby applicant agrees to allow the city
to obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on applicant for purposes
of enforcement of this chapter 1 .
   H.   Responses To Questions Regarding Disqualifying Status: The applicant
shall be required to affirm or deny each of the following statements on the
application form:
      1.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of: a) felony homicide,
b) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor, c) the sale or
distribution of controlled substances, or d) sexual assault of any kind;
      2.   Are any criminal charges currently pending against the applicant
for: a) felony homicide, b) physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting
a minor, c) the sale or distribution of controlled substances, or d) sexual
assault of any kind;
      3.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a felony within the
last ten (10) years;
      4.   Has the applicant been incarcerated in a federal or state prison
within the past five (5) years;
      5.   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a misdemeanor within
the past five (5) years involving a crime of: a) moral turpitude, or b) violent
or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
      6.   Has a final civil judgment been entered against the applicant within
the last five (5) years indicating that: a) the applicant had either engaged in
fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or b) that a debt of the applicant was
nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or
(a)(19);
      7.   Is the applicant currently on parole or probation to any court,
penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under house arrest
or subject to a tracking device;
      8.   Does the applicant have an outstanding arrest warrant from any
jurisdiction; or
      9.   Is the applicant currently subject to a protective order based on
physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of competent jurisdiction?
   I.   Fee: The applicant shall pay such fees as determined applicable by the
city, which shall not exceed the reasonable cost of processing the application
and issuing the certificate and/or identification badge.
   J.   Execution Of Application: The applicant shall execute the application
form, stating upon oath or affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that based on
the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the information provided is
complete, truthful and accurate. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 53-10-108(1)(b).
3-6-8: WRITTEN DISCLOSURES:
The application form shall be accompanied by written disclosures notifying the
applicant of the following:
   A.   The applicant's submission of the application authorizes the city to
verify information submitted with the completed application including:
      1.   The applicant's address;
      2.   The applicant's and/or responsible person or entity's state tax
identification and special use tax numbers, if any;
      3.   The validity of the applicant's proof of identity;
   B.   The city may consult any publicly available sources for information on
the applicant, including, but not limited to, databases for any outstanding
warrants, protective orders, or civil judgments;
   C.   Establishing proof of identity is required before registration is
allowed;
   D.   Identification of the fee amount that must be submitted by applicant
with a completed application;
   E.   The applicant must submit a BCI background check with a completed
application;
   F.   To the extent permitted by state and/or federal law, the applicant's
BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not
available for public inspection;
   G.   The city will maintain copies of the applicant's application form,
proof of identity, and identification badge. These copies will become public
records available for inspection on demand at the city offices whether or not a
certificate is denied, granted, or renewed;
   H.   The criteria for disqualifying status, denial, or suspension of a
certificate under the provisions of this chapter;
   I.   That a request for a temporary certificate will be granted or denied
the same business day that a completed application is submitted. (Ord. 06-03,
9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-9: WHEN REGISTRATION BEGINS:
The licensing officer shall not begin the registration process unless the
applicant has submitted a completed application. The original identification
submitted to establish proof of identity shall be returned after the licensing
officer verifies the applicant's identity. A copy of the identification may be
retained by the licensing officer. If an original BCI background check is
submitted by the applicant, the licensing officer shall make a copy of the BCI
and return the original to the applicant. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-
2006)
3-6-10: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES:
The licensing officer shall review the completed application submitted by the
applicant and issue a certificate in accordance with the following:
   A.   Temporary Certificate:
      1.   A temporary certificate shall issue allowing the applicant to
immediately begin door to door solicitation upon the following conditions:
         a.   Applicant's submission of a completed application;
         b.   Applicant's submission of the required fee;
         c.   Applicant establishes proof of identity;
         d.   The applicant's representations on the application form do not
affirmatively show a disqualifying status;
         e.   The BCI does not affirmatively show a disqualifying status; and
         f.   The applicant has not previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      2.   A temporary certificate will automatically expire after twenty five
(25) calendar days from issuance, or upon grant or denial of an annual
certificate, whichever period is shorter.
   B.   Annual Certificate: Within twenty five (25) calendar days of the
issuance of a temporary certificate the city shall:
      1.   Take any and all actions it deems appropriate to verify the
truthfulness and completeness of the information submitted by the applicant,
including, but not limited to, those disclosed with the application form.
      2.   Issue written notice to the applicant and the responsible person or
entity, if any, that the applicant either:
         a.   Will be issued an annual certificate, eligible for renewal one
year from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate; or
         b.   Will not be issued an annual certificate for reasons cited in
section
3-6-14 of this chapter.
   C.   Renewal Certificate: An annual certificate shall be valid for one year
from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate and shall expire at
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on the anniversary date of issuance. Any annual
certificate that is not suspended, revoked, or expired may be renewed upon the
request of the registered solicitor and the submission of a new completed
application and payment of the fee, unless any of the conditions for the
denial, suspension or revocation of a certificate are present as set forth in
section
3-6-14 of this chapter, or a disqualifying status is present. (Ord. 06-03, 9-
19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-11: FORM OF CERTIFICATE AND IDENTIFICATION BADGE:
   A.   Certificate Form: Should the licensing officer determine that the
applicant is entitled to a certificate, the licensing officer shall issue a
certificate to the applicant. The certificate shall list the name of the
registered solicitor and the responsible person or entity, if any, and the date
on which the certificate expires. The certificate shall be dated and signed by
the licensing officer. The certificate shall be carried by the registered
solicitor at all times while soliciting in the city.
   B.   Identification Badge: With both the temporary and annual certificates,
the city shall issue each registered solicitor an identification badge that
shall be worn prominently on his or her person while soliciting in the city.
The identification badge shall bear the name of the city and shall contain: 1)
the name of the registered solicitor; 2) address and phone number of the
registered solicitor, or the name, address, and phone number of the responsible
person or entity is provided; 3) a recent photograph of the registered
solicitor; and 4) the date on which the certificate expires. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-
2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-12: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The licensing officer shall maintain and make available for public inspection a
copy or record of every completed application received and the certificate or
written denial issued by the city. The applicant's BCI background check shall
remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for public
inspection. The licensing officer may furnish to the head of the city's law
enforcement agency a listing of all applicants, those denied, and those issued
a certificate. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-13: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF CERTIFICATES:
Certificates shall be issued only in the name of the applicant and shall list
the responsible party or entity, if any. The certificate shall be
nontransferable. A registered solicitor desiring to facilitate or attempt to
facilitate home solicitation sales with different: a) goods or services; or b)
responsible person or entity, from those designated in the originally submitted
completed application, shall submit a written change request to the licensing
officer. A new certificate based on the amended information shall issue for the
balance of time remaining on the solicitor's previous certificate before the
amendment was filed. Before the new certificate is given to the registered
solicitor, the registered solicitor shall obtain a revised identification badge
from the city, after payment of the fee for the identification badge. (Ord. 06-
03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-14: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF A CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Denial: Upon review, the licensing officer shall refuse to issue a
certificate to an applicant for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Denial of temporary certificate:
         a.   The application form is not complete;
         b.   The applicant fails to: 1) establish proof of identity, 2)
provide a BCI or 3) pay the fees;
         c.   The completed application or BCI indicates that the applicant has
a disqualifying status; or
         d.   The applicant has previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or has had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      2.   Denial of annual certificate:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant at the time of the
granting of the temporary certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the completed application, the applicant
is subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application, the city has received a
substantiated report regarding the past or present conduct of the applicant;
         e.   Since the submission of the application, the city or other
governmental entity has either criminally convicted or obtained a civil
injunction against the applicant for violating this chapter or similar federal,
state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to the level of a disqualifying
status; or
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had
either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or 2) that a debt of
the applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2),
(a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19).
      3.   Denial of annual certificate renewal:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant when seeking renewal
of a certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the renewal application, the applicant is
subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application or granting of a
certificate, the city has received a substantiated report regarding the past or
present conduct of the solicitor;
         e.   The city or other governmental entity has either criminally
convicted or obtained a civil injunction against the applicant for violating
this chapter or similar federal, state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to
the level of a disqualifying status; or
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that: 1) the applicant had
either engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation, or 2) that a debt of
the applicant was nondischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2),
(a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19).
   B.   Suspension Or Revocation: The city shall either suspend or revoke a
certificate when any of the reasons warranting the denial of a certificate
occurs.
   C.   Notice Of Denial Or Suspension: Upon determination of the licensing
officer to deny an applicant's completed application or to suspend a registered
solicitor's certificate, the city shall cause written notice to be sent to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the method indicated in the completed
application. The notice shall specify the grounds for the denial or suspension,
the documentation or information the city relied on to make the decision, the
availability of the documentation for review by applicant upon one business
day's notice to the city, and the date upon which the denial or suspension of
the certificate shall take effect. It shall further state that the applicant or
registered solicitor shall have ten (10) business days from the receipt of the
notice of denial or suspension to appeal the same. The denial or suspension of
the certificate shall be effective no sooner than two (2) calendar days from
the date the notice is sent, unless that suspension is because of exigent
circumstances outlined in subsection C4 of the definition of "substantiated
report" in section
3-6-3 of this chapter, in which case, the suspension is effective immediately.
The denial or suspension shall remain effective unless and until the order is
rescinded, overturned on appeal, or determined by a court to be contrary to
equity or law. Failure to appeal the suspension of a certificate automatically
results in its revocation. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-15: APPEAL:
An applicant or registered solicitor whose certificate has been denied or
suspended shall have the right to appeal to the city council or its designee.
Any appeal must be submitted by either the applicant, the responsible person or
entity, or legal counsel for either whom: a) documents the relationship with
the applicant or responsible person or entity; or b) is licensed or authorized
by the state of Utah to do so, and makes the assertion of an agency
relationship. The following procedures and requirements shall apply:
   A.   Any appeal must be submitted in writing to the city recorder with a
copy to the licensing officer within ten (10) business days of the decision
from which the appeal is taken. Such appeal shall describe in detail the nature
of the appeal, the action complained of and the grounds for appeal.
   B.   Upon request of the applicant or registered solicitor, within one
business day, the city will make available any information upon which it relied
in making the determination to either deny or suspend the certificate.
   C.   The appeals officer shall review, de novo, all written information
submitted by the applicant or registered solicitor to the licensing officer,
any additional information relied upon by the licensing officer as the basis
for denial, suspension or revocation, and any additional information supplied
by the city, applicant or registered solicitor. Any additional information
submitted by any party to the appeal to the appeals officer shall be
simultaneously submitted to the opposing party. If desired, any party shall
have three (3) business days to submit rebuttal documentation to the appeals
officer regarding the additional information submitted by the opposing party.
   D.   The appeals officer will render a decision no later than fifteen (15)
calendar days from the date the appeal was taken, unless an extension of time
is agreed upon by the parties. In the event that any party to the appeal
submits rebuttal information as allowed in subsection C of this section, the
fifteen (15) calendar days shall be extended to include the additional three
(3) days for rebuttal.
      1.   The denial or suspension of the certificate shall be reversed by the
appeals officer if upon review of the written appeal and information submitted,
the appeals officer finds that the licensing officer made a material mistake of
law or fact in denying or suspending the applicant or registered solicitor's
certificate.
      2.   If the written appeal and information submitted indicates that the
licensing officer properly denied or suspended the certificate of the applicant
or registered solicitor, the denial or suspension of the certificate shall be
affirmed and constitute a determination that the suspended certificate is
revoked.
      3.   The decision of the appeals officer shall be delivered to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the means designated in the completed
application, or as otherwise agreed upon when the appeal was filed.
   E.   After the ruling of the appeals officer, the applicant or solicitor is
deemed to have exhausted all administrative remedies with the city.
   F.   Nothing herein shall impede or interfere with the applicant's,
solicitor's, or city's right to seek relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-16: DECEPTIVE SOLICITING PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially false or
fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
   B.   A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the consumer during face to
face solicitation: 1) the name of the solicitor; 2) the name and address of the
entity with whom the solicitor is associated; and 3) the purpose of the
solicitor's contact with the person and/or competent individual. This
requirement may be satisfied through the use of the badge and an informational
flyer.
   C.   No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias, or any name other
than his or her true and correct name.
   D.   No solicitor shall represent directly or by implication that the
granting of a certificate of registration implies any endorsement by the city
of the solicitor's goods or services or of the individual solicitor. (Ord. 06-
03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-17: "NO SOLICITATION" NOTICE:
   A.   Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to refuse
solicitors by displaying a "No Solicitation" sign which shall be posted on or
near the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to the
sidewalk leading to the residence.
   B.   The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed to constitute
notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the residence does not desire to
receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the solicitor to check each residence
for the presence of any such notice.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall apply also to solicitors who are
exempt from registration pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 06-
03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-18: DUTIES OF SOLICITORS:
   A.   Every person soliciting or advocating shall check each residence for
any "No Soliciting" sign or placard or any other notice or sign notifying a
solicitor not to solicit on the premises, such as, but not limited to, "No
Solicitation" signs. If such sign or placard is posted such solicitor shall
desist from any efforts to solicit at the residence or dwelling and shall
immediately depart from such property. Possession of a certificate of
registration does not in any way relieve any solicitor of this duty.
   B.   It is a violation of this chapter for any person soliciting or
advocating to knock on the door, ring the doorbell, or in any other manner
attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence that bears a "No
Solicitation" sign or similar sign or placard for the purpose of engaging in or
attempting to engage in advocating, a home solicitation sale, door to door
soliciting, or soliciting.
   C.   It is a violation of this chapter for any solicitor through ruse,
deception, or fraudulent concealment of a purpose to solicit, to take action
calculated to secure an audience with an occupant at a residence.
   D.   Any solicitor who is at any time asked by an occupant of a residence or
dwelling to leave shall immediately and peacefully depart.
   E.   The solicitor shall not intentionally or recklessly make any physical
contact with, or touch another person without the person's consent.
   F.   The solicitor shall not follow a person into a residence without their
explicit consent.
   G.   The solicitor shall not continue repeated soliciting after a person
and/or competent individual has communicated clearly and unequivocally their
lack of interest in the subject, goods or services of the solicitor.
   H.   The solicitor shall not use obscene language or gestures. (Ord. 06-03,
9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-19: TIME OF DAY RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to solicit at a
residence before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
Mountain Time, unless the solicitor has express prior permission from the
resident to do so. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-20: BUYER'S RIGHT TO CANCEL:
In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to
provide goods or services without delay in an emergency, the seller or
solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain buyer's signature to a written
statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel within the third
business day after signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of "buyer's
right to cancel" shall be in the form required by section 70C-5-103, Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, or a current version thereof or any state or federal law
modifying or amending such provision. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
3-6-21: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a class B misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or a jail sentence of not to exceed six (6)
months. (Ord. 06-03, 9-19-2006, eff. 9-19-2006)
