TOWN OF GOSHEN, UTAH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 04122022, passed 4-12-2022
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Captions
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Numbering ordinances
   
10.19   Statutes or codes included and excluded
   
10.20   Purposes and principles of construction
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   The ordinances contained in this code, and all ordinances of a general
nature hereafter adopted and inserted herein, and all amendments, additions,
and changes thereto, shall be part of this code and shall be known, and cited,
as the “Revised Ordinances of Goshen.”
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Application to future ordinances. All provisions of Title I compatible
with future legislation shall apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or
supplementing this code unless otherwise specifically provided.
   (B)   Offenses defined in this code.
      (1)   Application of code. The provisions of this code shall govern the
construction of, the punishment for, and the defense against any offense
defined in this code or, except where otherwise specifically provided or the
context otherwise requires, any offense defined outside this code, if the
offense was committed after the effective date of this code.
      (2)   Offenses prior to effective date. Any offense committed prior to
the effective date of this code shall be governed by the ordinances of this
municipality existing at the time of commission thereof, except that a defense,
or limitation, on punishment available under this code shall be available to
any defendant tried, or retried, after the effective date. An offense under
this code shall be deemed to have been committed prior to the effective date of
this code if any of the elements of the offense occurred prior to the effective
date.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously-existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly-enacted laws. Any previously-existing law, or amendment
thereto, reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed, or amended, subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously-existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters, or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this, or any subsequent, codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning,
application, or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   In the construction of the ordinances of this municipality, the following
rules and definitions shall be observed and applied unless such construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of these ordinances.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.
      (1)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and
understood according to the common use and understanding of the language; the
technical words and phrases, and such other words and phrases as may have
acquired a particular meaning in law, shall be construed, and understood,
according to such particular meaning.
      (2)   Gender - singular and plural. Unless otherwise indicated from the
context of the ordinance, all words used in the singular shall include the
plural, and all words used in the masculine gender shall extend to, and apply
to, the feminine gender.
      (3)   Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the
future and past tense when applicable.
      (4)   Joint authority. Words imputing joint authority to three or more
persons shall be construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons,
unless otherwise declared in the section giving the authority.
      (5)   Acts. Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an
agent or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of
the act by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS. Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation,
or enterprise for which a license is required by any ordinance of this
municipality.
      CLERK. The individual appointed to act as the Clerk of the Town of
Goshen.
      COUNTY. Utah County, Utah.
      HIGHWAY or ROAD. Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the
words “county way,” “county road,” “common road,” and “state road.”
      LICENSE. Includes any certificate or license issued by this municipality.
      LOCATION. Whenever any act, conduct, or offense is prohibited, or
required, and no reference is made to location, unless the context specifically
indicates otherwise, the act, conduct, or offense prohibited, or required,
shall be within the boundaries of this municipality.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      OFFENSE. Any act, action, or conduct prohibited by this code, or the
failure to perform any acts required in this code.
      OFFICER or OFFICIALS. As used in this code, means any elected or
appointed person employed by the municipality, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or lessee of a whole, or part, of such
building or land.
      PERSON. Includes all individuals, both male and female; any governmental
agency; corporation; partnership; association; company; and every other form of
organization, whether formed voluntarily or involuntarily.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
      STATE. The State of Utah.
      STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks, and
intersections.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall apply to any
person who occupies all, or any part of, such building or land, either alone or
with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Goshen.
      TOWN COUNCIL. As used throughout this code, means the legislative body of
the Town of Goshen.
      TOWN MARSHAL or MARSHAL. As used in this code, all have the same meaning
and may be used interchangeably.
      WEEK. Any seven-day period.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Includes printing, lithographing, or other modes
of representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional, or without effect, by any final
judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment or
decree shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences,
paragraphs, and sections of this code.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer, or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties, or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Town
Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer,
agency, authority, or instrumentality of any government and that name
designation is incorrectly stated, on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed
with that entity are, or were, transferred to a different entity; then, the
named board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency,
authority, or instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its
effective date or not, means that correctly-named entity, or the entity to
which the duties, liabilities, powers, and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word, or words, necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word, or words, to which no meaning
can be attached; or the use of a word, or words, when another word, or words,
was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and
the word, or words, supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made, or permitted, if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   Reasonable time. In all cases where any ordinance required that an act
be done in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such
reasonable time for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be
necessary for the expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such
notice.
   (B)   Time; how computed. The time within which an act is to be done as
provided in any ordinance or any resolution, or order, of this municipality,
when expressed in days, shall be determined by excluding the first day and
including the last day, except if the last day is a Sunday or a holiday, then
the last day shall be the day next following such Sunday or holiday which is
not a Sunday or holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sundays and all
holidays shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   Repeal of existing ordinances.
      (1)   (a)   So far as the provisions of this code are the same as those
of previously-existing ordinances, they shall be construed as continuations
thereof.
         (b)   All ordinances and resolutions of this municipality heretofore
in force, except such as are of a private, local, or temporary nature,
including franchises, grants, dedications, bond issues, elections, and special
levies for local assessments, hereby are repealed except as otherwise provided
in division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   Those ordinances of this municipality which are of a general nature
which are not repealed and which the Town Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to insert in the appropriate place in this code, and which shall be
deemed part of this code are: none.
      (3)   The fees or charges established by the ordinances repealed by this
code of revised ordinances shall remain in effect until subsequently changed by
ordinance or resolution, except that the fees and charges established by this
code shall prevail in the event of a conflict.
   (B)   Effect of repealing ordinances. The repeal of the ordinances, as
provided in division (A) above, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under, or by virtue of, the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings, and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code, shall remain in full force
and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof, as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 CAPTIONS.
   The captions in this code immediately preceding each section are intended as
mere captions to indicate the content of the section, and shall not be deemed,
or taken to be part of, the sections.
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (UCA §             )
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see UCA §             
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the
effective date of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as
provided by those laws.
      (2)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued,
penalties incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this
code.
      (3)   The liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued;
punishments, penalties, or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this
code had not been enacted. In particular, any agreement granting permission to
utilize highway rights-of-way; contracts entered into or franchises granted;
the acceptance, establishment, or vacation of any highway; and the election of
corporate officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (B)   Whenever this code or any ordinance of this town requires that an act
be done, or prohibits an action by any officer, employee, or agent of this
town, the failure to perform the act, or the performance of the act prohibited,
shall not create any liability on the town or the officer.
§ 10.18 NUMBERING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall, insofar as possible, assign all ordinances of a
general nature adopted after these revised ordinances a number which shall
conform to the numbering system used in this code, and shall indicate upon the
face of the ordinance the date adopted.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Clerk shall keep all ordinances of a local, private, or
temporary nature, including franchises, grants, dedications, bond issues, and
tax levies, in a separate book of “Special Ordinances,” properly indexed and
organized according to date adopted.
      (2)   The first number of such an ordinance shall be the last two digits
of the year the ordinance is adopted, followed by a dash which is followed by a
number which shall be a sequential, ascending number indicating the order in
which such special ordinance was adopted during the year.
   (C)   Failure to comply with this section shall not affect, or render
invalid, any ordinance of this municipality.
§ 10.19 STATUTES OR CODES INCLUDED AND EXCLUDED.
   Any reference or citation to any statute shall not be interpreted or
construed to include, incorporate, or make the citation, or statute, part of
this code unless the provisions of this code specifically include, incorporate,
or make the citation, or statute, part of this code by reference or
incorporation, and any such reference or citation not specifically included or
incorporated may be changed, amended, or deleted without publication on an
order of the governing body.
§ 10.20 PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The provisions of this code shall be construed in accordance with these
general purposes to:
   (A)   Forbid and prevent the commission of offenses;
   (B)   Define adequately the conduct and mental state which constitute each
offense, and safeguard conduct without fault from condemnation as criminal;
   (C)   Prescribe penalties which are proportionate to the seriousness of
offenses and which permit recognition of differences in rehabilitation
possibilities among individual offenders; and
   (D)   Prevent arbitrary or oppressive treatment of persons accused or
convicted of offenses.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this code for which
another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be subject
to the fines, imprisonment, or other penalties that apply to a conviction of a
Class B misdemeanor pursuant to UCA § 76-3-301(1)(d) or, if the violation would
constitute a Class C misdemeanor, then the lesser Class C fines pursuant to UCA
§ 76-3-301(1)(e), imprisonment, or other penalties. If the violation would
constitute an infraction, then the person shall be subject to the lesser fines,
or other penalties, for such an infraction pursuant to UCA § 76-3-205.
      (2)   Any firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to the fines, imprisonment, or other penalties which apply to a
conviction of a Class B misdemeanor pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302(3) or, if the
violation would constitute a Class C misdemeanor, then the lesser Class C fines
pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302(4) or other penalties. If the violation would
constitute an infraction, then the firm or corporation shall be subject to the
fines, or other penalties, for such an infraction pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302
(4).
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   If a penalty for a violation of an ordinance includes any possibility
of imprisonment, the county shall, under UCA § 78B-22-301, provide for indigent
defense services, as that term is defined in UCA § 78B-22-102.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: EMPLOYEES AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Personnel policies adopted by reference
Water Department
   
30.15   Superintendent of Culinary Water Department
Compensation
   
30.30   Compensation of Mayor and Council members
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policies of the town, as adopted by Ord. 2005-06, are hereby
adopted by reference as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 2005-06, passed 12-14-2005)
WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 30.15 SUPERINTENDENT OF CULINARY WATER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of Superintendent of the Culinary
Water System.
   (B)   The Superintendent of the system shall manage and supervise the system
pursuant to the provisions of this code and pursuant to resolutions, rules, and
regulations adopted by the Town Council from time to time prescribing his or
her powers and duties and directing the manner and frequency with which he or
she shall make reports to the Mayor relating to the water system. All of the
functions and activities of the Superintendent shall be carried on under the
direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
COMPENSATION
§ 30.30 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   The salary of the Mayor and Council members of the town shall be paid
in the amount and at such times as is below specified:
      (1)   Mayor: $300 per regular Council meeting attended; and
      (2)   Council member: $150 per regular Council meeting attended.
   (B)   In addition to the salary paid to the Mayor and Council members of the
town, they shall receive the following additional compensation:
      (1)   Twenty-five dollars for each official meeting attended out of town;
      (2)   Fifteen dollars for each official meeting, not a Council meeting,
held in the town; and
      (3)   Twenty dollars for each official meeting, not a Council meeting,
held online.
   (C)   The Mayor or Council shall submit a monthly reimbursement request to
the Town Clerk for all meetings other than regular Council meetings. No payment
for meetings will be made without the reimbursement request and proof of
attendance at the meeting.
(Ord. 12012018, passed 12-12-2018; Ord. 04122022, passed 4-12-2022)
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Water Department
   
31.01   Culinary Water Department
Planning Commission
   
31.15   Created; member appointment
   
31.16   Council member
   
31.17   Organization; meetings
   
31.18   Employee’s expenditures
   
31.19   Powers and duties
WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 31.01 CULINARY WATER DEPARTMENT.
   The Culinary Water Department of the town is hereby created. It shall
administer the operation and maintenance of the culinary water system of the
town.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.15 CREATED; MEMBER APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Town Planning Commission within and for the
town. Said commission shall consist of five members, one to be designated from
among its own members by the Town Council, and four at-large members to be
appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the Town Council from among
qualified electors of the town. Members shall be selected without respect to
political affiliations and shall serve without compensation except for
reasonable expenses. Each at-large member of the commission shall be appointed
to an individual term by the Mayor; one member to a term of two years, one
member to a term of three years, one member to a term of four years, and one
member to a term of five years, or until his or her successor is appointed.
   (B)   Members of the Planning Commission shall serve without pay and may be
removed for cause by the Mayor if written charges are filed with the Mayor. The
member in question may request a public hearing prior to removal. Vacancies in
the membership of the Commission shall be filled for the remainder of the term
in the same manner as the original appointment.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed - -2019)
§ 31.16 COUNCIL MEMBER.
   The term of office for the designated Town Council member shall be one year
beginning on January 1 and terminating December 31 of the same year. In the
event the Town Council member shall cease to be a member of the Town Council
while he or she is also a member of the Planning Commission, his or her term on
the Planning Commission shall also cease, and the Town Council shall select a
new Council member to fill the unexpired term.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed - -2019)
§ 31.17 ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Council member appointed to the Planning Commission shall be the
Chairperson of the Commission. The Chairperson shall be a voting member of the
Commission and shall be counted as part of the quorum. Report of official acts
and recommendations of the Planning Commission shall be public and made by the
Chairperson in writing to the legislative body, and shall indicate how each
member of the Commission voted with respect to such act or recommendation.
Three members of the Planning Commission shall constitute a quorum, and it
shall require three “yes” votes for any matter to receive approval from the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall comply with the State Open and Public
Meetings Act, being UCA §§ 52-4-201 et seq., in all its meetings, and follow an
informal form of Robert’s Rules of Order with each matter being on an agenda
and only discussed and adopted after a motion, second and opportunity for
discussion.
   (C)   Public input in all meetings shall be allowed in the Chairperson’s
discretion and when a public hearing is required by law.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed - -2019)
§ 31.18 EMPLOYEE’S EXPENDITURES.
   The Planning Commission may not appoint employees and may not contract with
planners and other consultants; all such appointments, if necessary, are
reserved to the Town Council.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed - -2019)
§ 31.19 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the Town
Council for:
      (1)   A general plan and amendments to the general plan;
      (2)   Land use regulations;
      (3)   An appropriate delegation of power to at least one designated land
use authority to hear and act on a land use application;
      (4)   An appropriate delegation of power to at least one appeal authority
to hear and act on an appeal from a decision of the land use authority; and
      (5)   Application processes that:
         (a)   May include a designation of routine land use matters that, upon
application and proper notice, will receive informal streamlined review and
action if the application is uncontested; and
         (b)   Shall protect the right of each:
            1.   Applicant and third party to require formal consideration of
any application by a land use authority;
            2.   Applicant, adversely affected party, or municipal officer or
employee to appeal a land use authority’s decision to a separate appeal
authority; and
            3.   Participant to be heard in each public hearing on a contested
application.
   (B)   Nothing in this section limits the right of the town to initiate or
propose the actions described in this section.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall exercise any other powers that are
necessary to enable it to perform its function, or delegated to it by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2019-11-01, passed - -2019)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Regulations on utility fees
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 REGULATIONS ON UTILITY FEES.
   (A)   The town may combine the billing for water, garbage collection, and
any other service which may be provided by the town into a single “utility
bill.” Any such combined billing shall delineate thereon the amount assessed
for each utility service. However, for purposes of payment, determination of
delinquency, and disconnection of water service, the billing shall be
considered as a single utility bill. The utility billing rates shall be as set
forth in the utility payment schedule, as periodically adopted and modified by
the Town Council by resolution and is available by request from the town
office.
   (B)   The utility billing period shall be monthly or at such other frequency
as shall be set by resolution of the Town Council.
   (C)   On or before the first day of each utility billing period, the town
shall mail or otherwise deliver a written or printed statement to each user
showing the amount of charges for culinary water service, sewer, garbage
collection, and any other services provided to the user for the preceding
billing period, together with any late payment fees or other outstanding
charges which shall have been assessed. The statement shall also indicate the
place for payment and the due date.
   (D)   The full amount of the charges for utility services and any other
outstanding assessments, as set forth on the statement, shall be due and
payable upon receipt of the statement, and shall be considered past due on the
twenty-fifth day of the month in which the statement is received (past due
date). In the event that payment in full of the charges assessed has not been
received by the town prior to the past due date, the town shall be entitled to
assess a past due fee in an amount to be set by resolution of the Town Council.
   (E)   After three business days following the past due date, the town shall
provide written notice to each user whose account is past due showing the
amount of service charges are past due, and also the amount of past due fees
which shall have been assessed.
   (F)   In the event that the town shall not have received payment in full of
all past due utility charges and any past due fees that shall have been
assessed prior to the last business day of the month in which the past due
notice is issued, the account shall be considered delinquent and the water
service shall be subject to shut off by the town without further notification
to the user.
   (G)   In the instance where a premises is occupied by a tenant or person
other than the owner, the town may, upon request by the owner, provide
duplicate copies of all statements and other notices related to utility
services to the tenant.
   (H)   In the event that the occupant and/or owner shall fail to pay any
water or other utility service charges or any past due assessments thereon, or
shall use such services in violation of the provisions of this section or the
rules and regulations related to utility services, the town may cause the water
to be shut off from such premises.
   (I)   Before any water service which has been shut off as a result of non-
payment of service fees shall be restored, all outstanding service charges,
past due assessments, and such extra charge for turning the water on and off as
the Town Council may have established by resolution shall be paid in full.
   (J)   The town is authorized and empowered to enforce the payment of all
delinquent service charges by any action at law in the corporate name of the
town.
   (K)   It is unlawful for any person, after the water shall have been turned
off for non-payment of service charges or other violation of the rules and
regulations pertaining to utility services, to turn on the water or allow it to
be turned on, or used, without authorization to do so from the town.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 9-8-2005) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of any of the provisions of §
50.01 shall be a Class C misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 9-8-2005)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Water rates
   
51.02   Water line size
Culinary Water
   
51.15   Rates and connection fees; special rates
   
51.16   Board of Equalization; rates and rebates
   
51.17   Use without payment prohibited
   
51.18   Delinquency; discontinuance of service
   
51.19   Turning on water after being turned off prohibited
   
51.20   Separate connections
   
51.21   Unauthorized users
   
51.22   Cross-connections prohibited
   
51.23   Period for visitors
   
51.24   Quality of service pipe
   
51.25   Faulty equipment
   
51.26   Sprinkling vehicles
   
51.27   Department to have free access
   
51.28   Non-liability for damages
   
51.29   Water not supplied; motors, syphons, and the like
   
51.30   Sprinklers
   
51.31   Scarcity of water
   
51.32   Waste of water
   
51.33   Water meters
   
51.34   Permits for installations
   
51.35   Applications of installation permit
   
51.36   Moving or replacement of water line
   
51.37   When permits shall not be issued
   
51.38   Fire hydrants
   
51.39   Limiting culinary water connections
   
51.40   Forms; applications
Drinking Water
   
51.55   Title, applicability, authority
   
51.56   Purpose and intent
   
51.57   Definitions
   
51.58   Establishment of drinking water source protection zones
   
51.59   Allowed uses
   
51.60   Prohibited uses
   
51.61   Administration
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 WATER RATES.
   (A)   The following base and incremental rates shall apply from July 1, 2022
to December 31, 2022. Starting on January 1, 2023, the water rates shall
increase by 2% at the beginning of each calendar year for the years 2023, 2024,
2025, 2026, and 2027.
   (B)   The rates that come into effect on January 1, 2027 shall be permanent
until the town takes further action on the matter by resolution or by
ordinance. All other rates for connections, water reserve rate, late payments,
and surplus water shall be dictated by previous ordinances or resolutions.
 
Residential Water Rates
Lower Limit in Gallons Upper Limit in Gallons Cost per Thousand Gallons
8,000                  16,000                 $1.75
16,000                 24,000                 $2.25
24,000                 32,000                 $2.75
32,000                 9,999,999              $3.25
 
Non-Residential Water Rates
Lower Limit in Gallons Upper Limit in Gallons Cost per Thousand Gallons
8,000                  16,000                 $3.25
16,000                 24,000                 $3.75
24,000                 32,000                 $4.25
32,000                 9,999,999              $4.75
 
Commercial, Industrial, Institutional Water Rates
Lower Limit in Gallons Upper Limit in Gallons Cost per Thousand Gallons
8,000                  16,000                 $3.25
16,000                 24,000                 $3.75
24,000                 32,000                 $4.25
32,000                 9,999,999              $4.75
 
Booster System Water Rates
Lower Limit in Gallons Upper Limit in Gallons Cost per Thousand Gallons
8,000                  16,000                 $3.25
16,000                 24,000                 $3.75
24,000                 32,000                 $4.25
32,000                 9,999,999              $4.75
 
(Ord. 09-01-2021, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 51.02 WATER LINE SIZE.
   The Town Council has determined that the new water lines will be a diameter
of no less than eight inches.
(Res. 2012-11-13, passed 11-13-2012)
CULINARY WATER
§ 51.15 RATES AND CONNECTION FEES; SPECIAL RATES.
   (A)   Rates and connection fees.
      (1)   The rates, penalty fee for delinquency in payment, connection fee,
inspection fee, re-connection fees, and services from the town’s culinary water
system shall be fixed from time to time either by resolution enacted by the
Town Council or by a majority vote of those members of the Town Council
attending a meeting duly called and noticed at which a quorum is present or has
waived notice of the holding of the meeting sustaining a motion to fix those
rates entered on the minutes of the meeting at which such vote was taken. A
majority vote of those present and voting may adopt a resolution amending,
fixing, or changing those fees or rates.
      (2)   The Town Council may, from time to time, promulgate rules for
levying, billing, guaranteeing, and collecting charges for culinary water
services and all other rules necessary for the management and control of the
system. Rates for services furnished shall be uniform with respect to each
class or classes of service established, or that may hereafter be established.
Rates may be established at different levels for premises outside the corporate
boundaries of the town.
   (B)   Special rates. The Town Council may, from time to time, fix by
agreement or resolution special rates and conditions for users using
exceptionally large amounts of water service, or making use of the system under
exceptional circumstances, upon such terms and conditions as they may deem
proper.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
§ 51.16 BOARD OF EQUALIZATION; RATES AND REBATES.
   The governing body is hereby constituted a board of equalization of water
rates to hear complaints and make collections of any assessments deemed to be
illegal, unequal, or unjust. They may, if they see fit, rebate all or part of
the water bill of any indigent person.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
§ 51.17 USE WITHOUT PAYMENT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person by himself or herself, family,
servants, or agents to utilize the culinary water system without paying
therefor, as herein provided, or without authority, to open any pipe, line,
connection, stopcock, valve, or other fixtures attached to the system of
culinary water supplied, unless it its done pursuant to proper application,
agreement, or resolution.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to injure, deface, or impair any part or
appurtenance of the water system, or to cast anything into any reservoir or
facilities appurtenant, or contributing to, the culinary water system. It shall
be a criminal offense in any way to pollute any water source, watershed,
drainage area, or any part of, or contributing to, the culinary water system.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.18 DELINQUENCY; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Delinquency; discontinuance of service.
      (1)   The Town Recorder or Water Superintendent shall furnish to each
user, or mail to, or leave at his or her place of residence, or usual place of
business, a written or printed statement stating thereon the amount of water
service charges assessed against him or her once each month, or at such other
regular intervals as the Town Council shall direct.
      (2)   The statement shall specify the amount of the bill for the water
service, and the place of payment and date due. If any person fails to pay the
water charges within 30 days from the date due, the Clerk or Water
Superintendent shall give the consumer notice in writing of intention to
discontinue the service to the consumer, unless the consumer pays the bill in
full within 15 days from the date of notice.
      (3)   (a)   If the culinary water service is thereafter discontinued for
failure to make payment, then before the water service to the premises shall
again be provided, all delinquent water charges must have been paid to the
Treasurer or arrangements made for their payment in a manner satisfactory to
the town. In the event water is turned off for non-payment of water charges,
then before the water service to the premises shall again be provided the
consumer shall pay, in addition to all delinquent water charges, such extra
charge for turning the water on or off as the Town Council may have established
by resolution. Until such a resolution has been adopted, there shall be added
an extra charge of $10 for turning on the water.
         (b)   Furthermore, in addition to such payments and penalties, a
delinquent consumer may be required to make and file a new application and
deposit if the previous deposit has theretofore been applied to the payment of
delinquent bills. The Clerk is hereby authorized and empowered to enforce the
payment of all delinquent water charges by an action at law in the name of the
town.
   (B)   Discontinuance of service by customer. Any customer desiring to
discontinue service shall notify the town in writing of such fact at least ten
days before the date when such service shall be discontinued. On giving such
written notice, the customer shall not be responsible for water bills incurred
after the date specified in the notice. Any credit balance in favor of the
customer as a result of an advance payment of bills or a deposit made will be
refunded upon discontinuance of service.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
§ 51.19 TURNING ON WATER AFTER BEING TURNED OFF PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, after the water has been turned off
from the premises for non-payment of culinary water charges, sewer charges, or
other violations of the ordinances, rules, regulations, or resolutions
pertaining to the water supply, to turn on, or to allow the water to be turned
on or used, without authority from the Water Superintendent or Town Recorder.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for one user to receive service for a residence and a
separate, detached, and independent commercial business, or for two or more
families or service users to be supplied from the same service pipe,
connection, water outlet, or discharge unless special permission for such
combination usage has been granted by the Town Council and the premises served
are owned by the same owner. In all such cases, a failure on the part of, and
one of, the users to comply with this section shall warrant a withholding of a
supply of water through the service connections until compliance or payment has
been made, and in any event, the property owner shall be primarily liable to
the town for all water services utilized on all such premises. Nothing herein
shall be deemed to preclude the power of the town to require separate pipes or
connections at a subsequent time. The prohibition herein provided shall not
apply in those instances where the joint residential and business use are in
existence at the time of the adoption hereof. If, and when, such use is
discontinued or there is a change of ownership, or a severance of ownership
between the residence and the business, then the “grandfather” protection
afforded hereby shall terminate.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 UNAUTHORIZED USERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any water service user to permit any person from
other premises, or any unauthorized person, to use or obtain water service
regularly from his or her premises or water facilities, either outside his or
her premises.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any water user to intentionally or through
negligence cause there to be a cross-connection to the town culinary water with
and other water source. Further, a town culinary water source shall not be
connected by pipe, hose, or submersion, or brought in contact with another
water source through other means which results in contamination or the risk of
possible contamination.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23 PERIOD FOR VISITORS.
   (A)   Individuals visiting the premises of an authorized user in a
recreational vehicle, not including a mobile home, and continuing to live
therein during the period of visitation may receive water service from the
service pipes or facilities of the host during the visitation period, which
shall not exceed one month.
   (B)   Continued use thereafter shall be deemed unauthorized and a violation
of the provision of this subchapter relating to separate connections and
unauthorized use.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
§ 51.24 QUALITY OF SERVICE PIPE.
   (A)   All users of water services shall keep their service pipes and
connections, and other apparatus, in good repair and protected from frost at
their own expense. No person, except under the direction of the Water
Superintendent, shall be allowed to dig into the street for the purpose of
laying, removing, or repairing and servicing pipes.
   (B)   (1)   All service and other pipes used in conjunction with the water
services of the town shall be of such material, quality, and specifications as
the Town Council may, from time to time by resolution, provide, and shall be
installed at such distances below ground as may be specified by regulation
relating to the Water Department.
      (2)   All work, alteration, or extensions affecting water pipes shall be
subject to the acceptance of the Water Superintendent, and no connections with
and water mains shall be made without first obtaining a permit therefor from
the Town Recorder.
      (3)   No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water pipes across lots
or buildings to adjoining premises to conduct water pipes from the Water
Superintendent, and subject to such requirements relating to controls as may be
imposed by him or her.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.25 FAULTY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any water user to:
   (A)   Waste water;
   (B)   Allow it to be wasted by stops, taps, valves, leaky joints, or pipes,
or to allow tanks or water troughs to leak or overflow;
   (C)   Wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets, or stops, or through
basins, water closets, urinals, sinks, or other apparatus; and/or
   (D)   Use the water for purposes other than for those which he or she has
applied, or to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for
controlling the water supply.   
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 SPRINKLING VEHICLES.
   Vehicles for sprinkling shall be regulated and controlled by the Water
Department through the Superintendent of the Water Department.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
§ 51.27 DEPARTMENT TO HAVE FREE ACCESS.
   The Water Superintendent, and his or her agents, shall, at all ordinary
hours, have free access to any place supplied with water service from the town
system for the purpose of examining the apparatus, and ascertaining the amount
of water service being used and the manner of its use.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
§ 51.28 NON-LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   (A)   The town shall not be liable for any damage to a water service user by
reason of stoppage or interruption of his or her water supply service caused by
fires, scarcity of water, accidents to the water system or its mains, or which
occurs as the result of maintenance and extension operations, or from and other
unavoidable cause.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to extend the liability of the
town beyond that provided in the Governmental Immunity Act, being UCA Title
63G, Chapter 7.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
§ 51.29 WATER NOT SUPPLIED; MOTORS, SYPHONS, AND THE LIKE.
   No water shall be supplied from the pipes of the town water system for the
purpose of driving motor, syphon, turbine, or other wheels, or any hydraulic
engines, or elevators, or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind
whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose
except by special permission of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.30 SPRINKLERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use such number of outlets
simultaneously or to use such sprinkler, or combinations of sprinkler or
outlets, as will, in the opinion of the Town Council, materially affect the
pressure or supply of water in the municipal water system or any part thereof,
and the Town Council may, from time to time by resolution, specify combinations
or numbers of outlets which may have such effect. The Town Council shall, after
determining that such improper use exists, notify the affected water user, or
the owner of the premises whereon such use occurs, of such determination in
writing, order such use discontinued, and advise that such continued usage
constitutes a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.31 SCARCITY OF WATER.
   In times of scarcity of water, whenever it shall in the judgment of the
Mayor and Town Council, be necessary, the Mayor shall, by proclamation, limit
the use of water to such extent as may be necessary. It shall be unlawful for
any person, his or her family, servants, or agents to violate any proclamation
made by the Mayor in pursuance of this section.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.32 WASTE OF WATER.
   (A)   Users of water from the culinary water system shall not permit water
to continue to run wastefully and without due efforts to conserve water. If, in
the judgment of the Water Superintendent or of any of the officers of the town,
a user of culinary water engages in practices which result in the needless
waste of water and continues to do so after the notice to discontinue
wastefulness has been given, the Water Superintendent, or any officer, may
refer the matter to the Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Council may, thereupon, consider terminating the right of the
individual to use culinary water. If they elect to consider the matter of
termination, they shall give notice to the water user of the intention to
terminate his or her water connection at least five days prior to the meeting
of the Town Council at which termination of water service is to be considered.
The notice shall inform him or her of the time and place of the meeting, and of
the charges which lead to the consideration of the termination.
   (C)   A water user whose right to utilize culinary water is being reviewed
shall have opportunity to appeal with or without counsel, and present his or
her reasons why his or her water service should not be discontinued.
   (D)   After due hearing, the Town Council may arrive at a determination. If
the determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user’s service
connection, they shall notify him or her of the decision and of the period
during which the service will remain discontinued.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
§ 51.33 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise expressly permitted by this section, all
structures, dwelling units, establishments and persons using water for the
municipal water system must have such number of water meters connected to their
water system as are necessary, in the judgment of the Water Superintendent, to
adequately measure use and determine water charges to the respective users.
   (B)   Meters will be furnished by the town upon application for a
connection, and upon payment of such connection fees and other costs as may be
established by the town from time to time by resolution.
   (C)   Meters shall be deemed to be and remain the property of the town.
Whenever a dispute between the Water Superintendent and the property owner
arises as to the appropriate number of meters to be installed on any premises,
the matter shall be heard and determined by the Town Council after due notice
in writing to the parties involved.
   (D)   The Water Superintendent shall cause meter readings to be taken
regularly and shall advise the Recorder/Clerk thereof for the purpose of
recording the necessary billings for water service.
   (E)   Meters may be checked, inspected, or adjusted at the discretion of the
town, and they shall not be adjusted or tampered with by the customer. Meter
boxes shall not be opened for the purpose of turning on or off the water except
by an authorized representative of the town, unless special permission is given
by the town through its representatives to the customer to do so.
   (F)   If a customer submits a written request to the Water Superintendent to
test his or her water meter, the town may, if under the circumstances it deems
it advisable and in its discretion, order a test of the meter measuring the
water delivered to such customer. If such request is made within 12 months
after the date of the last previous test, the customer may be required to pay
the cost of such test. It the meter is found in such test to record from 97% to
103% of accuracy under methods of testing satisfactory to the town, the meter
shall be deemed to accurately measure the use of water.
   (G)   If the town’s meters fail to register at any time, the water delivered
during the period of failure shall be estimated on the basis of previous
consumption during a period which is not questioned. In the event a meter is
found to be recording less than 97% or more than 103% of accuracy, the town
shall make such adjustments in the customer’s previous bills as are just and
fair under the circumstances.
   (H)   All damages or injury to the lines, meters, or other materials of the
town on, or near, the customer’s premises caused by any act or neglect of the
customer shall, in the discretion of the town, be repaired by, and at the
expense of, the customer, and the customer shall pay all costs and expenses,
including a reasonable attorney’s fee, which may arise or accrue to the town
through its efforts to repair the damage to the lines, meters, or to other
equipment of the Department, or collect such costs from the customer.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
§ 51.34 PERMITS FOR INSTALLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lay, repair, alter, or connect any
water line to the town culinary water system without first having obtained a
construction permit from the officer or the Clerk, or from the Water
Superintendent.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.35 APPLICATIONS OF INSTALLATION PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   Applications for permits to make water connections or other
alteration, or for laying or repairing lines connected directly or indirectly
to the town water system, must be made in writing by a licensed plumber, his or
her authorized agent, or by the owner of the premises who shall describe the
nature of the work to be done for which the application is made.
      (2)   The application shall be granted if the Water Superintendent
determines that:
         (a)   The connection, repair, alteration, or installation will cause
no damage to the street in which the water main is laid, or that it will not be
prejudicial to the interests of persons whose property has been, or may
thereafter be, connected to the water main; or
         (b)   The connection conforms to the ordinances, regulations,
specification, and standards of materials required by the town.
      (3)   All connections, alterations, or installations shall be to the line
and grade designated by the Water Superintendent.
   (B)   Fees for permits or for inspection services shall be of such amounts
as the town shall from time to time determine by resolution.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
§ 51.36 MOVING OR REPLACEMENT OF WATER LINE.
   In the event that the town in its sole discretion determines that any water
line of the town must be moved or replaced, the town shall bear that portion of
the cost of such move or replacement which applies to main lines up to the
property line of the customer. The cost of reconnecting such new line or lines
from the house of the customer to his or her property line shall be borne by
the customer.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
§ 51.37 WHEN PERMITS SHALL NOT BE ISSUED.
   Permission to connect with the town water system shall not be given unless
the plumbing in the house or building to be connected meets the provision of
the building and plumbing codes of the town.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
§ 51.38 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Water for fire hydrants will be furnished free of charge by the town.
Installation and repairs on such hydrants shall be at the expense of the town,
and shall be made under the direction of the town. All customers shall grant
the town, upon demand, a right-of-way or easement to install and maintain such
hydrants on their premises if the town concludes that hydrants shall be so
installed for the protection of the residents of the town.
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
§ 51.39 LIMITING CULINARY WATER CONNECTIONS.
   No connection to the water system of the town shall be provided to any real
property, building, or structure located outside the municipal boundaries of
the town.
(Res. 11-01-2016, passed 11-8-2016)
§ 51.40 FORMS; APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Application for culinary water connection. Any person, other than a
subdivider or developer seeking multiple connections, who desires or is
required to secure a new connection to the culinary system, shall file with the
Water Department for each such connection, a written and signed connection
application in substantially the following form:
   TOWN OF GOSHEN
   APPLICATION FOR CULINARY WATER CONNECTION TO THE
   TOWN OF GOSHEN, UTAH:
      I hereby apply to the municipality of the Town of Goshen (“Town”) for
permission to connect my premises at ________________________________ with the
Town of Goshen culinary water system and hereby agree as follows:
   1.   The Town shall make the requested connection from its water main to and
including the distance and up to my property line. I agree to pay the Town such
connection fees as may be fixed by the governing body by resolution, ordinance
order of the Town, including also a deposit security charge, if so provided.
   2.   The work of extending the water connection from the nearest point to
which the Town installs its main to the place at which the water is to be used
shall be my responsibility and shall be performed at my sole cost.
   3.   The location of the service, whether on my premises or at some point
near my premises, may be decided solely by the Town.
   4.   I understand the Town reserves the right to the culinary and water
system upon my premises to be inspected by the town and I will cause the same
to be collected and improved at my own expense to meet the requirements of the
Town or of any other governmental agency having jurisdiction to regulated the
water system within the Town.
   5.   I will be bound by the rules, regulations, resolutions or ordinances
enacted now or hereafter by applicable to the Town applicable to the Town’s
culinary water system.
   6.   The main purpose for which the water connection will be used is for
culinary use.
   7.   The Town shall have free access to the lines and services installed
under this agreement and, at reasonable times, through my property, if
necessary.
   8.   Expressly grant a lien upon the premises above described so that any
delinquent water billings must be paid before any services can be provided to
any subsequent user or water at these premises. This lien shall bind any
subsequent owner, possessor, occupant, tenant, landlord or person or entity
using or requesting use of Town water at these premises.
   DATED THIS _____________ day of _____________________, 20______.
_______________________________
Applicant
   (B)   Application for water connection by subdivider. Whenever a subdivider
or developer desires or is required to install water connections and extensions
for a subdivision or development, the subdivider or developer shall enter into
a written extension agreement which shall constitute an application for
permission to make the extensions and connections and an agreement specifying
the terms and conditions under which the water extensions and connections shall
be made and the payments that shall be required.
   (C)   Application for water service. Any person who desires or is required
to secure water services when such service is available from the town water
system, shall file with the Water Department a written application and
agreement for the service which shall be in substantially the following form:
   The Town of Goshen, a Municipal Corporation of the State of Utah
   and; ______________________ hereafter Customer
   and; ______________________ hereafter Co-Signer
   Do agree as follows:
   1.   The Town of Goshen will provide the following services at the address
indicated on the New Residential Customer Water and Garbage. Set-Up Form
printed on the reverse side of this document which is hereby incorporated by
reference.
      Culinary Water
      Garbage Pickup
      The service shall be provided in accordance with State Law and municipal
ordinances and resolutions as requested on the Setup form at tares established
by ordinance or resolution of the Town of Goshen Town Council, provided that
the Town of Goshen shall not be responsible for failure to deliver services by
reason of strikes, accidents, acts of God, weather conditions, natural
disasters, whether declared or undeclared, State or other Governmental
regulation, or any other act or contingency beyond the Town’s control.
   2.   Customer shall pay such fees as shall be established by the Town
Council and shall further be subject to termination of services upon non-
payment or failure to comply with rules, regulations, ordinances or laws as
established by the Town Council. Customer acknowledges and agrees to pay
charges for the water deposit and connection fee, minimum water charges,
garbage pick-up, even in the event that the premises are vacant for extended
periods of time. Customer may eliminate minimum water charges and garbage
charges only upon requesting the Town of Goshen to terminate service. In such
event, Customer agrees to pay a reconnection fee to restore water service.
   3.   The Town of Goshen requires free unobstructed access to water meters at
all times.
   4.   Co-Signer does hereby agree and is hereby bound and is equally liable
with Customer to pay the Town of Goshen any amounts billed pursuant to this
contract.
   5.   In the event Customer defaults in payment, Co-Signer agrees to give the
Town of Goshen the right to attach any delinquent amount to Co-Signer’s
personal utility account. Co-Signer’s utility service will be subject to
disconnection if acceptable arrangements are not made with The Town of Goshen
to pay off said delinquent amount.
   6.   Customer and Co-Signer agree to pay reasonable attorney fees and a
$50.00 reconnection fee in the event collection becomes necessary. Customer
agrees if this location is a commercial establishment, the person(s) signing
this contract is (are) held personally liable for charges.
   7.   Customer and Co-Signer, if any, hereby warrant and affirm that the
information provided on the New Residential Water and Garbage Set-Up Form on
the reverse side of this sheet is true and correct to the best of their
knowledge.
   DATED this _____ day of ___________, 20___.
   CUSTOMER SIGNATURE                     CO-SIGNER
SIGNATURE____________________
   PRINT NAME OF PERSON SIGNING: ______________________
   PRINT NAME PERSON CO-SIGNING:_______________________
NEW RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER WATER & GARBAGE SET UP
   Application Date: _______________________________________________________
   New Service Date: ______________________________________________________
   Application Information
   Please Check: _______ Owner   ________ Renter   ________ Mobile Home
   ________ Land Lord   ________ Realtor
   Customer Name: _____________________ SSN: ________________ DOB: _________
   Address of Service:
   ______________________________________________________________
   ________________________________________________________________
   Mailing address:
__________________________________________________________________
   City: _______________ State: __________________ Zip:_________
   Customer’s Employer:
_______________________________________________________________
   Home Telephone: ______________________________
   Work Telephone: ______________________________
   Cellular Telephone: __________________________
   Nearest Relative Not Living with You: __________________________________
                              __________________________________
                              __________________________________
                              __________________________________
   Have you or your spouse ever had an account with the Town of Goshen?
   ______Yes ____No Under What Name? _______________________________
   CUSTOMER SIGNATURE: ____________________________ DATE: ______________
   CO-SIGNER SIGNATURE: ____________________________ DATE: _______________
   FOR OFFICE USE ONLY: Utility Account No:
________________________________________
                     DEPOSIT:_____________________ DATE:_____________________
   (D)   Non-owner applicant; agreement of owner. Applications for water
service made by the tenant of any owner must, in addition to the above
requirements, be guaranteed by an agreement signed by the owner of the
premises, or his or her duly authorized agent, in substantially the following
form:
   In consideration of the acceptance of the application for water service
submitted by (tenant), I or we will pay for all charges, fees and costs at
(premises) in case such tenant or occupant shall fail to pay for the same
according to the ordinances, rules and regulations or resolutions enacted by
the Town.”
   I expressly grant a lien upon the premises above described so that any
delinquent water billings must be paid before any services can be provided to
any subsequent user of water at these premises. This lien shall bind any
subsequent owner, possessor, occupant, tenant, landlord or person or entity
using or requesting use of Town water at these premises.
   DATED THIS _____________ day of _____________________, 20______.
_______________________________
(Ord. 2004-29, passed - -2004)
DRINKING WATER
§ 51.55 TITLE, APPLICABILITY, AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Title. This subchapter shall be known as the “Goshen Town Drinking
Water Source Protection Ordinance.” The provisions of this subchapter shall be
effective within the boundaries of the town, and outside said boundaries to the
extent permitted by UCA § 10-8-15, and shall set prohibitions and restrictions
to prevent contamination of the public drinking water supply of the town as a
result of hazardous and toxic substances entering the groundwater, including
wells and springs not owned by the town. This subchapter shall be liberally
construed to effect the purposes set forth herein.
   (B)   Applicability. It shall be the responsibility of any person owning
real property and/or owning or operating a business within the jurisdiction of
the town to conform and comply with the applicable provisions contained in this
subchapter. Ignorance of this provision shall not excuse any violations of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Authority. The town has the authority to adopt this subchapter to
facilitate compliance with drinking water source protection regulations
pursuant to Utah Administrative Rule § R309-600, “Drinking Water Source
Protection for Groundwater Sources,” and other such authorities and provisions
as in the statutory and common law of the state.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-13-2006; Ord. 2009-6-2, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 51.56 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect, preserve, and maintain
existing and potential public drinking water sources in order to safeguard the
public health, safety, and welfare of town residents and visitors. The intent
of this subchapter is to establish and designate drinking water source
protection zones for all sources of public drinking water within the town’s
boundaries and jurisdiction. This subchapter establishes criteria for
regulating the storage, handling, use, or production of hazardous or toxic
substances within identified areas where groundwater is, or could be, affected
by potential contamination sources. This shall be accomplished by the
designation and regulation of property uses and conditions that may be
maintained within such zones. Unless otherwise specified, the provisions of
this subchapter apply to new development and/or handling, movement, and storage
of potential hazardous materials.
   (B)   The degree of protection afforded by this subchapter is considered
adequate for regulatory purposes. This subchapter does not ensure that public
drinking water sources will not be subject to accidental or intentional
contamination, nor does it create liability on the part of the town, or an
officer or employee thereof, for any damages to the public drinking water
supplies from reliance on this subchapter, nor any administrative order
lawfully made thereunder.
   (C)   A notice to cease or an exemption issued under this subchapter shall
not relieve the owner of the obligation to comply with any other applicable
federal, state, regional, or local regulations, rules, ordinances, or
requirements, nor shall said notice or exemption relieve any owner of any
liability for violation of such regulations, rules, ordinances, or
requirements.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 51.57 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). A practice or combination of practices
determined to be the most effective practicable (including technological,
economic, and institutional considerations) means of preventing or reducing the
amount of pollution to a level compatible with water, soil, and air quality
goals.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Goshen, Utah.
   DEPARTMENT. The public agency, division, or department designated by the
town to enforce the provisions of this subchapter. For the town, the DEPARTMENT
is the Public Works with ultimate authority resting with the Engineering
Department.
   DESIGN STANDARD. A control which is implemented by a potential contamination
source to prevent discharges to the groundwater. Spill protection is an example
of a DESIGN STANDARD.
   DISCHARGE. Spilling, leaking, seeping, pouring, injecting, emitting,
emptying, disposing, releasing, or dumping regulated substances to the soils,
air, groundwater, or surface water of the town. Release does not include the
use of a regulated substance in accordance with the appropriate use intended or
specified by the manufacturer of substances, provided that such use is not
prohibited by federal, state or local regulations. Release shall not include
release specifically authorized by federal or state permits.
   GROUNDWATER DIVIDE. The topographic and/or the geologic strata that
physically divide the groundwater flow of one recharge area from another.
   GROUNDWATER SOURCE. Any well, spring, tunnel, adit, or other underground
opening from, or through, which groundwater flows or is pumped from subsurface
water-bearing formations.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. As defined by the EPA.
   LAND MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES. Zoning and non-zoning controls which include,
but are not limited to, the following: zoning and subdivision ordinances, site
plan review, design and operating standards, source prohibitions, purchase of
property and development rights, public education programs, groundwater
monitoring, household hazardous waste collection programs, water conservation
programs, memoranda of understanding, written contracts and agreements, and so
forth.
   POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined, and discrete source of pollutants
or contaminants, including, but not limited to, any site, pipe, ditch, channel,
tunnel, conduit, well, discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, animal
feeding operation with more than ten animal units, landfill, or vessel, or
other floating craft, from which pollutants are or may be discharged.
   POLLUTION SOURCE. Point source discharges of contaminants to groundwater or
potential discharges of the liquid forms of EXTREMELY HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES
which are stored in containers in excess of “applicable threshold planning
quantities” as specified in SARA Title III. Examples of possible POLLUTION
SOURCES include, but are not limited to, the following: storage facilities that
store the liquid forms of extremely hazardous substances, septic tanks, drain
fields, Class V underground injection wells, landfills, open dumps, landfilling
of sludge and septage, manure piles, salt piles, pit privies, drain lines, and
animal feeding operations with more than ten animal units. The following
clarify the definition of POLLUTION SOURCE:
      (1)   ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION. A lot or facility where the following
conditions are met: animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed or
maintained for a total of 45 days or more in any 12-month period, and crops,
vegetation forage growth, or post-harvest residues are not sustained in the
normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility. Two or more
animal feeding operations under common ownership are considered to be a single
feeding operation if they adjoin each other, if they use a common area, or if
they use a common system for the disposal of wastes.
      (2)   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measurement for any animal feeding operation
calculated by adding the following numbers: the number of slaughter and feeder
cattle multiplied by one, plus the number of mature dairy cattle multiplied by
1.4, plus the number of swine weighing over 55 pounds multiplied by 0.4, plus
the number of sheep multiplied by one, plus the number of horses multiplied by
two.
      (3)   EXTREMELY HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Those substances which are
identified in the § 302 (EHS) column of the “Title III List of Lists:
Consolidated List of Chemicals Subject to the Emergency Planning and Community
Right-to-Know Act (EPCRA) and § 112(R) of the Clean Air Act,” as amended (55
OB98017). A copy of this document may be obtained from: NCEPI, PO Box 42419,
Cincinnati, OH 45202. Online ordering is also available at https://www.epa.gov/
epcra/consolidated-list-lists.
   POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE. Any facility or site which employs an
activity or procedure which may potentially contaminate groundwater. A
POLLUTION SOURCE is also a POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE.
   REGULATORY AGENCY. Any government agency with jurisdiction over HAZARDOUS
WASTE, as defined herein.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
   SARA TITLE III. The Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act section
found in 40 CFR § 300-302, pertaining to emergency response and right-to-know.
   SEPTIC TANK/DRAINFIELD SYSTEMS. A system which is comprised of a septic tank
and a drainfield which accepts domestic wastewater from buildings or facilities
for subsurface treatment and disposal. By their design, SEPTIC TANK/DRAINFIELD
SYSTEM discharges cannot be controlled with design standards.
   TOWN. The Town of Goshen, Utah.
   WELLHEAD. The physical structure, facility, or device at the land surface
from, or through which, groundwater flows or is pumped from subsurface water-
bearing formations.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 51.58 ESTABLISHMENT OF DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION ZONES.
   There are hereby established use districts to be known as Zones One, Two,
Three, and Four of the drinking water source protection area, identified and
described as follows.
   (A)   Zone One is the area within a 100-foot radius from the wellhead or
margin of the spring collection area.
   (B)   Zone Two is the area within a 250-day groundwater time of travel to
the wellhead or margin of the spring collection area, the boundary of the
aquifer(s) which supplies water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater
divide, whichever is closer. If the available data indicate a zone of increased
groundwater velocity within the producing aquifer(s), time-of-travel
calculations shall be based on this data.
   (C)   Zone Three is the area within a three-year groundwater time of travel
to the wellhead or margin of the spring collection area, the boundary of the
aquifer(s) which supplies water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater
divide, whichever is closer. If the available data indicate a zone of increased
groundwater velocity within the producing aquifer(s), time-of-travel
calculations shall be based on this data.
   (D)   Zone Four is the area within a 15-year ground water time of travel to
the wellhead or margin of the spring collection area, the boundary of the
aquifer(s) which supplies water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater
divide, whichever is closer. If the available data indicate a zone of increased
groundwater velocity within the producing aquifer(s), time-of-travel
calculations shall be based on this data.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 51.59 ALLOWED USES.
   The following uses shall be allowed within drinking water source protection
zones.
   (A)   Any use permitted within existing Agricultural, Single-Family
Residential, Multi-family Residential, and Commercial Districts so long as uses
conform to the rules and regulations of the regulatory agencies.
   (B)   Any other land use where any building located on the property is
incidental and accessory to the primary open land use.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 51.60 PROHIBITED USES.
   The following uses or conditions shall be, and are hereby, prohibited within
the designated drinking water source protection zones, whether or not such use
or condition may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use allowed
under §
51.59.
   (A)   Zone One. The location of any uncontrolled potential contamination
source.
   (B)   Zone Two. The location of a pollution source unless its contaminated
discharges can be controlled with design standards.
   (C)   Zones Three and Four. The location of a potential contamination source
unless it can be controlled through land management strategies.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-13-2006)
§ 51.61 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Inspections.
      (1)   The town has the right and obligation to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter. An authorized officer of the town has the right to conduct
inspections of facilities to determine compliance with the subchapter.
      (2)   The authorized officer shall inform the Town Council, as deemed
appropriate, of the results of the inspection and whether violations were
noted.
      (3)   Non-compliance with the provisions of the subchapter is a
violation. If the facility is not complying with the requirements of the
subchapter, penalties (for example, citations of non-compliance, orders to
cease operations, or administrative penalties) may be assessed.
   (B)   Notice of violations.
      (1)   If it is determined that there is a violation of this subchapter,
but the violation does not pose an immediate threat to public health, the town
shall issue a notice of violation. The notice of violation shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Be dated and signed by the authorized town agent that made the
inspection or determined the violation;
         (c)   Specify the violation or violations;
         (d)   Provide a specific date that the violations will be corrected
by; and
         (e)   State that if the violation is not collected by a specific date,
a hearing may be requested before the Town Council.
      (2)   The person who receives the notice of violation has the opportunity
to correct the violation within a reasonable amount of time, as specified in
the notice of violation.
      (3)   (a)   If it is determined that there is a violation of this
subchapter, and the violation poses an immediate threat to public health, the
town shall issue a cease and desist order.
         (b)   In the event that the person fails to comply with a cease and
desist order within the specified time period, the town may initiate
proceedings for issuance of penalties and other relief as necessary.
(Ord. 2009-6-2, passed 6-16-2009)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Failure to correct a violation by the date specified in a notice of
violation or failure to comply with a cease and desist order of the provisions
of §§
51.55 through
51.61, and constitutes a Class B misdemeanor, punishable as provided by law.
Sections
51.55 through
51.61 may also be enforced by injunction, mandamus, abatement, civil fines, or
any other appropriate action in law or equity.
(Ord. 2009-6-2, passed 6-16-2009)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
52.01   Combustible waste materials
Cross-reference
   Health and sanitation regulations, see
Chapter 90
§ 52.01 COMBUSTIBLE WASTE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Waste accumulation prohibited. Combustible waste material creating a
fire hazard shall not be allowed to accumulate in buildings or structures, or
upon premises.
   (B)   Waste material. Accumulations of wastepaper, wood, hay, straw, weeds,
litter, or combustible or flammable waste or rubbish of any type shall not be
permitted to remain on a roof or in any court, yard, vacant lot, alley, parking
lot, open space, or beneath a grandstand, bleacher, pier, wharf, manufactured
home, recreational vehicle, or other similar structure.
   (C)   Vegetation. Weeds, grass, vines, or other growth that is capable of
being ignited and endangering property, shall be cut down and removed by the
owner or occupant of the premises. Vegetation clearance requirements in urban-
wildland interface areas shall be in accordance with the International
Wildland-Urban Interface Code.
   (D)   Removal of combustibles.
      (1)   Persons owning or in charge, or control, of a vacant building, or
portion thereof, shall remove therefrom all accumulations of combustible
materials, and flammable or combustible waste or rubbish, and shall securely
lock or otherwise secure doors, windows, and other openings to prevent entry by
unauthorized persons. The premises shall be maintained clear of waste or
hazardous materials.
      (2)   Exceptions are as follows.
         (a)   Buildings, or portions of buildings, undergoing additions,
alterations, repairs, or change of occupancy in accordance with the
International Building Code, where waste is controlled and removed as required.
         (b)   Seasonally occupied buildings.
   (E)   Outside storage.
      (1)   Outside storage of combustible materials shall not be located
within ten feet (3,048 millimeters) of a lot line.
      (2)   Exceptions are as follows.
         (a)   The separation distance is allowed to be reduced to three feet
(914 millimeters) for storage not exceeding six feet (1,829 millimeters) in
height.
         (b)   The separation distance is allowed to be reduced where the Fire
Code Official determines that no hazard to the adjoining property exists.
(“Combustible Waste Material” document)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   General provisions
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Standard regulations
   
70.04   Time limitations
   
70.05   Seasonal limitations for parking
   
70.06   Compliance required, fines, impoundment
§ 70.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Citation. This chapter shall be referred to as the town parking code.
   (B)   Applicability. This chapter is applicable on all public ways within
the town limits.
   (C)   Tow enforcement. Because unlawfully parked cars prevent access to
large areas by emergency vehicles and snow plows, as well as local residents,
the County Sheriff’s Department, acting as the Town Police Department, is
authorized to enforce this chapter by towing or otherwise removing vehicles
parked in violation of this chapter without first having given notice to the
owner of the vehicle that it may be towed if not removed.
   (D)   Regulations not exclusive. The parking regulations established by this
chapter are not all encompassing, and additional regulations may be established
by posting permanent or seasonal signs stating the additional regulation
imposed, or by law enforcement officers directing traffic during periods of
heavy traffic volume or during periods of emergencies.
   (E)   Presumption of responsibility. The presence of any vehicle on any
street which is parked in violation of the regulations of this chapter is prima
facie evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle parked the vehicle in
violation of this chapter, or permitted others to park his or her vehicle in
violation of this chapter, and is deemed responsible for the violation and for
the fine imposed.
(Ord. 2020-06-01, passed - -)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   DELIVERY VEHICLES. Includes any motor vehicle being used for the purpose of
loading or delivering goods or cargo to businesses or individuals.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, motorcycle, trailer, backhoe, loader,
or other piece of construction machinery, and every other means of conveyance
of persons or cargo included within the State Motor Vehicle Code.
   PARKING. Stopping, standing or leaving a motor vehicle in a fixed spot or
location on a street for any length of time, except when required to stop or
stand because of the flow of traffic or to yield to other traffic, or in
compliance with the requirements of traffic control devices or law enforcement
officers.
   STREET. Every street, alley, roadway, or parking lot and five feet either
side thereof under the control and/or maintenance of the town, whether on
public or private property. The term STREET shall not include private driveways
or private roadways.
(Ord. 2020-06-01, passed - -)
§ 70.03 STANDARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Parking may not obstruct traffic. No person shall park a vehicle on a
street in any manner that obstructs a street, sidewalk, or driveway and impedes
the free movement of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   Stopping or parking on streets.
      (1)   No person shall park a vehicle, whether attended or not attended,
on the traveled portion of a street when it is possible under the existing
conditions to park the vehicle off the traveled portion of the street. When
stopping or parking a vehicle, it must be parked in a manner that leaves an
unobstructed width along the vehicle for the passage of other vehicles.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to vehicles which are parked as a
result of mechanical failures or are otherwise disabled to an extent that the
vehicle cannot be moved out of the traffic lane. It is the duty of the owner or
operator of the disabled vehicle to activate warning lights on the vehicle, and
to open the hood in order to give notice to other vehicles on the street that
traffic is blocked by a disabled vehicle. It is also the duty of the owner or
operator of a disabled vehicle to obtain assistance as soon as possible under
the circumstances to have the disabled vehicle removed from the traffic lane.
   (C)   Parking for certain purposes prohibited. It shall be unlawful to park
a vehicle on any street or within any public parking facility for the following
purposes.
      (1)   Displaying the vehicle for sale.
      (2)   Greasing, servicing, or repairing the vehicle, except to the extent
necessary under emergency conditions to move a disabled vehicle.
      (3)   Displaying of advertising.
      (4)   Selling food or other merchandise, or soliciting orders for food or
merchandise, except when properly licensed by the town to do so.
      (5)   Camping or other habitation.
   (D)   Condition of unattended vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person
to park a vehicle on a street or public parking lot without stopping the
engine, locking the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition, and if
the vehicle is parked on a readily perceptible grade, the wheels must be turned
toward the curb or edge of the road and the parking brake set.
   (E)   Double parking. No person shall park a vehicle on a street at the side
of another vehicle which is also parked, except while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers or cargo, and except when complying with the
instructions of a police officer, allowing an emergency vehicle to pass, or
when necessary to avoid other traffic.
   (F)   Parallel parking. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in a manner
other than parallel with the curb or shoulder of the street, with the front of
the vehicle facing the direction of traffic flow, with the right-hand wheels
(passenger side) not more than 18 inches from the curb, shoulder, or snow bank,
whichever is nearer to the traffic lane.
   (H)   Angle parking. Angle parking is permitted only when designated by
posted signs, and then, only when conditions are such that angle parking does
not result in obstruction of the driving lanes such that traffic has to deviate
from its normal course to avoid the parked vehicles. Further, no vehicle in
excess of 20 feet in length shall park in an angled parking place at any time.
   (I)   Overnight parking, camping. It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle on
a public street, or within a public parking lot, or within public parks,
playing fields, or other areas for purposes of overnight camping, sleeping or
other habitation.
   (J)   Parking on narrow alleys and streets prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on any street
or alley in a manner that obstructs the flow of traffic on that street by
failing to leave an unobstructed lane of at least 12 feet in width for passing
traffic.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to park opposite another parked vehicle so as
to leave less than a 12-foot wide traffic lane, or in any other manner to
obstruct the free movement of traffic through the alley or narrow street.
   (K)   Lighting requirements.
      (1)   The owner or operator of a vehicle is not required to provide any
warning lights on any lawfully parked vehicle. Any vehicle that is parked so as
to obstruct the normal flow of traffic, whether illegally parked or disabled in
traffic, shall display one or more lights to the front and rear which are
visible from a distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   The light shown to the front of the vehicle shall be white or
amber, and the light shown to the rear of the vehicle shall be red. If the
headlights are left on, they shall be set on the dimmed setting.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the owner or operator of a vehicle so
parked to open the hood as an additional warning to other motorists, and to
keep the lights free of snow, mud, or other obstructions so the lights are
clearly displayed.
   (L)   Parking of unregistered vehicle and trailers prohibited. No person who
owns or has possession, custody, or control of any unregistered vehicle,
utility trailer, house trailer, boat trailer, or any other type of vehicle or
trailer, shall park or store such vehicle upon any public street or town right-
of-way.
   (M)   Parking of large trucks prohibited. No person who owns or has
possession, custody, or control of any truck having ten wheels or more shall
park such truck on any town street or town right-of- way overnight.
(Ord. 2020-06-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 TIME LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person who owns or has possession, custody, or control of any
dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable vehicle, machinery or
equipment, or parts thereof, shall park or store such stated items upon any
public street or town right-of-way for a period of time exceeding 72 hours,
except as may be permitted under pertinent provisions of other ordinances of
the town.
   (B)   A person may not move a vehicle or leave and reenter a parking space
for the sole purpose of avoiding the effect of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-06-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 SEASONAL LIMITATIONS FOR PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in a manner that obstructs snow
removal by failing to leave adequate room for passage of plows and other
removal equipment. Vehicles so parked are subject to citation and or
impoundment.
(Ord. 2020-06-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED, FINES, IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Compliance required. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in
violation of the regulations established by this chapter, or in violation of
regulations contained on posted signs.
   (B)   Obligation of owner to move vehicle. It is the obligation of the owner
or operator of a vehicle to remove that vehicle when it is illegally parked.
When an officer finds an illegally parked vehicle that is impeding traffic or
snow removal, the officer is authorized to move the vehicle to the extent
necessary to remove the obstruction, including towing the vehicle to an impound
yard.
   (C)   Nature of violation. Violations of this chapter are criminal
violations and designated as infractions.
      (1)   In lieu of a criminal citation for violations of this title, there
is hereby established an administrative civil fee which may be assessed by
means of an administrative citation-issued by an enforcement official of the
town as follows.
         (a)   Class I violations shall be those which deprive disabled persons
of access to designated parking areas and access ramps. The initial fee for
Class I violations shall be the sum of $100. However, in the event the fee is
not paid within a timely fashion after receipt of the citation, the fee shall
be as follows:
            1.   After ten days: $125;
            2.   After 20 days: $150;
            3.   After 30 days: $170; and
            4.   After 60 days: $185.
         (b)   Class II violations shall be those which hamper the ability of
police, fire, EMS, or public works officials to properly carry out their
official duties and jeopardize the public health, safety, and welfare by the
violation. The initial fee for Class II violations shall be the sum of $50.
However, in the event the fee is not paid within a timely fashion after receipt
of the citation, the fee shall be as follows:
            1.   After ten days: $60;
            2.   After 20 days: $65;
            3.   After 30 days: $70; and
            4.   After 60 days: $105.
         (c)   Class III violations shall be those which impede the free
movement of vehicular and/or pedestrian traffic. The initial fee for Class III
violations shall be the sum of $30. However, in the event the fee is not paid
within a timely fashion after receipt of the citation, the fee shall be as
follows:
            1.   After ten days: $45;
            2.   After 20 days: $60;
            3.   After 30 days: $75; and
            4.   After 60 days: $90.
         (d)   Class IV violations shall be all other violations which are not
Class I, II, or III violations. The initial fee for Class IV violations shall
be the: sum of $15. However, in the event the fee is not paid within a timely
fashion after receipt of the citation, the fee shall be as follows:
            1.   After ten days: $25;
            2.   After 20 days: $32;
            3.   After 30 days: $45; and
            4.   After 60 days: $68.
   (2)   Any person receiving an administrative citation who wishes to
challenge the citation, may request a hearing before the administrative law
judge.
   (D)   Towing costs. In addition to a fine on the violation, the owner of the
vehicle is responsible for paying towing fees and impound fees for the release
of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2019-03-02, passed - -2019; Ord. 2020-06-01, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   CEMETERIES
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Litter Control
   
90.01   Storage on private property
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference
   Combustible materials, see §
52.01
LITTER CONTROL
§ 90.01 STORAGE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to store (whether open or in containers) any trash,
debris, used materials, or commercial goods, or wrecked or neglected materials,
equipment, or vehicle of any kind, or parts thereof, that is in a wrecked,
junked, dismantled, inoperative, or abandoned condition, in the front yard area
of a property (defined as the area between the street frontage line to the main
structure on the lot), except for temporary use as needed for construction or
disposal.
(Ord. 2019-03-01, passed 3-12-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §
90.01 is guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 2019-03-01, passed 3-12-2019)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Animal control regulations
   
91.002   Copies on file
   
91.003   Definitions
   
91.004   Livestock
   
91.005   Kennel regulations
   
91.006   General regulations
Administration
   
91.020   Enforcement
   
91.021   Power, authority of Animal Regulation Officer
   
91.022   Investigation
   
91.023   Hindering, obstructing enforcement
   
91.024   Authority to arrest, take possession of dogs, property
   
91.025   Officers authority to take possession of animals; lien for care
   
91.026   Loss of privilege to maintain dog
Conduct and Prohibited Acts
   
91.040   Wild animals
   
91.041   Running at large
   
91.042   Public nuisance
   
91.043   Attacks by dogs
   
91.044   Vicious animals
   
91.045   Possession of a vicious dog
   
91.046   Judicially excluded animals
   
91.047   Cruelty to animals
   
91.048   Dog, animal fighting
   
91.049   Number of animals
Impoundment
   
91.060   Authorized
   
91.061   Animals to be impounded
   
91.062   Capture by individuals
   
91.063   Information upon relinquishment
   
91.064   Notice to owner
   
91.065   Redemption by owner
   
91.066   Holding period
   
91.067   Disposal of unredeemed animals
   
91.068   Destruction of animals
   
91.069   Vaccinations
   
91.070   Establishment of animal disposal facilities
Licensing and Registration
   
91.085   Licenses generally
   
91.086   Exceptions
   
91.087   Vaccination; dogs, cats
   
91.088   Voluntary registration of cats
   
91.089   Dog license
   
91.090   Kennel permit
Rabies Control
   
91.110   Report of bites
   
91.111   Report suspected; rabid animals
   
91.112   Quarantined for ten days; biting, suspected rabid animals
   
91.113   Examination of head
   
91.114   Domesticated animals
   
91.115   Release
   
91.116   Animals possibly exposed to rabies
Cats and Dogs
   
91.130   Cats
   
91.131   Guard dogs
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS.
   There is hereby adopted by the town for the purpose of establishing
guidelines for animal control regulation, the body of law known as the Animal
Control Regulations.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.002 COPIES ON FILE.
   Three copies of each code adopted by §
91.001 are hereby ordered filed in the office of the town for the use and
examination by the public.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Birds, reptiles, and mammals other than the genus homo sapiens.
   ANIMAL AT LARGE. Any domesticated animal, whether or not licensed, not under
restraint.
   ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT. Any animal under control of its owner or persons
having charge, care, custody, or control. Except that a dog shall not be
considered under the control of the owner unless on a leash or lead, confined
within a vehicle, or within the fenced real property limits of the owner.
   BITE. An actual puncture, tear, or abrasion of the skin, inflicted by the
teeth of an animal.
   CAT. Any age feline of the domesticated types.
   COUNTY ANIMAL SHELTER. The lot, premises, or buildings maintained by the
county for the confinement and care of the animals seized under the provisions
of this chapter.
   DEPARTMENT. The County Sheriff, and his or her agents and deputies.
   DOG. A Canis Familiaris of either sex, altered, or unaltered, or any other
member of the canis genus if owned or kept.
   DOG LICENSE. A properly completed and validated dog license application
issued by the town.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMAL. Any animal accustomed to live in or about the
habitation of humans, including, but not limited to, cats, dogs, and fowl.
   GUARD DOG. A working dog which must be kept in a fenced run or other
suitable enclosure during business hours, or on leash or under absolute control
while working, so it cannot come into contact with the public.
   IMPOUNDED ANIMAL. Any animal taken into custody by the Department as
provided in this chapter.
   KENNEL. Any lot, building, structure, enclosure, or premises whereupon or
wherein three or more dogs over four months of age are kept or maintained for
any purpose, including boarding, breeding, buying, grooming, letting for hire,
training for a fee, or selling.
   LEASH. Any rope, leather strap, chain, or other material being held in the
hand of the person capable of control and actually controlling the animal to
which it is tied.
   LICENSED DOG. A dog wearing its current dog license tag as required by this
chapter.
   LICENSE TAG. A piece of metal or other durable material inscribed with a
date and number which has been issued by the town.
   NEUTERED. Having had the testicles removed; a castrated animal.
   OWNER.
      (1)   Any person, firm, association, or corporation, who is either the
legal owner, keeper, possessor, or the actual custodian of an animal.
      (2)   OWNERSHIP is established by a person registering as owner on a
license or other legal document or being a person claiming ownership and taking
possession of an animal.
   QUARANTINE. The isolation of an animal under the observation of a licensed
veterinarian or in the custody of the animal shelter in a substantial enclosure
so that the animal is not subject to contact with other animals or unauthorized
persons.
   SPAYED. Having had the ovaries and uterus removed or extirpated; an
ovariohysterectomy.
   STRAY. An animal which is at large.
   TOWN. The incorporated area of Goshen, Utah.
   VACCINATED DOG. A dog inoculated with an approved, currently valid, anti-
rabies vaccine, and wearing a current dog license tag indicating proof of such
vaccination.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   (a)   With a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury to, or to otherwise endanger the safety of humans
or other domestic animals.
         (b)   Which attacks a human being or other domestic animal without
provocation.
         (c)   Which is trained or used as a fighting animal.
      (2)   This term shall not apply to dog owned or used by government
entity.
   WILD ANIMALS.
      (1)   Any animals of a species that, in their natural life, are wild,
including hybrids and animals which, as a result of their natural or wild
condition, cannot be vaccinated effectively for rabies. These animals, however
domesticated, shall be limited to:
         (a)   Alligators and crocodiles;
         (b)   Bears (Ursidae), all bears, including grizzly bears, brown
bears, black bears, and the like;
         (c)   Cat family (Felidae), all except the commonly accepted
domesticated cats, and including cheetah, cougars, leopards, lions, lynx,
panthers, mountain lions, tigers, wildcats, and the like;
         (d)   Dog family (Canidae), all except domesticated dogs, and
including wolves, part wolf, foxes, part fox, coyotes, part coyote, dingos, and
the like;
         (e)   Porcupine (Erethizontidae);
         (f)   Primate (non-human), all subhuman primates;
         (g)   Raccoon (Prosynnidae), all raccoons, including easter raccoons,
desert raccoons, ring-tailed cats, and the like;
         (h)   Skunks;
         (i)   Venomous fish and piranha;
         (j)   Venomous snakes and lizards; and
         (k)   Weasels (Mustelidae), all including weasels, martens,
wolverines, ferrets, badgers, otters, ermine, mink, mongoose, and the like.
      (2)   Despite the restrictions stated above, there shall be an exception
granted to persons raising WILD ANIMALS, as defined, for their pelts as a
legitimate commercial purpose.
      (3)   The keeping of any WILD ANIMAL which existed prior to the effective
date of this chapter may be continued, except that if it is discontinued for
one year or more it shall then be deemed abandoned, and any future keeping of
wild animals shall be in conformity with this chapter.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.004 LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   All fencing of property where a class of livestock or fowl are kept
shall be of sufficient construction to prevent the escape of, or injury to, the
animals being confined within the fencing. The fencing shall be maintained so
that no part of such fence, absent extraordinary circumstance, may be broken,
damaged, or in any way create the possibility of injury to the confined animal,
or to allow the escape thereof.
   (B)   Any animal in violation of this section may be impounded.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.005 KENNEL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      CAGES. Individual, portable facilities for containing dogs.
      EXERCISE YARD. An area enclosed by a fence of at least six feet in height
wherein dogs are allowed to run and exercise. Every portion of an exercise yard
fence shall be separate and removed from any property boundary fence.
      FENCING. Unless otherwise authorized, shall mean a good grade commercial
chain link, carried on solid posts set in concrete; suggested minimum is 11
gauge wire, with two-inch steel posts set on no greater than ten-foot spans.
      KENNEL. Any lot, building, structure, enclosure, or premises whereupon or
wherein three or more dogs over four months of age are kept or maintained for
any purpose, including boarding, breeding, buying, grooming, letting for hire,
training for a fee, or selling.
      KENNEL BUILDING. A permanent structure designed, intended, or used
exclusively for the housing of dogs.
      KENNEL RUN (INSIDE). The separated area inside a kennel building used for
the interior housing of dogs.
      KENNEL RUN (OUTSIDE). An area adjacent to a kennel building and enclosed
by a fence at least six feet in height.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   License. Each kennel must have a current valid kennel license and a
current valid business license in those areas which require a business license
in addition to a kennel license. Such licenses are required to be displayed and
readily available for inspection by any authorized person.
      (2)   Records. A kennel record must be kept available for inspection,
such record to show: the name, current address, and telephone number of the
owner of the dog, the date the dog entered the kennel, the reason for its being
in the kennel (for example, for boarding, sale, breeding, grooming, and the
like), and the description of the dog (age, breed, sex, color, and the like).
On any dog over four months of age, a current valid rabies certificate shall be
maintained as a part of this record, as long as the dog is maintained in the
kennel.
   (C)   Physical facilities. The basic intent of these regulations is to see
that all animals receive proper care, that they are being treated kindly,
properly fed, and that their surroundings are being kept in a sanitary
condition.
      (1)   Outdoor facilities. Outdoor facilities shall be provided with
windbreaks, roofing, and shelter adequate to protect the animals from the
weather. They shall be adequately drained and maintained in a sanitary manner.
Adequate and sanitary means of disposing of droppings shall be provided. All
kennel runs shall be fenced (chain link or welded wire), such fence to be
separate and apart from property boundary fence. Kennel runs shall have a
minimum free and clear area of ten square feet per dog. Kennels shall not be
left unattended for a period in excess of 24 hours. All animals shall be
supplied with sufficient good and wholesome food and fresh water as the feeding
habits of such animals require.
      (2)   Inspections. All areas of kennel runs, yards, food storage, and
auxiliary buildings shall be subject to inspection by authorized persons.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.006 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Every person within the town who owns any animal or who owns, conducts,
manages, or operates any animal establishment for which a license is required
is also required by this chapter to adhere to the following provisions.
   (A)   Structural strength. Housing facilities for animals shall be
structurally sound and shall be maintained in good repair, to protect the
animals from injury, to contain the animals, and to restrict the entrance of
other animals.
   (B)   Food, water. All animals shall be supplied with sufficient good and
wholesome food and fresh water as often as the feeding habits of the respective
animals require.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions. All animals and all animal buildings or enclosure
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (D)   Excessive odor and noise. All animals shall be so maintained so as to
eliminate excessive odor and noise.
   (E)   Supervision. No animal shall be without attention more than 24
consecutive hours. However, this provision shall not apply to livestock.
Livestock shall be attended at reasonable intervals.
   (F)   Humane treatment. Animals shall be treated humanly and no conditions
shall be maintained or permitted that is or could be injurious to the animal.
   (G)   Prevention of escape. Animal buildings and enclosures shall be so
constructed and maintained as to prevent escape of the animal. All reasonable
precautions shall be taken to protect the public from the animal and the animal
from the public.
   (H)   Sanitation and ventilation. Every building or enclosure wherein
animals are maintained shall be constructed of a material easily cleaned, and
shall be properly ventilated to prevent drafts and to remove odors. Heating,
cooling, and shelter shall be provided as required according to the physical
need of the animal, with sufficient light to allow observation of animals and
sanitation.
   (I)   Medical treatment. Medical treatment shall be provided as necessary in
order to maintain the health of the animals.
   (J)   Size. All animal rooms, cages, kennels, and runs shall be of
sufficient size to provide adequate and proper accommodations for the animals
kept therein.
   (K)   Incompatibility. Owners shall not allow animals which are natural
enemies, temperamentally unsuited, or otherwise incompatible, to be quartered
together or so near each other as to cause injury, fear, or torment.
   (L)   Wild animals. All wild animals permitted pursuant to this chapter
shall be maintained in buildings, enclosed yards, or cages as specified by the
coordinator, and such shall be kept at distances from adjacent buildings as
specified in the town zoning ordinances.
   (M)   Sheriff's Department. Representatives of the County Sheriff’s
Department, or other duly designated representatives of the town, may enter any
premises where animals are maintained for investigation or inspection as to
whether or not any portion of such premises, building, structure, enclosure,
pen, or cage is being used, kept, or maintained in violation of this chapter or
any other town ordinance. This section does not permit any person to enter a
private dwelling except where necessary to rescue an animal.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 91.020 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Department, each agent or deputy thereof who is assigned to duties which
include the enforcement of animal regulation laws, and any peace officer, are
responsible for enforcing the provisions of this chapter and other provisions
of state law which they have a duty to enforce. Each of the individuals
referred to in division (A)(1) above shall have the power to make arrests for
violations of those provisions of this chapter and of state law which he or she
has a duty to enforce, and to issue citations for such violations. In the
enforcement of any provisions of this chapter, any animal control officer,
police officer, or authorized agent or deputy may enter the premises of any
person to take possession of any animal in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.021 POWER, AUTHORITY OF ANIMAL REGULATION OFFICER.
   In the performance of his or her duties, the County Animal Control Officer
is hereby vested with the power and authority of officers within the County
Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.022 INVESTIGATION.
   The Department, Public Health Officer, and any peace officer may enter
privately owned land to investigate reports of vicious animals, rabies, or
other contagious animal diseases, and to investigate violations of, and enforce
the provisions of, this chapter.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.023 HINDERING, OBSTRUCTING ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder, or
prevent the animal control officer from discharging his or her duties.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.024 AUTHORITY TO ARREST, TAKE POSSESSION OF DOGS, PROPERTY.
   (A)   A deputy animal control officer may enter any place, building, or
tenement where an exhibition of dog fighting is occurring, or where
preparations are being made for such an exhibition, and, without a warrant,
arrest all persons present.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
91.049, any authorized officer who makes an arrest under division (A) above may
lawfully take possession of all dogs, paraphernalia, implements, or other
property or things used or employed, or to be employed, in an exhibition of dog
fighting prohibited by §§
91.048(A)(6) or
91.048(B).
      (2)   The officer, at the time of that taking, shall state his or her
name and provide other identifying information to the person in charge of the
dogs or property taken.
   (C)   (1)   After taking possession of dogs, paraphernalia, implements, or
other property under division (B) above, the officer shall file an affidavit
with the judge or magistrate before whom a complaint has been made against any
person arrested under this section.
      (2)   The affidavit shall include:
         (a)   The name of the person charged in the complaint;
         (b)   A description of all property taken;
         (c)   The time and place of the taking;
         (d)   The name of the person from whom the property was taken;
         (e)   The name of the person who claims to own the property, if known;
and
         (f)   A statement that the officer has reason to believe and does
believe that the property taken was used or employed, or was to be used or
employed, in violation of §§
91.048(A)(6) or
91.048(B) and the grounds for such a belief.
   (D)   (1)   The officer shall deliver the confiscated property to the judge
or magistrate who shall, by order, place the property in the custody of the
officer or any other person designated in the order, and that person shall keep
the property until conviction or final discharge of the person against whom the
complaint was made. The person so designated shall assume immediate custody of
that property, and retain that property until further order of the court.
      (2)   Upon conviction of the person charged, all confiscated property
shall be forfeited and destroyed or otherwise disposed of, as the court may
order. If the person charged is acquitted or discharged without conviction, the
court shall, on demand, order the property to be returned to its owner.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.025 OFFICER’S AUTHORITY TO TAKE POSSESSION OF ANIMALS; LIEN FOR CARE.
   (A)   Any law enforcement officer may take possession of any animal being
treated cruelly and, after reasonable efforts to notify the owner, may provide
shelter and care for them or upon permission of the owner destroy them.
   (B)   Officers caring for animals pursuant to this section have a lien for
the reasonable value of the care and/or destruction. Any court upon proof that
the owner has been notified of the lien and the amount due, at least five days
prior, shall order the animal sold at public auction or destroyed.
   (C)   Any law enforcement officer may humanely destroy any animal found
suffering past recovery for any useful purpose. Before destroying the animal,
the officer shall obtain the judgment of a veterinarian, or of two reputable
citizens called by him or her to view the animal in his or her presence, or
shall obtain consent to the destruction from the owner of the animal. Its owner
may be cited and/or charged for impound and sheltering fees.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.026 LOSS OF PRIVILEGE TO MAINTAIN DOG.
   If the owner or custodian of any dog is convicted of any violation of this
chapter on three or more different occasions during any 12-month period, the
town may issue an order denying the right of the owner or custodian to maintain
a dog in the town for a period of two years. Prior to final denial of such
privilege, written notice shall be sent to the owner’s or custodian’s last
known address informing the owner or custodian of the town’s intent to deny his
or her privilege of maintaining a dog in the town.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
CONDUCT AND PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 91.040 WILD ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, barter, give away,
keep, own, harbor, or purchase any wild animal, except for governmental
agencies or otherwise as provided for by state or federal regulations.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.041 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for the owner or person having charge, care,
custody, or control of any dog to allow such dog at any time to run at large.
The owner or person charged with responsibility for a dog found running at
large shall be strictly liable for any violation(s) committed by the dog,
regardless of whether or not the person knows the dog is running at large.
      (2)   However, dogs may be at large while participating in field trials
and obedience classes organized and sanctioned by recognized dog clubs, while
assisting their owner or trainer in legal hunting or in herding of livestock,
while assisting a peace officer engaged in law enforcement duties, or while
being trained for the above purposes so long as such dogs are under direct and
effective sound or gesture control within sight of such individuals to assure
that they do not violate any other provisions at law.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning or having the custody,
possession, or control of any animal of a class of livestock or fowl to allow,
either negligently or with specific intent, the animal to run at large.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.042 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   The introduction, possession, or maintenance of any animal, or the allowing
of any animal to be in contravention of this chapter is, in addition to being a
misdemeanor, hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The Department, Public
Health Officer, and peace officers are hereby authorized, directed, and
empowered to summarily abate any such public nuisance by any means reasonably
necessary, including, but not limited to, the destruction of the animal or
animals involved.
   (A)   Any animal which does any of the following shall be deemed a nuisance:
      (1)   Causes damage to the property of anyone other than its owner or
custodian;
      (2)   Is a vicious animal, as defined in this chapter, and kept in a
manner contrary to this chapter;
      (3)   Causes unreasonable fouling of the air by odors;
      (4)   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings;
      (5)   Defecates on any public sidewalk, park, or building, or on any
private property without the consent of the owner of such private property
unless the owner or custodian of such animal shall remove any such defecation
to a proper trash receptacle. Unsighted persons while relying on a guide dog
shall be exempt from this section;
      (6)   Barks, whines, or howls, or makes other disturbing noises in an
excessive, continuous, or untimely fashion. EXCESSIVE, CONTINUOUS, OR UNTIMELY
BARKING shall be defined, for purposes of this section, as a dog barking,
baying, crying, howling, or making any other noise continuously and/or
incessantly for a period of ten minutes, or barking intermittently for one-half
hour or more to the disturbance of any person at any time of day or night
regardless of whether the dog is physically situated in or upon private
property; provided, however, that a dog shall not be deemed a “barking dog,”
for purposes of this section, if, at the time the dog is barking or making any
other noise, a person is trespassing, or threatening to trespass, upon private
property in or upon which the dog is situated, or for any other legitimate
cause which teased or provoked the dog;
      (7)   Molests passersby or chases passing vehicles;
      (8)   Attacks other domestic animals; and/or
      (9)   Otherwise acts so as to constitute a nuisance or public nuisance
under the provisions of Chapter 10, Title 76, Utah Code Annotated (1953, as
amended).
   (B)   An animal is a nuisance if it is determined by the Department to be a
nuisance by virtue of being offensive or dangerous to the public health,
welfare, or safety.
   (C)   Any animal which, by virtue of the number maintained, are determined
by the Department to be offensive or dangerous to the public health, welfare,
or safety.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.043 ATTACKS BY DOGS.
   (A)   Attacking dogs.
      (1)   It is unlawful for the owner or person having charge, care,
custody, or control of any dog to allow such dog to attack, chase, or worry any
person, any domestic animal having a commercial value, or any species of hoofed
protected wildlife, or to attack domestic fowl.
      (2)   WORRY, as used in this section, means to harass by tearing, biting,
or shaking with the teeth.
   (B)   Owner liability. The owner in violation of division (A) above shall be
strictly liable for violation of this section. In addition to being subject to
prosecution under division (A) above, the owner of such dog shall also be
liable in damages to any person injured, or to the owner of any animal(s)
injured or destroyed thereby.
   (C)   Defenses. The following shall be considered in mitigating the
penalties or damages, or in dismissing the charge:
      (1)   That the dog was properly confined on the premises; and/or
      (2)   That the dog was deliberately or maliciously provoked.
   (D)   Dogs may be killed. Any law enforcement officer may kill a dog while
it is committing any of the acts specified in division (A) above or while the
dog is being pursued thereafter.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.044 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   An animal control officer upon probable cause that a violation of this
section has occurred may require the owner or custodian of a vicious animal to
deliver possession of the animal to an animal control officer. If after demand,
the owner or custodian fails or refuses to deliver possession of the animal to
an animal control officer, the animal control officer may request an order from
a court of competent jurisdiction requiring the owner or custodian to deliver
possession of the animal to an animal control officer.
   (B)   An animal control officer may summarily impound a vicious animal which
is at large or which is an immediate danger to humans or domesticated animals.
   (C)   If an animal control officer cannot gain control of a vicious animal
the officer may summarily destroy the animal.
   (D)   If a vicious animal is impounded without the knowledge of the owner or
custodian, notice that the animal has been impounded shall be given to the
owner or custodian of the animal, if the same is known, by attaching a notice
to a door at the residence thereof or by mailing a notice thereto.
   (E)   A vicious animal impounded by an order of a court acting pursuant to
this section shall be destroyed or otherwise disposed of as the court shall
direct.
   (F)   A vicious animal impounded without a court order shall be held not
less than five working days, after which it may be destroyed or otherwise
disposed of as the supervising control officer may direct.
   (G)   The owner or custodian of an animal impounded other than by a court
order may contest the impounding by filing notice with the proper court within
five working days after the impounding.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.045 POSSESSION OF A VICIOUS DOG.
   (A)   The possession of a vicious dog is unlawful unless it is restrained,
confined, or muzzled so that it cannot bite or attack any person or animal.
Dogs held in violation of this section shall be deemed a public nuisance, and
their continued possession or ownership shall be unlawful. The Department may
impound any such dog and dispose of it in any humane manner after five working
days to allow for legal restraining action by the owner.
   (B)   The following are conditions of ownership of any animal which is
fierce, dangerous, or vicious:
      (1)   The dog must be kept in a heavy gauge wire dog run which is six
feet in height with a secure ceiling and floor.
      (2)   The dog must be kept on a leash and properly muzzled when out of
its kennel.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.046 JUDICIALLY EXCLUDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to bring any animal into the town which has, in any
jurisdiction:
   (A)   That has been judicially determined to be vicious, a nuisance, or a
threat to the health or safety of human beings; or
   (B)   That has been judicially removed from any county or municipality for
violations of the laws or ordinances which, by their nature, are also in
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.047 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   A person commits cruelty to animals if he or she intentionally or
knowingly:
      (1)   Fails to provide any animal in his or her charge or custody with
adequate food, drink, care, and shelter;
      (2)   Abandons an animal in his or her custody;
      (3)   Carries or confines any animal in or upon any vehicle in a cruel or
inhumane manner, including, but not limited to, carrying or confining such
animal without adequate ventilation or for an unusual length of time;
      (4)   Kills, maims, disfigures, tortures, beats with a stick, chain,
club, or other object, mutilates, burns, scales, over-drives, overworks, or
otherwise cruelly set upon any animal. Each offense shall constitute a separate
violation;
      (5)   Makes accessible to any animal, with intent to cause harm or death,
any substance which has, in any manner, been treated or prepared with any
harmful or poisonous substance. This provision shall not be interpreted as to
prohibit the use of poisonous substances for the control of vermin in
furtherance of the public health, when applied in such a manner as to
reasonably prohibit access to other animals; or
      (6)   Causes any animal, not including a dog, to fight with another
animal or creature of like kind for amusement or gain; or causes any animal,
including a dog, to fight with a different kind of animal or creature for
amusement or gain.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this section that
the conduct of the actor towards the animal was by a licensed veterinarian
using accepted veterinary practice, or directly related to bona fide
experimentation for scientific research, provided that if the animal is to be
destroyed, the manner employed will not be unnecessarily cruel unless directly
necessary to the veterinary purpose or scientific research involved.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.048 DOG, ANIMAL FIGHTING.
   (A)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Own, possess, keep, or train a dog with the intent to engage it
in an exhibition of fighting with another dog;
         (b)   Cause a dog to fight with another dog or cause a dog to injure
another dog for amusement or gain;
         (c)   Tie, attach, or fasten any live animal to a machine or device
propelled by any power, for the purpose of causing the animal to be pursued by
a dog; or
         (d)   Permit or allow any act which violates divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)
(1)(b), or (A)(1)(c) above on any premises under his or her charge, or to
control, aid, or abet any such act.
      (2)   Possession of any breaking stick, treadmill, wheel, hot walker, cat
mill, cat walker, jenny, or other paraphernalia together with evidence that the
paraphernalia is being used or intended for use in the unlawful training of a
dog to fight with another dog, together with the possession of any such dog, is
prima facie evidence of violation of divisions (A)(1)(b) and (A)(1)(c) above.
      (3)   It is unlawful for person to knowingly and intentionally be present
as a spectator at any place made for an exhibition of dog fighting, or to
knowingly and intentionally be present at a dog fighting exhibition or any
other occurrence of fighting or injury described in this section. Nothing in
this section shall be interpreted to prohibit any of the following:
         (a)   The use of dogs for the management of livestock by the owner,
his or her employees or agents, or any other person in the lawful custody of
livestock;
         (b)   The use of dogs for hunting; and/or
         (c)   The training of dogs or the possession or use of equipment in
the training of dogs for any purpose not prohibited by law.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a person to knowingly be present as a spectator at
any place, building, or tenement where preparations are being made for an
exhibition of the fighting of animals, as prohibited by division (A)(3) above,
or to be present at such exhibition, regardless of whether any entrance fee has
been charged.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.049 NUMBER OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall harbor or possess more than three dogs, four months of
age or older, without purchasing a kennel license.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the birth of puppies in a situation
which is not an intentional commercial breeding business so long as the number
of dogs is reduced down to at least three within four months from the date of
birth.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
91.999
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 91.060 AUTHORIZED.
   The Department, peace officers, and persons employed for animal regulation
purposes by the town shall attempt to capture any animal found at large in
violation of this chapter and may destroy an animal at large if, in their
judgment, such action is required for public health and safety.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.061 ANIMALS TO BE IMPOUNDED.
   The following animals may be taken into custody by an Animal Control Officer
and impounded without the filing of a complaint.
   (A)   Any vicious animal not properly confined, as required by this chapter.
   (B)   Any animal running at large.
   (C)   Any unlicensed animal which is required by this chapter to be
licensed. Any animal not wearing a tag shall be presumed to be unlicensed for
purposes of this section, except those dogs specifically exempted.
   (D)   Sick or injured animals whose owner cannot be located.
   (E)   Any abandoned animal.
   (F)   Animals which are not wearing a rabies vaccination tag in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Any animal to be held for quarantine.
   (H)   Any animal being kept or maintained contrary to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.062 CAPTURE BY INDIVIDUALS.
   Any person who finds an animal at large may take it into his or her
possession and must, within 24 hours thereafter, notify the Department and
surrender the animal to the Department upon demand. No such action shall result
in a charge against the town. The finder of an animal at large shall use
reasonable care to preserve it from injury; however, he or she shall not be
held liable if the animal dies, escapes, or injures itself while he or she is
carrying out the provisions of this section, except as occasioned by his or her
own negligence.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.063 INFORMATION UPON RELINQUISHMENT.
   Any person who relinquishes an animal to the Department shall give his or
her name, address, and, if he or she is not the owner, the location where the
animal was found.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.064 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Upon receipt of a lost or stray animal bearing a current year’s license tag,
the Department shall immediately telephone or mail to the owner of record at
the address indicated on the license form, a notice of the location of the
animal. Compliance with notice requirements of this section shall be deemed as
met if the Department shall have mailed the notice to the owner of record at
his or her address of record, postage prepaid.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.065 REDEMPTION BY OWNER.
   The owner of an impounded animal may claim it prior to its legal disposition
by providing proper identification, meeting all the legal requirements, and
paying the applicable redemption fees for impoundment, board, medical care,
vaccination, and/or other costs.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.066 HOLDING PERIOD.
   The Department shall hold an impounded lost or stray dog for not less than
three working days if it was not wearing a current year’s license tag when
impounded and for not less than five working days after notice is given
pursuant to this chapter if it was wearing a current year’s license tag, so
that the owner or custodian may claim it prior to other disposition.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.067 DISPOSAL OF UNREDEEMED ANIMALS.
   The Department may dispose of humanely, or may transfer to a new owner upon
payment of the applicable fee, any impounded animal not claimed by its owner or
custodian within the prescribed holding time. Animals relinquished by their
owners may be humanely destroyed without regard to the prescribed holding time
in order to alleviate suffering or to protect other impounded animals from
exposure to a contagious disease.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.068 DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS.
   When, in the judgment of the Department, it is determined that an impounded
animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, disease control, or to protect
the public or animal regulation personnel from imminent danger to persons or
property, such animal may be destroyed without regard to any time limitations
otherwise established herein, and without court order.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.069 VACCINATIONS.
   Any animal impounded at the County Animal Shelter may be vaccinated for
disease control.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.070 ESTABLISHMENT OF ANIMAL DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Department shall establish at the county animal shelter a humane
procedure for euthanasia of animals. The Department may, at its option, upon
payment of applicable fees, accept animals for humane disposal.
   (B)   The owner or possessor of such animals shall first complete
appropriate forms setting forth the facts constituting such ownership and/or
possession, certifying that he or she has the right to request disposal of such
animals and agree to hold the town, its agents and employees harmless from any
liability for its acceptance and disposal of such animals.
   (C)   The owner or person requesting the disposal of any animal shall
certify in writing that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the animal has
not bitten a human being or animal within the period established by this
chapter for isolation of biting animals and suspected rabid animals.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Department, the Health Officer, or the
County Veterinarian may authorize, with permission of the owner if known, the
euthanasia of a biting animal for the purpose of laboratory examination.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
LICENSING AND REGISTRATION
§ 91.085 LICENSES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Required. All dog owners, except tourists or visitors who stay less
than one month in an area coming within the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall
apply for and obtain a separate dog license for each dog they own, possess,
keep, or harbor, after it is four months old. Each license shall be issued by
the town. All dog owners must possess such license at the time the dog is four
months old or one month after obtaining or bringing into the area coming within
the jurisdiction of this chapter any dog over four months of age. Dog owners
shall renew the dog license annually between the dates of January 1 and March 1
of each calendar year. If renewal is not required, dog owners shall within two
months after the expiration date advise the Department of the reason therefore.
Licenses not purchased or renewed within the above said dates shall be
considered delinquent and a late fee as determined by the Town Council shall be
added to the cost of the new license.
   (B)   Presumption that license required. Any dog is legally impounded
according to the provisions of this chapter shall be presumed to be a dog
which, prior to impounding, required a license, regardless of such dog’s actual
age or owner’s place of residence.
   (C)   Issuance. Upon presentation by the dog owner of a properly completed
license application form, including proof that the rabies vaccination will be
valid throughout the license period, the proper license fee, and, if
applicable, a late or delinquent fee, the town shall issue a validated dog
license. The dog owner shall retain the dog license for inspection by any
person charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   Validity; rabies vaccination prerequisite to issuance. Licenses shall
be valid from the date issued until December 31. No dog shall be licensed
without proof of approved rabies vaccination.
   (E)   Lost or damaged tags; tags to be worn; exception. Whenever a license
tag is lost or damaged, the owner shall apply for and secure a replacement from
the town upon payment of the prescribed fee. Each dog required to be licensed
shall wear at all times the current license tag assigned to that dog; except:
      (1)   When the dog is participating in any dog exhibition, field trial,
or competition; or
      (2)   When the dog is confined in a licensed kennel or veterinary
hospital, in which case the license tag number shall be recorded and placed
nearby so that it is readily identifiable with the dog with which it belongs;
or if not licensed, that fact shall be clearly indicated on the facility’s
records. A license tag shall not be removed from any dog without the consent of
the owner thereof.
   (F)   Duty of person issuing license. Each duly authorized person issuing a
dog license for any dog shall complete the license in duplicate. One copy shall
be given to the owner of the licensed dog, which the owner shall retain in his
or her possession, and one copy will be retained by the town.
   (G)   Transfer license.
      (1)   Owners of dogs having a current license issued by another dog
licensing agency may upon proof of license issued by said agency be issued a
town dog license upon payment of the applicable transfer fee. The rabies
vaccination for any such dog must be valid for the duration of the license
issued.
      (2)   Whenever other ownership of a licensed dog changes, the new owner
shall apply for and obtain a transfer license and pay the applicable fee.
      (3)   The address of the owner is presumed to be the address where the
dog is kept.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.086 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the following.
   (A)   Dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the town for 30
days or less, or dogs brought into the town for purposes of participating in
any dog show.
   (B)   Any dog which has not reached the age of four months or any dog kept
or maintained exclusively in a licensed kennel shall not be registered and no
fee is required.
   (C)   Any dog which has been duly or properly trained to assist the blind,
deaf, or law enforcement personnel and is currently acting in that capacity.
   (D)   Police service dogs.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.087 VACCINATION; DOGS, CATS.
   (A)   (1)   Vaccination required. Dog owners shall obtain a rabies
vaccination for each dog they own, keep, harbor, or have custody of, within one
month after it becomes four months of age, or within one month after obtaining
any dog over four months of age.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, keep,
harbor, or possess, or to have in his or her care, charge, or custody, any dog
four months of age or over unless such dog has a current and valid rabies
vaccination administered by any duly qualified and licensed veterinarian, with
a rabies vaccine approved by the State Department of Health for use in dogs.
         (b)   Such vaccination shall be repeated at intervals specified by the
State Department of Health in order to maintain adequate immunity.
      (2)   Exemption from rabies vaccination during illness. 
         (a)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, a dog need
not be vaccinated for rabies during an illness if a licensed veterinarian has
examined the dog and certified in writing that such vaccination should be
postponed because of a specified illness. Old age, debility, and pregnancy are
not considered contraindications to rabies vaccination.
         (b)   Exemption certificates are subject to approval by the Department
and shall be valid only for the duration of the illness. Exemption from
vaccination does not exempt a dog from the licensing requirement.
   (B)   Cat owners shall obtain a rabies vaccination for each cat they own,
keep, harbor, or have custody of, within one month after it becomes four months
of age, or within one month after obtaining any cat over four months of age. It
shall be unlawful for any person or persons to own, keep, harbor, or possess or
to have in his or her care, charge, or custody, any cat four months of age or
over unless such cat has a current and valid rabies vaccination administered by
any duly qualified and licensed veterinarian, with a rabies vaccine approved by
the State Department of Health for use in cats. Such vaccination shall be
repeated at intervals specified by the State Department of Health in order to
maintain adequate immunity.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.088 VOLUNTARY REGISTRATION OF CATS.
   (A)   The owner of any cat may, upon submission of proof of rabies
vaccination, certified to by a licensed veterinarian, and upon payment of the
fee established by resolution of the Town Council, be issued a license
certificate and tag.
   (B)   No person shall remove a registration tag from a cat without the
consent of the owner thereof. Licensing shall be valid for the period of rabies
vaccination. The obtaining of such a license shall be optional on the part of
the owner.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.089 DOG LICENSE.
   All dog licenses — whether for male or female dogs, neutered, spayed, or
neither — shall be as set by the town fee schedule, which shall be available at
the town office.
(Res. 6, passed - -1994)
§ 91.090 KENNEL PERMIT.
   A kennel permit within the town shall be as set by the town fee schedule.
(Res. 6, passed - -1994)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 91.110 REPORT OF BITES.
   All persons bitten and the parents or guardians of minor children bitten by
a dog, cat, skunk, fox, coyote, bobcat, or other animal known to constitute a
serious threat of rabies shall notify the County Health Department immediately
thereafter. Physicians treating such bites and other persons having the
knowledge of such bites shall also be required to make such notification.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.111 REPORT SUSPECTED; RABID ANIMALS.
   Any person who observes or has knowledge of an animal which shows symptoms
of rabies or which acts in a manner which would lead to a reasonable suspicion
that it may have rabies shall notify the County Health Department and comply
with appropriate laws and regulations regarding suspected cases of rabies as
directed by the Department or County Health Department.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.112 QUARANTINED FOR TEN DAYS; BITING, SUSPECTED RABID ANIMALS.
   Upon the reasonable order of the Department or Public Health Officer, a
biting or suspected rabid animal shall be at the owner’s expense if owned, in
strict confinement under proper care and under the observation of a licensed
veterinarian in an animal shelter, veterinary hospital, or other adequate
facility in a manner approved by the Department or County Health Department.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.113 EXAMINATION OF HEAD.
   Any biting or suspected rabid animal or bat may be humanely euthanized
immediately by the Department or the Health Department, and such animal’s
undamaged and properly packaged and properly refrigerated head shall be
delivered promptly to an approved medical facility having the capability of
performing the florescent antibody test to demonstrate the presence of rabies.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.114 DOMESTICATED ANIMALS.
   The provisions of §
91.087 notwithstanding, if the biting or suspected rabid animal is of the
domesticated variety that is owned or obviously could have an owner, said
animal shall be confined for a period of ten days to allow time for an attempt
to locate an owner unless the County Veterinarian or other licensed
veterinarian shall reasonably deem it necessary to sacrifice the animal for the
purpose of laboratory examination.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.115 RELEASE.
   Ten days after the day of infliction of a bite by an animal, said animal may
be released to its owner or sold by the Department after a licensed
veterinarian has examined that animal and in his or her opinion found it not to
have had rabies in a transmittable state on the day of infliction of said bite.
Non-immunized animals shall be vaccinated for rabies before release to owner.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.116 ANIMALS POSSIBLY EXPOSED TO RABIES.
   (A)   Any animal of a species subject to rabies which has been bitten by a
known rabid animal or bat, or which has been in intimate contact with such an
animal, shall be isolated, at the owner’s expense if owned, in strict
confinement in a place and manner approved by the Department or Public Health
Officer, and observed by a licensed veterinarian for a period of four months or
destroyed.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the following alternative is permitted
in case of dogs and cats. If the dog or cat has been vaccinated against rabies
at least 30 days prior to the suspected exposure with a type of vaccine
produced under U.S.D.A. license and within the time period approved by the
State Veterinarian, the dog or cat may be revaccinated in a manner prescribed
by the Department or the Health Department and isolated in strict confinement
in a place and manner approved by the Department or Public Health officer and
observed by a licensed veterinarian for a period of 30 days.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
CATS AND DOGS
§ 91.130 CATS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner or person having charge, care, custody,
or control of any cat to allow such cat to run at large on the property of
another.
   (B)   The owner or person charged with responsibility for a cat found
running at large shall be strictly liable for any violation(s) committed by the
cat, regardless of whether the person knows the cat is running at large.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.131 GUARD DOGS.
   Guard dogs shall be kept in such a manner so that they cannot come into
contact with persons or other animals who are legally upon the premises where a
guard dog is maintained. The property shall be posted with a sign clearly
visible stating that a guard dog is on the premises.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any one violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a Class B misdemeanor. Each day that said violation is
permitted to continue will be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall hinder, delay, interfere with, or obstruct the
animal control officer while engaging in capturing, securing, or taking to the
animal shelter any animal or animals to be impounded, or who shall break open
or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel, or advise the breaking
open of any animal shelter or ambulance, wagon, or other vehicle used for the
collecting or conveying of any animals to the shelter shall be guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any owner of a vicious animal, knowing its propensities, who willfully
allows it to go at large or who keeps it without ordinary care, and any animal
while at large, or while not kept with ordinary care, causes injury to another
animal or to any human being who has taken reasonable precaution which the
circumstances permitted, is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor unless the animal
causes the death of a human being, whereupon the owner is guilty of a Class A
misdemeanor.
   (D)   Violation of §
91.047 is a Class B misdemeanor.
   (E)   A person who violates §
91.048(A) is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
   (F)   A person who violates §
91.048(A)(1) is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
   (G)   A person who violates §
91.048(B) is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
(Ord. D-1-1994, passed - -1994)
CHAPTER 92: CEMETERIES
Section
   
92.01   Scope
   
92.02   Conduct and access
   
92.03   Burials
   
92.04   Decorations, flower policy
   
92.05   Headstone policy
   
92.06   Certificate and purchasing
§ 92.01 SCOPE.
   The town’s desire is to preserve and maintain a high standard of
information, beauty, and efficiency based on the resources available.
(Ord. 05-01-2022, passed - -)
§ 92.02 CONDUCT AND ACCESS.
   Cemetery grounds are sacredly devoted to the dead. Cars must not drive or
park on lawns. Animals should be on a leash and cleaned up after. Motorized
vehicles should be driven slowly and not have excessive noise.
(Ord. 05-01-2022, passed - -)
§ 92.03 BURIALS.
   Interments are limited to human dead. Arrangements for a grave opening can
be made after the required permits and fees have been paid. A 36-hour notice is
required for opening of a grave. Openings are not allowed on Sunday. All state
laws for transit permits must be followed. One interment only shall be allowed
in a casket, except a father or mother with an infant child, or two children
buried at the same time. Only one casket is allowed in one grave. One casket
with one cremation is allowed. Two babies in one plot, or two cremations are
allowed per plot. Vaults are required for all burials. Vaults should be of
concrete, steel, fiberglass, or other structurally sound materials. No wood is
allowed for any part of the vault. Individual plots measure four feet by six
feet. If remains need to be removed from the cemetery all state laws must be
complied with. Cremations require a sealable urn made of plastic, metal, or
other like material.
(Ord. 05-01-2022, passed - -)
§ 92.04 DECORATIONS, FLOWER POLICY.
   Properly displayed flowers and other decorations add to the beauty and
character of the cemetery. Flowers, and other decorations, should be dignified
and tasteful. Decorating must be done in a way that does not create a safety
hazard, impede proper maintenance, infringe on other graves, diminish the
character of the cemetery, or offend others. Decorations that are in violation
will be removed without notice. Cemetery ground keepers cannot contact
individual families if decorations are not in keeping with cemetery
regulations.
(Ord. 05-01-2022, passed - -)
§ 92.05 HEADSTONE POLICY.
   All care and upkeep of the headstones are the responsibility of the owner.
Scratches and chips can occur from routine maintenance. Such happenings are a
condition that go with the privilege of placing markers at the cemetery.
Permission is required to place any headstone. Eight inches of cement strip are
required around the base of the headstone. Maximum length shall be single, 40
inches; doubles, 80 inches; and triples, 120 inches. The maximum height is 36
inches, and the maximum width is 30 inches. Benches are allowed. Only one
headstone is allowed on a plot except for cremation or military burials.
Permanent markers are encouraged to take place within one year. After 60 years
the town resumes the right to repair or fix headstones.
(Ord. 05-01-2022, passed - -)
§ 92.06 CERTIFICATE AND PURCHASING.
   For a list of costs and fees associated with certificates and purchasing of
plots, refer to the town office. The town reserves the right to correct and re-
issue correct certificates. The town will not buy back plots that have been
sold. Ninety years after purchase a plot can be resold if no family can be
contacted.
(Ord. 05-01-2022, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Camping and Temporary Dwellings
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Camping prohibited
 
   
93.99   Penalty
CAMPING AND TEMPORARY DWELLINGS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CAMP. The use of public or private property as a temporary or permanent
dwelling, lodging, residence, living accommodation, or sleeping accommodation
in a structure that is not affixed to a permanent foundation. CAMP includes,
without limitation, the storage of personal belongings or the laying down of
bedding for the purpose of sleeping.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All real property not defined as PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. All real property owned, leased, or occupied by the town;
all real property in which the town has a possessory interest; any easement on
real property granted to the town for public purposes, including, without
limitation, public streets, parks, alleys, sidewalks, flood control channels;
and any other real property within the town owned, leased, or occupied by any
governmental entity.
(Ord. 2019-03-03, passed 3-12-2019)
§ 93.02 CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to camp or remain overnight on any public
property or private property except:
   (A)   In areas specifically designated and set apart for that purpose by the
town;
   (B)   In approved town licensed and developed trailer parks or camp sites
and with the express written permission of the property owner;
   (C)   For a period of time not to exceed six months, the property owner and
family may camp on property where a valid building permit has been issued and a
home is under construction; or
   (D)   People may camp in a recreational vehicle or its equivalent for a
period of time not to exceed 14 days, with the permission of the property owner
and with prior registration with the town.
(Ord. 2019-03-03, passed 3-12-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §§
93.01 and
93.02 is guilty of an infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 2019-03-03, passed 3-12-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Offensive businesses regulated
§ 110.01 OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES REGULATED.
   There shall be a prohibition against any offensive businesses within one
mile of the town, including tanneries, mink farms, pig farms, and similar
businesses. Any application for a building permit for something other than
solely a retail business or solely a one-family dwelling will be referred to
the Town Council for review and approval.
(Ord. 101-99-OB, passed 7-21-1999)
Statutory reference
   Offensive businesses—regulation of management and construction, see UCA §
10-8-66
   Pigsties, privies, other offensive establishments—prohibiting establishment,
see UCA § 10-8-67
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Beer Handler’s Permits
   
111.01   Required Class A beer handler’s permit
   
111.02   Application process for Class A beer handler’s permit
   
111.03   Qualifications to obtain a Class A beer handler’s permit
   
111.04   Right to a hearing
 
   
110.99   Penalty
BEER HANDLER’S PERMITS
§ 111.01 REQUIRED CLASS A BEER HANDLER’S PERMIT.
   (A)   A licensee involved in the transaction of retail beer sales for off-
premises consumption (Class A retail sales) shall require any and all employees
involved in the transaction of retail beer sales to obtain a beer handler’s
permit from the County Health Department. All employees of a licensee involved
in the transaction of retail beer sales will be required to possess and wear a
beer handler’s permit while on duty. This permit shall be worn in a conspicuous
place such that the permit shall be clearly visible to any person.
   (B)   New employees of Licensee shall obtain a beer handler’s permit within
30 days of hire. During this 30-day period, the employee may sell alcoholic
beverages in accordance with the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, being
UCA Title 32B, the regulations of the Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission,
and the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   The licensee is required to inform the County Health Department of any
employee possessing a beer handler’s permit whose employment is terminated for
conduct that would be punishable under the statutes or ordinances regulating
alcoholic beverages. Licensees shall permit law enforcement officers and County
Health Department employees to conduct random beer handler’s permit compliance
checks on the licensee’s premises.
(Ord. 03-2004, passed 7-3-2004)
§ 111.02 APPLICATION PROCESS FOR CLASS A BEER HANDLER’S PERMIT.
   (A)   To obtain a beer handler’s permit, applicants must:
      (1)   Fill out a beer handler’s permit application form available from
the County Health Department;
      (2)   Produce an acceptable photo identification showing the identity of
the applicant;
      (3)   Attend a beer handler’s permit training session administered by, or
approved by, the County Health Department; and
      (4)   Pass the beer handler’s permit test given by the County Health
Department.
   (B)   If divisions (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), and (A)(4) above are satisfied,
the County Health Department shall issue the applicant a beer handler’s permit
photo identification card. This permit must be possessed and conspicuously worn
by the applicant while on duty such that the permit shall be clearly visible to
any person.
(Ord. 03-2004, passed 7-3-2004)
§ 111.03 QUALIFICATIONS TO OBTAIN A CLASS A BEER HANDLER’S PERMIT.
   The County Health Department shall not grant a beer handler’s permit to any
individual who has had a felony conviction within three years, or a misdemeanor
conviction involving alcohol or controlled substances within one year.
(Ord. 03-2004, passed 7-3-2004)
§ 110.04 RIGHT TO A HEARING.
   (A)   The licensee shall have the right to request a hearing to contest the
existence of any violation of this subchapter or the imposition of any penalty
under this subchapter. A written request for a hearing must be filed by the
licensee with the Chairman of the County Commission and with the County
Attorney within 15 days of the date of mailing of the county’s notice of
violation to the licensee. The request for a hearing shall include the
licensee’s name, address, telephone number, and a statement of the licensee’s
basis for disputing the existence of a violation or the imposition of a
penalty. A timely request for a hearing shall stay the imposition of any
penalty until the hearing is decided. The county’s finding of a violation shall
be considered final if the licensee fails to request a hearing within the time
period set forth above.
   (B)   The County Commission shall notify the licensee in writing of the date
and time for the hearing. Hearings before the County Commission shall be
conducted informally. Formal rules of evidence and court procedure shall not
apply. The hearings are administrative in nature, and hearsay is admissible,
but the evidence must have some probative weight and reliability to be
considered. The licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard at the
hearing, shall have the right to be represented by counsel, and may call
witnesses. The County Commission shall consider all of the evidence and shall
take any action they deem appropriate as it relates to the licensee. The County
Commission’s decision shall be made orally at the end of the hearing or in
writing within ten business days following the hearing.
(Ord. 03-2004, passed 7-3-2004)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, for which no
specific penalty is prescribed, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of §§
111.01 through
111.04, or of any law involving the sale of an alcoholic beverage, is a
misdemeanor and is subject, upon conviction, to the penalties as provided in §
10.99. Additionally, an employee possessing a beer handler’s permit who is
convicted of any law involving the sale of an alcoholic beverage is not only
subject to the penalties in §
10.99, but shall incur a suspension of the employee’s beer handler’s permit as
follows:
         (a)   First violation: Automatic suspension of the employee’s beer
handler’s permit for a period of one year;
         (b)   Second violation: Automatic suspension of the employee’s beer
handler’s permit for a period of one year; and
         (c)   Any subsequent violation: Automatic suspension of the employee’s
beer handler’s permit for a period of three years.
      (2)   The licensee shall report any known violation involving the sale of
an alcoholic beverage to the County Health Department within 30 days.
      (3)   Any violation of §§
111.01 through
111.04 by a licensee, or any employee of the licensee, shall subject the
licensee to the following penalties:
         (a)   Upon a first violation of §§
111.01 through
111.04 the licensee shall be issued a warning;
         (b)   Upon any violation of §§
111.01 through
111.04 which occurs within 24 months of a prior violation, the licensee shall
pay a civil fine of $250;
         (c)   Upon any violation of §§
111.01 through
111.04 which occurs within 24 months of two prior violations, the licensee
shall pay a civil fine of $500, and the licensee shall have its license to sell
beer suspended for a period of three consecutive days, on a Thursday through
Saturday; and
         (d)   Upon any violation of §§
111.01 through
111.04 which occurs within 24 months of three prior violations, the licensee
shall pay a civil fine of $500, and the licensee shall have its license to sell
beer suspended for a period of 30 consecutive days. Additionally, the licensee
shall be placed on probation for a period of one year. Any violation of §§
111.01 through
111.04 by the licensee, or any employee of the licensee, during the period of
probation shall result in the revocation of the licensee’s license to sell
beer. The licensee shall not be eligible to reapply for a new license for at
least six months from the date of revocation.
            1.   Failure to pay any fine imposed for a violation of any
provision of §§
111.01 through
111.04 within 30 days of the imposition of such fine shall be grounds for
revocation of the licensee’s license to sell beer.
            2.   Nothing in §§
111.01 through
111.04 shall limit the rights and powers of the County Commission to grant,
refuse to grant, or revoke a licensee’s license to sell beer.
(Ord. 03-2004, passed 7-3-2004)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
132.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
130.01   Purpose
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Sixteen year-old curfew
   
130.04   Eighteen year-old curfew
   
130.05   Parental liability
   
130.06   Exceptions
   
130.07   Enforcement
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PURPOSE.
   The governing body of the town finds, due to a seemingly ever increasing
incidence of violence and other crime among juveniles in the town, being both
drug related and gang related, that such crimes may be significantly inhibited
and reduced by the enactment and enforcement of local law establishing a curfew
prohibiting juveniles from remaining idly and purposelessly on the public
streets late at night.
(Ord. C1-1994, passed 3-11-1994)
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CARE AND CUSTODY. The legal authority of a parent or guardian to supervise
or otherwise be responsible for a minor, or the express authority given from
such parent or legal guardian of a minor to a responsible adult to supervise or
otherwise be responsible for the activities and care of the minor.
   EMERGENCY ERRAND. Any errand or travel undertaken to directly and
immediately seek to prevent or reduce the consequences of an illness or injury,
criminal or potential criminal activity, or fire or other accident, and shall
include the seeking of aid and assistance from medical or emergency response
personnel or the purchase of medications.
   MINOR. Any unmarried, unemancipated person who is not a member of the armed
forces of the United States and who is under the age of 16 years for the
purposes of §
130.03 hereof, or who is under the age of 18 years for the purpose of §
130.04 hereof.
   PUBLIC PLACES. Any place open to the public, whether privately owned,
including, but not limited to, parking lots, and the interiors and exteriors of
commercial establishments such as restaurants, stores, or places of
entertainment.
(Ord. C1-1994, passed 3-11-1994)
§ 130.03 SIXTEEN YEAR-OLD CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 16 years to remain or
loiter upon any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys, or public places in the town
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following morning.
(Ord. C1-1994, passed 3-11-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 EIGHTEEN YEAR-OLD CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 18 years to remain or
loiter upon any of the sidewalks, streets, alleys, or public places in the town
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday, and
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. Friday through Saturday.
(Ord. C1-1994, passed 3-11-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 PARENTAL LIABILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or other person having care
and custody of any minor to knowingly allow or permit the minor to violate the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. C1-1994, passed 3-11-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any circumstance in which
the minor is:
   (A)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or other responsible adult having
care and custody of such minor;
   (B)   Engaged in a legitimate trade, employment, or occupation which
requires the minor’s presence in or on the sidewalks, streets, alleys, or
public places while working at, or traveling to or from, such employment;
   (C)   Engaged on an emergency errand directed by the minor’s parent,
guardian, or other responsible person having care and custody;
   (D)   In a motor vehicle engaged in normal interstate travel beginning in,
traveling through, or ending in the town;
   (E)   Attending or engaged in traveling between the minor’s home or place of
residence and a place where any religious, municipal, social, entertainment,
sporting, political, library, or school function is occurring; or
   (F)   Within the boundaries of the minor’s place of residence.
(Ord. C1-1994, passed 3-11-1994)
§ 130.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any minor who is in violation of the provisions of this chapter is
subject to arrest and citation.
   (B)   Upon arrest, the minor shall be returned to the custody of the parent,
guardian, or other person charged with the care and custody of the minor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person charged
with the care and custody of a minor, who is in violation of this chapter, to
knowingly refuse to appear and take custody of said minor after being ordered
to do so by a peace officer.
(Ord. C1-1994, passed 3-11-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provision of this chapter is guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor.
(Ord. C1-1994, passed 3-11-1994)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
Illegal Drugs
   
131.01   Unlawful intoxicating chemical compounds
ILLEGAL DRUGS
§ 131.01 UNLAWFUL INTOXICATING CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including a corporation or other
entity, to manufacture, distribute, dispense, ingest, use, posses, purchase,
sell, publicly display for sale, attempt to sell, give, or trade or barter any
one or more of the following chemical compounds and/or substances, including
their salts, isomers, homologues, and salts of their isomers and homologues:
      (1)   Salvia divinorum or salvinorum A, all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plants, its
seeds, or extracts;
      (2)   1-pentyl-3 (1-naphtoyl) indole (also known as JWH-018);
      (3)   (6ar,10ar)-9-(hydoxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a. 7, 10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c] chromen-l-ol (also known as HU-210 or 1, 1-
dimethylheptyl-11-hydroxy-delta8-tetrahydrocannabinol);
      (4)   2-(3-hydroxycyclohexyl)-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl) phenol (also known
as CP-47, 497), and the dimethylhexyl, dimethyloctyl, and dimethylnonyl
homologues of Cp-47, 497;
      (5)   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-073);
      (6)   1-(2-(4-(morpholiny)ethyl))-3-(1--naphthoyl) indole (also known as
JWH-200);
      (7)   1- Pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl) indole (also known as JWH-250);
      (8)   1-Hexyl-3-(l-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-019);
      (9)   1-Pentyl-3-(4-cloro-1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-398);
      (10)   N-benzylpiperazine (also know as BZP);
      (11)   1-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl) piperazine (also known as TFMPP);
      (12)   Any similar structural analogs of the above chemical compounds;
and
      (13)   Any other synthetic cannabinoids.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to drugs or substances lawfully
prescribed, or to drugs or substances that have been approved by the federal
Food and Drug Administration, or that are specifically permitted by state law.
   (C)   If the state legislature adopts a statute enacting criminal penalties
for prohibitions set forth in this section, then upon the effective date of
such state statute, provisions of this section that are covered by the state
statute shall no longer be deemed effective. Any violations of this section
prior to a statute becoming effective may be prosecuted. If there are
provisions of this section that are not covered by the state statute, those
provisions will remain in effect and may be prosecuted.
(Ord. 12-14-2010, passed 2-8-2011)
CHAPTER 132: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Adopted Codes
   
132.01   State criminal codes adopted
ADOPTED CODES
§ 132.01 STATE CRIMINAL CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The town hereby adopts the following state codes, as they may, from
time to time, be amended as part of the ordinances of the town, and they shall
take effect and be controlling within the limits of the town.
      (1)   Titles 76 and 58 of Utah Code Annotated, comprising the State
Criminal Code.
      (2)   The criminal provision of Title 32B of the Utah Code Annotated,
relating to alcohol regulations.
      (3)   Titles 41 and 53 of Utah Code Annotated, relating to State Traffic
Laws.
      (4)   UCA § 77-7-18, relating to failure to appear before a court
pursuant to citation.
   (B)   Felonies are excluded. Any violation is a Class C misdemeanor unless a
greater or lesser penalty is provided.
(Ord. 59-99-CAT, passed 11-10-1999)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
152.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Annexation regulations
Construction, Erection of Single-Family Dwellings
   
150.15   Purpose
   
150.16   International Building Code
   
150.17   Town limits
   
150.18   Permit only
   
150.19   Dimensions
   
150.20   Inspections
   
150.21   Public utilities
   
150.22   Requirements before starting construction
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ANNEXATION REGULATIONS.
   Any individual, partnership, or group of individuals, partnerships, or other
organizations making petition to the town for annexation of property shall,
within 30 days of approval of said annexation, deliver, convey, and transfer
title to water shares (must be convertible to culinary water use) in the amount
of the maximum residential coverage of said property. This amount shall not be
less than one acre foot of water for each residential unit.
(Res. 2009-07, passed 6-9-2009)
CONSTRUCTION, ERECTION OF SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS
§ 150.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the construction and erection
of single-family dwellings to maintain safety, uniformity, and esthetics within
the community.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed - -)
§ 150.16 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   The town has adopted the International Building Code and hereby incorporates
the same by reference herein. Any inconsistencies between the provisions of
this subchapter and the International Building Code will not dissolve the
validity of this subchapter, however, in such an instance, the inconsistencies
will be resolved by adhering to the stricter of the disparate provisions or as
provided in the International Building Code and state law, whichever shall
apply the right of law.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed - -)
§ 150.17 TOWN LIMITS.
   Single-family dwellings may be constructed/erected within the town limits in
those areas zoned as residential.
   (A)   A request for a variance for residential building in an area not so
zoned shall be made in writing to the Board of Adjustment. The Board of
Adjustment shall consider each such request and rule accordingly. The Board of
Adjustment decision will be final unless otherwise overturned according to
state code.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment will not consider variances related to the
provisions of §
150.19.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed - -)
§ 150.18 PERMIT ONLY.
   Construction/erection of single-family dwellings will be allowed by permit
only.
   (A)   The Town Council of the town shall set forth required costs and fees,
which may be amended from time to time by resolution. All other fees shall be
in accordance with state code.
   (B)   All required costs and fees must be paid before the permit is issued.
   (C)   All required information, including building application, building
plans, and the like, is required for a building permit to be issued and is
within §
150.22 and identified as the “Building Packet.” All information must be
supplied to the Town Building Inspector at the town offices before a building
project can be authorized to proceed.
   (D)   During the construction/erection of a single-family dwelling, the
permit must be prominently displayed.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed - -)
§ 150.19 DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   The minimum area requirement for a lot shall be one-third of an acre.
   (B)   The minimum frontage for a lot shall be 80 feet and must abut a public
access.
   (C)   The minimum set-backs for placement of the dwelling on a lot shall be
at least ten feet from the side and rear property lines and from any existing
structure, and at least 30 feet from the public right-of-way abutting the
street frontage.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed - -)
§ 150.20 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Construction/erection will be subject to inspection by the Town
Building Inspector as is required pursuant to the International Building Code.
   (B)   The Town Building Inspector will work independently with the owner/
contractor to establish inspection times and schedules.
   (C)   Occupancy will not be permitted until satisfactory completion of final
inspections and issuance of an occupancy certificate.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed - -)
§ 150.21 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Utility hook-ups provided by the town will be supplied to the property line.
Access to, and maintenance of, the utilities beyond the property line is the
responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed - -)
§ 150.22 REQUIREMENTS BEFORE STARTING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   General requirements.
   [Missing text]
      (1)   Valid state contractor’s license or owner builder exempt form
before starting.
      (2)   County parcel ID number and county account number required on
permit (on building permit).
      (3)   Two complete sets of plans to scale (engineer’s stamp required).
      (4)   One complete set of plans on 11inches by 17 inches paper
(engineer’s stamp required, can be copy of full size).
      (5)   Vicinity map showing project location in the town.
      (6)   Existing conditions map (L.M.C. Chapter 4, Table 2), with
topography lines.
      (7)   Site plan (schematic detailed; L.M.C. Chapter 4, Table 2), with
topography lines.
      (8)   All site plans to be drawn to scale with adjacent streets labeled
and a north arrow.
      (9)   Owner’s name, contact address, and phone number on the maps and
plans.
      (10)   Preparer’s company name, address, and phone number on the maps and
plans.
      (11)   Property address noted on the maps and plans.
      (12)   Property lines, setbacks, parking areas, and accessory buildings
dimensioned (any encroachment in setbacks to be approved by the Planning
Commission).
      (13)   Easements must be noted on the maps and plans.
      (14)   Streets adjacent to property listed.
      (15)   Protection area boundaries noted.
      (16)   Existing utilities, by type, location in street, and dimension of
easement listed.
      (17)   Distance to existing fire hydrants noted.
      (18)   Location of proposed utilities on building lot and connection
location in street noted.
      (19)   Slopes over 25% highlighted with red hatching pattern.
      (20)   Proposed cut or fill color-coded.
      (21)   Indicate on detailed site plan area of proposed snow storage from
driveway.
      (22)   Calculations of site area, building coverage, units, parking
spaces, and the like.
      (23)   Layout and dimensions of parking lots, with stalls shown.
      (24)   Landscaping, walkways, slope of driveways, and grading, including
retaining walls.
      (25)   Maximum height of building per zoning location.
      (26)   Retaining walls over four feet high must be approved.
      (27)   Show method of drainage.
      (28)   Show slope of soil away from the foundation six inches in the
first ten feet.
      (29)   Show location and size of culvert on detailed site plan.
      (30)   Soils geology report from location of proposed building site.
      (31)   Covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CCRs) if required.
      (32)   Engineering of footings, frame, and truss to comply with 255#
ground snow load and 90# wind load (with plans stamped by the engineer).
      (33)   Indicate location on private property for storage of construction
materials, debris, and the like during construction (not on public right-of-
way).
      (34)   If the structure is a condominium or owned by corporation,
signature of acting agent.
      (35)   Definition of abbreviations and symbols.
   (B)   Footing and foundation.
      (1)   Footing location certification must be in file prior to footing
inspection.
      (2)   Damp proofing listed.
      (3)   Frost protection will have a 30-inch minimum from top of finished
soil to bottom of footing.
      (4)   Untreated wood must be six inches above earth and one inch above
concrete.
      (5)   Foundation sill, redwood, or pressure treated.
      (6)   Anchor bolts 32 inches O.C. minimum.
      (7)    Foundation steel to be grade 40 and reinforcement must be placed
per the state amendment.
      (8)   Stepped footings must end at same vertical line.
   (C)   Crawl spaces.
      (1)   Earth to wood clearance is 12 inches to beams, 18 inches to floor
joists.
      (2)   Access opening 20 inches by 22 inches.
      (3)   Ventilation one square foot for each 150 square feet of crawl
space. One ventilated opening must be within three feet of each corner of the
building.
   (D)   Floor plans.
      (1)   Floor plans including fire protection if required.
      (2)   Sections through all structures.
      (3)   Exterior elevations showing vertical dimensions, exterior finishing
materials, roof slope, and covering materials, exits, stair enclosures, and
exterior grades.
      (4)   Elevation plans do not match floor plans.
      (5)   Indicate use of all rooms (living room, kitchen, bed room, bath,
and the like).
      (6)   Show horizontal and vertical dimensions.
      (7)   Show critical connection details.
      (8)   Roof pitches and covering material (potential ice dam on north
side).
      (9)   Snow dropping from roof over exit (SA-R156-56-704(37), § 7.4.5 of §
7 of ASCE 7).
      (10)   Gas meter protected from physical damage, including falling ice
and snow (SA-R156-56-709(1)), show gas meter location (not on eaves side of
building).
      (11)   Wall cross section (show structural components, such as beams,
headers and blocking, and the like).
      (12)   Floor and roof framing (show size and type of material, spans
spacing, layout and truss specifications, and engineering truss details, if
applicable).
      (13)   Fire separation between living space and garage (walls and
ceilings).
      (14)   Fire separation door, with 20 minimum-rated steel or one and
three-eighths inches solid wood.
      (15)   Fire sprinkler (as per § 903.2.10 of 2018 International Fire Code,
Exception R-3).
      (16)   Window schedule (sizes, location, and type of glazing, basement
windows, and window well sizes).
      (17)   Attic access must be 22 inches by 30 inches with secure latches
and not above stairs or car locations.
      (18)   Attic ventilation equal to one square feet for each 300 square
feet of attic area.
      (19)   Carport, with at least two sides open to outside.
      (20)   Stairways, cross section (show rise and run, six feet to eight
feet minimum headroom measured vertically above stair nose, with the rise eight
inches maximum and run nine inches minimum).
      (21)   Winders must comply with § R311 of the International Residential
Code.
      (22)   The stairs must have a 36 inch minimum width.
      (23)   Landings must be 36 inches in direction of travel and as wide as
the stairs.
      (24)   Stairs and landings may only slope one-fourth inch per foot slope
for drainage at exterior locations.
      (25)   Handrails must be set 34 inches to 38 inches vertically above the
stair nose, and the ends must return to the wall or baluster.
      (26)   Under stair protection shall have one-half inch rock on ceiling
(walls also if finished on one side), fire tape, joints, and nails.
      (27)   Guardrails required on stairs or landings 30 inches or more above
grade, the maximum space between balusters is less than four inches at any
point and the minimum height is 36 inches.
      (28)   Ramps shall be one-eighth maximum slope, meaning for every one-
foot drop, the ramp is eight feet long; driveways exceeding this slope must
have an adjoining stairway to the public right-of-way.
   (E)   Exit facilities.
      (1)   Exit door 36 inches wide (one door minimum). This door cannot exit
into the garage.
      (2)   Landings at exterior doors eight inches maximum below top of
threshold. Landings must be 36 inches in direction of travel and as wide as the
door.
      (3)   Minimum hallway width of 36 inches.
      (4)   Seven foot minimum hallway height.
      (5)   Emergency escape openings in basement, with one in habitable
basement space and one in each bedroom with a 5.7 square foot minimum open
area. (Except a five square foot minimum open area is allowed on main floor
level.)
      (6)   Window sill shall have a 44-inch maximum above floor, 24-inch
minimum clear opening height, and a 20-inch minimum clear opening width.
      (7)   Window wells shall be a minimum of nine square feet with a minimum
projection and width of 36 inches.
      (8)   Wells over 44 inches deep require a permanent ladder or step.
   (F)   Light, ventilation and sanitation.
      (1)   Natural light equal to 8% of the floor area of a habitable room.
      (2)   Natural ventilation equal to 4% of the floor area of a habitable
room being ventilated.
      (3)   Bathrooms properly vented, with a mechanical or a readily
accessible window of three square feet minimum, half of which must be
accessible and open-able (one and one-half square feet; see Table 1506.3 2018
I.R.C.).
      (4)   Attic ventilation equal to one square foot for each 150 square feet
of attic area.
   (G)   Glazing.
      (1)   Glass within 24 inches of either side of the door jams must be
tempered.
      (2)   Glass above the tub, less than 60 inches above the tub drain must
be tempered.
      (3)   Glass at pool or spa must be tempered.
      (4)   Glass within 60 inches of bottom tread of stairs and landings
(horizontal and vertical) must be tempered.
   (H)   Masonry and stucco.
      (1)   House wrap vapor barrier required behind all masonry veneers on
framed walls.
      (2)   Flashing with one-half inch drip leg and weep holes required, as
per 2018 I.R.C.
      (3)   Vendor ties required for each two square feet of veneer on framed
walls.
      (4)   Stucco must be installed per the manufactures listing, including
the water barrier.
   (I)   Construction.
      (1)   Truss engineering and details must be provided prior to the four-
way rough inspection.
      (2)   Install truss hold downs as per engineering.
      (3)   Joists must meet their span requirements.
      (4)   Beams and girders must be sized for their applicable loads.
      (5)   Foundation anchor bolt washers are required to be one-fourth inch
by two inches by two inches.
      (6)   Concrete poured in the public way must be performed by a bonded
contractor and inspected prior to pouring.
   (J)   Walls.
      (1)   Braced wall panels need to meet the International Residential Code
requirements.
      (2)   Alternate braced wall panels two feet eight inches up to four feet
as per International Residential Code.
      (3)   Headers over four feet must be sized for their loads.
   (K)   Electrical.
      (1)   Provide electrical schematic.
      (2)   Electrical calculations to verify size of panel.
      (3)   Lighting and receptacle outlets shown on plans.
      (4)   Habitable rooms require a light switch at each door servicing a
light or receptacle outlet.
      (5)   Crawl space or basement needs a light with a switch at the
entrance.
      (6)   Stairs six risers high or more require a switch top and bottom.
      (7)   Closest lights must be 12 inches from a vertical line created by
the shelf noses.
      (8)   Smoke detectors are needed in each bedroom, in a hallway to a
bedroom, and one on each floor. They must be 120 volt with nine-volt backup and
be interconnected. Remodeled homes may have battery operated detectors if that
area is not part of the construction and is not accessible.
      (9)   Carbon monoxide alarm required on each “habitable level” of
dwelling unit equipped with fuel burning appliances (SA).
      (10)   Smoke and carbon monoxide alarms shall be interconnected.
      (11)   Arc fault protection is required on all circuits in bedrooms (2002
NEC 210; 12(B)).
      (12)   Wet location lights need to be plastic or GFCI protected.
      (13)   Electrical service location as per Utah Power & Light.
      (14)   Underground services require 24-inch minimum ground cover.
      (15)   Underground two-inch service conduit needs to be strapped to the
structure within three feet of the service.
      (16)   Overhead temporary power needs to be set in place with proper
grounding. The pole must be braced in the direction of the service line if the
pole is more than 25 feet from the transformer or has the potential of becoming
loose. After the inspection, the utility company will connect the service
within one to five days of it being approved.
      (17)   Underground temporary power conduit may be laid on the lot with a
ground rod connected. An inspection is required before backfilling.
      (18)   UFER ground required as one of the grounding sources (grounding
conductor connected to a 20-inch length of rebar). Inspection is required.
   (L)   Receptacle outlets.
      (1)   A GFCI outlet is required on the exterior at the front and back of
the house.
      (2)   Habitable rooms need receptacle outlets six feet from any point
along wall line (shown on plans).
      (3)   Countertop outlets needed within two feet of any point along
counter (four feet O.C.).
      (4)   HVAC requires on outlet within 25 feet of the unit and a light at
or near the unit.
      (5)   Bathrooms need a GFCI outlet at the lavatory.
      (6)   One circuit for each bathroom if lights are on same circuit.
      (7)   Hallway over ten feet long requires a receptacle outlet.
      (8)   Install nail plates over holes with wires less than one and one-
fourth inches from the face of framing.
   (M)   Ground fault circuit interrupters.
      (1)   GFCI outlets are required within six feet of sinks or tubs, in
garages, outside, in the eaves, in the unfinished basement, and at all kitchen
counter tops.
      (2)   Outlets and switches of whirlpool must be GFCI protected and five
feet from the wall of the pool.
   (N)   Plumbing and mechanical.
      (1)   Provide plumbing, heating, and gas schematic.
      (2)   Provide heat loss calculations. (Energy analysis, Chapter 11
I.R.C.).
      (3)   Water closet clearances (space 30 inches wide minimum).
      (4)   Install shutoff valves to hose bibs. One valve may control all hose
bibs.
      (5)   Provide 12 inches by 12 inches access panel to tub motor.
      (6)   Shower area requires 900 square inches minimum and 30 inches at
narrowest dim.
      (7)   A floor drain is required at the mechanical equipment or condensate
drain.
      (8)   Strap the water heater; seismic strap screws must be steel screws.
Grabber screws are not acceptable.
      (9)   Expansion tank location.
      (10)   Water pressure regulator location.
      (11)   Copper tubing support six feet max spacing (2018 I.P.C. Table
308.5).
      (12)   P.B. tubing support 32 inches max spacing (2018 I.P.C. Table
308.5).
      (13)   ABS piping support four-inch max spacing (2018 I.P.C. Table
308.5).
      (14)   Steel pipe 12 feet max spacing (2018 I.P.C. Table 308.5).
      (15)   Gas appliance in bedrooms not allowed unless it is a sealed
appliance.
      (16)   Access for furnace and water heater equipment must be 30 inches
out from equipment.
      (17)   Combustion air per state code (furnace and water heater).
      (18)   Plastic pipe, electrical home runs, and furnace vents may not run
through return air ducts.
      (19)   Furnace not allowed in the bedroom closet.
      (20)   Tape on ductwork must be marked as listed tape.
      (21)   Install insulation shield around B-vent where it passes through
the attic.
      (22)   Dryer duct must have smooth interior finish and be four inches
nominal, maximum length is 25 feet but must be reduced five feet for every 90-
degree turn, and two and one-half feet for every 45-degree turn. It shall not
be screwed together but must be taped with a listed tape.
      (23)   The utility department, before covering, must inspect water and
laterals to the street.
   (O)   Engineering.
      (1)   This home does not meet the conventional light frame construction
requirements and must be engineered in the following locations:
      (2)   Plans not stamped for structural load (snow and wind).
      (3)   Engineering for ground snow load as provided for under applicable
codes.
   (P)   Energy conservation.
      (1)   The home must meet energy conservation standards per current MEC
check or other approved method.
      (2)   Heat loss calculations (Energy analysis, Chapter 11, I.R.C.).
      (3)   Unfinished basements must have insulation covering the walls of R-
11 or better, or insulation in the floor joist and around heat ducts, also a
door at the bottom or top of the stairs. Kraft faced paper may not be left
exposed due to fire hazard.
   (Q)   Miscellaneous.
      (1)   Unfinished basement to have emergency escape.
      (2)   Ceiling height seven foot minimum in habitable rooms, bathrooms,
kitchens, and hallways.
(Ord. 2005-05, passed - -)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Intent
   
151.003   Subdivision plans, plats required; exceptions
   
151.004   Subdivision costs and charges
   
151.005   Definitions
Procedure for Approval of a Subdivision
   
151.020   Pre-submission conference
   
151.021   Prepare, submit concept plan
   
151.022   Review of concept plan
   
151.023   Prepare preliminary plan and improvement drawings
   
151.024   Obtain Planning Commission approval of preliminary plan
   
151.025   Prepare, submit final plat
   
151.026   Planning Commission takes action on final plat
   
151.027   Subdivider posts performance guarantee
   
151.028   Town Council takes action on final plat
   
151.029   Final plat recorded in office of County Recorder
Documentation Requirements
   
151.040   Concept plan
   
151.041   Preliminary plan
   
151.042   Final plat, engineering drawings
Design Standards and Criteria
   
151.055   Subdivision design to conform to town standards
   
151.056   Streets and roads; general criteria; design standards
   
151.057   Right-of-way width
   
151.058   Pavement width; other improvements
   
151.059   Blocks; design standards
   
151.060   Lots; design standards
Improvement Requirements
   
151.075   Improvement requirements
   
151.076   Streets and roads
   
151.077   Culinary water
   
151.078   Fire hydrants
   
151.079   Sewage disposal facilities
   
151.080   Permanent survey monuments
   
151.081   Electric and telephone
   
151.082   Street signs
   
151.083   Storm drains and facilities
   
151.084   Environmental hazards
   
151.085   Street lights
   
151.086   Irrigation water system
Performance and Warranty Guarantees
   
151.100   Performance guarantees required
   
151.101   Duration of guarantee
   
151.102   Partial releases permitted
   
151.103   Release of performance guarantee
   
151.104   Warranty guarantee
   
151.105   Default
Minor Subdivision Process
   
151.120   Minor subdivision option permitted
   
151.121   Required conditions and improvements
   
151.122   Pre-submission and concept plan
   
151.123   Minor subdivision plan
   
151.124   Planning Commission review
   
151.125   Town Council review
   
151.126   Recordation, improvements, and dedications
General Requirements
   
151.140   Standards and specifications
   
151.141   Streets to be dedicated
   
151.142   Lots must abut on public street
   
151.143   Amended plats
   
151.144   Work to be done by engineer or surveyor
   
151.145   Drawings of record required
   
151.146   Variances
   
151.147   Water rights; conveyance requirements
   
151.148   Review fees
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.160   Other remedies for violation
   
151.161   Appeals
   
151.162   Violations
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be entitled the “Subdivision Ordinance of Goshen, Utah,”
and may be so cited and pleaded.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.002 INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of this chapter is as follows.
      (1)   To facilitate the orderly development of the town.
      (2)   To implement the town’s major street plan.
      (3)   To facilitate the development of a safe and efficient street
system.
      (4)   To facilitate the orderly transfer of the ownership of building
sites in a manner consistent with state law.
      (5)   To ensure the providing of adequate water, sewer, drainage,
utilities, and other services to developing areas of the town.
      (6)   To establish the rights, duties, and responsibilities of
subdividers with respect to the development of land within the town.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of this chapter, all subdivisions of property
within the town shall be required to follow the procedures set forth herein.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.003 SUBDIVISION PLANS, PLATS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person shall subdivide any tract of land within the incorporated limits
of the town; nor shall any person sell, exchange, purchase, or otherwise convey
a parcel of land which is part of a larger tract, if such sale or agreement
would have the effect of creating a subdivision as defined by this chapter, and
until a final plat, prepared in accordance with the provision of this chapter,
shall have been first approved by the Planning Commission and Town Council and
recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.004 SUBDIVISION COSTS AND CHARGES.
   Costs and charges in connection with the planning and development of
subdivision shall be borne by the subdivider.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BUILDABLE AREA. A portion of a building site which conforms to all minimum
criteria required for the placement of a structure.
   OFF-SITE. Of or pertaining to land, area, or facilities not located within
the boundaries of a subdivision.
   RETAINER STRIP. A parcel of land less than the minimum depth required for a
building lot bordering the boundary of a subdivision, and a street within the
subdivision for the purpose of controlling the access of the property owners
abutting the subdivision to the street.
   SUBDIVISION. A tract, lot, or parcel of land which has been, or is proposed
to be, divided into three or more parcels for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of sale or building development. For purposes of this chapter, the
above definition shall be interpreted to apply to the subject land and not to
the owner thereof (“shall run with the land”), and subsequent owners of any
parcel shall not each be entitled to make a division of land without creating a
SUBDIVISION, as defined herein.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF A SUBDIVISION
§ 151.020 PRE-SUBMISSION CONFERENCE.
   Any person wishing to subdivide land within the town shall secure from the
Planning Commission, or their designated representative, information pertaining
to the requirements for subdivisions and other requirements affecting the land
to be subdivided.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.021 PREPARE, SUBMIT CONCEPT PLAN.
   (A)   The subdivider shall then prepare a concept plan, and shall submit
three copies of the same to the Planning Commission not less than seven days
prior to the next regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting. Said plan
shall be prepared in accordance with §
151.040.
   (B)   Where a subdivider owns or controls more land than he or she proposes
to submit for preliminary approval, the Planning Commission may require that a
concept plan for the larger area be submitted. Said plan shall indicate the
portion proposed to be submitted initially for preliminary approval and the
portion to be held for future submission.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.022 REVIEW OF CONCEPT PLAN.
   The Planning Commission shall review the concept plan and provide
preliminary comments, recommendations, suggestions, and information regarding
town ordinances, standards, general plan, and subdivision approval procedures.
The Planning Commission shall not take formal action, and the Planning
Commission’s review of the concept plan shall not be construed to constitute
approval of the subdivision or grant of any vested rights in the plan, but
shall be deemed as an expression of acceptance of the basic concept and
feasibility of the proposed subdivision which the subdivider may use as a guide
in the preparation of the preliminary plan.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.023 PREPARE PRELIMINARY PLAN AND IMPROVEMENT DRAWINGS.
   After the Planning Commission has reviewed the concept plan, the subdivider
may prepare a preliminary plan of the subdivision, and shall submit three
copies of the same to the Planning Commission. Said plan shall be prepared in
accordance with the provision of §
151.041. Review and approval of the preliminary plan shall depend on the
schedule of the Planning Commission, and submission shall not guarantee review
during a specific meeting.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.024 OBTAIN PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plan and shall
act to:
      (1)   Approve the plan;
      (2)   Disapprove the plan if it does not meet the town’s ordinances or
standards;
      (3)   Approve the plan subject to modification; or
      (4)   Where considered by the Planning Commission to be necessary or
desirable, act to table further consideration of the plan.
   (B)   Approval by the Planning Commission shall be granted upon a finding
that:
      (1)   All plans and other materials required for consideration have been
submitted in a form suitable for evaluation.
      (2)   The plan conforms to the design standards for subdivision.
      (3)   The design adequately recognizes and mitigates, where necessary,
the natural- and human-caused conditions on or in the vicinity of the proposed
subdivision.
      (4)   The arrangement of roads, lots, easements, and other elements will
provide adequate circulation and access, and will result in a healthy, safe,
and attractive living environment.
      (5)   The utility systems serving the area have sufficient capacity to
provide adequate utility service to the development.
      (6)   The subdivision layout will be consistent with the major street
plan and other applicable elements of the master plan for the area.
      (7)   The subdivision conforms to all zoning requirements.
   (C)   The action of the Planning Commission shall be written on the face of
two copies of the plan, one of which shall be retained in the offices of the
Planning Commission, and one of which shall be returned to the subdivider. If
the plan is disapproved, the Planning Commission shall express its reasons
therefor to the subdivider.
   (D)   Upon approval of the preliminary plan, the Planning Commission shall
be committed to grant final approval of the final plat, subject to full
compliance with any conditions attached, unless, in the opinion of the Planning
Commission, the preliminary approval is given based on inaccurate or incomplete
representations, or that changes have occurred in conditions relating to the
property which were not known or present at the time concept approval was
given, and which would result in a significant detrimental effect on the public
if the project were earned out as initially presented. Approval of the
preliminary plan shall remain valid for a period of one year. Said approval may
be extended or reaffirmed by the Planning Commission, for a period not to
exceed one year, upon receipt of a written request from the owner.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.025 PREPARE, SUBMIT FINAL PLAT.
   Upon approval of the preliminary plan by the Planning Commission, the
subdivider shall prepare the final plat, final engineering drawings, and
documents, and shall submit the same to the Planning Commission. Said plats,
drawings, and documents shall be prepared in accordance with the provisions of
§
151.042. Review and approval of the final plan shall depend on the schedule of
the Planning Commission, and submittal shall not guarantee review during a
specific meeting.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.026 PLANNING COMMISSION TAKES ACTION ON FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review the final plat, final engineering
drawings, and other required submissions, and shall act to:
      (1)   Approve the plat;
      (2)   Disapprove the plat if it does not meet the town’s ordinances or
standards;
      (3)   Approve the plat subject to modification; or
      (4)   Where considered by the Planning Commission to be necessary or
desirable, act to table further consideration of the plan.
   (B)   Upon approval by the Planning Commission, said Commission shall
approve and sign the plat, and shall forward the plat to the Town Council with
the recommendations that the plat be approved and the proposed dedications
accepted.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.027 SUBDIVIDER POSTS PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   Upon approval by the Planning Commission and Town Council, the subdivider
shall proceed to post or make arrangements suitable to the town for posting a
bond or other financial assurance guaranteeing construction of the required
improvements. Said performance guarantee shall be in conformance with the
provisions of §§
151.100 through
151.105.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.028 TOWN COUNCIL TAKES ACTION ON FINAL PLAT.
   Upon receipt of the final plat, bearing all required signatures, and also
submission of evidence or description of how the subdivider will satisfy the
performance guarantee requirements, the Town Council shall consider the plat
and performance guarantee, and shall act to approve or disapprove the plat or
approve it with modification. If disapproved, the Town Council shall state its
reasons therefore to the subdivider. If modifications are required such
modifications must first be referred to and accepted by the Planning
Commission. If approved, the plat shall be signed by the Town Council and
retained for recording. The signature of the Town Council on the final plat
shall constitute final approval.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.029 FINAL PLAT RECORDED IN OFFICE OF COUNTY RECORDER.
   Upon receipt of the executed final plat and of all outstanding submissions
and fees, the town shall submit said plat for recording in the office of the
County Recorder, and the Building Inspector may thereafter issue a building
permit for the construction of subdivision improvements.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.040 CONCEPT PLAN.
   The concept plan shall consist of the following.
   (A)   A plan of the entire project area drawn at a scale of not smaller than
one inch equals 200 feet, and showing the general layout of the proposed
subdivision and its relationship to the adjacent properties; the location of
each proposed lot; the location, width, and general configuration of proposed
roads in the subdivision, and their relationship to the existing road system
and major street plan; and major canals and watercourses in the vicinity.
   (B)   A written or verbal statement indicating the intent and manner for
complying with the improvement guarantee, water rights conveyance, and similar
requirements.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.041 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   A preliminary plan shall consist on the following.
   (A)   A layout plan, drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equals 100
feet, and showing the following:
      (1)   The boundary lines of the tract proposed to be subdivided;
      (2)   A contour map at appropriate intervals when required by the
Planning Commission;
      (3)   The location, width and other applicable dimensions of all proposed
lots, streets, easements, open space areas, and indicating all territory
proposed for dedication to the town;
      (4)   The location of all existing and proposed canals and major ditches,
bridges, culverts, and drains;
      (5)   The size and location of all existing and proposed water mains,
fire hydrants, storm drainage facilities, curb, gutter and sidewalk
improvements, mailboxes, irrigation canals and ditches, and appurtenant
improvements, and any other proposed or required facilities; and
      (6)   The proposed location of the building setback lines.
   (B)   Preliminary engineering drawings showing the proposed cross-section
for all streets within or adjacent to the subdivision (including the placement
of blacktop, curb, gutter, sidewalk, water lines, and other street
improvements, the proposed road grades (when required by the Planning
Commission), irrigation ditches, and the proposed engineering treatment of any
proposed canal or ditch piping, and related culverts and bridges, stormwater
retention facility, or other significant engineering features.
   (C)   A statement indicating the type of performance guarantee proposed to
be offered as security for construction of the required public improvements.
   (D)   Evidence of ability to satisfy the water rights conveyance
requirements.
   (E)   Notice of acceptability of the area to accommodate septic tanks, as
evidenced by a letter from the Town-County Health Department.
   (F)   Evidence of payment of all subdivision plan submission, application,
and processing fees.
   (G)   Any other material or information required by the Planning Commission.
   (H)   Failure to submit the required material in accordance with the above
standards and requirements shall be grounds for denial.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.042 FINAL PLAT, ENGINEERING DRAWINGS.
   (A)   The final plats and plans shall consist of the following.
      (1)   The original final plat Mylar, prepared on the forms approved by
County Recorder for use in the county.
      (2)   One duplicate Mylar of the final plat, together with the required
number of paper copies.
      (3)   Copies of the final engineering drawings.
      (4)   Documents indicating full compliance with the water rights
conveyance requirements.
      (5)   An itemized estimate of the cost of constructing all required
improvements, prepared by, or under the direction of, the Town Engineer. This
estimate shall be used as the basis for setting the amount of the performance
guarantee.
      (6)   Final copies of improvements construction agreement and the
performance guarantee documents.
      (7)   A title report, covering the property within the final plat area,
to identify all interests in the property which have an effect on the title,
and to establish that the land proposed for subdivision is free of boundary
conflicts. The purpose of this requirement shall be to ensure that purchasers
of lots will have a clear and marketable title (when required by the Town
Council).
      (8)   Final copies of all other required documentation, as applicable.
      (9)   Evidence of payment of final plat checking and recording fees.
   (B)   Failure to submit the above final plat material shall be grounds for
denial.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
DESIGN STANDARDS AND CRITERIA
§ 151.055 SUBDIVISION DESIGN TO CONFORM TO TOWN STANDARDS.
   The layout and design of all subdivision developments shall be in accordance
with the standards as contained herein, or as may be adopted by the town
pursuant to the provisions of §
151.140.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.056 STREETS AND ROADS; GENERAL CRITERIA; DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   Relationship to adjacent streets. The proposed street system
shall properly align and be compatible with adjacent streets and the town’s
master plan.
      (2)   Access to adjacent properties. In order to facilitate the
development of an adequate and convenient circulation system within the town
and to provide access for the logical development of adjacent vacant
properties, the town may, as a condition of approval, require the subdivision
plan to include one or more temporary dead end street (stub streets) which
extend to the boundary of the subdivision. All such stub streets shall be fully
developed to the boundary of the subdivision. Any plan for the subsequent
development of the adjacent property shall provide for the continuation of any
such stub street.
   (B)   (1)   Reverse curves. Reverse curves shall have a tangent of at least
100 feet unless, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, such is not
necessary.
      (2)   Street intersection. Streets shall intersect each other as nearly
as possible at right angles. Minor streets shall approach the major or
collector streets at an angle of not less than 80 degrees. Offsets in street
alignment of more than 15 feet or less than 120 feet shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Street grades. The maximum grade of any street in the subdivision
shall be 8%. Where the observance of this standard is unfeasible, the Town
Council, subject to the prior recommendation of the Planning Commission, shall
have the power to grant an exception when special pavement surfaces and
adequate leveling areas are installed and, in the opinion of the town, the best
subdivision of the land is thereby secured.
      (4)   Street curves. Where the street lines within a block deflect from
each other at any one point more than ten degrees, there should be a connecting
curve. The radius of the curve for the inner street line should be not less
than 350 feet for arterial and collector class streets, 250 feet for an
important minor class street, and 100 feet for minor streets.
      (5)   Curbs. Where curbs are required, said curbs at intersections shall
be rounded with curves having a minimum radius of 15 feet for minor streets,
and 25 feet for collector and major streets. Property lines at street
intersections should be rounded with a curve where necessary to fit the curb
radius.
      (6)   Street names. New street names should not duplicate those already
existing. A street obviously a continuation of another already in existence
should bear the same name. Before the street is named, the proposed name must
be submitted and approved by the Planning Commission.
      (7)   Cul-de-sacs. Cul-de-sacs (dead end streets) shall be used only
where unusual conditions exist which make other designs undesirable. Each cul-
de-sac shall have a minimum right-of-way width of 56 feet and must be
terminated by a turn-around of not less than 96 feet in diameter.
         (a)   The maximum length of a cul-de-sac street shall be 400 feet.
         (b)   Surface water must drain away from the turnaround, except that
where surface water cannot be drained away from the turn-around along the
street, due to grade, necessary catch basins and drainage easements shall be
provided.
      (8)   Easements. Easements of not less than eight feet on each side of
all rear lot lines and side lines will be required where necessary for poles,
wire, conduits, storm or sanitary sewers, gas and water mains, and other public
utilities. Easements of greater width may be required along property lines
where necessary for surface overflow or for the extension of main sewers or
similar utilities.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.057 RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH.
   The minimum width of right-of-way for streets shown on the major street plan
shall conform to the width as designated on the plan. The minimum right-of-way
width for streets not shown on the plan shall be as follows:
 
Class of Street             Right-of-Way Width
Arterial class              80 feet
Collector class             66 feet
Minor class (local service) 56 feet
 
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.058 PAVEMENT WIDTH; OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   All sheets within and adjacent to the subdivision shall be hard surfaced.
The width of the hard surfacing and the location and type of other required
street improvements shall be as set forth on the applicable street cross-
section standard adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.059 BLOCKS; DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Length.
      (1)   The maximum length of blocks, generally, shall be 1,300 feet and
the minimum length of blocks shall be 400 feet.
      (2)   In blocks over 800 feet in length, the subdivider may be required
to dedicate a walkway through the block at approximately the center of the
block. Such walkway shall not be less than ten feet in width.
   (B)   Width. The width of blocks generally shall be sufficient to allow two
tiers of lots.
   (C)   Use. Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be designed
especially for such purposes with adequate space set aside for off-street
parking and delivery facilities.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.060 LOTS; DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Building sites. The lot arrangement, design, and shape shall be such
that lots will provide satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings, be
properly related to topography and conform to requirements set forth herein.
Lots shall not contain peculiarly shaped elongations solely to provide
necessary square footage which would be unusable for normal purposes.
   (B)   Size of lots. All lots shown on the subdivision plat shall contain not
less than 15,000 square feet, or such area as may be required by the Town-
County Health Department to accommodate an adequate septic disposal field,
whichever is greater. All lots shall have a minimum width of not less than 80
feet measured 30 feet back from the front property line abutting on the public
street.
   (C)   Frontage on public street. Each lot in the subdivision shall front on,
and have access to, a public street. The width of the frontage shall be not
less than 80 feet except when located on a cul-de-sac or curve. The width of
the abutting side may be reduced to not less than 40 feet, provided that the
side lot lines radiate in such a manner that the width of the lot measure 30
feet back from the front lot line is not less than 80 feet.
   (D)   Corner lots. Wherever possible, corner lots shall have ten feet extra
width to accommodate the additional setback requirements.
   (E)   Angle of lot lines. Side lot lines shall be approximately at right
angles, or radial to the street line, except where topographic conditions make
it advisable to have side lot lines deflect at sharper angles.
   (F)   Parts of lots. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
subdividing a larger tract must be attached to adjacent lots rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels. Protection strips shall not be
permitted.
   (G)   Multiple ownership of lots. Where the land covered by a subdivision
includes two or more parcels in separate ownership and the lot arrangement is
such that a property ownership line divides one or more lots, the land in each
lot so divided shall be transferred by deed to single ownership before approval
of the final plat, and such transfer recorded in the County Recorder’s office
before being certified to the Planning Commission by the subdivider or the
subdivision shall be considered as a joint project, and the final plat shall be
signed by all affected property owners.
   (H)   Building setback. The final plat shall indicate the minimum building
setback lines for each lot in the subdivision. No setback line shall be located
closer than 30 feet to a lot boundary which borders a street or eight feet to a
lot boundary which borders another lot.
   (I)   Domestic sewage disposal. Each lot shall be capable of accommodating a
wastewater disposal system which has been approved in writing by the Town-
County Health Department. The statement of approval from the Health Department
shall indicate that tests were conducted on each lot, and that all lots in the
subdivision meet minimum standards for individual waste disposal systems. No
final plat shall be approved which contain one or more dwelling sites for which
individual disposal systems are determined to be unsuitable.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.075 IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The improvements required by this section shall be installed in all
subdivisions. All improvements shall meet minimum town standards and
specifications as directed by the Town Engineer and shall be installed within
one year from the date of final approval of the subdivision. Provided, however,
that upon a showing of good and sufficient cause, the Town Council may grant an
extension of the time limit not to exceed six months. Financial assurances
guaranteeing the construction of all required improvements shall be required as
a condition of approval. Said assurances shall be in accordance with the
provision of §§
151.100 through
151.105.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.076 STREETS AND ROADS.
   All dedicated streets and roads shall be improved in conformance with the
applicable cross-section and construction standards as adopted by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.077 CULINARY WATER.
   Both off-site and on-site water mains of not less than six inches in
diameter shall be installed in such a way that each lot may be served
therefrom. Water service laterals shall be installed from the main line to the
outer edge of any road proposed to be dedicated to the town. Said lateral shall
include the installation of a meter box and meter setter. The water flowing to
said system shall be through lines which are sufficient in size to provide a
volume of flow and level of pressure adequate for both culinary and fire
protection in accordance with state and town standards.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.078 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   All subdivisions shall have fire hydrants installed in such a manner that no
dwelling unit or lot will be more than 400 feet distance from the closest
hydrant, measured along the street.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.079 SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Not required as a part of the subdivision improvements.
   (B)   Construction of disposal systems will be required as a condition of
granting a building permit.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.080 PERMANENT SURVEY MONUMENTS.
   (A)   No less than two permanent survey monuments shall be installed in each
subdivision. The location of the monuments shall be shown on the final plat.
   (B)   All corners on the subdivision and all lot corners in the subdivision
shall be marked.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.081 ELECTRIC AND TELEPHONE.
   (A)   Electric power and telephone lines shall be provided to each lot.
   (B)   All lines and appurtenant facilities shall be located underground,
except when the subdivider can show that the placement underground is not
practically feasible.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.082 STREET SIGNS.
   Street signs shall be installed at all locations indicated on the
preliminary plan. The location and design of said signs shall conform to
minimum town standards.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.083 STORM DRAINS AND FACILITIES.
   Pipes and other facilities for the collection and disposal of stormwater
shall be installed where required by the town. The location, size, and design
of said facilities shall be in accordance with the town’s stormwater disposal
plans and standards, or as directed by the Town Engineer.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.084 ENVIRONMENTAL HAZARDS.
   Adverse environmental conditions must be eliminated or accommodated as
follows:
   (A)   Soils.
      (1)   The placement of streets, buildings, and the designation of
building sites on areas of unstable soil shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Soils with a significant erosion hazard shall be protected.
Revegetation or other erosion control measures maybe imposed as a condition of
subdivision approval.
   (B)   Surface water on site. Surface water produced from the subdivision
development shall be properly disposed of:
      (1)   Within the limits of the subdivision; or
      (2)   Be conveyed to and disposed of within the town’s stormwater system.
   (C)   Flooding.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      (2)   The subdivision layout shall make adequate provision for natural
drainage channels and floodways.
      (3)   All water, sewer, and other utility systems and facilities located
in designated flood areas shall be designed and constructed to minimize flood
damage including the infiltration of floodwater into the system, or discharge
of the system into the floodwaters.
      (4)   Base flood data shall be provided by the developer as part of the
preliminary plan.
   (D)   Other. Where applicable, other adverse environmental conditions must
also be eliminated or adequately accommodated. The additional conditions shall
include, but not be limited to, seismic, land slide, and groundwater.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.085 STREET LIGHTS.
   (A)   Within subdivisions the responsibility for providing street lights
lies with the developer of the subdivision, not the town.
   (B)   If a subdivision plan does not provide for street lights, it shall be
so written on the plat for that subdivision.
   (C)   If street lights are desired by the future property owners, the cost
of installing these improvements will be the responsibility of the property
owners themselves and not the town.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.086 IRRIGATION WATER SYSTEM.
   All subdivision plans shall recognize and accommodate the irrigation system
within the town, including, as necessary, the installation of culverts and
pipes, the rerouting of ditches, and the reconstruction of head-gates. All
canals, ditches, and other watercourses, which lie within or are contiguous to
a proposed subdivision, shall not be interfered with by the subdivider without
complying with the requirements of UCA § 73-1-15 (1953, as amended) and the
applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
PERFORMANCE AND WARRANTY GUARANTEES
§ 151.100 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES REQUIRED.
   Wherever a performance guarantee is required under the terms of this
chapter, said guarantee shall be submitted in conformance with the following.
   (A)   Escrow account. A deposit of cash in a separate escrow account in an
amount not less than 110% of the estimated cost of installation of the
improvements. Said account shall be made with a financial institution
acceptable to the town, and shall be established in such a manner that any
release therefrom shall require the advance written consent of the town. Any
interest derived from the account shall be the property of the developer, and
that the town may foreclose upon or otherwise claim the proceeds without the
subdivider’s consent as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Performance bond. A performance bond, issued by a recognized bonding
agency acceptable to the town, in an amount not less than 110% of the estimated
cost of installation of the required improvements. The bond shall be
established in such a manner that any release of funds to the developer shall
require the advance written consent of the town, and that the town may
foreclose upon or otherwise claim the proceeds without the subdivider’s consent
as set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   Letter of credit. An irrevocable letter of credit from a financial
institution acceptable to the town, in an amount not less than 110% of the
estimated cost of installation of the required improvements. The letter of
credit shall be established in such a manner that any release of funds to the
developer shall require the advance written consent of the town, and that the
town may foreclose upon or otherwise claim the proceeds without the
subdivider’s consent as set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Property bond.
      (1)   A commitment of real property having a value of not less than 125%
of the estimated cost of installation of the required improvements, as
determined by the Town Council. The Town Council may require a current
appraisal prepared by a certified appraiser acceptable to the town.
      (2)   The property offered as a guarantee shall be free of any liens or
other encumbrances, and shall be secured with a trust or other appropriate
encumbrance in favor of the town. Use of the property bond option shall be
limited to subdivisions containing four or fewer lots.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.101 DURATION OF GUARANTEE.
   The duration of the performance guarantee shall be for the period of time
specified in this chapter for completion of required improvements, and any
extensions to such period as may be approved by the Town Council. The date of
beginning of the performance period shall be the date of final approval by the
town.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.102 PARTIAL RELEASES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Where a guarantee is provided for the purpose of ensuring the timely
installation of required improvements, the town may authorize a partial release
of the guarantee.
   (B)   The amount on any partial release shall be in an amount commensurate
with the estimated cost of the completed improvements, as determined by the
Town Engineer, less a hold back of 10% of the total amount, which amount shall
be retained as a warranty guarantee.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.103 RELEASE OF PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   (1)   At the completion of the work, the subdivider shall submit to
the town one copy of a written notice of completion, copies of lien releases
from all suppliers of materials and subcontractors, and a request for release.
      (2)   Following receipt of the notice and request, the Town Engineer
shall make a preliminary inspection of the improvements, and shall submit a
report to the Town Council setting forth the condition of such facilities.
   (B)   If the condition of said improvements are found to be satisfactory and
all liens are paid, the Council shall act to accept the improvements and
authorize release of the guarantee, less a hold back of 10% of the total
amount, which amount shall be retained as a warranty guarantee.
   (C)   If the condition of material or workmanship shown unusual depreciation
or does not comply with the acceptable standards of durability, or if there are
any outstanding liens, or if any other terms of the guarantee have not been
satisfied, the matter shall be referred to the Town Council for subsequent
action to secure performance.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.104 WARRANTY GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Ten percent of the total amount of the performance guarantee shall be
retained after release of the performance guarantee upon satisfactory
construction of the public improvements. This amount shall be retained as a
warranty that the improvements shall comply with the town’s design, materials,
and workmanship standards, and shall not fail in any material respect, as a
result of poor workmanship or materials, within one year after release of the
performance guarantee.
   (B)   After one year has elapsed from release of the performance guarantee,
the subdivier shall submit a request for inspection of the improvements and
release of the warranty guarantee as set forth in §
151.103.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.105 DEFAULT.
   Where, in the opinion of the Town Council, a developer fails or neglects to
satisfactorily install the required improvements or make required corrections,
or to pay all liens in connection with said improvements, make payment to the
town for administration and inspections, or otherwise fails in carrying out the
activity for which the performance guarantee was required, the Town Council
may, after a public hearing with due notice on the matter, declare the
performance guarantee forfeited and thereafter may install or cause the
required improvement to be installed using the proceeds from the guarantee to
defray the costs, provided, that the town shall not be responsible for work
beyond the limits of the bond amount. Any funds remaining after completion of
the required improvements will be returned to the developer.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
MINOR SUBDIVISION PROCESS
§ 151.120 MINOR SUBDIVISION OPTION PERMITTED.
   (A)   The intent of the minor subdivision process is to allow for small
subdivisions to be processed as quickly as possible. Minor subdivisions include
those developments of four or fewer lots which meet the requirements of this
subchapter. In this process, the preliminary and final plats, required for most
subdivisions, are simplified and combined.
   (B)   The procedures set forth in §§
151.121 to
151.126 below shall govern the processing of, and the requirements pertaining
to, minor subdivisions, and shall take precedence over any other provision of
this subchapter. The provisions of the town’s subdivision ordinance shall
continue to apply to all minor subdivisions, except where such provisions
conflict with the provisions herein.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.121 REQUIRED CONDITIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   A subdivision may use the minor subdivision process if:
   (A)   Not more than three parcels or lots shall be created in the minor
subdivision;
   (B)   The area to be subdivided shall be immediately adjacent to existing
streets and utilities and shall not involve the extension of any such streets
or utilities, except for private connections to existing utility lines;
   (C)   The minor subdivision shall conform to the general character of the
surrounding area;
   (D)   Lots created shall not adversely affect the remainder of the parcel or
adjoining property, and shall conform to the applicable provisions of the
zoning code;
   (E)   Public utility easements shall be dedicated; and
   (F)   Any further subdivision or lot splits will be processed under the
major subdivision process.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.122 PRE-SUBMISSION AND CONCEPT PLAN.
   (A)   The subdivider shall engage in the pre-submission and concept plan
requirements set forth in this chapter. Upon review of the concept plan, the
Planning Commission shall provide direction whether the proposed subdivision is
appropriate for the minor subdivision process.
   (B)   If the Planning Commission approves the use of the minor subdivision
process, the subdivider shall proceed to prepare and file a minor subdivision
plan and shall not be required to follow the preliminary plan and final plan
submittal and review process set forth above.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.123 MINOR SUBDIVISION PLAN.
   (A)   The subdivider shall prepare a minor subdivision plan that contains
all information, documentation, conveyances, dedications, drawings, and
guarantees required by this subchapter for a preliminary plan and final plan.
   (B)   The plat for the minor subdivision plan shall be prepared on Mylar on
the forms approved by County Recorder for use in the county, and all other
documentation shall be submitted in a form approved by the town. The subdivider
shall pay all applicable application and review fees. The subdivider shall
submit the complete minor subdivision plan to the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.124 PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review the minor subdivision plan, and
shall act to:
      (1)   Approve the plat;
      (2)   Disapprove the plat if it does not meet the town’s ordinances or
standards;
      (3)   Approve the plat subject to modification; or
      (4)   Where considered by the Planning Commission to be necessary or
desirable, act to table further consideration of the plan.
   (B)   Approval by the Planning Commission shall be granted upon a finding
that:
      (1)   The minor subdivision plan meets all design and improvement
standards; and
      (2)   The minor subdivision plan conforms to the requirements of this
chapter, including all requirements for preliminary plan approval, final plan
approval, and minor subdivision plan eligibility.
   (C)   Upon approval by the Planning Commission, said Commission shall
approve and sign the plat, and shall forward the plat to the Town Council with
the recommendations that the plat be approved and the proposed dedications
accepted.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.125 TOWN COUNCIL REVIEW.
   Within a reasonable time following the approval of the minor subdivision
plan by the Planning Commission, the Town Council shall consider the plan, and
shall act to:
   (A)   Approve the plat;
   (B)   Disapprove the plat if it does not meet the town’s ordinances or
standards;
   (C)   Approve the plat subject to modification; or
   (D)   Where considered by the Planning Commission to be necessary or
desirable, act to table further consideration of the plan. The plat shall not
be executed by the Town Council or recorded, except as set forth in §
151.126.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.126 RECORDATION, IMPROVEMENTS, AND DEDICATIONS.
   (A)   The subdivider of a minor subdivision shall comply with all water
dedication requirements, public improvement requirements, and performance and
warranty guarantee requirements.
   (B)   The approved final plat for the minor subdivision shall not be
executed by the Town Council or recorded with the county until the subdivider
has provided documentation satisfactory to the town of the subdivider’s
compliance with these requirements.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.140 STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall prepare standards and specifications for
the content of subdivision plans and for the layout, design, and construction
of subdivisions and required improvements. Said standards and specifications
shall be adopted by resolution of the Town Council.
   (B)   All such requirements shall be considered the minimum standards which
must be met and shall apply to all subdivisions.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.141 STREETS TO BE DEDICATED.
   All streets shall be dedicated for public use and shall conform to the
minimum standards for width and improvement, except that the Town Council may
accept the dedication of a partial width street, provided:
   (A)   That said street is located at the border of the subdivision;
   (B)   That the width proposed for dedication shall be sufficient to
accommodate the minimum travel way and all utility systems as set forth in town
standards;
   (C)   That there are no existing conditions which would prevent the
subsequent development of the remaining portion of the street; and
   (D)   That construction of a partial width street at the proposed location
will not create an unsafe or hazardous condition.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.142 LOTS MUST ABUT ON PUBLIC STREET.
   Each lot in a subdivision shall abut on a street dedicated to the town by
the subdivision plat or an existing public street, either dedicated or which
has become public by right of use, and is more than 50 feet wide. Interior lots
having frontage on two streets are prohibited, except in instances where
topographic conditions make such design desirable.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.143 AMENDED PLATS.
   (A)   No change shall be made in a plat which has received final approval
unless and until approval for said change has been given by both the Planning
Commission and Town Council.
   (B)   Any change in a subdivision for which a final plat has been recorded
shall require compliance with the applicable provision of state law and
approval by the Planning Commission and Town Council.
   (C)   Amendments that result in additional or new subdivisions shall require
a new plat of the territory to be approved and filed in accordance with the
procedures and requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.144 WORK TO BE DONE BY ENGINEER OR SURVEYOR.
   All engineering work must be done by, or under direction of, a professional
engineer registered in the state. All land survey work must be done by, or
under the direction of, a land surveyor registered in the state.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.145 DRAWINGS OF RECORD REQUIRED.
   Plans showing the location, size, grade, and depth of all water and sewer
mains, valves, manholes, and other subsurface utility and service lines, and
facilities shall be required prior to the release of performance guarantees.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.146 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances to the strict application of the standards and
specifications adopted pursuant to §
151.140 as part of a subdivision application may be authorized by the Town
Council after recommendation from the Planning Commission as part of the
subdivision review and application process. Other requests for variances
related to other land use applications, ordinances, or standards shall be
submitted directly to the Town Council in writing after paying all appropriate
fees. Such variances will be granted only upon a finding that the following
conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   Literal enforcement of the ordinance would cause an unreasonable
hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general
purpose of the land use ordinances;
      (2)   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do
not generally apply to other properties in the same zone;
      (3)   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same zone;
      (4)   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and
will not be contrary to the public interest; and
      (5)   The spirit of the land use ordinance is observed and substantial
justice done.
   (B)   In determining whether or not enforcement of the land use ordinance
would cause unreasonable hardship, the alleged hardship must be:
      (1)   Located on, or associated with, the property for which the variance
is sought;
      (2)   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from
conditions that are general to the neighborhood; and
      (3)   Is not self-imposed or economic.
   (C)   In determining whether or not there are special circumstances attached
to the property, the alleged special circumstances must:
      (1)   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
      (2)   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in
the same zone.
   (D)   Any variance so authorized shall be stated on the final plat and shall
run with the land.
   (E)   The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the
conditions justifying a variance have been met, and the Town Council shall not
authorize a use variance.
   (F)   In granting a variance, the Town Council may impose additional
requirements on the applicant that will mitigate any harmful effects of the
variance or serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
modified.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.147 WATER RIGHTS; CONVEYANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   As a condition of approval all subdividers shall convey to the town title to
water rights for culinary and irrigation purposes in the amount specified in
Utah Administrative Rule § 309-510, or such other standard authorized under
authority of that rule for the town for each additional lot shown on the final
plat of the subdivision.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.148 REVIEW FEES.
   (A)   All costs for the processing of subdivision proposals and the
administration of this chapter shall be borne by the subdivider.
   (B)   The Town Council may, from time to time, establish by resolution a
schedule of fees for that purpose, and provide for the assessment and
collection thereof. Such schedule of fees shall be on file in the Town Clerk’s
office and open to public inspection during normal office hours.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.160 OTHER REMEDIES FOR VIOLATION.
   The Town Council, Attorney, Building Official, or any owner of real estate
within the town that is adversely affected may, in addition to other remedies
provided by law, institute injunction, mandamus, abatement, or any other
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove any
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.161 APPEALS.
   (A)   A final decision by the Planning Commission regarding a land use
application, including a subdivision application or request for variance, maybe
appealed to the Town Council as follows.
      (1)   The appeal shall be submitted in writing within ten days after the
Planning Commission’s decision. The appeal shall contain all theories of relief
that the appellant could raise and all supporting evidence.
      (2)   The appeal shall be on the record presented to the Planning
Commission, and the Town Council shall presume the decision is valid, and
uphold the decision, unless the decision is arbitrary and capricious or
illegal.
   (B)   A final decision by the Town Council regarding a land use application,
including a subdivision application or request for variance, may be appealed
directly to the district court in accordance with state law.
   (C)   Appeals from recommendations or legislative actions may not be
appealed.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.162 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who transfers or sells land in a
subdivision without first preparing and having approved a final plat thereof,
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a
violation for each lot transferred or sold, and the description by metes and
bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of
selling or transferring shall not exempt such transaction from such violation.
   (B)   Further, any person, firm, or corporation, whether as principle,
agent, employee, or otherwise who, in the process of creating a subdivision,
performs any action in violation of the provision of this chapter or the
standards adopted pursuant to this chapter, or any subsequent amendment to such
chapter or standards shall be guilty of a violation for each such offense.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be punishable as a Class C misdemeanor, as
defined by state law. Each person, firm, or corporation found guilty of
violation shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day during
which such violation is committed, continued, or permitted.
(Ord. 02-01-2021 SD, passed - -2021)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Residential zones created
   
152.002   Permitted uses for all residential zones
   
152.003   Conditional uses for all residential zones
Residential Zone R
   
152.015   Purpose
   
152.016   Lot requirements
   
152.017   Setbacks
   
152.018   Building restrictions
Residential Zone R-1
   
152.030   Purpose
   
152.031   Permitted uses
   
152.032   Lot requirements
   
152.033   Setbacks
   
152.034   Building restrictions
Residential Zone R-2.5
   
152.045   Purpose
   
152.046   Permitted uses
   
152.047   Lot requirements
   
152.048   Setbacks
   
152.049   Building restrictions
Residential Zone R-5
   
152.060   Purpose
   
152.061   Permitted uses
   
152.062   Lot requirements
   
152.063   Setbacks
   
152.064   Building restrictions
Commercial Residential Zone CR-1
   
152.074   Purpose
   
152.075   Permitted uses
   
152.076   Conditional uses
   
152.077   Lot requirements
   
152.078   Setbacks
   
152.079   Building restrictions
   
152.080   Development requirements
   
152.081   Signage
   
152.082   Weed and junk-free grounds
Agricultural and Open Space Zone A-1
   
152.095   Purpose
   
152.096   Permitted uses
   
152.097   Conditional uses
   
152.098   Lot requirements
   
152.099   Setbacks
   
152.100   Building restrictions
Light Industrial Zone L-1
   
152.115   Purpose
   
152.116   Permitted uses
   
152.117   Conditional uses
   
152.118   Lot requirements
   
152.119   Setbacks
   
152.120   Building restrictions
   
152.121   Development requirements
   
152.122   Signage
   
152.123   Weed and junk-free grounds
Rural Residential Zone RRA-1
   
152.135   Purpose
   
152.136   Dwelling size requirements
   
152.137   Permitted uses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 RESIDENTIAL ZONES CREATED.
   There is hereby established the R, R-l, R-2.5, R-5, CR-1, and RRA-
1 Residential Zones. All residential zones are subject to the following general
requirements. Each zone shall also have more specific or particular
requirements, regulations, or restrictions, which shall supersede the general
requirements to the extent of any conflict.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.002 PERMITTED USES FOR ALL RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings, detached.
   (B)   Accessory uses and structures which are clearly incidental to the
primary use and do not substantially alter the character of the permitted
principal use or structure. Such permitted accessory uses and structures
include, but are not limited to, the following: garages, carports, greenhouses,
gardening sheds, and similar structures which are customarily used in
conjunction with the principal use of the structure. Does not include or allow
for accessory dwelling units in accessory buildings.
   (C)   Vegetable/flower gardens.
   (D)   Public utility lines, channels, and rights-of-way, including for
electricity, culinary water, irrigation, drainage, stormwater, and gas.
   (E)   Parks.
   (F)   Home occupations.
   (G)   Keeping and housing of animals, as allowed by
Chapter 91 of this code of ordinances.
   (H)   Internal accessory dwelling units as set forth by state code. The unit
must not be within a mobile home, not change the appearance of the primary
dwelling, and not require additional utility meters. The primary dwelling unit
in which the accessory dwelling unit is located must be on a lot at least 6,000
square feet in size served by adequate public facilities. The owner of the
property must occupy the primary dwelling, and if the accessory dwelling unit
is to be rented, the owner must first obtain approval from the town and cannot
rent the unit for periods of less than 30 consecutive days. The town may
enforce these requirements as set forth in state law.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.003 CONDITIONAL USES FOR ALL RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   Mobile, manufactured, or modular homes on a single parcel of land.
   (B)   Home industry.
   (C)   Telephone, television, radio internet, and other communication relay,
exchange, or transmission stations and towers.
   (D)   Public utility substations, pump stations, wells, and similar
facilities.
   (E)   Nurseries.
   (F)   Cemeteries.
   (G)   Governmental, quasi-governmental, and public safety buildings.
   (H)   Schools and educational facilities, including kindergarten,
elementary, junior high, and senior high schools.
   (I)   Religious buildings, including churches, synagogues, and temples.
   (J)   Playgrounds/athletic fields.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
RESIDENTIAL ZONE R
§ 152.015 PURPOSE.
   The Residential Zone R is established to provide a residential environment
within the town that is characterized by smaller lots and higher densities.
Nevertheless, this zone is characterized by spacious yards and other
residential amenities adequate to maintain desirable residential conditions.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.016 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area for any lot or parcel of land shall be one-third
acre.
   (B)   The minimum frontage for any lot shall be 80 feet of continuous lot
frontage along the street line and must abut a public right-of-way.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the minimum lot or parcel size and the
minimum frontage may be reduced by an amount equal to the area between the
property line(s) adjacent to a town street and the centerline of said street,
if and only if said street is or will be dedicated to the town as a result of,
or in connection with, the applicable subdivision process.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.017 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back
at least 30 feet from the front property line. On a corner lot, the front of
the main dwelling shall maintain the required minimum front yard setback. Using
side yard setbacks in front yard areas will not be allowed.
   (B)   Side yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least ten feet from all side property lines.
   (C)   Side yard, corner lot. On corner lots, all buildings and permanent
structures shall be set back at least 30 feet from all property lines adjacent
to a street.
   (D)   Rear yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least 35 feet from the rear property line.
   (E)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall follow the setbacks set
forth above, except that accessory buildings placed at least six feet to the
rear of any main building have a minimum side or rear yard setback of three
feet from the property line, provided no accessory building shall be located
closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, no
accessory buildings shall be located within the required depth of the side yard
which is contiguous to the street. Accessory buildings must have adequate
facilities for the discharge of all roof drainage onto the lot or parcel of
land, and must meet all town fire and building codes.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.018 BUILDING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No building shall be erected to a height greater than 35 feet. In no
event shall a dwelling structure exceed two and one-half stories in height.
Chimneys, flagpoles, church steeples, and similar structures not used for human
occupancy are excluded in determining height. Public and quasi-public buildings
may be erected to a greater height as approved by conditional use permit.
   (B)   All buildings, including accessory buildings and structures, shall not
cover more than 30% of the area of the lot or parcel of land.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
RESIDENTIAL ZONE R-1
§ 152.030 PURPOSE.
   The Residential Zone R-1 is established to provide areas where residential
uses and open spaces can be encouraged and maintained. Single-family dwellings
will be constructed on individual lots with lawns, gardens, small orchards,
pastures, and small fields. This district is intended to include activities
normally related to the conduct of residential uses.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.031 PERMITTED USES.
   In addition to the permitted uses described above for all residential zones,
the following uses are permitted within the R-l Zone: Governmental buildings.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.032 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area for any lot or parcel of land shall be one acre.
   (B)   The minimum frontage for any lot shall be 80 feet of continuous lot
frontage along the street line, and must abut a public right-of-way.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the minimum lot or parcel size and the
minimum frontage may be reduced by an amount equal to the area between the
property line(s) adjacent to a town street and the centerline of said street,
if and only if said street is or will be dedicated to the town as a result of,
or in connection with, the applicable subdivision process.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.033 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back
at least 30 feet from the front property line. On a corner lot, the front of
the main dwelling shall maintain the required minimum front yard setback. Using
side yard setbacks in front yard areas will not be allowed.
   (B)   Side yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least ten feet from all side property lines.
   (C)   Side yard, corner lot. On corner lots, all buildings and permanent
structures shall be set back at least 30 feet from all property lines adjacent
to a street.
   (D)   Rear yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least 35 feet from the rear property line.
   (E)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall follow the setbacks set
forth above, except that accessory buildings placed at least six feet to the
rear of any main building have a minimum side or rear yard setback of one foot
from the property line, provided no accessory building shall be located closer
than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, no accessory
buildings shall be located within the required depth of the side yard which is
contiguous to the street. Accessory buildings must have adequate facilities for
the discharge of all roof drainage onto the lot or parcel of land, and must
meet all town fire and building codes.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.034 BUILDING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No building shall be erected to a height greater than 35 feet. In no
event shall a dwelling structure exceed two and one-half stories in height.
Chimneys, flagpoles, church steeple, and similar structures not used for human
occupancy are excluded in determining height. Public and quasi-public buildings
may be erected to a greater height as approved by a conditional use permit.
   (B)   All buildings, including accessory buildings and structures, shall not
cover more than 35% of the area of the lot or parcel of land.
   (C)   No accessory building nor group of accessory buildings shall cover
more than 30% of the rear yard area.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
RESIDENTIAL ZONE R-2.5
§ 152.045 PURPOSE.
   The Residential Zone R-2.5 is established to complement and enhance the
rural atmosphere of the community through larger lot sizes while including
activities normally related to the conduct of residential uses. These lots may
be used for horse properties, hobby farms, and other compatible uses.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.046 PERMITTED USES.
   In addition to the permitted uses described above for all residential zones,
the following uses are permitted within the R-2.5 Zone:
   (A)   Government buildings; and
   (B)   Agriculture.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.047 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area for any lot or parcel of land shall be two and
one-half acres.
   (B)   The minimum frontage for any lot shall be 200 feet of continuous lot
frontage along the street line and must abut a public right-of-way.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the minimum lot or parcel size and the
minimum frontage may be reduced by an amount equal to the area between the
property line(s) adjacent to a town street and the centerline of said street,
if and only if said street is or will be dedicated to the town as a result of,
or in connection with, the applicable subdivision process.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.048 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back
at least 30 feet from the front property line. On a corner lot, the front of
the main dwelling shall maintain the required minimum front yard setback. Using
side yard setbacks in front yard areas will not be allowed.
   (B)   Side yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least 20 feet from all side property lines.
   (C)   Side yard, corner lot. On corner lots, all buildings and permanent
structures shall be set back at least 30 feet from all property lines adjacent
to a street.
   (D)   Rear yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least 35 feet from the rear property line.
   (E)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall follow the setbacks set
forth above, except that accessory buildings placed at least six feet to the
rear of any main building have a minimum side or rear yard setback of one foot
from the property line, provided no accessory building shall be located closer
than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, no accessory
buildings shall be located within the required depth of the side yard which is
contiguous to the street. Accessory buildings must have adequate facilities for
the discharge of all roof drainage onto the lot or parcel of land and must meet
all town fire and building codes.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.049 BUILDING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No building shall be erected to a height greater than 35 feet. In no
event shall a dwelling structure exceed two and one-half stories in height.
Chimneys, flagpoles, church steeple, and similar structures not used for human
occupancy are excluded in determining height. Public and quasi-public buildings
may be erected to a greater height as approved by a conditional use permit.
   (B)   All buildings, including accessory buildings and structures, shall not
cover more than 35% of the area of the lot or parcel of land.
   (C)   No accessory building, nor group of accessory buildings, shall cover
more than 30% of the rear yard area.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
RESIDENTIAL ZONE R-5
§ 152.060 PURPOSE.
   The objective of the Residential Zone R-5 is to complement and enhance the
rural atmosphere of the community by allowing larger lot sizes. These lots may
be used for horse properties, hobby farms, and other compatible uses.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.061 PERMITTED USES.
   In addition to the permitted uses described above for all residential zones,
the following uses are permitted within the R-5 Zone:
   (A)   Government buildings; and
   (B)   Agriculture.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.062 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area for any lot or parcel of land shall be five
acres.
   (B)   The minimum frontage for any lot shall be 200 feet of continuous lot
frontage along the street line, and must abut a public right-of-way.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the minimum lot or parcel size and the
minimum frontage may be reduced by an amount equal to the area between the
property line(s) adjacent to a town street and the centerline of said street,
if and only if said street is or will be dedicated to the town as a result of
or in connection with the applicable subdivision process.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.063 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back
at least 30 feet from the front property line. On a corner lot, the front of
the main dwelling shall maintain the required minimum front yard setback. Using
side yard setbacks in front yard areas will not be allowed.
   (B)   Side yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least 20 feet from all side property lines.
   (C)   Side yard, corner lot. On corner lots, all buildings and permanent
structures shall be set back at least 30 feet from all property lines adjacent
to a street.
   (D)   Rear yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least 35 feet from the rear property line.
   (E)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall follow the setbacks set
forth above, except that accessory buildings placed at least six feet to the
rear of any main building have a minimum side or rear yard setback of one foot
from the property line, provided no accessory building shall be located closer
than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, no accessory
buildings shall be located within the required depth of the side yard which is
contiguous to the street. Accessory buildings must have adequate facilities for
the discharge of all roof drainage onto the lot or parcel of land, and must
meet all town fire and building codes.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.064 BUILDING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No building shall be erected to a height greater than 35 feet. In no
event shall a dwelling structure exceed two and one-half stories in height.
Chimneys, flagpoles, church steeple, and similar structures not used for human
occupancy are excluded in determining height. Public and quasi-public buildings
may be erected to a greater height as approved by a conditional use permit.
   (B)   All buildings, including accessory buildings and structures, shall not
cover more than 35% of the area of the lot or parcel of land.
   (C)   No accessory building nor group of accessory buildings shall cover
more than 30% of the rear yard area.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
COMMERCIAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE CR-1
§ 152.074 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Commercial Residential Zone CR-1 is established to provide areas
within the town where general retail and service uses can be established. This
will be done by creating a shopping and business area with well maintained
stores and business offices. Commercial use areas should be located along major
arterial streets for high visibility and traffic volumes.
   (B)   Whenever commercial uses are adjacent to established or future
residential areas, special care should be taken to ensure privacy and to
protect personal property. Methods of protecting residential areas by providing
transitions and buffers between residential and commercial areas include, but
are not limited to, the following: increased setbacks, landscaping, restricted
land uses, diversion of traffic, controlled noise or light, height limitations,
and transitional land uses such as minor offices or higher density residential
uses.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.075 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the CR-1 Zone, in conformance with all
applicable codes, ordinances, and standards.
   (A)   Bus transportation.
   (B)   Public utility lines, channels, and rights-of-way, including for
electricity, culinary water, irrigation, drainage, stormwater, and gas.
   (C)   Lumber and other building materials.
   (D)   General merchandise.
   (E)   Groceries.
   (F)   Automotive, marine craft, aircraft, and parts and accessories.
   (G)   Apparel and accessories.
   (H)   Furniture, home furnishings, and equipment.
   (I)   Restaurants.
   (J)   Miscellaneous retail.
   (K)   Finance, insurance, and real estate services.
   (L)   Personal services.
   (M)   Business services.
   (N)   Repair services.
   (O)   Professional services.
   (P)   Government services.
   (Q)   Business, professional, and labor organizations and services.
   (R)   Parks.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.076 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Motor vehicle transportation.
   (B)   Telephone, television, radio, internet, and other communication relay,
exchange, or transmission stations and towers.
   (C)   Public utility substations, pump stations, wells, and similar
facilities.
   (D)   Nurseries.
   (E)   Cemeteries.
   (F)   Governmental, quasi-governmental, and public safety buildings.
   (G)   Schools and educational facilities, including kindergarten,
elementary, junior high, and senior high schools.
   (H)   Day nursery child care.
   (I)   Religious buildings, including churches, synagogues, and temples.
   (J)   Playgrounds/athletic fields.
   (K)   Fairgrounds.
   (L)   Tennis courts.
   (M)   Riding academics, schools, and stables.
   (N)   Public swimming pools.
   (O)   Parks.
   (P)   Event centers.
   (Q)   Public libraries.
   (R)   Theaters.
   (S)   Construction services.
   (T)   Fuel and ice.
   (U)   Farm and garden supplies.
   (V)   Department stores.
   (W)   Mail order houses.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.077 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area within a CR-1 Zone shall be one-third acre.
   (B)   The minimum size for a CR-1 development shall be five acres. Special
conditions may be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The minimum frontage for any lot shall be 60 feet of continuous lot
frontage along the street line.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.078 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back
at least 30 feet from the front property line, unless special conditions are
approved by the Planning Commission. On a corner lot, the front of the main
building shall maintain the required minimum front yard setback. Using side
yard setbacks in front yard areas will not be allowed.
   (B)   Side yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least 20 feet from all side property lines.
   (C)   Side yard, corner lot. On corner lots, all buildings and permanent
structures shall be set back at least 30 feet from all property lines adjacent
to a street.
   (D)   Rear yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least 35 feet from the rear property line.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.079 BUILDING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No building shall be erected to a height greater 35 feet, and no
building structure shall be erected to a height less than one story. Additional
height may be granted by the Planning Commission after conditional use permit
review. However, in no event shall a building structure exceed two and one-half
stories in height.
   (B)   Chimneys, flagpoles, church steeple, and similar structures not used
for human occupancy are excluded in determining height.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.080 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Drainage. The developer shall present a drainage plan for the entire
development. The plan may be for the development as a whole or on a lot by lot
basis. The drainage plan shall be approved by the Town Engineer.
   (B)   Landscaping. The developer shall present a landscaping plan for
review. Landscaping shall cover the lesser of 2.5% of the total area of each
lot or 5,000 square feet.
   (C)   Garbage storage. Garbage shall be stored in appropriate containers to
the rear of the building or in an enclosure. Exceptions may be allowed upon
approval by the Planning Commission and Town
Council.
   (D)   Walls and fences.
      (1)   There shall be a fence surrounding the property, unless the
developer or owner can show that there are no health, safety, or aesthetic
concerns with the proposed use.
      (2)   If the property borders a residential zone, there shall be a
minimum of six feet of privacy fencing separating the commercial property and
adjoining residential zones.
      (3)   This fence shall be erected by the developer of the most recently
approved zone. This requirement may be waived if it can be shown by the
developer or owner of the property that the use presents no health, safety, or
aesthetic concerns for the residential use.
   (E)   Parking. Parking spaces shall be provided according to the table set
forth below. Where a particular use does not have a defined parking
requirement, the Planning Commission shall designate the use that is most
similar to the proposed use and apply that parking requirement.
Use Parking Requirement
Use                                  Parking Requirement
Apartment house                      1.5 spaces per unit
Auto truck, RV sales, and rentals    3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                     1 space per service bay, plus 3 stalls
Automotive repair establishment      per 1,000 square feet for office and
                                     retail sales
Banking/financial services           2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Child care facility                  1 space per on duty employee and 1 per 6
                                     children
Healthcare center                    5 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Hospital                             1.8 spaces per bed
Hotel, motel                         1 space per each 2 rooms, plus 1 space
                                     per dwelling unit
Laundry, dry cleaning                3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                     As determined by the Planning Commission
Master planned development           based on the proposed uses and potential
                                     for shared parking
                                     1 space per 4 parlor seats; 1 space per 2
Mortuary                             employees; 1 space per vehicle used in
                                     connection with the business
Nursery                              2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Office, business, government         3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Office, professional                 2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Public and quasi-public institution, The greater of 1 space per 5 seats, or 2
church; public utility; municipal    spaces per 3 employees, or 1 space per
facility                             1,000 square feet
Restaurant, café                    6 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                     floor area
Restaurant, fast food                6 spaces per 1,000 square feet gross
                                     floor area
Retail sales establishment           3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                     1 space per each 3 faculty members or
School, private, quasi-public        employees; 1 space per each 10 students
                                     of driving age
                                     1 space per each 3 faculty members or
School, public                       employees; 1 space per each 10 students
                                     of driving age
Shopping center                      2 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
                                     floor area
Single-family dwelling               2.5 spaces per dwelling unit (minimum 167
                                     square feet per space)
Theater, concert hall                1 space per 4 seats
                                     2 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
Warehouse storage units (commercial  floor area for the first 10,000 square
only)                                feet; 14 space per 2,000 square feet for
                                     the remaining area
 
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.081 SIGNAGE.
   Signs shall be limited to no more than two per lot signs on buildings and
may be any size as long as they do not exceed the dimensions of the wall to
which they are attached, nor extend beyond the walls of the building.
Freestanding signs must be set back at least ten feet from any public road and
may not interfere with traffic flow or vision. The maximum height shall be no
more than 15 feet. The maximum area of the sign shall be no more than 50 square
feet. All signs may be lighted, but no flashing or neon signs will be
permitted.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.082 WEED AND JUNK-FREE GROUNDS.
   The yards around buildings shall be kept free of junk, debris, weeds, and
other flammable material. The town may issue a warning notice to the property
owner allowing a period of two weeks to clear the lot of all weeds, trash, and
other debris.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
AGRICULTURAL AND OPEN SPACE ZONE A-1
§ 152.095 PURPOSE.
   The Agriculture and Open Space Zone A-1 is established to provide areas
where agricultural and residential uses and open spaces can be encouraged and
maintained. This district is intended to include activities normally related to
the conduct of agricultural and low density residential uses.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.096 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the A-l Zone, in conformance with all
applicable codes, ordinances, and standards.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings, detached.
   (B)   Accessory uses, buildings, and structures which are customarily
incidental to the primary use and do not substantially alter the character of
the permitted principal use or structure. Such permitted accessory uses and
structures include, but are not limited to, the following: Accessory buildings
such as garages, carports, greenhouses, gardening sheds, and similar structures
which are customarily used in conjunction to the principal use or structure.
   (C)   Vegetable/flower gardens.
   (D)   Public utility lines, channels, and rights-of-way, including for
electricity, culinary water, irrigation, drainage, stormwater, and gas.
   (E)   Agriculture.
   (F)   Home occupations.
   (G)   Keeping and housing of animals.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.097 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Mobile, manufactured, and modular homes on a single parcel of land.
   (B)   Home industry.
   (C)   Telephone, television, radio internet, and other communication relay,
exchange, or transmission stations and towers.
   (D)   Public utility substations, pump stations, wells, and similar
facilities.
   (E)   Nurseries.
   (F)   Cemeteries.
   (G)   Governmental, quasi-governmental, and public safety buildings.
   (H)   Schools and educational facilities, including kindergarten,
elementary, junior high, and senior high schools.
   (I)   Day nursery child care in single-family dwellings only. No more than
12 children (including children who reside in the dwelling) will be allowed at
any given time.
   (J)   Religious buildings, including churches, synagogues, and temples.
   (L)   Playgrounds/athletic fields.
   (M)   Fairgrounds.
   (N)   Tennis courts.
   (O)   Riding academics, schools, and stables.
   (P)   Public swimming pools.
   (Q)   Parks.
   (R)   Event centers.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.098 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area or any lot or parcel of land shall be five acres.
   (B)   The minimum frontage for any lot shall be 200 feet of continuous lot
frontage along the street line.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.099 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back
at least 30 feet from the front property line. On a corner lot, the front of
the main dwelling shall maintain the required minimum front yard setback. Using
side yard setbacks in front yard areas will not be allowed.
   (B)   Side yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least 20 feet from all side property lines.
   (C)   Side yard, corner lot. On corner lots, all buildings and permanent
structures shall be set back at least 30 feet from all property lines adjacent
to a street.
   (D)   Rear yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least 35 feet from the rear property line.
   (E)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall follow the setbacks set
forth above, except that accessory buildings placed at least six feet to the
rear of any main building have a minimum side or rear yard setback of one foot
from the property line, provided no accessory building shall be located closer
than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, no accessory
buildings shall be located within the required depth of the side yard which is
contiguous to the street. Accessory buildings must have adequate facilities for
the discharge of all roof drainage onto the lot or parcel of land, and must
meet all town fire and building codes.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.100 BUILDING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No building shall be erected to a height greater than 35 feet. In no
event shall a dwelling structure exceed two and one-half stories in height.
Chimneys, flagpoles, church steeple, and similar structures not used for human
occupancy are excluded in determining height. Public and quasi-public buildings
may be erected to a greater height as approved by conditional use permit.
   (B)   All buildings, including accessory buildings and structures, shall not
cover more than 35% of the area of the lot or parcel of land.
   (C)   No accessory building nor group of accessory buildings shall cover
more than 30% of the rear yard area.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONE L-1
§ 152.115 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Light Industrial Zone L-1 is established to provide areas within
the town where manufacturing, processing, warehousing, and fabrication of goods
and materials can be carried on appropriately with minimum conflict and
negative effects on surrounding properties.
   (B)   These activities should be located close to major roads. Because of
the adverse effects which occur when permitted to commingle, residences,
schools, churches, and most retail and commercial establishments have been
excluded from the Light Industrial Zone L-1.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.116 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the L-l Zone, in conformance with all
applicable codes, ordinances, and standards.
   (A)   Wholesale trade.
   (B)   Automotive, marine craft, aircraft, and parts and accessories.
   (C)   Apparel and other finished products made from fabrics, leather, and
similar materials.
   (D)   Lumber and wood products.
   (E)   Furniture and fixtures.
   (F)   Paper and allied products.
   (G)   Printing, publishing, and similar industries.
   (H)   Stone, clay, and miscellaneous plastics.
   (I)   Professional, scientific, and controlling instruments.
   (J)   Miscellaneous manufacturing.
   (K)   Public utility lines, channels, and rights-of-way, including for
electricity, culinary water, irrigation, drainage, stormwater, and gas.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.117 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Motor vehicle transportation.
   (B)   Telephone, television, radio, internet, and other communication relay,
exchange, or transmission stations and towers.
   (C)   Public utility substations, pump stations, wells, and similar
facilities.
   (D)   Repair services.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.118 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The minimum lot area within an L-l Zone shall be one acre.
   (B)   The minimum size for an L-l zoning designation shall be five acres.
Special conditions may be reviewed by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   The minimum frontage for any lot shall be 100 feet of continuous lot
frontage along the street line.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.119 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Front yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back
at least 30 feet from the front property line, unless special conditions are
approved by the Planning Commission. On a corner lot, the front of the main
building shall maintain the required minimum front yard setback. Using side
yard setbacks in front yard areas will not be allowed.
   (B)   Side yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least 20 feet from all side property lines.
   (C)   Side yard, corner lot. On corner lots, all buildings and permanent
structures shall be set back at least 30 feet from all property lines adjacent
to a street.
   (D)   Rear yard. All buildings and permanent structures shall be set back at
least 35 feet from the rear property line.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.120 BUILDING RESTRICTIONS.
   No building shall be erected to a height greater than 35 feet, and no
building structure shall be erected to a height less than one story. Additional
height may be granted by the Planning Commission after conditional use permit
review. However, in no event shall a building or structure exceed two and one-
half stories in height. Chimneys, flagpoles, and similar structures not used
for human occupancy are excluded in determining height.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.121 DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Review. Before the use or ownership of an industrial property can be
changed or altered, the use of the property in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter must be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
approved by the Town Council. The Planning Commission shall also review any
regulations concerning grade changes between property lines.
   (B)   Drainage. The developer shall present a drainage plan for the entire
development. The plan may be for the development as a whole or on a lot-by-lot
basis. The drainage plan shall be approved by the Town Engineer.
   (C)   Landscaping. The developer shall present a landscaping plan for
review. Landscaping shall cover the lesser of 2.5% of the total area of each
lot or 5,000 square feet.
   (D)   Garbage storage. Garbage shall be stored in appropriate containers to
the rear of the building or in an enclosure. Exceptions may be allowed upon
approval by the Planning Commission and Town Council.
   (E)   Walls and fences.
      (1)   There shall be a fence surrounding the property unless the
developer or owner can show that there are no health, safety, or aesthetic
concerns with the proposed use. If the property borders a residential zone,
there shall be a minimum of six feet of privacy fencing separating the
industrial property and adjoining residential zones. This fence shall be
erected by the developer of the most recently approved zone.
      (2)   This requirement may be waived if it can be shown by the developer
or owner of the property that the use presents no health, safety, or aesthetic
concerns for the residential use.
   (F)   Parking. Parking spaces shall be provided according to the table set
forth below. Where a particular use does not have a defined parking
requirement, the Planning Commission shall designate the use that is most
similar to the proposed use and apply that parking requirement.
Use Parking Requirement
Use                                 Parking Requirement
Animal hospital                     3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Auto truck, RV sales, and rentals   3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                    1 space per service bay, plus 3 stalls
Automotive repair establishment     per 1,000 square feet for office and
                                    retail sales
Child care facility/center          1 space per on duty employee and 1 per 6
                                    children
                                    2 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
                                    floor area for the first 10,000 square
Industrial park                     feet; 14 spaces per 2,000 square feet for
                                    the remaining area. Office area parking
                                    requirements shall be calculated
                                    separately based on office parking rates
Industry                            2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Kennel                              1 space per 2 employees
Laundry, dry cleaning               3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                    As determined by the Planning Commission
Master planned development          based on the proposed uses and potential
                                    for shared parking
                                    1 space per 4 parlor seats; 1 space per 2
Mortuary                            employees; 1 space per vehicle used in
                                    connection with the business
Nursery                             2 spaces per 1,000 square feet
Retail sales establishment          3 spaces per 1,000 square feet
                                    2 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross
Warehouse storage units (commercial floor area for the first 10,000 square
only)                               feet; 0.5 space per 2,000 square feet for
                                    the remaining area
 
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.122 SIGNAGE.
   Signs shall be limited to no more than two per lot. Signs on buildings may
be any size as long as they do not exceed the dimensions of the wall to which
they are attached, nor extend beyond the walls of the building. Freestanding
signs must be set back at least ten feet from any public road and may not
interfere with traffic flow or vision. The maximum height shall be no more than
15 feet. The maximum area of the sign shall be no more than 50 square feet. All
signs may be lighted, but no flashing or neon signs will be permitted.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
§ 152.123 WEED AND JUNK-FREE GROUNDS.
   The yards around buildings shall be kept free of junk, debris, weeds, and
other flammable material. The town may issue a warning notice to the property
owner allowing a period of two weeks to clear the lot of all weeds, trash, and
other debris.
(Document “Residential Zoning Ordinances”)
RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONE RRA-1
§ 152.135 PURPOSE.
   To provide and protect areas for single-family neighborhoods, while
permitting the limited establishment of ancillary uses to serve the
requirements of families. The objective in establishing the Rural Residential
Zone is to provide a residential environment within the town which is
characterized by smaller lots and a somewhat denser residential environment
than is characteristic of the other residential zones in the town.
Nevertheless, this zone is characterized by spacious yards and other
residential amenities adequate to maintain desirable residential conditions.
(Ord. 12-01-2019, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 152.136 DWELLING SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   Minimum dwelling size shall be 900 square feet floor area on the main floor.
(Ord. 12-01-2019, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 152.137 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the Rural Residential Zone:
   (A)   Agriculture, including:
      (1)   Tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture, and
gardening; and
      (2)   Animals and fowl for recreation or for family food production for
the primary use of persons residing on the premises.
   (B)   Single-family dwellings;
   (C)   Mobile homes;
   (D)   Private stables, corrals, chicken coops, or pens;
   (E)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the permitted
use;
   (F)   Vacation rentals; and
   (G)   Accessory dwelling units.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
IV.   CONTRACTS AND INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
      
V.   BUDGETS
      
VI.   BONDS
      
VII.   GENERAL MASTER PLAN
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Thirty-year franchise for the construction,
07022021      7-13-2021   operation, and maintenance of a gas distribution
                          system with Questar Gas Company.
                         
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord./Res. Date   Description
No.       Passed
                 Annexation of Warm Springs on the east to the boundaries
                 of Genola, Sections 7, 12, 13, 17, 18, and the
                 unincorporated part of 5 and 8; North and West, Sections
                 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 9, 10, and 11; West and South, all parts of
-         - -    Sections 14, 15, and 16; and South, Sections 19, 20, 21,
                 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 33, and 34 (Section 21
                 only includes the area running parallel to road 12800
                 West; it does not include Section 21 on the East Bench).
                 (“The Town of Goshen Annexation Policy Plan” document)
                
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
01-02-2020    1-14-2020   Rezoning an area of approximately 37.1 acres from an
                          R-5 Zone to a RRA-1 Zone.
                         
 
TABLE IV: CONTRACTS AND INTERLOCAL AGREEMENTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 79-02      7-16-2002   Acceptance of the 2002-2003 Law Enforcement Contract.
R. 2008 12-2  12-16-2008  Interlocal agreement between the town and Santaquin
                          City to provide EMT services.
R. 07-001     7-13-2010   Agreement between the town and the county to
                          participate in the County CDBG program.
                          Approving the agreement between the town and the
R. 10-1-2017  10-10-2017  Office of State Debt Collections for collection of
                          certain accounts receivable of the Town Justice
                          Court.
                         
 
TABLE V: BUDGETS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No.   Date Passed Description
R. 78-03        6-10-2003   Acceptance of the 2004 budget.
R. 2004-08      6-8-2004    Acceptance of the 2004-2005 budget.
R. 2005-02A     6-14-2005   Acceptance of the proposed 2005-2006 budget.
R. 2008-3       6-10-2008   Acceptance of the proposed 2008-2009 budget.
R. 2008-3a      6-24-2008   Acceptance of the proposed amendment of the 2007-
                            2008 budget.
R. 2008-08      8-12-2008   Acceptance of the proposed amendment of the 2008-
                            2009 budget.
R. 2009-06      6-9-2009    Acceptance of the proposed 2009-2010 budget.
R. 2010-02-09A  2-9-2010    Acceptance of the proposed amendment of the 2009-
                            2010 budget.
R. 2010-06-08   6-8-2010    Acceptance of the proposed 2010-2011 budget.
R. 2011-11-2011 3-8-2011    Acceptance of the amendment of the 2010-2011
                            budget.
R. 2011-06-14   6-14-2011   Acceptance of the proposed 2011-2012 budget.
R. 2012-01-03   1-10-2012   Acceptance of the amendment of the 2011-2012
                            budget.
R. 2012-06-12   6-12-2012   Acceptance of the proposed 2012-2013 budget.
R. 2013-02-12   2-12-2013   Acceptance of the amendment of the 2012-2013
                            budget.
R. 2013-06-11   6-11-2013   Acceptance of the proposed 2013-2014 budget.
R. 2014-06-23   6-23-2014   Acceptance of the proposed 2014-2015 budget.
R. 2015-06-09   6-9-2015    Acceptance of the proposed 2015-2016 budget
R. 2017-06-01   6-13-2017   Acceptance of the proposed 2017-2018 budget.
                           
 
TABLE VI: BONDS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Authorizing the issuance and sale by the town of not
R. 2005       11-10-2005  more than $840,000 of its water revenue bonds, Series
                          2006.
                         
 
TABLE VII: GENERAL MASTER PLAN
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
R. 2009 1-2   1-13-2009   Acceptance of the General Master Plan for 2009-2014.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Utah Code Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO UTAH CODE ANNOTATED
UCA Cite Code Section
UCA Cite                                Code Section
10-8-15                                 51.55
10-8-66                                 110.01
10-8-67                                 110.01
52-4-201 et seq.                        31.17
73-1-15 (1953, as amended)              151.086
76-3-205                                10.99
76-3-301(1)(d)                          10.99 
76-3-301(1)(e)                          10.99
76-3-302(3)                             10.99 
76-3-302(4)                             10.99
77-7-18                                 132.01
78B-22-102                              10.99
78B-22-301                              10.99
Chapter 10, Title 76 (1953, as amended) 91.042
Title 32B                               111.01;
                                        132.01
Title 41                                132.01
Title 53                                132.01
Title 58                                132.01
Title 63G, Chapter 7                    51.28
Title 76                                132.01
                                        
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.     Date Passed Code Section
6            - -1994     91.089;
                         91.090
79-02        7-16-2002   TSO Table IV
78-03        6-10-2003   TSO Table V
2004-08      6-8-2004    TSO Table V
2005-02A     6-14-2005   TSO Table V
2005         11-10-2005  TSO Table VI
2008-3       6-10-2008   TSO Table V
2008-3a      6-24-2008   TSO Table V
2008-08      8-12-2008   TSO Table V
2008 12-2    12-16-2008  TSO Table IV
2009 1-2     1-13-2009   TSO Table VII
2009-06      6-9-2009    TSO Table V
2009-07      6-9-2009    150.01
2010-02-09A  2-9-2010    TSO Table V
2010-06-08   6-8-2010    TSO Table V
07-001       7-13-2010   TSO Table IV
2011-11-2011 3-8-2011    TSO Table V
2011-06-14   6-14-2011   TSO Table V
2012-01-03   1-10-2012   TSO Table V
2012-06-12   6-12-2012   TSO Table V
2012-11-13   11-13-2012  51.02
2013-02-12   2-12-2013   TSO Table V
2013-06-11   6-11-2013   TSO Table V
2014-06-23   6-23-2014   TSO Table V
2015-06-09   6-9-2015    TSO Table V
11-01-2016   11-8-2016   51.39
2017-06-01   6-13-2017   TSO Table V
10-1-2017    10-10-2017  TSO Table IV
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
05-01-2022    - -         92.01-
                          92.06
2005-05       - -         150.15-
                          150.22
2020-06-01    - -         70.01-
                          70.06
                          91.001-
                          91.006;
                          91.020-
                          91.026;
                          91.040-
                          91.049;
D-1-1994      - -1994     91.060-
                          91.070;
                          91.085-
                          91.088;
                          91.110-116;
                          91.130;
                          91.131;
                          91.999
C1-1994       3-11-1994   130.01-
                          130.07
101-99-OB     7-21-1999   110.01
59-99-CAT     11-10-1999  132.01
                          30.15;
                          31.01;
2004-29       - -2004     51.15-
                          51.38;
                          51.40
                          111.01-
03-2004       7-3-2004    111.04;
                          111.99
2005-03       9-8-2005    50.01;
                          50.99
2005-06       12-14-2005  30.01
2007-02       2-13-2006   51.55-
                          51.60
                          51.55;
2009-6-2      6-16-2009   51.61;
                          51.99
12-14-2010    2-8-2011    131.01
12012018      12-12-2018  30.30
2019-03-02    - -2019     70.06
2019-11-01    - -2019     31.15-
                          31.19
2019-03-01    3-12-2019   90.01;
                          90.99
                          93.01;
2019-03-03    3-12-2019   93.02;
                          93.99
12-01-2019    12-19-2019  152.135;
                          152.136
01-02-2020    1-14-2020   TSO Table III
                          151.001-
                          151.005;
                          151.020-
                          151.029;
                          151.040-
                          151.042;
                          151.055-
                          151.060;
                          151.075-
02-01-2021 SD - -2021     151.086;
                          151.100-
                          151.105;
                          151.120-
                          151.126;
                          151.140-
                          151.148;
                          151.161;
                          151.162;
                          151.999
07022021      7-13-2021   TSO Table I
09-01-2021    9-14-2021   51.01
04122022      4-12-2022   30.30
                         
 
