CITY CODE
of
GREEN RIVER, UTAH
2003
Code current through:
Ord. 2023-08, passed November 14, 2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Green River, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance 2023-08, passed November 14, 2023. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 12-09-03
   AN ORDINANCE CODIFYING AND COMPILING THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF GREEN RIVER
   WHEREAS, on December 9, 2003, the city council (the "Council ") met in
regular session to consider, among other things codifying ordinances;
   WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-3-707 provides, among other things, that any
municipality is empowered to codify and publish in a book, pamphlet, or
looseleaf form all ordinances of the municipality of a general and permanent
character; and
   WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-3-708 provides in part that the codification
shall be arranged in such order as the governing body may decide; and
   WHEREAS, Green River has retained the services of Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
to assist it in the preparation of a looseleaf-type binder containing all
ordinances of Green River of a general and permanent character and arrangement
of the same; and
   WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is
in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Green
River to adopt an ordinance regarding codification of ordinances.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Green River City Council that:
   1.   The looseleaf binder presented to the Council is hereby adopted as the
Code of Ordinances for the City of Green River (the "Code").
   2.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of such Code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such Code in any manner
whatsoever.
   3.   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the Code are, to
the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   This Ordinance, assigned Ordinance No. 03-    , shall take effect as soon as
it shall be posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of
the city recorder.
   PASSED AND APPROVED this 9 day of December, 2003.
            GREEN RIVER COUNCIL
            By:                                         
                  Mayor Glen Dale Johnson
ATTEST:
                                       
Conae Black, Recorder
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this city code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Green
River. This city code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the CITY OF
GREEN RIVER MUNICIPAL CODE and is hereby published by authority of the city
council and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of
the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this city code by title in any legal documents. (2003 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2003 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this city code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this city code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the city code. (2003 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this city code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city recorder shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city
recorder. Any person having custody of a copy of the city code shall make every
effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered or made available to such person through the office of
the city recorder. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and
shall be returned to the office of the city recorder when directed so to do by
order of the city council. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the city passed prior
to the adoption of this city code are hereby repealed, except such as are
included in this city code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the city; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which has
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed, or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (1995 Code §§ 1-1, 1-2; amd. 2003 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2003 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2003 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this city code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The city council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto. The use of any
verb in the present tense shall include the future and past tense when
applicable.
   B.   All words and phrases shall be constructed and understood according to
the common use and understanding of the language; the technical words and
phrases and such other words and phrases as may have acquired a particular
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such particular
meaning.
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1995 Code § 1-3; amd.
2003 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BUSINESS: Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation or
enterprise for which a license or permit is required by any ordinance of the
city.
CITY: The city of Green River, Utah.
CITY CODE: The city code of the city of Green River, Utah.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Green
River, Utah.
CITY RECORDER: The individual appointed to act as the city recorder of the
city.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Green River".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
HIGHWAY; ROAD: Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the words
"county way", "county road", "common road", and "state road".
INTENT TO DEFRAUD: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order to
constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to defraud
any person.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation. The term "license" includes any certificate, permit or license
issued by the city.
LOCATION: Whenever any act, conduct or offense is prohibited or required and no
reference is made to location, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the act, conduct or offense prohibited or required shall be within
the boundaries of this city.
NEGLIGENT, NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE AND NEGLIGENTLY: Imports a want of such
attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in its own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the city.
OCCUPANT OR TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer or official
by title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
city of Green River".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PROPERTY: Includes both real and personal property.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks and
intersections.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
TIME COMPUTED: The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any
ordinance or in any resolution or order of the city, when expressed in days,
shall be determined by excluding the first day and including the last day,
except if the last day be a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the last day shall
be the day next following such Sunday or legal holiday which is not a Sunday or
legal holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sunday and all legal holidays
shall be excluded.
WEEK: Shall be construed to mean any seven (7) day period.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer", as used in this
code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2003 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-3: Liability Of Employers And Agents
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Criminal: The city council may impose a minimum criminal penalty for
the violation of any municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum
class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301, or by a
term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
      2.   Civil:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the city
council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any
municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   A municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a municipal moving traffic ordinance, except as authorized
in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-703.5.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the city, or for an offense
defined outside of this code over which this city has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 10-3-703.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 1. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 2. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this city shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this city, when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this city, or which is expressly designated an infraction and any
offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this city which is not
designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified, is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. UCA § 76-3-104.
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF EMPLOYERS AND AGENTS:
When the provisions of an ordinance prohibit the commission or omission of an
act, not only the persons actually doing the prohibited thing or omitting the
direct act, but also the employer and all other persons concerned, or aiding or
abetting therein, shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the
penalty prescribed for the offense. (1995 Code § 1-4)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Political Subdivision
1-5-2: Power To Sue, Contract, Adopt Name And Seal
1-5-1: POLITICAL SUBDIVISION:
The city shall be a political subdivision of the state of Utah with perpetual
existence unless dissolved according to law. (1995 Code §
2-1-1)
1-5-2: POWER TO SUE, CONTRACT, ADOPT NAME AND SEAL:
The city may sue and be sued, enter into contracts and, by ordinance, adopt a
municipal name and seal which may be changed from time to time. (1995 Code §
2-1-2)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Governing Body
1-6-2: Mayor
1-6-3: Powers And Duties Of City Council
1-6-4: Meetings Of City Council
1-6-5: Ordinances And Resolutions
1-6-1: GOVERNING BODY:
   A.   Composition: The governing body of the city shall be a council composed
of six (6) members, one of whom shall be the mayor and the remaining five (5)
shall be council members. (1995 Code §
2-2-1)
   B.   Mayor As Member: The mayor of the city shall sit as a voting member of
the city council only in case of a tie vote of the council. (1995 Code §
2-2-2)
   C.   Mayor To Preside: The mayor shall be the chairman of the city council,
and preside at the meetings of the governing body. (1995 Code §
2-2-3)
   D.   Veto Power: The mayor shall have no power to veto any act of the
governing body unless otherwise specifically authorized by statute. (1995 Code
§
2-2-4)
   E.   Vacancy: Mayoral or council vacancies shall be filled as provided in
Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510. (2003 Code)
1-6-2: MAYOR:
   A.   Chief Executive; Signature; Mayor Pro Tempore: The mayor is the chief
executive officer of the city. He shall see that all ordinances and laws are
enforced. He shall sign his name officially for and in behalf of the city, and
shall sign all deeds, bonds, bills, notes and obligations and other agreements,
documents and papers to which the city is legally a party and shall perform
such other duties as may be provided by law or ordinance. During his temporary
absence or disability, the city council shall elect one of its members to act
as mayor pro tempore, who, during such absence or disability, shall possess the
power of mayor. (1995 Code §
3-2-1)
   B.   Residency Requirement: If a mayor at any time during his term of office
shall move from the limits of the city, his office shall thereby become vacant.
(1995 Code §
3-2-3)
   C.   Powers, Generally: The mayor may exercise within the city limits the
powers conferred upon him to suppress disorder and keep peace; and he may remit
fines and forfeitures and release any person imprisoned for violation of any
city ordinance, and shall report such remittance or release with the cause
thereof to the city council at its next session. (1995 Code §
3-2-5)
   D.   Appointment Of Officers: The mayor shall appoint, by and with the
advice and consent of the city council, all officers whose appointment is not
by the laws of this state otherwise provided for, and in like manner shall fill
all vacancies among the same, except as otherwise provided by law; provided,
that elective officers shall have the sole right to appoint all their deputies
and assistants, who shall be confirmed by the city council. (1995 Code §
3-2-6)
   E.   Appointive Officers: In addition to the appointment of the city
recorder, city treasurer and justice of the peace, as provided in section
1-7-1 of this title, the mayor shall appoint, by and with the consent of the
city council, on or before the first Monday in February following a municipal
election, the following officers: city attorney, street superintendent, water
superintendent and sewer superintendent, and all other appointive officers
provided by law or ordinance. (1995 Code §
3-2-7; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Removal Of Officers: The mayor shall have power by and with the
concurrence of the majority of the members of the city council, and the city
council shall have the power, by and with the concurrence of the mayor, for
cause and after notice, to remove any appointed officer when they shall be of
the opinion that the interests of the city require such removal. (1995 Code §
3-2-8)
   G.   Supervision Of Officers: The mayor shall supervise the official conduct
of all the officers of the city and shall examine the grounds of all reasonable
complaints made against any of them and cause any violation of duty or offense
to be promptly resolved. (1995 Code §
3-2-9)
   H.   Report To City Council: The mayor shall from time to time give the city
council information relative to the affairs of the city, and shall recommend
for their consideration such measures as he shall deem expedient. (1995 Code §
3-2-10)
   I.   May Examine Books: The mayor shall have power at all times to examine
and inspect the books, records and papers of any officer or agent employed by
the city. (1995 Code §
3-2-11)
   J.   May Call Out Inhabitants: The mayor shall have power, when necessary,
to call upon the residents of the city over the age of twenty one (21) years to
assist in enforcing the laws of the state and ordinances of the city. (1995
Code §
3-2-12; amd. 2003 Code)
   K.   Power In Case Of Riot: It is hereby made the duty of the mayor, or in
his absence, the justice of the peace, in all cases of riot, unlawful assembly
or disorderly conduct, by an assembly of persons within this city, to make
proclamation in the hearing of such riotous or disorderly persons, commanding
all persons so assembled or engaged to desist such disorderly conduct and
forthwith disperse in a quiet and peaceable manner. (1995 Code §
3-2-13)
   L.   Revision Of Ordinances: The mayor may appoint, by and with the advice
and consent of the city council, one or more competent persons to prepare and
submit to the city council for their adoption or rejection, an ordinance in
revision of the ordinances of the city, and for the government of the city, the
compensation of such revisors to be determined and fixed by the city council
and paid out of the city treasury. (1995 Code §
3-2-14)
   M.   Map Of City Recorded: It shall be the duty of the mayor to have
recorded in the recorder's office of Emery and Grand Counties, state of Utah, a
plat or map describing the correct boundaries of this city, if the said records
do not contain a record of such boundaries. (1995 Code §
3-2-15)
   N.   Further Duties: The mayor shall perform all duties which are or may be
prescribed by law, or by ordinance, and shall see that the laws and ordinances
are faithfully executed. (1995 Code §
3-2-16)
1-6-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Acquisition And Disposal Of Property: The city council may:
      1.   Appropriate money for city purposes only;
      2.   Provide for payment of debts and expenses of the city;
      3.   Purchase, receive, hold, sell, lease, convey and dispose of real and
personal property for the benefit of the city, whether the property is within
or without the city's corporate boundaries;
      4.   Improve, protect and do any other thing in relation to the property
that any individual could do. (1995 Code §
2-1-3)
   B.   Special Taxes And Licenses: The city council may, according to and
within the context of city ordinances, fix the amount, terms and manner of
issuing licenses; and, consistent with general law, provide the manner and form
in which special taxes are levied and collected. (1995 Code §
2-1-4)
   C.   Borrowing Power: The city council may borrow money on the credit of the
city for city purposes in the manner and to the extent allowed by the Utah
constitution and laws, and issue warrants and bonds therefor in such amounts
and forms and on such conditions as they shall determine. (1995 Code § 2-1-5)
   D.   Other Services And Structures: The city council may provide for all
services and structures as may be needed for the health, safety, prosperity,
moral well-being, peace, order, comfort or convenience of the inhabitants of
the city as provided in the state statutes and the ordinances of the city.
(1995 Code § 2-1-6)
1-6-4: MEETINGS OF CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Location: The city council shall hold its meetings in the city council
chambers located at 240 East Main Street. (1995 Code §
2-3-1)
   B.   Dates And Times: The dates and times for meetings will be set by the
city council by ordinance at their first meeting in January of each year, and
these times and dates will be posted in a conspicuous place within the city
offices at all times. There shall be at least one meeting each month. (1995
Code §
2-3-2)
   C.   Special Meetings: If at any time the business of the city requires a
special meeting of the city council, such meeting may be ordered by the mayor
or any two (2) members of the city council. The order shall be entered in the
minutes of the city council. The order shall provide at least three (3) hours'
notice of the special meeting and notice thereof shall be served by the city
recorder on each member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice
personally or by leaving it at the member's usual place of abode. The personal
appearance by a member at any specially called meeting constitutes a waiver of
the notice required in this subsection. (1995 Code §
2-3-3)
   D.   Quorum: The number of members of the city council necessary to
constitute a quorum is three (3) or more. No action of the city council shall
be official or of any effect except when a quorum of the members are present.
(1995 Code §
2-3-4)
   E.   Attendance: The city council shall have the power to compel the
attendance of its own members and provide such penalties as it deems necessary
for the failure to comply therewith. (1995 Code §
2-3-5)
   F.   Votes: A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all ordinances,
resolutions and any action which would create a liability against the city, and
in any other case at the request of any member of the governing body, by a
"yes" or a "no" vote and shall be recorded. Every resolution or ordinance shall
be in writing before the vote is taken. (1995 Code §
2-3-6)
   G.   Minimum Vote Required: The minimum number of yes votes required to pass
any ordinance or resolution, or to take any action by the governing body unless
otherwise prescribed by law, shall be a majority of the members of the quorum,
but shall never be less than three (3). (1995 Code §
2-3-7)
   H.   Reconsideration: Any action taken by the city council shall not be
reconsidered or rescinded at any special meeting unless the number of members
of the city council present at the special meeting is equal to or greater than
the number of members present at the meeting when the action was approved.
(1995 Code §
2-3-8)
   I.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the city council shall be held in
compliance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 52, chapter 4,
relating to open and public meetings. (1995 Code §
2-3-9)
   J.   Rules Of Procedure: Except as otherwise provided by law, the city
council may establish its own rules of procedures for the proper conduct of its
meetings. (1995 Code § 2-3-10)
   K.   Records Maintained: The city council shall keep a journal of its
proceedings. The books, records, accounts and documents of the city shall be
kept at the office of the city recorder and approved copies shall be open and
available to the public during regular business hours for examination and
copying. (1995 Code § 2-3-11)
1-6-5: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
   A.   Power Exercised By Ordinance: The city council may pass any ordinance
to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the city shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he relied on or enforced an ordinance he reasonably believed to be a valid
ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages that the
official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he enforced an
ordinance on advice of legal counsel.
   B.   Form Of Ordinance: Any ordinance passed by the city council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      1.   A number;
      2.   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      3.   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      4.   An ordaining clause which states "Be it ordained by the city of
Green River:";
      5.   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      6.   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
city ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      7.   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      8.   A line for the signature of the mayor or mayor pro tempore to sign
the ordinance; and
      9.   A place for the city recorder to attest the ordinance and affix the
seal of the city.
   C.   Requirements As To Form; Effective Date:
      1.   Ordinances passed or enacted by the city council shall be signed by
the mayor, or if he is absent, by the mayor pro tempore, or by a quorum of the
city council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance shall be
void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions of Utah
Code Annotated section 10-3-704(1) through (4). Ordinances which do not have an
effective date shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication or
posting, or thirty (30) days after final passage by the city council, whichever
is sooner.
      2.   Ordinances shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication
or posting or thirty (30) days after final passage by the city council,
whichever is closer to the date of final passage, but ordinances may become
effective at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so
provided in the ordinance.
   D.   Publication And Posting Of Ordinances: All ordinances, except those
enacted pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-706 through 10-3-710,
before taking effect shall be deposited in the office of the city recorder and
a short summary of the ordinance published at least once in a newspaper
published within the city, or if there is no newspaper published therein, then
by posting complete copies in three (3) public places within the city. Any
ordinance, code or book, other than the state code, relating to building or
safety standards, city functions, administration, control or regulations, may
be adopted and shall take effect without further publication or posting, if
reference is made to the code or book and at least three (3) copies have been
filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the city recorder
prior to the adoption of the ordinance by the city council. Any state law
relating to building or safety standards, city functions, administration,
control or regulations, may be adopted and shall take effect without further
publication or posting if reference is made to the state code. The ordinance
adopting the code or book shall be published in the manner provided in this
section.
   E.   Recording; Numbering; Certification Of Passage: The city recorder shall
record, in a book used exclusively for that purpose, all ordinances passed by
the city council. The city recorder shall give each ordinance a number, if the
city council has not already so done. Immediately following each ordinance, or
codification of ordinances, the city recorder shall make or cause to be made a
certificate stating the date of passage and of the date of publication or
posting, as required. The record and memorandum, or a certified copy thereof,
shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage and publication or
posting of the ordinance or codification.
   F.   Resolutions:
      1.   Purpose: Unless otherwise required by law, the city council may
exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, but not limited
to: a) establishing water and sewer rates; b) charges for garbage collection
and fees charged for city services; c) establishing personnel policies and
guidelines; and d) regulating the use and operation of the city property.
Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution.
      2.   Form: Any resolution passed by the city council shall be in a form
and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
      3.   Publication; Effective Date: Resolutions may become effective
without publication or posting and may take effect on passage or at a later
date as the city council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 7
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Appointments
1-7-2: Compensation
1-7-3: Oath And Bonds
1-7-1: APPOINTMENTS:
On or before the first Monday in February following a municipal election, the
mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, shall appoint a
qualified person to each of the offices of city recorder, city treasurer and
justice of the peace. The city recorder shall be ex officio the city auditor
and shall perform the duties of such office. The mayor, by and with the advice
and consent of the city council, may also appoint all such officers and agents
as may be provided by law and ordinance, and in like manner fill all vacancies
among the same, except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance. (1995 Code §
4-1-1)
1-7-2: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Elected Officials:
      1.   The monthly compensation of the elected city council members shall
be two hundred dollars ($200.00).
         a.   Payment: The city treasurer shall pay each elected city council
member on the last regular business meeting of each year by delivery of a check
drawn on the municipal checking account to the elected officer personally or by
mailing the check to the elected officer at his home, postage prepaid.
      2.   The compensation for the mayor shall be six hundred dollars
($600.00) a month.
         a.   Payment: The city treasurer shall pay the mayor on the first
payroll of each month by delivery of a check drawn on the municipal checking
account to the elected officer personally or by mailing the check to the
elected officer at his home, postage prepaid.
      3.   Per Diem: Each member of the governing body shall receive mileage
and per diem for all trips approved by the governing body according to the
schedules adopted by the Utah department of finance.
   B.   Appointed Officials: The city council shall fix by ordinance within the
limits as provided by law the salaries of all appointive officers. Such
salaries and compensation shall be paid from the city treasury as fixed by
ordinance of the city council. (1995 Code §§ 3-3-3, 4-9-1; amd. 2003 Code; Ord.
2006-03, 3-14-2006; Ord. 2019-02, 12-10-2019)
1-7-3: OATH AND BONDS:
   A.   Oath Required: Before entering upon the discharge of their duties, all
elected and appointed officers of the city shall take and subscribe the oath or
affirmation required by law. (1995 Code §
4-1-2; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Amount Of Bond: The following public officials shall be required to
post a bond in the given amounts, which bond will contain good and sufficient
securities, payable to the city, conditioned for the faithful performance of
the duties of the respective officers. The premium charged by a corporate
surety for any bond required by this subsection shall be paid by the city.
 
City treasurer       $40,000.00
City recorder        40,000.00
City deputy recorder 20,000.00
City mayor           10,000.00
City council members 10,000.00
 
   (Ord. 1-26-95/C, 1-26-1995)
   C.   Filing: All bonds given by the officers and city shall be filed with
the city recorder, except the bond of the city recorder, which shall be filed
with the city treasurer. (1995 Code §
4-1-4)
ARTICLE A. CITY RECORDER 1
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Records Maintained
1-7A-2: Countersign Contracts
1-7A-3: Duties Relating To Finance; City Auditor
1-7A-4: Annual Financial Statement
1-7A-5: Reports Required
1-7A-6: Pay Over Money; Deliver To Successor; Administer Oaths
1-7A-7: Filing Ordinances; Correspondence
1-7A-8: Further Required Duties
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-7-1 of this title for appointment provisions.
1-7A-1: RECORDS MAINTAINED:
   A.   The city recorder shall keep his office at the city hall or some other
place convenient thereto, as the city council may direct. He shall keep the
corporate seal and all papers and records of the city, and keep a record of all
proceedings of the city council, whose meetings it shall be his duty to attend.
Copies of all papers filed in his office, and transcripts from all records of
the city council certified by him, under the corporate seal, shall be evidence
in all courts as if the original were produced. (1995 Code § 4-5-1)
   B.   It shall be the duty of the city recorder to keep the records, papers
and seal of the city, and record in order of date all ordinances and
resolutions passed by the city council in a book kept for that purpose. He
shall keep in a separate book a record of the proceedings of the city council.
He shall keep in a book provided for that purpose the names of all person
elected or appointed to any office within the city, the date of their term of
office and the dates of the death, resignation or removal of any such officer,
and the name of the person appointed to fill the vacancy so created. (1995 Code
§ 4-5-5)
1-7A-2: COUNTERSIGN CONTRACTS:
The city recorder shall countersign all contracts made in behalf of the city;
and every contract made in behalf of the city or to which the city is a party
shall be void unless signed by the city recorder. (1995 Code § 4-5-2)
1-7A-3: DUTIES RELATING TO FINANCE; CITY AUDITOR:
The city recorder shall be ex officio the city auditor and shall perform the
duties of such office, and shall draw and countersign all orders upon the city
treasurer in pursuance of any order of the city council, and keep a full and
accurate account thereof in books provided for that purpose; shall make to the
city council from time to time upon the order of the city council, reports of
the financial condition of the city; shall make and keep a list of the
outstanding bonds, to whom issued, for what purpose, when, and where payable,
and the rate of interest they respectively bear, and recommend such action to
the city council as shall secure the payment of the principal and interest of
such bonds; shall report annually to the city council, on or before June 1, an
estimate of the expenses of the city and the revenue necessary to be raised for
the current year; shall keep regular books of account in which he shall enter
all indebtedness of the city, and which shall at all times show the financial
condition of the city, the amount of bonds, orders, certificates or other
evidence of indebtedness issued by the city council, the amount of all bonds,
orders, certificates or other evidences of indebtedness which have been
redeemed, and the amount of each outstanding; shall keep accounts with all
receiving and disbursing officers of the city showing the amount they have
received from the different sources of revenue and the amount which they have
disbursed under the direction of the city council; shall examine all reports,
books, papers, vouchers and accounts of the city treasurer; shall audit all
claims and demands against the city before they are allowed by the city
council; and shall keep a record of all claims presented and the action of the
city council thereon; shall keep a book properly indexed in which he shall
enter all contracts, which book shall be open to inspection to all persons
interested; and shall perform such other duties as the city council may provide
by ordinance or resolution. (1995 Code § 4-5-3; amd. 2003 Code)
1-7A-4: ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT:
The city recorder shall prepare and publish, on or before the first Monday of
February of each year, in some newspaper having a general circulation in this
city, a detailed statement of the financial condition of the city and of the
receipts and expenditures for the previous year ending December 31; provided,
that upon the expiration of his term of office, before his successor enters
upon his duties, he shall make and prepare said statement, properly attested,
for the use and benefit of his successor in office, showing:
   A.   The total receipts of the city, stating particularly the source of each
portion of the revenue;
   B.   The amount of cash on hand at the date of the last report;
   C.   The amount of the sinking fund and how invested;
   D.   The number, date and amount of every bond issued or redeemed and the
amount received or paid therefor;
   E.   The indebtedness of the city, funded and floating, stating the amount
of each claim and the rate of interest borne by such indebtedness or any part
thereof;
   F.   The amount of cash in the city treasury, and in its several funds;
   G.   The total expenditures of the city, as shown by the warrants issued,
giving in total the amount expended in each department. (1995 Code § 4-5-4)
1-7A-5: REPORTS REQUIRED:
The city recorder shall make a report to the city council at the first regular
meeting of each month, setting forth a statement of the amount of the city
revenue, specifying in said statement from whence derived, and for what
disbursed, with amount on hand, together with a complete report of the
financial condition of the city. (1995 Code § 4-5-6)
1-7A-6: PAY OVER MONEY; DELIVER TO SUCCESSOR; ADMINISTER OATHS:
The city recorder shall pay into the city treasury all monies belonging to the
city coming into his hands by virtue of his office. He shall deliver to his
successor in office the corporate seal, together with all books, papers,
records and other property in his possession belonging to the city. He shall
have power to administer oaths on all claims presented against the city and in
all matters in any way connected with the city government. (1995 Code § 4-5-7)
1-7A-7: FILING ORDINANCES; CORRESPONDENCE:
The originals of all ordinances passed by the city council shall be filed in
the city recorder's office. He shall attend to all correspondence and report
the same to city council. (1995 Code § 4-5-8)
1-7A-8: FURTHER REQUIRED DUTIES:
The city recorder shall perform any and all duties required of him to be
performed either by law or ordinance in addition to the duties specified in
this article. (1995 Code § 4-5-9)
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER 1
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Duties Generally
1-7B-2: Payments
1-7B-3: Warrants Paid In Order
1-7B-4: Receipts
1-7B-5: Public Money Kept Separate
1-7B-6: Reports; Registry Of Warrants
1-7B-7: Special Funds
1-7B-8: Deliver Property To Successor
1-7B-9: Collector Of Special Taxes
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-7-1 of this title for appointment provisions.
1-7B-1: DUTIES GENERALLY:
The city treasurer shall receive all money belonging to the city, including all
taxes, licenses and fines, and keep an accurate and detailed account thereof,
in such a manner as provided in this article, or as the city council from time
to time may by ordinance direct, and he shall collect special taxes and
assessments as provided by law and ordinance. He shall make a settlement with
the city recorder at the end of every month, and turn over all warrants,
interest coupons, bonds or other evidence of the indebtedness of the city,
which may have been redeemed by him during the month, taking the receipt of the
city recorder thereof, and all such warrants, orders or other evidence of
indebtedness shall be cancelled by him and have written or stamped thereon the
date of their payment or redemption. (1995 Code § 4-7-1)
1-7B-2: PAYMENTS:
The city treasurer shall pay no money out save upon lawful warrant, except
bonds and interest coupons, which, when due, may be paid upon presentation, or
in case the same are payable at some other place, then the money for their
redemption shall be sent to the place where they are payable, in time to meet
such payment when due; provided, that when such bonds and coupons are paid, the
city treasurer shall report such payment to the city council at its next
regular meeting. (1995 Code § 4-7-2)
1-7B-3: WARRANTS PAID IN ORDER:
All warrants shall be paid in the order in which they shall be presented, and
the city treasurer shall note upon the back of each warrant presented to him
the date of such presentation, and when payment is made, the date of such
payment; provided, however, that any warrant shall be paid by the city
treasurer in case that a sufficient amount of money shall remain in the
treasury to pay all warrants issued previous to such warrant. (1995 Code § 4-7-
3)
1-7B-4: RECEIPTS:
The city treasurer shall give each person paying money to the city treasury a
receipt therefor, specifying the date of payment and upon what account paid;
and he shall also file the duplicate of such receipt with the city recorder at
the date of his monthly report. (1995 Code § 4-7-4)
1-7B-5: PUBLIC MONEY KEPT SEPARATE:
The city treasurer shall keep all money belonging to the city separate and
distinct from his own money. Whenever it shall appear to the mayor that the
city treasurer is making profit out of public money or using the same for any
purpose not authorized by law, he shall suspend him from office, and upon his
conviction for such offense his office shall become vacant. (1995 Code § 4-7-5)
1-7B-6: REPORTS; REGISTRY OF WARRANTS:
The city treasurer shall report to the city council monthly at the regular
meeting, giving a full and detailed account of all receipts and expenditures
since his last report, and the state of the treasury. He shall also make an
annual report on or before December 31 of each year. He shall also kept a
registry of all warrants redeemed and paid during the year, describing such
warrants, their date, amount, number, the fund from which paid, and the person
to whom paid, specifying also the time of payment. All such warrants shall be
examined by the city council at the time of making such reports. (1995 Code §
4-7-6)
1-7B-7: SPECIAL FUNDS:
All monies on any special assessment shall be held by the city treasurer as a
special fund to be applied to the payment of improvements for which the
assessment was made, and said money shall be used for no other purpose
whatsoever. (1995 Code § 4-7-7)
1-7B-8: DELIVER PROPERTY TO SUCCESSOR:
The city treasurer shall perform such other duties as may now or hereafter be
required by law or ordinance, and his books of account shall be the property of
the city, and shall, together with all monies, papers and other property in his
possession belonging to the city, be delivered to his successor in office
immediately after such successor shall have been duly elected or appointed and
qualified. (1995 Code § 4-7-8)
1-7B-9: COLLECTOR OF SPECIAL TAXES:
The city treasurer is ex officio collector of all special taxes. (1995 Code §
4-7-9)
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Duties; Appointment Of Deputy
1-7C-2: Special Counsel
1-7C-3: Advise City Council
1-7C-4: Prosecute Appeals
1-7C-5: Legal Opinions
1-7C-6: Contracts, Deeds, Etc.
1-7C-7: Delivery To Successor
1-7C-1: DUTIES; APPOINTMENT OF DEPUTY:
The city attorney shall begin and conduct all cases for violation of any
ordinance of the city. He shall appear on behalf of the city in all suits at
law or in equity in which the city is a party and shall prosecute or defend
them, as the case may be, in any and all courts until they are finally disposed
of. It shall be his duty to advise all city officers in relation to their
official duties, to prepare and draft all such ordinances as the city council
from time to time shall instruct him to do, and perform such other duties as
the ordinances of the city and the general laws require, or as the city council
may specially direct. He may appoint a deputy or an assistant, who shall be
confirmed by the city council, to act in his absence, or in case of disability
or inability, and for whose acts he shall be responsible. (1995 Code §
4-2-1)
1-7C-2: SPECIAL COUNSEL:
The city attorney shall have the power to employ, by and with the consent of
the city council, special counsel on matters pertaining to the legal affairs of
the city, if the same is deemed necessary and advisable, who shall be
compensated by the city. (1995 Code §
4-2-2)
1-7C-3: ADVISE CITY COUNCIL:
It shall be the duty of the city attorney to advise the city council and its
committees on such questions as may arise in relation to the business of the
city, and attend meetings of the city council when required. He shall report
monthly any matter in his hands necessary for the approval of the city council
or necessary for its information. (1995 Code §
4-2-3)
1-7C-4: PROSECUTE APPEALS:
Whenever a criminal action for the violation of a city ordinance is appealed to
the district court, it shall be the duty of the city attorney to appear and
prosecute said action in the district court. (1995 Code §
4-2-4)
1-7C-5: LEGAL OPINIONS:
The city attorney shall, when required to do so, furnish written opinions upon
subjects submitted to him by the mayor or city council, or by the head of any
department. (1995 Code §
4-2-5)
1-7C-6: CONTRACTS, DEEDS, ETC.:
The city attorney shall draw any deeds, leases, contracts or other papers and
forms required by the business, when requested to do so by the mayor or the
city council, or the head of any department. (1995 Code §
4-2-6)
1-7C-7: DELIVERY TO SUCCESSOR:
Upon the expiration of his term of office or his resignation thereof or removal
therefrom, the city attorney shall forthwith on demand deliver to his successor
in office all books and papers in his possession belonging to the city or
delivered to him by any of its officers and all papers and information in his
possession in actions prosecuted or defended by him then pending and
undetermined, together with his register thereof and of the proceedings
therein. (1995 Code §
4-2-7)
ARTICLE D. JUSTICE OF THE PEACE 1
SECTION:
1-7D-1: Jurisdiction
1-7D-2: Practice; Appeals
1-7D-3: Jury Trials
1-7D-4: Vacancy; Disqualification; Compensation
1-7D-5: Fines
1-7D-6: Warrants; To Whom Issued
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  1-7-1 of this title for appointment provisions.
1-7D-1: JURISDICTION:
The justice of the peace shall have exclusive original jurisdiction of cases
arising under or by reason of the violation of any city ordinance, and shall
have the same powers and jurisdiction as justices of the peace in all other
actions, civil and criminal. (1995 Code §
4-4-1)
1-7D-2: PRACTICE; APPEALS:
The rules of practice and mode of procedure in a city justice court shall be
the same as are or may be prescribed by law for justice courts in like cases,
except as otherwise expressly provided by law. From all final judgments of a
city justice court, an appeal may be taken by either party in a civil case, or
by the defendant in a criminal case, to the district court of the county, in
the manner provided by law for appeals from justice courts in similar cases.
(1995 Code §
4-4-2)
1-7D-3: JURY TRIALS:
All actions before a city justice arising under the city ordinances shall be
tried and determined by such justice without the intervention of a jury, except
in cases where imprisonment for a longer period than thirty (30) days is made a
part of the penalty, or where the maximum fine may exceed one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00). The defendant shall demand a trial by jury before the
commencement of the trial, and when such demand shall be made, a jury shall be
impaneled in the same manner as provided for the impaneling of a jury in other
justice courts. (1995 Code §
4-4-3)
1-7D-4: VACANCY; DISQUALIFICATION; COMPENSATION:
If a vacancy shall occur in the office of a city justice, the mayor, by and
with the consent of the city council, shall forthwith fill such vacancy by
appointment for the unexpired term. The person so appointed shall qualify in
the same manner as a city justice, and shall have and exercise all the powers
conferred by law upon such city justice. In case any city justice shall, for
any reason, be unable or disqualified to perform the duties of his office, or
shall be absent, the mayor shall appoint some other justice of the peace,
residing within the county, to act as city justice pro tempore, and he shall
have the power and discharge the duties of such city justice during the
existence of such disability or absence only in the same manner, and to the
same extent as the city justice might have done. The city justice shall receive
such salary for his services while exercising jurisdiction under the ordinances
and bylaws of the city as may be prescribed by ordinance. (1995 Code §
4-4-4)
1-7D-5: FINES:
All fines, penalties and forfeitures for the violation of any city ordinance,
and money collected for licenses or otherwise, shall be paid by the officer
receiving the same to the city treasurer at such times and in such manner as
may be prescribed by ordinance. (1995 Code § 4-4-5)
1-7D-6: WARRANTS; TO WHOM ISSUED:
All warrants issued by the city justice for the violation of any general law of
the state or ordinance of the city shall run to the sheriff or any constable of
the county. (1995 Code § 4-4-6)
ARTICLE E. CITY ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-7E-1: Duties Generally Described
1-7E-2: Protection Of Survey Monuments
1-7E-3: Interfering With City Engineer Prohibited
1-7E-1: DUTIES GENERALLY DESCRIBED:
The city engineer, under the direction of the city council, shall determine the
line and grade of all streets, alleys and sidewalks within the limits of the
city and file in the city recorder's office a profile of all grades so
determined and established; he shall make duplicate plats of all land surveyed
and subdivided by him within the city, noting all errors and discrepancies in
original surveys or re-surveys, and file said duplicate in the city recorder's
office; and perform such other duties as are, or may hereafter be imposed upon
him by ordinance, order or resolution of the city council. He shall make such
reports to the city council as may from time to time be required. The city
engineer shall, upon the tender of his legal fees, determine the corners or
boundary lines of any block, lot or part thereof within the city when so
required by any person. (1995 Code §
4-3-1)
1-7E-2: PROTECTION OF SURVEY MONUMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to displace, remove, injure or in any way
interfere with, or place obstructions upon any survey stake or monument marked
as such, in any public street, alley, avenue or sidewalk, and any person
violating any provision of this section shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code §
4-3-2; amd. 2003 Code)
1-7E-3: INTERFERING WITH CITY ENGINEER PROHIBITED:
It shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to interrupt or molest the city engineer or
any of his assistants, agents or employees while engaged in official duty, or
to wilfully cause or offer to said engineer or any of his assistants or
employees any kind of corporal injury or hindrance. (1995 Code §
4-3-3; amd. 2003 Code)
ARTICLE F. STREET SUPERINTENDENT 1
SECTION:
1-7F-1: Office Created
1-7F-2: Duties Generally Described
1-7F-3: Enforce Ordinances; Maintenance
1-7F-4: Encroachments
1-7F-5: Take Charge Of And Deliver Tools To Successor
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-6-2D of this title for appointment provisions.
1-7F-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created within the city the office of street superintendent
whose appointment, duties, qualifications and terms of office shall be as in
this code provided. (1995 Code § 4-6-1)
1-7F-2: DUTIES GENERALLY DESCRIBED:
It shall be the duty of the street superintendent to take charge of all streets
and sidewalks, bridges and culverts in the city and superintend all works done
thereon, both public and private, whether done under contract or otherwise;
provided, that he shall at all times be subject to act under the direction of
the city council. (1995 Code § 4-6-2)
1-7F-3: ENFORCE ORDINANCES; MAINTENANCE:
The street superintendent shall see that all ordinances, resolutions or orders
of the city council, relating to streets, are properly enforced and obeyed. He
is hereby authorized and required to take such measures under the direction of
the city council as may be necessary to keep the streets clean and free from
filth and nuisances. (1995 Code § 4-6-3)
1-7F-4: ENCROACHMENTS:
If any street is encroached upon by a fence or building or otherwise, the
street superintendent may orally or in writing require the encroachment
removed. If such encroachment is not removed or commenced to be removed, and
the removal not diligently prosecuted within ten (10) days after the service of
such, the superintendent shall remove the same at the expense of the person or
persons who cause, own or control such encroachment. (1995 Code § 4-6-4)
1-7F-5: TAKE CHARGE OF AND DELIVER TOOLS TO SUCCESSOR:
It shall be the duty of the street superintendent to take charge of all tools
or other material or property belonging to the city and used in working the
streets. He shall deliver to his successor in office all books, papers,
vouchers and tools and all property of every kind and description under his
control and belonging to the city, and shall furnish a list of the same to the
city recorder. He shall perform such other duties as are or may be prescribed
by ordinance. (1995 Code § 4-6-5)
ARTICLE G. WATER SUPERINTENDENT AND SEWER SUPERINTENDENT 1
SECTION:
1-7G-1: Duties Generally Described
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 1-6-2D of this title for appointment provisions.
1-7G-1: DUTIES GENERALLY DESCRIBED:
The water superintendent shall be in charge of and supervise the operation of
the water system. The sewer superintendent shall be in charge of and supervise
the operation of the sewer system. Each shall perform such other duties as may
be specified by ordinance or resolution pertaining to the water and sewer
systems distributed within the city limits. (1995 Code § 4-8-1; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Purpose And Authority
1-8-2: Election Code Adopted
1-8-1: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Purpose: Pursuant to powers granted by the state, as set forth in
various provisions of Utah Code Annotated, the city intends by this chapter to
govern and regulate the procedures of election of officers. (1995 Code § 21-1-
1)
   B.   Authority: The city council shall have the authority, powers and duty
to enforce these provisions. The city council shall have the authority to
interpolate, amend, delete or change any or all of this chapter at any regular
scheduled or special meeting called for that purpose, being that a quorum is
present and a majority vote so dictates. (1995 Code § 21-1-2)
1-8-2: ELECTION CODE ADOPTED:
The election code of the state (Utah Code Annotated title 20A) is enacted and
adopted by reference for use in the city, and any amendments that shall be made
by the state from time to time shall also be enacted and adopted by reference
hereto. (1995 Code § 21-2-1; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 9
PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-9-1: Purpose
1-9-2: Authority
1-9-1: PURPOSE:
The city intends by this chapter to establish a procedure for the review of
actions that may involve the issue of a constitutional taking, and to provide
procedures for the disposal of surplus city owned property. (1995 Code § 69-1-
1)
1-9-2: AUTHORITY:
The city council shall have the authority, powers and duty to enforce these
provisions. The city council shall have the authority to interpolate, amend,
delete or change any or all of this chapter at any regular scheduled or special
meeting called for that purpose, being that a quorum is present and a majority
vote so dictates. (1995 Code § 69-1-2)
ARTICLE A. CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Purpose
1-9A-2: Defined
1-9A-3: Guidelines
1-9A-4: Analysis
1-9A-5: Appeals
1-9A-6: Limitations
1-9A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide advisory guidelines for the city to
assist the city in identifying actions that involve physical taking or exaction
of private real property that may have constitutional taking issues. (Ord. 05-
20-03C, 5-20-2003)
1-9A-2: DEFINED:
As used herein, "constitutional taking issues" means actions involving the
physical or regulatory taking of private real property by the city that might
require compensation to a private real property owner under:
   A.   The fifth or fourteenth amendment of the constitution of the United
States;
   B.   Article I, section 22 of the Utah constitution; or
   C.   Any recent court rulings governing the physical or regulatory taking of
private real property by a governmental entity. (Ord. 05-20-03C, 5-20-2003)
1-9A-3: GUIDELINES:
The following guidelines shall be considered by the city when taking any action
that might result in the physical or regulatory taking of private real
property. The city should review the following to determine and identify
whether a proposed governmental action raises constitutional taking issues.
   A.   Does the action result in a permanent physical occupation of private
property?
   B.   Does the action require a property owner to dedicate property or grant
an easement to the city?
   C.   Does the action deprive the property owner of all economically viable
uses of the property?
   D.   Does the action have a severe impact on the property owner's economic
interest?
   E.   Does the action deny a fundamental attribute of ownership? (Ord. 05-20-
03C, 5-20-2003)
1-9A-4: ANALYSIS:
If the city determines that a governmental action involves constitutional
taking issues, the proposed action should be reviewed by the city to analyze
the possible taking and to determine the action to be taken. In reviewing the
proposed action, the following factors may be analyzed:
   A.   The effect the potential taking would have on the use or value of the
private property;
   B.   The likelihood that the action may result in a constitutional taking;
   C.   Any alternatives to the proposed action that would fulfill the city's
lawful objectives and reduce the risk of a constitutional taking;
   D.   The cost to the city for payment of compensation if a taking is
determined;
   E.   The governmental interest involved and its nexus to the potential
taking; and
   F.   If the action is roughly proportionate or reasonably related to the
impact of any proposed development. (Ord. 05-20-03C, 5-20-2003)
1-9A-5: APPEALS:
Any owner of private property whose interest in the property is subject to a
physical or regulatory taking by the city, pursuant to a final and
authoritative decision or action of the city, may appeal the city's decision or
action by filing a written notice of appeal and statement of the grounds for
the appeal in the city recorder's office within thirty (30) days from the date
of the city's decision or action. The city council or its designee shall hear
all evidence regarding the appeal and render its decision and findings in
writing within fourteen (14) days from the date the appeal was filed. If the
city fails to hear and decide the appeal within fourteen (14) days, the city's
decision or action is presumed to be approved. (Ord. 05-20-03C, 5-20-2003)
1-9A-6: LIMITATIONS:
The guidelines set forth herein are advisory only and shall not be construed to
expand nor limit the scope of the city's liability for a constitutional taking.
The city shall have no legal liability to any person, firm or entity of any
nature whatsoever, and a court may not impose liability upon the city for
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 05-20-03C, 5-20-
2003)
ARTICLE B. DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS EQUIPMENT OR PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-9B-1: Purpose
1-9B-2: Federal And State Provisions
1-9B-3: Definitions
1-9B-4: Disposal Agent
1-9B-5: Procedure
1-9B-6: Financial Provisions
1-9B-1: PURPOSE:
The primary purpose of this article, referred to herein as "this article", is
to:
   A.   Ensure fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to, or do,
conduct business with the city.
   B.   Provide for the greatest possible economy in city disposal activities.
   C.   Foster effective broad based competition within the free enterprise
system to ensure that the city will receive the very best possible return on
surplus equipment or property that is placed for sale or disposal. (Ord. 5-11-
99A, 5-11-1999)
1-9B-2: FEDERAL AND STATE PROVISIONS:
Whenever a piece of equipment or property is placed for disposal that has been
purchased or donated to the city from a federal or state agency, the city shall
comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations in disposing of
this property or equipment. (Ord. 5-11-99A, 5-11-1999)
1-9B-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BUSINESS: Any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship, joint
stock company, joint venture or any other private legal entity.
CONTRACT: Any city agreement for the disposal of supplies, services or
property.
DISPOSAL AGENT: The person or persons duly authorized by the mayor with the
concurrence of the city council to enter into and administer contracts and to
make written determinations with respect thereto.
INVITATION FOR BIDS: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting bids.
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS: All documents whether attached or incorporated by
reference used for soliciting proposals from various entities.
SALES DESCRIPTION: The words used in a solicitation to describe the supplies,
property or equipment to be sold. It may also include specifics concerning the
property or equipment so as to clarify to the purchaser or bidder the condition
of the item.
SEALED BIDS: Written proposals from persons or entities offering to purchase
from the city an item, or items, that has been placed for disposal. Purchasers
are required to submit their bids or proposals in a sealed envelope clearly
marked sealed bid. They are to be opened in an open meeting after the deadline
for receipt of bids as defined in the invitation to bid. (Ord. 5-11-99A, 5-11-
1999; amd. 2003 Code)
1-9B-4: DISPOSAL AGENT:
The mayor, with the concurrence of the city council, shall appoint a disposal
agent or disposal agents, as necessary, to assure the most efficient disposal
of goods, equipment and property for the city consistent with the provisions of
this article. The disposal agent shall be responsible to make descriptions,
solicit bids and proposals, enter into and administer contracts, and make
written determinations concerning bids or recommendations to the mayor and the
city council as provided herein. (Ord. 5-11-99A, 5-11-1999)
1-9B-5: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Vote Of City Council: All equipment, supplies and property that is
deemed to be in excess of the city's needs, as determined by the department
head or public works superintendent, shall be placed on the agenda of the next
regular meeting or special meeting. The entire city council present shall vote
as to their willingness to place the item or items for disposal. The city
council will determine the best method of disposal; this can be any of the
following methods: advertising the item or items by flyers, by an auction, by
an auction with a reserved bid and also by including the item in an equipment
sale sponsored by a reputable dealer. Then and only then shall the items be
placed for disposal by the department head and disposal agent.
   B.   Public Notice Of Invitation For Bid: Public notice of the invitation
for bids shall be given at least ten (10) days prior to the date set forth
therein for the submission and/or opening of bids. The notice shall include
posting of the invitation to bid at the usual place of posting notices for the
city and publication in the newspaper of general circulation in the county if
the city council so states. Advertisements so placed must allow at least ten
(10) days from publication until bid opening.
   C.   Opening Of Bids: Bids shall be opened publicly by the mayor in a
regular or special meeting of the city council. The amount that each bid and
any other relevant information, together with the name of each bidder, shall be
recorded. The record of each bid shall be open to public inspection.
   D.   Corrections Or Withdrawals: Correction of or withdrawal of
inadvertently erroneous bids before or after award, or cancellation of awards
or contracts based on such bid mistakes, shall be permitted if approved by the
majority of the city council. After bid opening, no changes in bid prices or
other provisions of bids prejudicial to the interest of the city or fair
competition shall be permitted. All the reasons to permit the correction or
withdrawal of bids or to cancel awards or contracts based on bid mistakes shall
be supported by a written determination made by the entire city council
present.
   E.   Award Of Bid: Bid contracts shall be awarded with reasonable
promptness, by written notice, to the lowest responsible bidder determined
solely in the discretion of the city council when the successful bid meets the
requirements and criteria set forth in the invitation for bids.
   F.   Cancellation Or Rejection: An invitation for bids or other solicitation
may be canceled or any or all bids or proposals may be rejected, in whole or in
part, as may be determined by the city council when it is in the best interest
of the city; the reasons for cancellation or rejection shall be made part of
the contract file.
   G.   Nonresponsibility Or Disqualification: Determination of the
nonresponsibility or disqualification of the bidder or offeror shall be made in
writing. Any reasonable failure of a bidder or offeror to promptly supply
information requested by the city council may be grounds for determination of
disqualification or nonresponsibility with respect to the bidder or offeror.
   H.   Required Contract Clauses:
      1.   All items offered for sale or disposal by the city shall contain the
clause, "purchaser hereby agrees that the equipment, supplies or property is
sold in an 'as is' condition".
      2.   The city retains the right to accept or reject any or all bids.
      3.   Payment for any item offered for sale or bid must be paid for in
cash at date of bid opening.
      4.   Successful bidders shall remove the equipment, supplies or item
within ten (10) days of the bid opening. (Ord. 5-11-99A, 5-11-1999)
1-9B-6: FINANCIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   All money collected by the disposal agent shall promptly be turned over
to the city treasurer, who will issue a receipt detailing the amount received
for each piece or group and the name of the successful bidder. The city
treasurer shall deposit this money into the city bank account the next banking
day.
   B.   The city recorder will credit this amount to the department that the
item or items had been charged to initially. (Ord. 5-11-99A, 5-11-1999)
CHAPTER 10
RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-10-1: Government Records Access And Management Act Adopted By Reference
1-10-1: GOVERNMENT RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah government records access and management act 1 , as
amended, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations thereof shall
be considered violations of this chapter and each such violation shall subject
the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter if proceeded
hereunder. (2003 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 63-2-101 et seq.
CHAPTER 11
PURCHASING POLICY
SECTION:
1-11-1: Purpose
1-11-2: Exemptions
1-11-3: Definitions
1-11-4: Purchasing Agent
1-11-5: Bids And Bidding
1-11-6: Preference
1-11-7: Appeal
1-11-8: Prohibited Acts And Activities
1-11-1: PURPOSE:
The underlying purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Ensure fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to or do
conduct business with the city;
   B.   Provide for the greatest possible economy in city procurement
activities;
   C.   Foster effective broad based competition within the free enterprise
system to ensure that the city will receive the best possible service or
product at the lowest possible price. (Ord. 3-17-97A, 3-17-1997)
1-11-2: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   This chapter shall not prevent the city from complying with the terms
and conditions of any grant, gift or bequest that is otherwise consistent with
law.
   B.   When a procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance
funds, the city shall comply with applicable federal law and regulations.
   C.   The city may extend the terms of any contract in effect at the time of
the adoption of the ordinance codified herein for a period not to exceed four
(4) years. Any contract issued under the terms of this chapter may be extended
for a period not to exceed four (4) years if the contractor's performance is
satisfactory to the mayor and city council. (Ord. 3-17-97A, 3-17-1997)
1-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BUSINESS: Any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship, joint
stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.
CHANGE ORDER: A written order signed by the purchasing agent, directing the
contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses of
the contract authorize the purchasing agent to order, without the consent of
the contractor or any written alteration in specifications, delivery point,
rate of delivery, period of performance, price, quantity, or other provisions
of any contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the contract.
CONTRACT: Any city agreement for the procurement or disposal of supplies,
services or construction.
INVITATION FOR BIDS: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting bids.
PERSON: Any business, individual, union, committee, club, other organization or
group of individuals.
PROCUREMENT: Buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with an option to
purchase, or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services or construction.
PURCHASE DESCRIPTION: The words used in a solicitation to describe the supplies
or services to be acquired, and includes specifications attached to or made a
part of the solicitation.
PURCHASING AGENT: The person or persons duly authorized by the Mayor with the
concurrence of the City Council to enter into and administer contracts and make
written determinations with respect thereto.
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting proposals.
SEALED BIDS: Written proposals from persons or entities offering to contract
with or to sell to the City which are received in sealed envelopes to be opened
after the deadline for receipt of bids, as defined in an invitation to bid.
(Ord. 3-17-97A, 3-17-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
1-11-4: PURCHASING AGENT:
The Mayor, with the concurrence of the City Council, shall appoint a purchasing
agent or purchasing agents as necessary to assure the most efficient
acquisition of goods and services for the City consistent with the provisions
of this chapter. The purchasing agent shall be responsible to make
procurements, solicit bids and proposals, enter into and administer contracts,
and make written determinations concerning bids or recommendations to the Mayor
and to the City Council as provided herein. (Ord. 3-17-97A, 3-17-1997)
1-11-5: BIDS AND BIDDING:
   A.   Purchases Not Requiring Sealed Bids:
      1.   Expenditures Of Less Than Seven Thousand Five Hundred Dollars:
Expenditures of less than seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) in
total shall not require bids of any type. (Purchases shall not be artificially
divided so as to constitute a small purchase under this section.)
      2.   Expenditures Of More Than Seven Thousand Five Hundred Dollars But
Less Than Ten Thousand Dollars: Expenditures of more than seven thousand five
hundred dollars ($7,500.00) but less than seven thousand ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in total, shall require three (3) telephone bids followed by a
copy in writing. All expenditures must meet within the approved budget.
      3.   Cooperative Purchasing Contracts: Purchases made through the
cooperative purchasing contracts administered by the State Division of
Purchasing.
      4.   Single Source Providers: Purchases made from a single source
provider.
      5.   Emergency Purchases: Purchases required during an emergency, i.e.,
an imminent threat to the public health, welfare or safety; however, as much
competition as practical should be invited and such purchases should be limited
to amount necessary to the resolution of the emergency.
      6.   Equipment: For equipment purchases of less than fifteen thousand
dollars ($15,000.00), three (3) phone bids are required followed by a copy in
writing. All expenditures must meet within the approved budget.
   B.   Purchases Requiring Sealed Bids:
      1.   Competitive Sealed Bidding: Contracts shall be awarded by
competitive sealed bidding except as otherwise provided by this chapter.
      2.   Invitation For Bids: An invitation for bids shall be issued when a
contract is to be awarded by competitive sealed bidding. The invitation shall
include a description of the work, goods or services and all contractual terms
and conditions applicable to the procurement. Public notice of the invitation
for bids shall be given at least ten (10) days prior to the date set forth
therein for the submission and/or opening of bids. The notice shall include
posting of the invitation to bid at the usual place of posting notice for the
City and publication in a newspaper of general circulation no less than one
time within ten (10) days.
      3.   Opening And Recording Of Bids: Bids shall be opened publicly by the
responsible purchasing agent, or an agent designated by the Mayor, at the time
and place designated in the invitation for bids. The amount of each bid and any
other relevant information, together with the name of each bidder, shall be
recorded. The record of each bid shall be open to public inspection.
      4.   Unconditional Acceptance Of Bids; Evaluation: Bids shall be
unconditionally accepted without alteration or correction, except as authorized
in this chapter. Bids shall be evaluated based on the requirements set forth in
the invitation for bids.
      5.   Correction Or Withdrawal Of Inadvertently Erroneous Bids: Correction
or withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids before or after award, or
cancellation of awards or contracts based on such bid mistakes, shall be
permitted. After bid opening, no changes in bid prices or other provisions of
bids prejudicial to the interest of the city or fair competition shall be
permitted. All decisions to permit the correction or withdrawal of bids or to
cancel awards or contracts based on bid mistakes shall be supported by a
written determination made by the purchasing agent.
      6.   Award Of Contract: The contract shall be awarded with reasonable
promptness, by written notice, to the lowest responsible bidder determined by
the mayor and city council when the successful bid meets the requirements and
criteria set forth in the invitation for bids.
      7.   Equipment Purchases: Equipment purchases in excess of fifteen
thousand dollars ($15,000.00) require sealed bids and must be approved by the
city council.
   C.   Cancellation And Rejection Of Bids: An invitation for bids, a request
for proposals, or other solicitation may be canceled, or any or all bids or
proposals may be rejected, in whole or in part, as may be specified in the
solicitation, when it is in the best interest of the city. The reasons for
cancellation or rejection shall be made part of the contract file. Bids will
not be invited or solicited from persons or entities controlled by persons
which may cause conflict with the other provisions of law or the policy of the
city concerning nepotism.
   D.   Use Of Competitive Sealed Proposals In Lieu Of Bids: When the
purchasing agent determines in writing that the use of competitive sealed
bidding is either not practicable or not advantageous to the city, a contract
may be entered into by competitive sealed proposals. Competitive sealed
proposals are most appropriately used for professional service contracts.
      1.   Proposals shall be solicited through a request for proposals. Public
notice of the request for proposals shall be given at least fourteen (14) days
prior to the advertised date of the opening of the proposals.
      2.   Proposals shall be opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents to
competitors during the process of negotiation. A register of proposals shall be
prepared and shall be open for public inspection after contract award.
      3.   The request for proposals shall state the relative importance of
price and other evaluating factors.
      4.   All proposals shall be accorded fair and equal treatment with
respect to any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals, and
revisions may be permitted after submissions and prior to award for the purpose
of obtaining best and final offers. In conducting discussions, there shall be
no disclosure of any information derived from proposals submitted by
competitors.
      5.   Award shall be made by decision of the mayor and city council and
not by the purchasing agent to the person or entity whose proposal is
determined, in writing, to be the most advantageous to the city, taking into
consideration price and the evaluation factors set forth in the request for
proposals. No other factors or criteria shall be used in the evaluation. The
contract file shall contain the basis on which the award is made.
   E.   Architect Or Engineer Services: Architect or engineer services are
qualification based procurements subject to public notice under subsection B of
this section. Contracts should be negotiated by the city based on demonstrated
competence at fair and reasonable prices and awarded by action of the city
council. See Utah state code. The procurement of other professional services
such as auditing and legal services shall be negotiated by the city based on
demonstrated competence at fair and reasonable prices and shall be exempt from
the requirements of this policy but shall be ratified by the city council.
   F.   Determination Of The Nonresponsibility Or Disqualification Of A Bidder:
Determination of the nonresponsibility or disqualification of a bidder shall be
made in writing. The unreasonable failure of a bidder to promptly supply
information in connection with an inquiry with respect to responsibility may be
grounds for a determination of disqualification or nonresponsibility with
respect to the bidder. Information furnished by a bidder pursuant to this
section shall not be disclosed outside of the city without prior written
consent by the bidder.
   G.   Cost Plus A Percentage Of Cost Contracts Prohibited: Subject to the
limitations of this section, any type of contract which will promote the best
interests of the city may be used; provided, that the use of a cost plus a
percentage of cost contract is prohibited unless specifically approved by the
city council. A cost reimbursement contract may be used only when a
determination is made in writing that such contract is likely to be less costly
to the city than any other type or that is impracticable to obtain the
supplies, services or construction required except under such a contract.
   H.   Required Contract Clauses: Required contract clauses are as follows:
      1.   The unilateral right of the city to order, in writing, changes in
the work within the scope of the contract and changes in the time of
performance of the contract that do not alter the scope of the contract work.
      2.   Variations occurring between estimated quantities of work in a
contract and actual quantities.
      3.   Suspension of work ordered by the city.
      4.   Requirements for performance bonds and labor and material payment
bonds as required by law for construction projects. (Ord. 2008-01A, 6-18-2008;
amd. Ord. 2017-02, 5-9-2017; Ord. 2022-01, 3-9-2022)
1-11-6: PREFERENCE:
All specifications shall seek to promote overall economy and best use for the
purposes intended and encourage competition in satisfying the city's needs, and
shall not be unduly restrictive. Where practical and reasonable, and within the
scope of this chapter, Utah products shall be given preference. (Ord. 3-17-97A,
3-17-1997)
1-11-7: APPEAL:
   A.   Authority: Any actual or prospective bidder, or contractor who is
aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a contract may appeal
to the purchasing agent. An appeal shall be submitted in writing within five
(5) working days after the aggrieved bidder knows or should have known of the
facts causing the grievance.
   B.   Decision: The purchasing agent shall promptly issue a written decision
regarding any appeal, if it is not settled by a mutual agreement. The decision
shall state the reasons for the action taken and inform the protestor,
contractor or prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the city
council.
   C.   Final Appeal Entity: The city council shall be the final appeal entity
on the city level.
   D.   Further Appeals: All further appeals shall be as provided in the Utah
state code. (Per correspondence dated 11-12-2010) (Ord. 3-17-97A, 3-17-1997;
amd. Ord. 2022-01, 3-9-2022)
1-11-8: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No person involved in making procurement decisions may have personal
investments or derive any income from any business entity which may create a
conflict between their private interests and their public duties.
   B.   Any person involved in making procurement decisions is guilty of a
class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title, if the person asks, receives or offers to receive any
emolument, gratuity, contribution, loan or reward, or any promise thereof,
either for the person’s own use or the use or benefit of any other person or
organization from any person or organization interested in selling to the city.
   C.   The city shall not make any contract with, or purchase from, any person
defined in the nepotism policy of the city or from any related person or any
entity in which an interdicted person under the city nepotism policy has an
interest. (Ord. 3-17-97A, 3-17-1997; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2022-01, 3-9-2022)
CHAPTER 12
MASTER PLAN AND OFFICIAL STREET MAP 1
SECTION:
1-12-1: Conformance With Master Plan
1-12-2: Official Street Map
1-12-3: Protection Of Mapped Streets
1-12-4: Subdivision Regulations
1-12-5: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 11 of this code for provisions relative to subdivisions.
1-12-1: CONFORMANCE WITH MASTER PLAN:
From and after the time when the city council shall have adopted a master plan
of the city, or any part thereof, thenceforth no public property shall be
acquired or sold, nor shall any building to be used for public purposes be
constructed or removed, nor shall any street be acquired or vacated unless the
location and extent thereof shall conform to said plan, or, if not covered by
said plan, shall have been submitted to the planning commission for its review
and recommendation. The city council or other public body may overrule the
planning commission and shall have the power to proceed, but not until the
matter has been submitted to the planning commission for its review and
recommendation. Failure on the part of the planning commission to act within
thirty (30) days from and after the date of official submission to it shall be
deemed approval unless a longer period is granted by such submitting body or
board. (1995 Code § 65-3-1)
1-12-2: OFFICIAL STREET MAP:
From and after the time when the planning commission shall have adopted a major
street plan, the city council may establish by ordinance an official map of the
whole or any part of the city theretofore existing and established by law as a
public street. Such official map may also show the location of the lines of
streets on plats of subdivisions which shall have been approved by the planning
commission. For the purpose of preserving streets and ways and in order to
ensure orderly development, the city council may, from time to time, after
holding a public hearing thereon, add to the official map the lines of proposed
new streets which have been accurately surveyed and definitely located. Before
taking any such action, however, the city council shall refer the proposed
addition or modification to the planning commission for its review and
recommendation. In the event of the planning commission's disapproval, such
addition or modification shall require the favorable vote of not less than a
majority of the entire membership of the city council. The placing of any
street or street lines upon the official map shall not, in and of itself,
constitute or be deemed to constitute the opening or establishment of any
street or the taking or acceptance of any land for street purposes. Upon
adopting the ordinance creating the official map, the city council shall direct
that said ordinance be recorded in the office of the county recorder. (1995
Code § 65-3-2)
1-12-3: PROTECTION OF MAPPED STREETS:
From and after the time when an official map has been recorded in the office of
the county recorder, no permit shall be issued by the building inspector for
any building or structure or part thereof on any land located between the
mapped lines of any street as shown on the official map. Any person aggrieved
by his inability to obtain such permit may appeal to the board of adjustment.
The board of adjustment shall have the power, upon an appeal filed with it by
the owner of any such land, to authorize the grant of a permit for a building
or structure or part thereof within any mapped street location in any case in
which the board of adjustment, upon the evidence, finds that the property of
the appellant of which such mapped street location forms a part will not yield
a reasonable return to the owner unless such permit be granted, or that,
balancing the interest of the city in preserving the integrity of the official
map and interest of the owner in the use and benefits of the property, the
grant of such permit is required by consideration of justice and equity. Before
taking any such action, the board of adjustment shall hold a public hearing
thereon. In the event that the board of adjustment decides to authorize a
building permit, it shall have the power to specify the exact location, ground
area, height and other details and conditions of extent and character and also
the duration of the building, structure or part thereof permitted. (1995 Code §
65-3-3; amd. 2003 Code)
1-12-4: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS:
From and after the time when the planning commission shall have adopted a major
street plan and shall have certified the same to the city council, no plat of a
subdivision of land lying within the city shall be filed or recorded in the
county recorder's office until it shall have been submitted to and approved by
the planning commission and the city council, and such approval shall have been
entered in writing on the plat by the secretary of the planning commission and
the city recorder. The filing or recording of a plat of a subdivision without
such approval shall be void. The planning commission shall prepare regulations
governing the subdivision of land with the city. The city council shall hold a
public hearing on the subdivision regulations and thereafter may adopt said
regulations for the city. (1995 Code § 65-3-4; amd. 2003 Code)
1-12-5: PENALTY:
Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
punishable as a class C misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this title. (1995 Code § 65-3-5; amd. 2003 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Composition
2-1-2: Powers And Duties
2-1-3: Application To Appear Before The Commission
2-1-4: Capital Improvement Program
2-1-1: COMPOSITION:
   A.   Created; Membership: There is hereby created a planning commission
within and for the city to be known as the "planning commission", it may
consist of eight (8) members appointed by the mayor with the consent of the
city council from among the qualified electors of the city. There shall be Five
(5) regular members. There can be two (2) alternate members. One (1) of the
members of the city council shall be a nonvoting member of the commission and
his or her term shall correspond with the tenure of office.
   B.   Terms:
      1.   Regular Members: The terms of office for the commission shall be
four (4) years; provided that the term of one member shall expire on December
31 of the final year of appointment.
      2.   Alternate Member: The term of appointment of the alternate member
shall be for a period of up to one year. The terms of the alternate member
shall expire on December 31 of the year in which they are appointed. The
alternate shall act as proxy for any member when there is a vacant seat at a
regular meeting. All other rules, duties and responsibilities shall be
consistent with those outlined for planning commission members.
   C.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
terms shall be filled by appointment by the mayor with the consent of the city
council.
   D.   Removal Of Members: Members may be removed after public hearing by a
majority vote of the city council.
   E.   Selection; Compensation: Members shall be selected without respect to
political affiliations and shall serve without compensation.
   F.   Employees And Consultants: The planning commission may appoint
employees and may contract with a city planner and other consultants, provided
its expenditures, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated
for the purpose by the city council.
   G.   Chairman; Rules; Records: The planning commission shall elect from its
membership a chairman, and shall adopt rules for its own organization and for
the transaction of business and shall keep a public record of its proceedings.
   H.   Attendance: Three (3) consecutive and unexcused absences or six (6)
unexcused absences in a year from regular planning board meetings shall be
considered neglect of duty. The chair shall then ask for the resignation of
said member. If the member fails to resign and continues to six (6) months, the
commission shall follow the procedure outlined in subsection D of this section
to remove said member from the board. (Ord. 2010-05, 10-12-2010; amd. Ord.
2015-01, 2-11-2015; Ord. 2023-08, 11-14-2023)
2-1-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   General Plan: It shall be the function and duty of the planning
commission, after holding public hearings, to make, adopt and certify to the
city council, a general plan for the physical development of the city. The
general plan shall show the planning commission's recommendations, and may
include, among other things, the general location, character and extent of
streets, parks, parkways, playgrounds, airports and other public spaces; the
general location and extent of public utilities and terminals, whether publicly
or privately owned; the acceptance, widening, removal, extension, relocation,
narrowing, vacation, abandonment or change of use of any of the foregoing; the
general location, character, layout and extent of community centers and
neighborhood units; and the general character, extent and layout of the
redevelopment of blighted areas. The planning commission may, from time to
time, extend, amend or add to the general plan or carry any part or subject
matter into greater detail.
   B.   Zoning Plan And Ordinance: It shall also be the function and duty of
the planning commission to make, adopt, and certify to the city council a
zoning plan, including both the full text of the zoning ordinance and maps
representing the recommendations of the planning commission for zoning the
city.
   C.   Application Review: The planning commission shall review and make
recommendation to the city council all applications pertaining to zoning
changes, subdivisions, annexations, and changes to title 10, "Zoning
Regulations", of this code.
   D.   Conditional Use: The planning commission shall review and approve all
applications pertaining to conditional uses.
   E.   Surveys And Studies: In the preparation of the general plan, including
a zoning plan, the planning commission shall make careful and comprehensive
surveys and studies of the existing conditions and probable future growth of
the city and its environs. The plan shall be made with the general purpose of
guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of
the city which will, in accordance with existing and future needs, best promote
public health, safety and general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in
the process of development.
   F.   Reports And Recommendations: The planning commission may make reports
and recommendations relating to the plan and development of the city to public
officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational,
professional, and other organizations and citizens. It may recommend to the
mayor and the city council programs for public improvements and the financing
thereof.
In general, the planning commission shall have such powers as may be necessary
to enable it to perform its functions and promote city planning and zoning.
(Ord. 2010-05, 10-12-2010)
2-1-3: APPLICATION TO APPEAR BEFORE THE COMMISSION:
   A.   Any citizen or person may apply to the planning commission to be on the
agenda of regularly scheduled meetings by filing a request in writing with the
city recorder.
   B.   Such request must be made within five (5) working days from the date of
the next regularly scheduled meeting of the commission.
   C.   The request to appear before the planning commission shall be made on
forms furnished by the planning commission and located at the city office.
(Ord. 2010-05, 10-12-2010)
2-1-4: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM:
   A.   It shall be the duty and function of the planning commission to prepare
and submit to the city council by November 1 of each year a "capital budget"
for the ensuing year, together with a long range capital improvement program
covering a period of time which, in the opinion of the planning commission,
bears a rational relationship to present and future needs.
   B.   The capital budget shall be prepared in sufficient detail so that it
may be adopted in whole or in part by the city council as a part of the annual
budget as required by law.
   C.   The long range capital improvement program shall be prepared with the
broad purpose in view of facilitating the systematic, orderly and economical
development of public improvements in accordance with the master plan and in
scale with the ability to pay for such improvements.
   D.   Such capital improvement program shall consist of a comprehensive list
of carefully selected and coordinated capital improvements, which are or will
be needed within the time period covered by the program. Such list shall be
arranged in order of priority of execution and shall contain estimates of the
probable cost of each improvement, method of financing and other pertinent
information which, in the opinion of the planning commission, bears relation to
said improvements. (Ord. 2010-05, 10-12-2010)
CHAPTER 2
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION 1
SECTION:
2-2-1: Purpose
2-2-2: Definitions
2-2-3: Commission Created
2-2-4: Commission Duties
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 17A-3-1301.
2-2-1: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of the city of Green River to identify, preserve, protect, and
enhance historic areas and sites lying within the city limits of the city of
Green River, and any artifacts accumulated, collected, donated, or loaned to
the John Wesley Powell river history museum or the city of Green River. (Ord.
2006-01, 2-14-2006)
2-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings herein
described:
CITY: The city of Green River, Utah, Inc.
COMMISSION: The historic preservation commission as appointed by the city
council of Green River, Utah. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-14-2006)
2-2-3: COMMISSION CREATED:
   A.   Appointment, Terms: The commission shall consist of a minimum of five
(5) members with a demonstrated interest, competence, or knowledge in historic
preservation, appointed by the city council for terms of not less than two (2)
years.
   B.   Required Memberships: To the extent available in the community, at
least one commission member shall be professional, as defined by national park
service regulations, from the disciplines of history, archaeology, planning,
architecture or architectural history, and one member shall be from the city
council.
   C.   Meetings: The commission shall meet at least twice each year and
conduct business in accordance with the open public meeting laws of Utah. This
includes public notification of meeting place, time and agenda items. Written
minutes of each commission meeting shall be prepared and made available for
public inspection. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-14-2006)
2-2-4: COMMISSION DUTIES:
   A.   Survey And Inventory: The commission shall conduct, or cause to be
conducted, a survey of the historic, architectural, and archaeological
resources within the community. The survey shall be compatible with the Utah
Inventory of Historic and Archaeological Sites. Survey and inventory documents
shall be maintained and shall be open to the public. The survey shall be
updated at least every ten (10) years.
   B.   Review Of Nominations: The commission shall review any comments to the
state historic preservation officer on all proposed national registry
nominations for properties within the boundaries of the city. When the
commission considers a national register nomination, which is normally
evaluated by professionals in a specific discipline, is not represented on the
commission, the commission shall seek expertise in that area before rendering
its decision.
   C.   Advice And Information: The commission shall act in an advisory role to
other officials and departments of government regarding the identification and
protection of local historic and archaeological resources. The commission shall
work toward the continuing education of citizens regarding historic
preservations and community history. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-14-2006)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
2-3-1: Membership; Terms
2-3-2: Organization; Meetings; Records
2-3-3: Powers And Duties
2-3-4: Authority Limited
2-3-5: Vote
2-3-6: Application To Appear Before Board
2-3-7: Procedure
2-3-8: Action Of Board
2-3-9: Recourse From Board Decision
2-3-1: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
   A.   There is hereby created a board of adjustment, which shall consist of
five (5) members, each to be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent
of the city council.
   B.   Each member shall serve a term of five (5) years, provided that the
term of one member shall expire each year.
   C.   Any member may be removed for cause by the city council upon written
charges and after a public hearing, if such public hearing is requested.
   D.   Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose
term has not been completed. (Ord. 2010-06, 10-12-2010)
2-3-2: ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; RECORDS:
   A.   The board of adjustment shall organize and elect a chairman and adopt
rules in accordance with the provisions of title 10 of this code. Meetings of
the board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as
the board may determine. The chairman, or in his absence, the acting chairman,
shall conduct all meetings and may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses.
   B.   All meetings shall have minutes kept of its proceedings showing the
vote, indicating such facts, and shall have records kept of its examinations
and other official acts, all of which shall be filed immediately in the office
of the board and shall be a public record.
   C.   "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall be followed in the conduct of meetings
whenever applicable. (Ord. 2010-06, 10-12-2010)
2-3-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of adjustment shall have judicial power to interpret the provisions
of title 10 of this code. It shall have administrative duties to grant
variances or special exceptions as follows:
   A.   Interpret Ordinance And Map:
      1.   Intent: It is the intent of this provision to provide a way whereby
applicants who believe that the planning and zoning administrator or the
planning commission is in error or does not interpret the provisions of title
10, "Zoning Regulations", of this code correctly, to obtain relief from such
error in an expeditious and inexpensive manner without having to resort to the
courts.
      2.   Duty To Interpret: The board of adjustment shall hear and decide
appeals where it is alleged by the applicant that there is error in any order,
requirement, decision or refusal made in the enforcement of title 10, "Zoning
Regulations", of this code. The board of adjustment shall also interpret the
zone map and boundaries thereof in cases of dispute or disagreements.
   B.   Appeal Authority:
      1.   Conditional Uses: The board of adjustment may hear appeals
pertaining to conditional uses within zones. The board will study and interpret
the guidelines set forth in title 10, chapter 13, "Conditional Uses", of this
code in order to authorize their decision.
      2.   Granting Of Variances: The board of adjustment may authorize, upon
appeal, variances from the terms of the zoning regulations pertaining to area
and width of lot, size of yards, and height and size of buildings, where owing
to special conditions peculiar to the property, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of title 10 of this code would result in a hardship which is
unnecessary in carrying out the intent of this title.
      3.   Duty To Examine And Investigate: It is the function and duty of the
board of adjustment to examine and investigate each application to determine
that:
         a.   The variance will not substantially affect the comprehensive
general plan of zoning and that adherence to the strict letter of the zoning
regulations will cause difficulties and hardships upon the petitioner which are
unnecessary in order to carry out the purposes of the zoning regulations.
         b.   Special circumstances are attached to the property covered by the
application which do not apply to other properties in the same zone.
         c.   Because of said special circumstances, property covered by the
application is deprived of privileges possessed by other properties in the same
zone; and that the granting of a variance is essential to the enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same zone.
         d.   The difficulties and hardships were not created by any act of the
appellant subsequent to the effective date of the regulation appealed from.
   C.   May Attach Reasonable Conditions:
      1.   The board of adjustment may attach reasonable conditions or
requirements to the granting of a variance with which the petitioner must
comply as a condition of the grant of approval.
      2.   A time limit of one year shall be attached to the exercise or
nonexercise of any grant, unless specifically extended by action of the board.
   D.   May Reverse Or Affirm Enforcing Office:
      1.   In performing the duties and powers as set forth herein, the board
of adjustment is hereby empowered to reverse, affirm wholly or partly, or
modify the order, requirement, decision or determination of the enforcing
office, and may make such order or requirement as ought to be made.
      2.   In interpreting and applying the provisions of title 10 of this
code, the requirements contained herein shall be deemed to be the minimum
requirements for the purpose set forth. (Ord. 2010-06, 10-12-2010)
2-3-4: AUTHORITY LIMITED:
   A.   The board of adjustment shall have powers and duties as set forth in
this chapter and, within the limitations and intent of the provisions of title
10 of this code, shall perform the duties and shall have the power to perform
these acts as herein set forth.
   B.   The powers and duties of the board of adjustment are limited to
judicial and administrative matters as set forth in title 10 of this code. The
board of adjustment shall not have the authority to amend any ordinance, nor to
correct what it may consider to be an unwise requirement. (Ord. 2010-06, 10-12-
2010)
2-3-5: VOTE:
The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board of adjustment shall be
necessary to decide upon any matter upon which it is required to pass. (Ord.
2010-06, 10-12-2010)
2-3-6: APPLICATION TO APPEAR BEFORE BOARD:
   A.   Any citizen or person, or any officer of a department of the
municipality, may appeal to the board of adjustment by filing a request in
writing with the city, and by paying a fee in such an amount as established by
resolution of the city council.
   B.   Such appeal must be made within thirty (30) days from the grant or
refusal of a building permit by the planning and zoning administrator or the
decision of the planning commission.
   C.   The request to appear before the board of adjustment shall be made on
forms furnished by the city. (Ord. 2010-06, 10-12-2010)
2-3-7: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Upon receipt of the application, the city shall forthwith transmit to
the board of adjustment or planning commission all papers constituting the
record upon which the notice appealed from was taken. The board of adjustment
shall review the application and shall return the same to the planning and
zoning administrator with its decision pertaining thereto within thirty (30)
days. Failure to return said application within thirty (30) days shall
constitute approval.
   B.   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the planning and zoning administrator certifies to the board of
adjustment after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by restraining order which may be granted by the board of
adjustment or by the district court on application and notice to the planning
and zoning administrator and on due cause shown.
   C.   The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
the appeal, give public notice thereof by publication of notice at least five
(5) days prior to the date of hearing, as well as notice by mail to adjacent
property owners within three hundred feet (300'), and decide the same within a
reasonable time. Any party may appear at the hearing in person, by agent or
attorney. (Ord. 2010-06, 10-12-2010)
2-3-8: ACTION OF BOARD:
The board of adjustment shall make determinations in harmony with the
provisions of the zoning regulations and shall notify the planning and zoning
administrator or planning commission and city in writing of the action taken.
(Ord. 2010-06, 10-12-2010)
2-3-9: RECOURSE FROM BOARD DECISION:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by any decision of the board of adjustment may
have and maintain a plenary action for relief in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   B.   The petition for such relief shall be presented to the court within
thirty (30) days after the filing of such decision by the office of the board
of adjustment. (Ord. 2010-06, 10-12-2010)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Office And License Official
3-1-2: License Certificates And Regulations
3-1-3: Business License Fees
3-1-4: Procedure For Obtaining License
3-1-5: Suspension, Revocation Or Denial To Renew A License
3-1-6: Hearings; Decision; Enforcement; Appeal
3-1-7: Transferability
3-1-8: Temporary Permits
3-1-1: LICENSE OFFICE AND LICENSE OFFICIAL:
   A.   Definitions: Whenever used in this chapter, the following terms shall
mean:
LICENSE DEPARTMENT: The license office of the city.
LICENSE OFFICIAL: The city recorder or other designee appointed by the city.
   B.   Office Created; Personnel: There is hereby created a license office
within the city. The city recorder shall be the license official and shall have
charge of the license office and shall direct the same subject to and in
accordance with such terms and conditions as the city council may prescribe.
   C.   License Official; Powers And Duties: The license official shall assess
each licensee in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the
applicable statutes of the state, and shall receive all license fees required
herein to be paid. The assessment shall be based upon the fees herein
established. The license official shall also keep and maintain a suitable
index, properly alphabetized, containing the names of all licensees. (Ord. 05-
20-03B, 5-20-2003)
3-1-2: LICENSE CERTIFICATES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Business Rules And Regulations: Rules and regulations covering the
health, safety, morals, peace, good order, comfort and convenience of the
general public with respect to any business covered under this chapter may be
adopted by the city council, and copies of such rules and regulations shall be
made available to and displayed by the licensee affected thereby in a
conspicuous place upon the licensed premises.
   B.   Posting License On Premises Required: It shall be the duty of any
person conducting a licensed business in the city to keep his license posted in
a prominent place on the premises used for such business at all times.
   C.   License Certificate To Be Shown To Officials: It shall be the duty of
each and every person to whom a certificate of license has been issued to show
the same at any proper time when requested to do so by the license official,
sheriff or other law enforcement officer.
   D.   Unlawful Uses Of Business License And/Or Permits: It is unlawful to
counterfeit a license certificate, or to deface or mutilate the same while it
is required to be posted, or to remove it or attempt to remove it therefrom
without destroying it, or to use or permit the same to be used at any place
other than that designated therein, or for any licensee to place or permit it
to be placed upon any place of business, amusement device, game, machine or
vehicle prohibited or declared to be unlawful by this chapter or any other
ordinance or law. (Ord. 05-20-03B, 5-20-2003; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1-3: BUSINESS LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall
have the meanings herein prescribed:
BUSINESS: Means and includes all activities engaged in within the incorporated
limits of the city, carried on for the purpose of gain or economic profit and,
for the purposes of these provisions, shall include nonprofit corporations,
except that the acts of employees rendering service to employers shall not be
included in the term "business" unless otherwise specifically prescribed.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Means and includes, but is not limited to, the sale of
tangible personal property at retail or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods
or property, and the rendering of personal services for others for a
consideration by persons engaged in any profession, trade, craft, business,
occupation, or other calling, except the rendering of personal services by an
employee to his employer under any contract of personal employment.
PERSON: Any individual, receiver, assignor, trustee in bankruptcy, trust,
estate, firm, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, club,
company, joint stock company, business trust, corporation, association, society
or other group of individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative,
fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any location maintained or operated by a licensee within the
city, from which business activity is conducted or transacted.
   B.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to engage in business
within the city without first procuring the license required by this chapter.
   C.   Exemptions: No license fee shall be imposed under this chapter upon
businesses which are exempt from both property taxes and privilege taxes or
upon any person engaged in business that is specifically exempt from licensing
by political subdivisions under the laws of the United States or the state.
   D.   License Fee: There is hereby levied upon the business of every person
engaged in business in the city at a place of business within the city, an
amount equal to twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   E.   Amendment Of Fee: The business license fee may be amended from time to
time by the city council.
   F.   Separate Establishments: A separate license must be obtained for each
separate establishment or location of business engaged in business within the
city as if such separate establishment or location were a separate business,
and each license shall authorize the licensee to engage only in the business
licensed thereby at the location or in the manner designated in such license;
provided, that warehouses and distributing places used in connection with or
incident to a business licensed under this chapter shall not be deemed to be
separate places of business or branch establishments.
   G.   Provisions Not Exclusive: The general business license required under
this chapter is in addition to all other licenses and permits required by other
ordinance provisions. No person shall engage in business without first
procuring the necessary licenses and permits that are required by other
provisions of the ordinances, in addition to the license required by this
chapter.
   H.   Delinquency Penalties:
      1.   Business license fees for new businesses shall be due and payable
upon making application to the license department. The application shall not be
processed until the fee is paid.
      2.   Business license fees for renewal businesses shall be due and
payable each year on or before July 1 in which the license was originally
issued. If the license fee is not paid by the due date, a twenty five percent
(25%) penalty of the amount of the fee shall be added to the original amount
due. If the license fee plus penalty is not paid within one month after the due
date, a one hundred percent (100%) penalty of the amount of the license fee
shall be added to the original license fee. If the license fee plus penalty is
still not paid within two (2) months, the business shall be considered to be
operating without a business license in violation of this chapter, subject to
criminal prosecution for every day of operation after two (2) months from the
due date, and the license fee, if a license is granted thereafter, shall be the
license fee plus the one hundred percent (100%) penalty.
      3.   Penalty fees may be appealed to the mayor who may, for good cause
shown, refund all or part of the applicable penalty fee that has been paid.
   I.   Term: All business licenses, except temporary licenses, shall expire on
June 30.
   J.   Civil Actions To Recover Fees:
      1.   Where this chapter requires a license to be obtained from the city,
the fee being fixed by ordinance, and where such fee is not paid at the time or
in the manner provided in this chapter, a civil action may be brought in the
name of the city against the person failing to pay such license fee, in any
court of this state having jurisdiction of such action, to recover the same,
any penalties that may attach, the city's reasonable attorney fees incurred in
such action, and/or to enjoin further operation by the licensee. Where several
amounts for licenses as fixed by any city ordinance shall remain due and unpaid
by any person, the amounts may be joined as separate causes of action in the
same complaint in a civil action.
      2.   The city attorney shall prepare, bring and prosecute the civil
actions contemplated by this chapter upon the request of the city.
   K.   License Application; Public Records; Exceptions:
      1.   License applications shall be public records and the information
contained therein shall be public except for specific items of data that the
license official designates or classifies as private, controlled or protected
data consistent with the provisions of the government records access and
management act 1 .
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to make public or to inform any other
person of the contents of any information contained therein, except as
authorized in this section. (Ord. 05-20-03B, 5-20-2003)
   L.   Filing False Return Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to
knowingly file a false license application, or provide false information in
conjunction with a license application. (Ord. 05-20-03B, 5-20-2003; amd. 2003
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 63-2-101 et seq.
3-1-4: PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING LICENSE:
   A.   License Required To Carry On Business: Unless exempted by state or
federal law, it is unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on or operate
any business in the city, or to use any property for such business, without
first making application for and obtaining the required license from the city.
   B.   Persons Subject To Licensing: Whenever a license is required for the
maintenance, operation or conduct of any business or establishment, or for
doing business or engaging in any activity or occupation, any person or
corporation shall be subject to the requirements if, by himself or through an
agent, employee or partner, he holds himself forth as being engaged in the
business or occupation, or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively,
or performs or attempts to perform any part of such business or occupation in
the city.
   C.   Application Contents:
      1.   Applications for licenses and permits required by this chapter shall
be made in writing to the city license official at the city license office.
Each application shall state the name of the business; the name of the
applicant; the permit or license desired; the location of the business, if any;
the fee to be paid; the name and street address (and mailing address, if
different) of the business agent who is authorized to receive service of
process and any communication regarding the applicant's license via certified
mail, return receipt requested; and such additional information as may be
needed for the purpose of guidance of the city officials in issuing the permit
or license. Any change in the above information furnished by the license
applicant shall be forwarded, in writing, within ten (10) days after the
change, to the license official.
      2.   Forms for all licenses and permits, and the applications therefor,
shall be prepared and kept on file by the license official.
   D.   Fees And Waiver:
      1.   Each application for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the license fee required to be paid for the issuance of the
license desired. In addition to the license fee regularly assessed, any
applicant which shall have commenced doing business prior to obtaining a valid
license shall be assessed a penalty fee. The penalty fee shall be as provided
in subsection 3-1-3H of this chapter. The fee may be paid by cash or check made
payable to the city or a certified cashier's check and conditioned upon the
payment of the license fee to the city in the event of the issuance of the
license. Any license which has been issued pursuant to payment by means of a
check shall be void and of no force or effect if such check is not honored.
Applications received by the license official shall be numbered in the order of
their receipt.
      2.   The license official may not, under any circumstances, waive the
business license fees due the city for the current year or for prior years in
which the business operated.
   E.   Fees Not Refunded When: No license fee, or any part thereof, shall be
refunded for any reason whatsoever, once the application has been received or
the license has been granted or issued by the city.
   F.   Investigation: Upon receipt of an application for a license or permit,
where ordinances of the city require an inspection or investigation before the
issuance of such permit or license, the building official or his authorized
representative or such other agency, including the sheriff's office and the
planning and zoning division, as these ordinances specifically empower, shall
make such investigation within five (5) business days after the time the
application was received by the agency or department. However, when adequate
investigation requires correspondence with agencies or other sources of
information outside the city, or the license applicant is not ready to be
inspected, such investigation shall be completed within fifteen (15) days, or
as soon thereafter as possible. The officer charged with the duty of making the
investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or
otherwise, within five (5) business days after making the investigation or
inspection.
   G.   Additional Investigations: As soon as practical, the license official,
in his discretion, may refer the application for additional investigation to
the other official or body for the purpose of investigation and inspection
concerning the general reputation of the licensee, whether the business is or
has been conducted in a lawful, quiet, orderly and helpful manner, and the
conditions of health and safety of such premises, together with any other fact
or facts that the city should know in acting upon the application.
   H.   Report Of Investigations: Upon being requested to do so by the mayor or
the license official, the sheriff, fire department, or any other official or
department so requested, shall conduct the investigation and inspection
provided for in this chapter and submit to the mayor or license official a
report on such investigation and inspection, together with recommendations as
to whether the license should be granted or denied.
   I.   Action By Mayor: After receipt of the referenced reports and
recommendations of the license official, sheriff, fire department or other
official or body, the mayor shall act upon the application as he deems just and
proper in regard to granting or denying the same, and may order further
information or investigation if such appears necessary.
   J.   Compliance With Building And Zoning Requirements: No license shall be
issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit shall be issued for any
thing or the performance of any act if the premises and building to be used for
the purpose do not fully comply with the city building and zoning ordinances.
   K.   Approval: In the event the city approves a business license, the
business license shall be signed by the mayor or impressed by his facsimile,
and forwarded to the applicant.
   L.   Denial Conditions:
      1.   The mayor, upon recommendation of the license official, may deny the
issuance of a license if the applicant has:
         a.   Been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude; or
         b.   Obtained, or has aided another to obtain, a license by fraud,
deceit, material misrepresentation or material omission; or
         c.   Failed to pay any applicable taxes or fees; or
         d.   Violated the laws of the state, the United States government, the
ordinances of the city, or the rules and regulations of any state or city
agency governing operation of the business holding the license or permit.
      2.   The reason for denial shall be endorsed on the application by the
license official, and the city recorder shall return to the applicant, via
certified mail, return receipt requested, the application, notice of the
applicant's rights to an appeal and any fees that are refundable.
   M.   Appeal Hearing On Denial Of License; Effect Of Denial: If the applicant
files a written notice of appeal within twenty (20) days of the notice of
denial, a hearing to consider the denial of a license shall be held as provided
in section
3-1-6 of this chapter. Unless the mayor or hearing examiner orders otherwise,
it shall be unlawful for an applicant who has been denied a license to commence
or conduct the business or occupation contemplated in the application.
   N.   Effect Of Denial: If at any time a license or renewal is denied under
the provisions of this chapter, it shall thereafter be unlawful for any person
to engage in or carry on or operate or use or permit to be operated or used,
any property for any business with respect to which the license or renewal has
been denied, until a license or renewal shall be granted by the city. (Ord. 05-
20-03B, 5-20-2003)
3-1-5: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR DENIAL TO RENEW A LICENSE:
   A.   Enforcement Powers: The city shall be responsible for the enforcement
of this chapter. The city official may, on his own initiative, or in response
to complaints referred from the general public or otherwise, investigate and
gather evidence of violations of the licensing provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Grounds For Suspension, Revocation Or Denial To Renew: In addition to
any fine imposed, every license or permit issued by the city may be revoked,
suspended or renewal denied as prescribed herein. Upon recommendation of the
license official or sheriff and upon a hearing held pursuant to section
3-1-6 of this chapter, the mayor or hearings examiner may revoke, suspend or
deny renewal of licenses or permits, if the licensee or permittee:
      1.   Has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral
turpitude;
      2.   Has obtained, or aided another to obtain, a license by fraud or
deceit;
      3.   Has failed to pay any applicable taxes or fees;
      4.   Has violated the laws of the state, the United States government,
the ordinances of the city, or the rules and regulations of any agency of the
city or the state governing the operation of the business holding a license or
permit; or
      5.   Has refused to permit authorized officers or employees to make an
inspection or to take a sample of a commodity, or has interfered with such
officer or employee while in the performance of his duty in making such
inspection.
   C.   Notice Of Violation And Hearing: The city shall send the licensee
written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, in care of the
process agent specified in the license application, of the alleged violation
and notice of hearing and the licensee's right to appear at the hearing, the
consequences of the failure to appear and answer, and of the date, time and
place set for the hearing.
   D.   Waiting Period For New License: No person denied a license, or whose
license has been revoked under the provisions of this chapter, and no person
associated or connected with such person in conduct of such business, shall be
granted a license for the same purpose for a period of six (6) months after the
denial or revocation has occurred. However, the mayor may, in his discretion,
waive the prohibition against persons formerly associated or connected with an
individual who has had his license revoked. (Ord. 05-20-03B, 5-20-2003)
3-1-6: HEARINGS; DECISION; ENFORCEMENT; APPEAL:
   A.   Hearing Procedure:
      1.   A suspension, revocation or denial to renew a license issued
pursuant to the ordinances of the city shall not be imposed until a hearing is
first held pursuant to this chapter before the mayor or a hearing examiner.
      2.   At least twenty (20) days prior to a hearing hereunder, the city
shall cause notice of the time and place of the hearing to be served upon the
licensee or applicant by mailing a copy to the licensee or applicant via
certified mail, return receipt requested, in care of the licensee specified in
the license or applicant specified in the application.
      3.   Failure to appear at such hearing or otherwise defend against
suspension, revocation, denial of a license or denial to renew a license shall
constitute grounds for immediate suspension, revocation, denial of a license or
denial to renew a license.
      4.   All witnesses called at a hearing shall be sworn by a person duly
authorized to administer oaths, and a record of such hearing shall be made by a
recording or a court reporter. A licensee or applicant shall have the right to
appear at the hearing in person or by counsel, or both, present evidence,
present argument on the applicant's behalf, cross examine witnesses, and in all
proper ways defend the licensee or applicant's position.
      5.   If the hearing is before a hearing examiner, the hearing examiner
shall, within ten (10) days after the conclusion of the hearing, submit to the
mayor proposed written findings of fact and conclusions of law and order based
upon and supported by the evidence presented at such hearing.
   B.   Hearing Examiner; Appointment And Powers: The mayor may appoint one or
more hearing examiners upon the advice and consent of the city council, and the
mayor or any hearing examiner shall have power and authority to call, preside
at and conduct hearings to consider the suspension, revocation, denial or
approval of licenses or renewals issued by the city, including the power to
examine witnesses and receive evidence, compel the attendance of witnesses, and
compel the production of documents.
   C.   Mayor Action:
      1.   Upon receiving the hearing examiner's proposed findings of fact and
conclusions of law and order, the mayor may adopt and enter the proposed
findings of fact and conclusions of law and order, or may enter his own
findings of fact and conclusions of law and order, provided such order is based
upon and supported by the record. Immediately after entry, the order shall be
filed with the office of the city recorder and a copy served upon the licensee
or applicant personally or by mailing a copy to the licensee or applicant via
certified mail, return receipt requested.
      2.   In the event the mayor's order institutes a sanction of suspension,
probation, denial, denial to renew, or revocation of a license, such sanction
shall apply immediately after entry and shall apply to the licensee, applicant,
the licenses issued by the city, and to the premises in question for the full
term of the imposed sanction.
   D.   Unlawful To Operate Without A License:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commence or conduct any
business, trade or occupation within the city without first procuring all
applicable city business licenses.
      2.   If at any time a license issued under the provisions of this chapter
is denied, suspended or revoked, it shall thereafter be unlawful for the holder
of such license to conduct business on the premises described in such
application or license until the old license is reinstated or a new license is
issued.
   E.   Appeal Of Hearing Decision: Any licensee or applicant aggrieved by an
order entered by the mayor may maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom
in any court of competent jurisdiction, provided the action for such relief is
filed with the court within thirty (30) days after such decision is deposited
in the office of the city recorder. (Ord. 05-20-03B, 5-20-2003)
3-1-7: TRANSFERABILITY:
   A.   Limitations:
      1.   No license granted or issued under the provisions of the ordinances
of the city shall be deemed to be assignable or transferable, or to authorize
any person other than the person therein mentioned or named to do business, or
to authorize any other business than is therein mentioned or named to be done
or transacted.
      2.   Persons to whom one or more licenses have been issued to transact or
carry on some business at a definite location in the city may, except as
hereinafter provided, make application for the transfer of said licenses for
the sole purposes of transacting or carrying on the same business as is therein
mentioned at some other definite location in the city. Applications therefor
shall be filed with the license official ten (10) days in advance of the
proposed change. The city, after receiving reports furnished by the license
official or his authorized agent, may, in its discretion, deny or grant the
transfer of licenses according to the above limitations. No change shall be
permitted without full compliance with the building and zoning requirements of
this code.
   B.   Transfer Fee Or Fee For Changes In Partnerships And Associations: In
the event of a transfer of location as described in subsection A of this
section or in the event a partnership or association applies to delete the name
or names of an individual or group of individuals from its license, a new
license will be reissued for transfer of location or in the name of the new
partnership or association provided a fee in the amount of twenty dollars
($20.00) is paid. (Ord. 05-20-03B, 5-20-2003)
3-1-8: TEMPORARY PERMITS:
   A.   Defined: For the purposes of this section, a "temporary business" means
the conduct of business which is conducted from a single designated site or
premises without a permanent foundation or location from which goods,
merchandise or services are sold on a temporary or seasonable basis, and
includes a concert, fair, rally, bazaar or melon days festival. The license for
a temporary business shall not exceed one hundred (100) consecutive calendar
days per year at any location.
   B.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to conduct, engage in,
promote or carry on a temporary business within the city, without first making
application for and obtaining a temporary business permit from the city.
   C.   Display: A temporary business permit granted pursuant to this section
must be conspicuously displayed in or at the site or premises in which the
temporary business is conducted and must be available for inspection.
   D.   Fee: The fee for engaging in, carrying on, or conducting a temporary
business shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   E.   Permit Application: An application for a temporary business license
must be submitted ten (10) days prior to the commencement of the temporary
business and must include the following:
      1.   Site plan delineating where the temporary business will be located
and the parking area available for patrons or designation by the city of a
location with respect to any special event such as melon days.
      2.   Written permission from the property owner where the temporary
business will be located in a form acceptable to the city.
      3.   Acceptable evidence of a current sales tax permit, license or
special event sales tax number issued by the state.
   F.   Expedited Permit Charge: The license official may (in his discretion)
waive the ten (10) day requirement of subsection E of this section upon payment
of an expedited license charge in the amount of ten dollars ($10.00).
   G.   Location: The temporary business permit shall specify the location at
which the temporary business may be conducted, and no temporary business may be
conducted at any other location.
   H.   Inspection Of Merchandise: The sheriff or city official may inspect all
goods and merchandise to be sold pursuant to a temporary business permit.
   I.   Cleanup Bond Required: Any person applying for a temporary business
permit shall file, along with his temporary business permit application, a cash
or letter of credit in an amount equal to one hundred dollars ($100.00). Such
bond shall cover the cost of disposing of all litter, garbage and sewage of the
individuals attending, observing or performing at the temporary business permit
location.
   J.   Compliance With Laws: Temporary license holders shall comply with all
applicable laws and ordinances of the city and the state governing the
operation of its business. (Ord. 05-20-03B, 5-20-2003)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Application For License
3-2-4: Fee For License
3-2-5: Qualifications
3-2-6: Retail License Privileges
3-2-7: Issuance Of License; Contents
3-2-8: Board Of Health Permit
3-2-9: Zoning Compliance
3-2-10: Term Of License
3-2-11: Transferability; Refunds
3-2-12: State Provisions Applicable
3-2-13: Inspections
3-2-14: Unlawful Purchases
3-2-15: Revocation Of License
3-2-16: License Not Vested Right
3-2-17: Constitutionality
3-2-18: Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meaning unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
BEER, LIGHT BEER, MALT LIQUOR OR MALTED BEVERAGE: Any beverage containing not
less than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by weight, but not more
than four percent (4%) of alcohol by volume, or three and two-tenths percent
(3.2%) by weight, and which is obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an
infusion, or decoction, or of any malted grain, or of similar products, and may
or may not contain hops or other vegetable products and includes ale, stout or
porter.
CABARET: An establishment which allows its patrons to consume alcoholic
beverages on the premises, and which permits their patrons to dance, or which
entertain their patrons with music or entertainers who sing or dance.
LICENSED PREMISES: Any room, house, building structure or place occupied or
used by any person licensed under this chapter for the purpose of selling beer;
provided, that an applicant for a license must specifically designate in his
application that a room or portion of a building (if there is business other
than sale of food or sale or consumption of beer, and merchandise incidental to
beer sales) where beer sales will be made, which room or portion of building
must be separated from the balance of the business establishment or building by
a substantial, solid, permanent wall, from floor to ceiling, composed of
materials that will completely shut off all visibility and normal sound and
having not more than one door in the interior walls connecting it with the
balance of the building. Such room or other portion of the building so
designated shall be deemed to be the licensed premises. It is unlawful for any
person having a licensed premises where a wall is required as defined herein to
construct a wall other than so defined.
LIQUOR: Alcohol, or any alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented, malt or other
liquid, or combinations of liquids, a part of which is spirituous, vinous or
fermented, and all other drinks, or drinkable liquids that contain more than
one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume and is suitable to use for
beverage purposes. "Liquor" does not include any beverage defined as a beer,
malt liquor or malted beverage that has an alcohol content of less than four
percent (4%) by volume.
MINOR: Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
RETAILER: Any person engaged in the sale or distribution of beer or liquor to
the consumer.
SELL OR TO SELL: To solicit, to receive an order for, to keep or expose for
sale, to deliver for value or gratuity, to peddle, to possess with intent to
sell, to traffic in, for any consideration promised or obtained, directly or
indirectly, or under any pretext or by any means whatsoever, or procure or to
be procured for any other person, and "sale", when so used, shall include every
act of selling as above defined.
WHOLESALER: Any person other than a brewer or retailer engaged in the
importation for sale or in the sale of beer or liquor in wholesale or jobbing
quantities. (1995 Code §
12-2-1)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Retail License: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of the sale of beer or liquor at retail, in bottles or draft, within
the corporate limits of the city, without first having procured a license
therefor from the city as hereinafter provided. A separate license shall be
required for each place of sale, and the license shall at all times be
conspicuously displayed in the place to which it shall refer or for which it
shall be issued. All licenses shall comply with the alcoholic beverage control
act of Utah, and the regulations of the alcoholic beverage control commission.
(1995 Code §
12-2-2; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Wholesale License: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of selling beer or liquor at wholesale within the limits of the city
without first obtaining a license therefor from the alcoholic beverage control
commission of Utah, and from the city as may be required by ordinance therefor.
(1995 Code §
12-2-3)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for licenses authorized by this chapter shall be verified and
filed with the city council, and shall state the applicant's name in full, that
he has complied with the requirements and possesses the qualifications
specified in the alcoholic beverage control act of Utah, and, if the applicant
is a partnership, the names and addresses of all partners, and if a
corporation, the names and addresses of all officers and directors, and must be
subscribed by the applicant who must state under oath that the factors stated
therein are true. Applicants must furnish such other information, including a
certificate of at least five (5) resident free holders of such city to the
effect that the licensee bears a good character and is a fit and proper person
to be granted a license, as and when the city council shall require. (1995 Code
§ 12-1-6)
3-2-4: FEE FOR LICENSE:
Applications provided for in this chapter shall be accompanied by the fee
hereinafter provided, which fee shall be deposited in the city treasury if the
license is granted, and returned to the applicant if denied.
   A.   Class A: Fee for a class A retail beer license, per annum, shall be one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
   B.   Class B: Fee for a class B retail beer license, per annum, shall be one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
   C.   Class C: Fee for a class C retail beer license, per annum, shall be one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
   D.   Class L: Fee for a class L retail liquor license, per annum, shall be
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
   E.   Seasonal: Fee for a seasonal license, per annum, shall be one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00).
   F.   Partial Year: Licenses for less than one year shall be one-sixth (1/6)
of the annual license fee for each calendar month. (1995 Code § 12-1-12)
3-2-5: QUALIFICATIONS:
No person shall be granted a retail license unless he shall be qualified as
provided in the alcoholic beverage control act of Utah, and under the
privileges of Utah Code Annotated title 32A, chapter 10, as amended. Further,
no license shall be granted to any retailer to sell beer or to any wholesaler,
unless he shall be of good moral character, over the age of twenty one (21)
years, and a citizen of the United States; or to anyone who has been convicted
of a felony or of any violation of any law or ordinance relating to alcoholic
beverages, controlled substances, drunken driving, or of keeping a gambling or
disorderly house, or who has pleaded guilty to a felony or to the violation of
any such laws or ordinances; or to any partnership, any member of which lacks
any of the qualifications hereinbefore in this section set forth; or to any
corporation, any director or officer of which lacks any of such qualifications.
(1995 Code § 12-1-7)
3-2-6: RETAIL LICENSE PRIVILEGES:
Retail licenses issued hereunder shall be of the following kinds and shall
carry the following privileges and be numbered numerically commencing from the
number one each fiscal year, followed by the contraction of that fiscal year:
   A.   Class A: Class A retail licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell
beer on the premises, in original sealed containers, for consumption off the
premises in accordance with the alcoholic beverage control act of Utah.
   B.   Class B: Class B retail licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell
beer in the original opened containers, for consumption on the premises, in
accordance with the alcoholic beverage control act of Utah.
   C.   Class C: Class C retail licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell
beer on draft, or in original opened containers, for consumption on the
premises, or in original sealed containers for consumption off the premises, in
accordance with the alcoholic beverage control act of Utah.
   D.   Class L: Class L retail licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell
beer on draft or in the original open containers, and to sell liquor through a
calibrated metered dispensing system, for consumption on the premises in
accordance with the alcoholic beverage control act of Utah.
   E.   Seasonal: Seasonal license shall carry the privileges of class C retail
license, and shall be for a period less than one year. (1995 Code § 12-1-4)
3-2-7: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CONTENTS:
All licenses shall be issued by the city recorder under the seal of the city.
Each license shall specify by name the person, firm or corporation to whom it
is issued, the period of time for which said license is effective, and shall
designate the particular place at which the business shall be conducted. All
licenses shall be signed by the mayor and attested to by the city recorder.
(1995 Code § 12-1-10)
3-2-8: BOARD OF HEALTH PERMIT:
No license shall be issued until the applicant therefor shall have first
procured from the board of health a permit therefor, which permit shall show
that the premises to be licensed is in a sanitary condition, and that the
equipment used in the storage and distribution or sale of such beer, comply
with all health regulations of said city or county and the state. (1995 Code §
12-1-8)
3-2-9: ZONING COMPLIANCE:
No beer or liquor license shall be granted to any applicant whose business will
be located within any zone other than commercial. (1995 Code § 12-1-9)
3-2-10: TERM OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued hereunder shall take effect on approval of the city
council, and expire on June 30 each year, unless sooner cancelled, except
seasonal licenses, which shall be issued for any number of days determined by
the city council. (1995 Code § 12-1-13)
3-2-11: TRANSFERABILITY; REFUNDS:
Licenses issued under this chapter are not transferrable. A license fee may be
refunded after a license has been issued and thereafter cancelled on request of
the licensee. Any refund shall be based upon good cause being shown therefor as
determined by the city council after examination of all facts and conditions
relative to the application for refund. For any amount refunded, there shall be
charged a sum for necessary accounting and bookkeeping services equal to ten
percent (10%) of the amount determined to be refunded, said charge to be
deducted from the amount refunded. There shall be no refunds of fees paid for
licenses which have been revoked, such fees to be forfeited to the city. (1995
Code § 12-1-11)
3-2-12: STATE PROVISIONS APPLICABLE:
All beer licenses issued by the city by this chapter shall be subject to the
laws and regulations of the state, and more specifically, to the alcoholic
beverage control act of the state. (1995 Code § 12-1-14)
3-2-13: INSPECTIONS:
All licensed premises shall be subject to inspection by any officer, agent or
peace officer of the city or the alcoholic beverage control commission, or the
state board of health, and every licensee shall, at the request of the city
officer, board of health or alcoholic beverage control commission, furnish any
samples of beer which he shall have for sale. (1995 Code § 12-1-16)
3-2-14: UNLAWFUL PURCHASES:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to purchase or acquire, or to have or
possess for the purpose of sale or distribution, any beer except that which he
shall have lawfully purchased from a brewer or wholesaler licensed under the
privileges of the alcoholic beverage control act of Utah. (1995 Code § 12-1-5)
3-2-15: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The city council may, with or without a hearing, at its discretion, refuse to
grant any license applied for, and may revoke any license at any time, and in
no such case need any cause be stated. No license shall be issued, and any
license may be revoked, if the applicant or licensee does not possess or shall
cease to possess all of the qualifications required by the alcoholic beverage
control act of Utah, or if such applicant or licensee fails to comply with the
ordinances of the city or the rules, regulations and orders of the Emery or
Grand County board of health relating to health matters. All licenses shall
have incorporated therein the statement that they are granted subject to
revocation for cause. (1995 Code § 12-1-15)
3-2-16: LICENSE NOT VESTED RIGHT:
The issuance of a license pursuant to this chapter shall grant only a mere
revocable privilege to sell beer as provided in this chapter and the laws of
the state, and shall not confer any vested rights of any kind or nature upon a
licensee. (1995 Code § 12-1-18)
3-2-17: CONSTITUTIONALITY:
Any section of this chapter which may be unconstitutional or contrary to the
laws of the state, shall in no way nullify any other part of this chapter.
(1995 Code § 12-1-19)
3-2-18: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any ordinance in this chapter,
and any person convicted of violating any provision of any ordinance contained
herein, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 12-1-17; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CABARET LICENSES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Application For License
3-3-2: Qualifications Of Applicant
3-3-3: Investigation Of Applicant
3-3-4: License Period
3-3-5: Fee For License
3-3-6: Issuance Of License; Contents
3-3-7: Transferability; Refund Of Fees
3-3-8: Display Of License
3-3-9: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-3-10: Operating Under Invalid License
3-3-11: Penalty
3-3-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Required: Any person who operates an association, restaurant, club or
similar business which has an "on premises" liquor or beer license, and which
allows customers, members, guests, visitors or other persons to dance, or which
entertains their patrons with music or entertainers who sing or dance, shall
make application to the city for a license in accordance with the terms and
provisions of this chapter. (1995 Code § 14-5-1)
   B.   Contents Of Application: The provisions set forth in chapter 1 of this
title shall be controlling as to all matters relating to the requirements for
application and issuance of a license, including exemptions, prorations,
renewals, etc. (1995 Code § 14-5-2; amd. 2003 Code)
3-3-2: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
Each individual licensee must be over the age of twenty one (21) years, of good
moral character and a citizen of the United States. No license shall be granted
to any applicant who has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude. If the applicant is a partnership, association or corporation,
each partner, associate member or corporate officer or director shall meet all
of the foregoing qualifications as if such applicant were an individual. (1995
Code § 14-5-3)
3-3-3: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
The city council shall require that a county or state police officer review all
applications and examine local, state and national police records to determine
the criminal history, if any, of the applicant. In addition, the city council
may contact character references and obtain a statement as to the moral
character of the applicant. Following such examination and investigation, the
recommendations of the city council shall be made in writing to the city
recorder. Those involved in applications for licenses under these ordinances
shall be permitted access to all licensed premises, and shall make periodic
inspections of said premises, reporting its findings to the city council and
the administrator. (1995 Code § 14-5-4)
3-3-4: LICENSE PERIOD:
The license period for each license provided for in this chapter shall be one
year, commencing July 1 and ending the following June 30 of each fiscal year.
(1995 Code § 14-5-5)
3-3-5: FEE FOR LICENSE:
The license fee for each license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) annually. If
the license is issued prior to July 1, the license fee shall be prorated for
the full quarter in which the applicant commences operations under authority of
his license. (1995 Code § 14-5-6)
3-3-6: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CONTENTS:
All licenses shall be issued by the city recorder under the seal of the city.
Each such license shall specify by name the person, firm or corporation to whom
it is issued, the period of time for which said license is effective, and shall
designate the particular place at which the business shall be conducted. All
licenses shall be signed by the mayor and attested to by the city recorder.
(1995 Code § 14-5-7)
3-3-7: TRANSFERABILITY; REFUND OF FEES:
Licenses issued under this chapter are not transferable either to another
person nor to another premises. A license fee may be refunded after a license
has been issued and thereafter canceled on request of the licensee; providing,
that no dance or entertainment permitted under said license has been commenced
or performed. Any refund shall be based upon good cause being shown therefor as
determined by the city council after examination of all facts and conditions
relative to the application for refund. For any amount refunded, there shall be
charged a sum for necessary accounting and bookkeeping services equal to ten
percent (10%) of the amount determined to be refunded, said charge to be
deducted from the amount refunded. There shall be no refunds of fees paid for
licenses which have been suspended or revoked, such fees to be forfeited to the
city. (1995 Code § 14-5-8)
3-3-8: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Each license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be displayed at all times on
or in the licensed premises in a place readily visible to the public. (1995
Code § 14-5-11)
3-3-9: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may, after a hearing, be suspended
or revoked for the violation by the licensee of any provisions of this chapter
or any other applicable ordinance or law, or if it should be determined that
the licensee is no longer a fit person to hold a license under the standards
set forth in this chapter. The city council shall hear and determine all
suspension and revocation matters pursuant to the provisions of section
3-1-5 of this title. (1995 Code § 14-5-9)
3-3-10: OPERATING UNDER INVALID LICENSE:
If at any time a license under the provisions of this chapter is denied,
suspended or revoked, it shall thereafter be unlawful for any person to
continue to conduct any dance or entertainment for which a license was issued
on the premises described in the denied application or the revoked license
until such license is reinstated or a new one is issued by the city council.
(1995 Code § 14-5-11)
3-3-11: PENALTY:
Violation of the provisions of this chapter is a class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 14-5-12; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC DANCE LICENSES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Exemptions
3-4-4: Application For License
3-4-5: Qualifications Of Applicant
3-4-6: Investigation Of Applicant
3-4-7: Fee For License; License Period
3-4-8: Transferability
3-4-9: Display Of License
3-4-10: Illumination; Visibility
3-4-11: Hours
3-4-12: Minors
3-4-13: Prohibited Acts And Activities
3-4-14: Vacating Of Licensed Premises For Violation
3-4-15: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-4-16: Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in subsection 3-1-3A of this title,
the following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meaning
herein prescribed:
DURING THE CONDUCT OF A PUBLIC DANCE: The period of time commencing one hour
before actual dancing commences and ending one hour after the dance concludes,
including all periods of intermission or entertainment in between.
PUBLIC DANCE: Any dance to which admission can be obtained by paying a fee; or
by the purchase, possession or presentation of a ticket or token in which a
charge is made for caring for clothing or other property at such dance; or by
the payment of a fee for music from a music record vending machine or for music
from any number of musicians personally present and playing in the presence of
those in attendance. (1995 Code § 14-14-1)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hold, commence, carry on or conduct any
public dance in any hall or building within the city until such public dance
shall have first been approved and licensed by the city council. (1995 Code §
14-14-2)
3-4-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of subsection 3-1-3C of this title shall apply to exclude the
licensing of dances sponsored by churches, schools, nonprofit associations,
etc., as therein specified. (1995 Code § 14-14-3)
3-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The provisions set forth in chapter 1 of this title shall be controlling as to
all matters relating to the requirements for application and issuance of a
license, exemptions, prorations, renewals, etc. (1995 Code § 14-14-4)
3-4-5: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANT:
Each individual licensee must be over the age of twenty one (21) years, of good
moral character and a citizen of the United States. No license shall be granted
to any applicant who has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude. If the applicant is a partnership, association or corporation,
each partner, association member or corporate officer or director shall meet
all of the foregoing qualifications as if such applicant were an individual.
(1995 Code § 14-1-5)
3-4-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
The administrator shall examine all applications and investigate all applicants
for licenses under this chapter. Inspectors from the city fire and building
departments and the county board of health shall examine the premises wherein
any public dance is to be conducted to determine whether or not the same
complies with and conforms to all laws, ordinances and health regulations of
the city and county applicable thereto. Following such examinations and
investigations, the recommendations of the administrator and the said city and
county inspectors shall be made in writing to the city council. The
administrator shall be permitted access to all premises licensed or under
consideration to be licensed pursuant to this article, shall make periodic
inspections thereof, and shall report its findings to the city council. (1995
Code § 14-14-6)
3-4-7: FEE FOR LICENSE; LICENSE PERIOD:
A license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to the city when the
application is submitted for approval. The dance license shall be effective for
a dance or dances for one year from July 1 until June 30 of the following year.
Applicants must then reapply and be approved by the city council for a new
license. (1995 Code § 14-14-10)
3-4-8: TRANSFERABILITY:
Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable, either to
another person nor to another premises. (1995 Code § 14-14-8)
3-4-9: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Each license pursuant to this chapter shall at all times be displayed on or in
the licensed premises in a place readily visible to the public. (1995 Code §
14-14-9)
3-4-10: ILLUMINATION; VISIBILITY:
The licensed premises, including any adjacent booth, blind, stall or seating
area, shall be kept properly illuminated at all times during the conduct of a
public dance. Any such adjacent booth, blind, stall or seating area shall also
be visible and open to full view from the entrance to the main dance floor.
(1995 Code § 14-14-13)
3-4-11: HOURS:
No dancing shall be permitted in or upon the licensed premises between the
hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. (1995 Code § 14-
14-14)
3-4-12: MINORS:
Minors under the age of twenty one (21) years shall not be allowed to attend
any public dance where the possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages or
controlled substances, as the same are defined under the Utah controlled
substances act, are used, consumed or suspected of being used or consumed upon
the licensed premises. (1995 Code § 14-14-15)
3-4-13: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful during the conduct of a public dance for a
licensee under this chapter to:
      1.   Permit any person to bring, possess or consume beer or other
alcoholic beverages of any kind in or upon the licensed premises, except in the
case that the applicant is duly licensed as provided in chapter 3 of this
title, cabaret licenses.
      2.   Permit any person to bring, possess, use or consume controlled
substances, as the same are defined under the Utah controlled substances act,
in or upon the licensed premises.
      3.   Permit any intoxicated, boisterous or disorderly person to enter,
reenter, be or remain in or upon the licensed premises.
      4.   Permit the commission of any indecent, gross, violent or vulgar act
in or upon the licensed premises.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person during the conduct of, or
participation in, a public dance to:
      1.   Bring, possess or consume beer or other alcoholic beverages of any
kind in or upon the licensed premises, except as provided in chapter 3 of this
title.
      2.   Bring, possess, use or consume controlled substances, as the same
are defined in the Utah controlled substance act, in or upon the licensed
premises.
      3.   Be intoxicated, boisterous or disorderly in or upon the licensed
premises. (1995 Code § 14-14-11)
3-4-14: VACATING OF LICENSED PREMISES FOR VIOLATION:
The administrator or other properly constituted authority shall have the power
and the duty to cause any licensed premises to be vacated whenever any of the
provisions of this chapter has been or is being violated. (1995 Code § 14-14-
12)
3-4-15: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any license issued pursuant to the provisions of the chapter may, after a
hearing, be suspended or revoked for the violation by the licensee of any
provisions of this or any other applicable ordinance or law, or if it shall be
determined that the licensee is no longer a fit person to hold a license under
the standards set forth in this chapter. The city council shall hear and
determine all suspension and revocation matters pursuant to the provisions of
section
3-1-5 of this title. (1995 Code § 14-14-7)
3-4-16: PENALTY:
Violation of the provisions of this chapter is a class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 14-16; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CHRISTMAS TREE SALES
SECTION:
3-5-1: License Required
3-5-2: Written Consent To Cut Trees Required
3-5-3: Application For License
3-5-4: Issuance Of License; Fee For License; License Term
3-5-5: Cleanup Deposit
3-5-6: Possessing Or Selling Untagged Trees Unlawful
3-5-7: Penalty
3-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of selling fir or
evergreen trees or trees commonly called "Christmas trees", in the city without
first obtaining a license therefor. If a presently licensed business sells
Christmas trees, a second license shall be obtained under the provisions of
this chapter. (1995 Code § 14-6-1)
3-5-2: WRITTEN CONSENT TO CUT TREES REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell at any time or to offer for sale in
the city any fir, evergreen or Christmas tree cut or procured from or within
the public domain of the United States, or of the state, or from any private
lands within or without the state, without written authority having been first
obtained from the United States, state, or from the owner of such private
lands, as the case may be, to cut and remove such trees. (1995 Code § 14-6-2)
3-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license to sell and dispose of such trees within the city
shall make application therefor at the city. The provisions set forth in
chapter 1 of this title shall be controlling as to all matters relating to the
requirements for application and issuance of a license, exemptions, prorations,
renewals, etc. Such application shall also specifically state and set forth the
source of title to the trees to be sold and whether said trees, or any of them,
were cut or procured within any public domain of the United States, or of the
state, or from any private lands, either within or without the state.
Applicants shall be required in connection with such application to furnish the
city with evidence of ownership of such trees and/or authority to cut and
procure the same from the public domain or from private lands. (1995 Code § 14-
6-4)
3-5-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; FEE FOR LICENSE; LICENSE TERM:
Upon satisfactory showing made by the applicant that he has a bona fide title
to said trees and that the same were not obtained illegally or in violation of
any laws of the United States, or of the state, or any law, rule, or regulation
of the state or county from which such trees have been obtained, and that
applicant has authority to cut and procure the same from either the public
domain or from private land, the city shall grant to such applicant a license
upon the payment of a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). Such license shall
be valid for a period of sixty (60) days from November of each year. (1995 Code
§ 14-6-6)
3-5-5: CLEANUP DEPOSIT:
At the discretion of the city council, a cleanup deposit of fifty dollars
($50.00) shall be required of the licensee to assure the removal of unsold
trees and related debris remaining on the premises at the conclusion of the
license period. Said deposit shall be refunded to the licensee, provided the
premises are left clean and free of said unsold trees and related debris as
determined by inspection. (1995 Code § 14-6-6)
3-5-6: POSSESSING OR SELLING UNTAGGED TREES UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession for sale, or to
sell or offer for sale in the city, trees from the sources described in section
3-5-2 of this chapter, unless the same shall have been officially tagged with a
tag furnished or approved either by the United States forest service or the
department of forestry of the state. (1995 Code § 14-6-3)
3-5-7: PENALTY:
Violation of the provisions of this chapter is a class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 14-6-7; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ITINERANT OR TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: License Required; Display Of License
3-6-3: Application For License
3-6-4: Fee For License
3-6-5: Issuance Of License; License Term
3-6-6: Photograph And Bond Required
3-6-7: Surrender Of License; Refund Of Bond
3-6-8: Penalty
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
3-1-3 of this title, the following phrase as used in this chapter shall have
the meaning herein prescribed:
ITINERANT OR TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person who offers for sale at wholesale or
retail any goods, wares or merchandise in or from any hotel, stall, tent,
building, structure, stand, railroad car, motor vehicle, field, corner, or
other place in the city, and who shall not occupy said place for the purpose of
conducting a permanent business thereon or therein, shall be deemed an
itinerant or transient merchant. (1995 Code § 14-11-1)
3-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct the business of an itinerant or
transient merchant without first securing a license for each place to be so
operated. The licensee shall conspicuously display such license in or at his
place of business so that the same is plainly visible to the public, or carry
the license on his person. (1995 Code § 14-11-2)
3-6-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The provisions set forth in chapter 1 of this title shall be controlling as to
all matters relating to the requirements for application and issuance of a
license, exemptions, prorations renewals, etc. All applications shall be
accompanied by a written statement of the owner of the property on which
business will be conducted stating that the applicant has his permission to use
the property, and stating any and all conditions of such use. The administrator
will check all applications to ensure that the premises on which business will
be conducted is located within a commercial zone of the city. (1995 Code § 14-
11-3)
3-6-4: FEE FOR LICENSE:
The fee for licenses granted pursuant to this chapter shall be as provided in
section
3-1-3 of this title. (1995 Code § 14-11-6)
3-6-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; LICENSE TERM:
Upon the approval of the application by the administrator, the city shall issue
a license as provided in section 3-1-10 of this title. The license period for
all licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be for thirty (30) days,
after which the licensee will be required to either make a new application for
thirty (30) days, or apply for a permanent business license. (1995 Code § 14-
11-4)
3-6-6: PHOTOGRAPH AND BOND REQUIRED:
Applicants for licensing under this chapter shall furnish the city with a
recent photograph, a copy of which shall be affixed to the license issued to
the licensee and another shall be retained in the files and records of the
city. Itinerant or transient merchants shall also execute a cash bond to the
city in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) conditioned on the faithful
observance of all laws and ordinances of the city and the honest performance of
all duties required by ordinance. (1995 Code § 14-11-5)
3-6-7: SURRENDER OF LICENSE; REFUND OF BOND:
Upon the surrender by a licensee of his license to the city recorder, the
licensee's bond or cash deposit shall be refunded, provided there have been no
violations by the licensee of any of the conditions for which the bond or cash
deposit were made. If the licensee applies for renewal of his license, the bond
or deposit shall be renewed or retained for the term of such newly acquired
license. (1995 Code § 14-11-7)
3-6-8: PENALTY:
Violation of the provisions of this chapter is a class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 14-11-8; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 7
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: License Required
3-7-3: Application For License
3-7-4: Exemptions
3-7-5: Fee For License
3-7-6: Photograph Required
3-7-7: Bond Required
3-7-8: Surrender Of License; Refund Of Bond
3-7-9: Multiple Solicitors
3-7-10: Penalty
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in section
3-1-3 of this title, the following word as used in this chapter shall have the
meaning herein prescribed:
SOLICITOR: Any person selling, offering for sale or taking orders for
merchandise door-to-door within the city. Merchandise shall include goods,
food, wares, photographs, subscriptions to any kind of publication, insurance,
tickets, coupons or receipts, representing value. The term "solicitor"
includes, but is not limited to, photographers, sellers of magazines,
cosmetics, home care products, etc., and any other person engaged in direct
sales, but specifically excludes newspaper carriers. (1995 Code § 14-25-1)
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful or any person to conduct the business of a solicitor
without first securing a license therefor, unless otherwise exempted as
provided in this chapter. (1995 Code § 14-25-2)
3-7-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The provisions set forth in chapter 1 of this title shall be controlling as to
all matters relating to the requirements for application and issuance of a
license, exemptions, prorations, renewals, revocations, etc. (1995 Code § 14-
25-3)
3-7-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Solicitors who reside in and do business in the city from their homes are
exempted under the provisions of this chapter, but shall be licensed under the
provisions of subsection 3-1-3C of this title as persons engaged in home
occupations. Persons already licensed pursuant to the provisions of this title,
but who also engage in soliciting activities are also exempt from further
licensing under this chapter; provided, that such solicitation is not for sale
of merchandise from a separate location than that already licensed. All other
solicitors doing business within the city are nonexempt and shall comply with
the provisions of this chapter. All other exemptions provided for in section
3-1-6 of this title also shall apply. (1995 Code § 14-25-4)
3-7-5: FEE FOR LICENSE:
The fee for licenses granted pursuant to the chapter shall be as provided in
section
3-1-3 of this title. (1995 Code § 14-25-6)
3-7-6: PHOTOGRAPH REQUIRED:
Applicants for licensing under this chapter shall furnish the city with a
recent photograph, a copy of which shall be retained in the files and records
of the city. (1995 Code § 14-25-5)
3-7-7: BOND REQUIRED:
Solicitors who are itinerant, transient or temporary, not residing in the city,
shall deposit with the city a cash bond in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100.00) conditioned upon the faithful observance of all laws and ordinances
of the city and the honest performance of all duties required by ordinance.
(1995 Code § 14-25-7)
3-7-8: SURRENDER OF LICENSE; REFUND OF BOND:
Upon the surrender by a licensee of his license to the city recorder, the
licensee's bond or cash deposit shall be refunded, provided there have been no
violations by the licensee of any of the conditions for which the bond or cash
deposit were made. If the licensee applies for renewal of his license, the bond
or deposit shall be renewed or retained for the term of such newly acquired
license. (1995 Code § 14-25-8)
3-7-9: MULTIPLE SOLICITORS:
Multiple solicitors for a single company shall each comply with all of the
provisions of this chapter. (1995 Code § 14-25-9)
3-7-10: PENALTY:
Violation of the provisions of this chapter is a class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 14-25-10; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: License Required
3-8-3: Application For License
3-8-4: Fee For License; Exemption
3-8-5: State License Requirements
3-8-6: Penalty
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions set forth in subsection 3-1-3A of this title,
the following word used in this chapter shall have the meaning herein
prescribed:
The term "contractor" shall mean any person who, for compensation other than
wages as an employee, undertakes any work in the construction, plumbing or
electrical trade for which licensure is required under this chapter. (1995 Code
§ 14-20-1)
3-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the construction, plumbing or
electrical trades without having previously obtained a license therefor in
accordance with these ordinances. (1995 Code § 14-20-2)
3-8-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The provisions set forth in chapter 1 of this title shall be controlling as to
all matters relating to the requirements for application and issuance of a
license, exemptions, prorations, renewals, etc. (1995 Code § 14-20-3)
3-8-4: FEE FOR LICENSE; EXEMPTION:
   A.   The fee for licenses granted pursuant to this chapter shall be as
provided in section
3-1-3 of this title. (1995 Code § 14-20-5)
   B.   Although they shall apply in all respects for the obtaining of a
business license pursuant to this title, an exemption against the application
fee shall be given to contractors having no retail product sales and who pay
building permit fees pursuant to applicable city ordinances, or to
subcontractors who perform services under a contractor who has paid such
building permit fees. (1995 Code § 14-20-6)
3-8-5: STATE LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
All contractors will be required to hold a contractor's license in accordance
with the Utah construction trades licensing act, and will be required to
furnish a copy of said contractor's license which will provide the trades for
which he is licensed, the registered number and the expiration date of the
license. Any city business license issued pursuant to this chapter will be
subject to said state license, and should said state license be revoked by the
state board for any reason, the city license shall become immediately null and
void without further action from the city council. (1995 Code § 14-20-4)
3-8-6: PENALTY:
Violation of the provisions of this chapter is a class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 14-20-6; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 9
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Title
3-9-2: Purpose
3-9-3: Applicability
3-9-4: Definitions
3-9-5: Statutory Provisions
3-9-6: Location And Name Restrictions
3-9-7: Legitimate And Artistic Modeling
3-9-8: Limited On Licenses
3-9-9: Licenses Required
3-9-10: Application; Disclosures
3-9-11: Fee For License
3-9-12: Bond Required
3-9-13: Issuance Conditions
3-9-14: Approval Time; Review
3-9-15: Term Of License
3-9-16: Notice Of Change Of Information
3-9-17: Transfer Limitations
3-9-18: Display Of License
3-9-19: Statement In Advertising
3-9-20: Regulations And Unlawful Activities
3-9-21: Design Of Premises
3-9-22: Prohibited Activities
3-9-23: Defenses To Prosecution
3-9-24: Existing Businesses; Compliance Time Limits
3-9-25: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-9-26: Penalty
3-9-1: TITLE:
The provisions codified in this chapter shall be known and may be referred to
as the SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2014-
01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose and object of this chapter that the city establish reasonable
and uniform regulations governing the time, place and manner of operation of
sexually oriented businesses and employees of those businesses in the city.
This chapter shall be construed to protect the community interests recognized
by this chapter in a manner consistent with constitutional protection provided
by the United States and Utah constitutions. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter imposes regulatory standards and license requirements on certain
business activities which are characterized as sexually oriented businesses and
certain employees of those businesses characterized as sexually oriented
business employees. Except where the context or specific provisions require,
this chapter does not supersede or nullify any other related laws or
ordinances, including, but not limited to, those codified in Utah Code
Annotated section 32B-1-501 et seq. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the following
meaning:
ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT VIDEO STORE OR ADULT NOVELTY STORE: Any commercial
establishment that:
   A.   Excludes minors from more than ten percent (10%) of the retail floor or
shelf space of the premises; or
   B.   As one of its principal purposes, offers for sale or rental for any
form of consideration, any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals, printed matter, photographs, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, video reproductions, DVDs, slides or any other visual
representations, the central theme of which depicts or describes "specified
sexual activities" or "specified sexual anatomical areas", or instruments,
devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in connection with
"specified sexual activities".
ADULT BUSINESS: An adult theater, adult bookstore, adult video store or adult
novelty store.
ADULT THEATER: A commercial establishment that:
   A.   Holds itself out as an adult theater;
   B.   Excludes minors from the showing of its exhibitions;
   C.   As its principal business, shows, for any form of consideration, films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, DVDs, slides or any other similar photographic
reproductions which are primarily characterized by the depiction or description
of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; or
   D.   As its principal business, features persons who appear in live
performances in a state of seminudity or which are characterized by the
exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities".
EMPLOY: Hiring an individual to work for pecuniary or any other form of
compensation, whether such person is on the payroll of the employer, as an
independent contractor, as an agent or any form of employment relationship.
ESCORT: Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, dates, socializes, consorts
with or accompanies or offers to date, consort, socialize, visit or accompany
another or others to or about social affairs, entertainment or places of
amusement or within any place of public or private resort or any business or
commercial establishment or any private quarters. "Escort" shall not be
construed to include persons who provide business or personal services, such as
licensed private nurses, aides for the elderly or handicapped, social
secretaries or similar service personnel whose relationship with their patron
is by a bona fide contractual relationship having a duration of more than
twelve (12) hours and who provide a service not principally characterized as
dating or socializing. "Escort" shall also not be construed to include persons
providing services such as singing telegrams, birthday greetings or similar
activities characterized by appearances in a public place, contracted for by a
party other than the person for whom the service is being performed and of a
duration not longer than one hour.
ESCORT SERVICE: An individual or entity who for pecuniary compensation,
furnishes or offers to furnish escorts, or provides or offers to introduce
patrons to escorts.
NUDE OR NUDITY: A state of dress in which the areola of the female breast, or
male or female genitals, pubic region or anus are covered by less than the
covering required in the definition of "seminude" as defined herein.
OPERATOR: The manager or other natural person principally in charge of a
sexually oriented business.
PATRON: Any person who contracts with or employs any escort service, escort or
the customer of any business licensed pursuant to this chapter.
PECUNIARY COMPENSATION: Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire,
profit, reward or any other form of consideration.
PERSON: Any individual, unincorporated association, corporation, partnership or
other legal entity.
SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which opaque clothing covers no more than the
areola of the female breast; and the male or female genitals, pubic region and
anus shall be fully covered by an opaque covering no narrower than four inches
(4") wide in the front and five inches (5") in the back.
SEMINUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: Any business, including bars, clubs,
gentlemen's clubs or strip clubs, where any individual, employee, agent or
independent contractor performs or appears in the presence of patrons of the
business in a state of seminudity at the request or with the consent of the
business. A business shall be presumed to be a seminude entertainment business
if the business holds itself out as such a business.
SEXUALLY ORIENTATED OUTCALL SERVICE: A business that provides services of a
type performed by a seminude entertainment business outside of the premises of
the licensed business. Sexually orientated outcall services include, but are
not limited to, a business that provides nude or seminude dancers or
entertainment for parties or other functions.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: A seminude entertainment business, an adult
business or an escort service.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES: Those employees who work for a sexually
oriented business in activities related to the sexually oriented portion of the
business. This includes all managing employees, dancers, escorts, models and
other similar employees, whether or not hired as employees, agents or as
independent contractors. "Employee" shall not include individuals whose work is
unrelated to the sexually oriented portion of the business, such as janitors,
bookkeepers and similar employees. Sexually oriented business employees shall
not include cooks, serving persons and similar employees, except where they may
be managers or supervisors of the business.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: The human male or female pubic area or anus with
less than a full opaque covering, or the human female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola, with less than full opaque covering.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Acts of:
   A.   Masturbation.
   B.   Human sexual intercourse.
   C.   Sexual copulation between a person and a beast.
   D.   Fellatio.
   E.   Cunnilingus.
   F.   Bestiality.
   G.   Pederasty.
   H.   Buggery. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-5: STATUTORY PROVISIONS:
   A.   Obscenity: Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, nothing
in this chapter shall be deemed to permit or allow the showing or display of
any matter which is contrary to applicable Federal or State Statutes
prohibiting obscenity or is contrary to the community standards. (Ord. 2014-01,
3-11-2014)
3-9-6: LOCATION AND NAME RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Zoning: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do
business at any location within the City not zoned for such business. Sexually
oriented businesses licensed as an adult business or a seminude entertainment
business pursuant to this chapter shall only be allowed in areas zoned for
their use pursuant to title 10, chapter 8, "Industrial Zones", of this Code.
   B.   Premises Licensed: It is unlawful to conduct business under a license
issued pursuant to this chapter at any location other than the licensed
premises. Any location to which telephone calls are automatically forwarded by
such business shall require a separate license.
   C.   Name: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business
in the City under any name other than the business name specified in the
application.
   D.   Proximity To Specified Places: It is unlawful for any business licensed
for seminude entertainment to be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
another business licensed for the sale or consumption of alcohol. It is also
unlawful for any sexually oriented business to be located within one thousand
feet (1,000') of any church, school, or public park, daycare facility,
cemetery, library, or religious institution, or within one thousand feet
(1,000') of any residential zoning boundary. The distance shall be determined
by the shortest means of measurement.
   E.   Nude Entertainment Prohibited: Nude entertainment will not be licensed
by the city.
   F.   Sexually Orientated Outcall Services Prohibited: Sexually orientated
outcall services will not be licensed by the city. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-7: LEGITIMATE AND ARTISTIC MODELING:
   A.   Intent: The city does not intend to unreasonably or improperly prohibit
legitimate modeling which may occur in a state of nudity for purposes protected
by the first amendment or similar state protection. The city intends to
prohibit prostitution and related offenses occurring under the guise of nude
modeling. All applicable provisions of this section shall apply to such nude
appearance.
   B.   Unlicensed Appearance; Unlawful Acts: In the event a contract for nude
modeling is signed more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of the modeling,
the individual to appear nude shall not be required to obtain a license
pursuant to this chapter. During such unlicensed nude modeling, it is unlawful
to:
      1.   Appear nude or seminude in the presence of persons under the age of
twenty one (21);
      2.   Allow, offer or agree to any touching of the contracting party or
other person by the individual appearing nude;
      3.   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor or committing activities harmful to a
minor;
      4.   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any sex act as validly defined by
city ordinances or state statute;
      5.   Allow, offer, agree or permit the contracting party or other person
to masturbate in the presence of the individual contracted to appear nude;
      6.   Allow, offer or agree for the individual appearing nude to be within
five feet (5') of any other person while performing or while nude or seminude.
      7.   The above is allowed only per section
3-9-22 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-8: LIMITED ON LICENSES:
It is unlawful for any business premises to operate or be licensed as both an
adult business and a seminude entertainment business. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-9: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   Business; Exemptions:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented
business, as specified herein, without first obtaining a general business
license and a sexually oriented business license. The sexually oriented
business license shall specify the type of business for which it is obtained.
      2.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any sex therapist
or similar individual licensed by the state to provide bona fide sexual therapy
or counseling, licensed medical practitioner, licensed nurse, psychiatrist,
psychologist, nor shall it apply to any educator licensed by the state for
activities in the classroom.
   B.   Employees: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to employ
or for any individual to be employed by a sexually oriented business in the
capacity of a sexually oriented business employee, unless that employee first
obtains a sexually oriented business employee license. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-
2014)
3-9-10: APPLICATION; DISCLOSURES:
Before any applicant may be licensed to operate a sexually oriented business or
as a sexually oriented business employee pursuant to this chapter, the
applicant shall submit on a form to be supplied by the city the following:
   A.   Name: The correct legal name of each applicant, corporation,
partnership, limited partnership or entity doing business under an assumed
name.
   B.   Corporations, Partnerships, Assumed Names: If the applicant is a
corporation, partnership or limited partnership, or individual or entity doing
business under an assumed name, the information required below for individual
applicants shall be submitted for each partner and each principal of an
applicant, and for each officer, director and any shareholder or member owning
more than ten percent (10%) of any applicant. Any holding company or any entity
holding more than ten percent (10%) of the applicant shall be considered an
applicant for purposes of disclosure under this section. All corporations,
partnerships or noncorporate entities included on the application shall also
identify each individual authorized by the corporation, partnership or
noncorporate entity to sign the checks for such corporation, partnership or
noncorporate entity.
   C.   Personal Information: For all applicants or individuals, the
application must also state:
      1.   Any other names or aliases used by the individual.
      2.   The age, date and place of birth.
      3.   Height.
      4.   Weight.
      5.   Color of hair.
      6.   Color of eyes.
      7.   Present business address and telephone number.
      8.   Present residence and telephone number.
      9.   Social security number.
   D.   Proof Of Age: Acceptable written proof that any individual is at least
twenty one (21) years of age.
   E.   Photographs; Fingerprints: Attached to the form, as provided above, two
(2) color photographs of the applicant clearly showing the individual's face
and the individual's fingerprints on a form provided by the sheriff's
department. For persons not residing in the city, the photographs and
fingerprints may be on a form from the law enforcement jurisdiction where the
person resides. Fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be paid by the
applicant directly to the issuing agency.
   F.   Employment History: A statement of the business, occupation or
employment history of the applicant for three (3) years immediately preceding
the date of the filing of the application.
   G.   License Or Permit History: A statement detailing the license or permit
history of the applicant for the five (5) year period immediately preceding the
date of the filing of the application, including whether such applicant
previously operated or sought to operate a sexually oriented business in this
or any other county, city, state or territory, has ever had a license, permit
or authorization to do business denied, revoked or suspended, or has ever had
any professional or vocational license or permit denied, revoked or suspended.
A copy of any order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be attached to
the application.
   H.   Criminal Convictions: All criminal convictions or pleas of nolo
contendere, except those which have been expunged, and the disposition of all
such arrests for the applicant, individual or other entity subject to
disclosure under this chapter for five (5) years prior to the date of
application. This disclosure shall include identification of all ordinance
violations, excepting minor traffic offenses (any traffic offense designated as
a felony shall not be construed as a minor traffic offense), stating the date,
place, nature of each conviction or plea of nolo contendere, and sentence of
each conviction or other disposition, identifying the convicting jurisdiction
and sentencing court, and providing the court identifying case numbers or
docket numbers. Application for a sexually oriented business or employee
license shall constitute permission for disclosure of any criminal conviction
or plea of nolo contendere for the purposes of any proceeding involving the
business or employee license.
   I.   Lease Or Rental Of Property: In the event the applicant is not the
owner of record of the real property upon which the business or proposed
business is or is to be located, the application must be accompanied by a
notarized statement from the legal or equitable owner of the possessory
interest in the property specifically acknowledging the type of business for
which the applicant seeks a license for the property. In addition to furnishing
such notarized statement, the applicant shall furnish the name, address and
phone number of the owner of record of the property as well as the copy of the
lease or rental agreement pertaining to the premises in which the service is or
will be located.
   J.   Description Of Services: A description of the services to be provided
by the business, with sufficient detail to allow reviewing authorities to
determine what business will be transacted on the premises, together with a
schedule of usual fees for services to be charged by the licensee, and any
rules, regulations or employment guidelines under or by which the business
intends to operate. This description shall also include:
      1.   The hours that the business or service will be open and the methods
of promoting the health and safety of the employees and patrons and preventing
them from engaging in illegal activity.
      2.   The methods of supervision preventing the employees from engaging in
acts of prostitution or other related criminal activities.
      3.   The methods of supervising employees and patrons to prevent
employees and patrons from charging or receiving fees for services or acts
prohibited by this chapter or other statutes or ordinances.
      4.   The methods of screening employees and customers in order to promote
the health and safety of employees and customers and prevent the transmission
of disease and prevent the commission of acts of prostitution or other criminal
activity.
   K.   False Or Misleading Information: It is unlawful to knowingly submit
false or materially misleading information on or with a sexually oriented
business license application or to fail to disclose or omit information for the
purpose of obtaining a sexually oriented business or employee license. (Ord.
2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-11: FEE FOR LICENSE:
Each applicant for a sexually oriented business or employee license shall be
required to pay regulatory license fees as set by resolution. The fees will be
reviewed periodically. An application is not complete until all appropriate
fees have been paid. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-12: BOND REQUIRED:
Each applicant for a sexually oriented business license shall post with the
city recorder a cash or corporate surety bond payable to the city in the amount
of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00). Any fines assessed against the business,
officers or managers for violations of city ordinances shall be taken from this
bond if not paid in cash within ten (10) days after notice of fine, unless an
appeal is filed as provided by this title. In the event the funds are drawn
against the cash or surety bond to pay such fines, the bond shall be
replenished to two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) within fifteen (15) days of the
date of notice of any draw against it. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-13: ISSUANCE CONDITIONS:
The city council shall approve the issuance of a license to the applicant
within ninety (90) days after receipt of a completed application, unless the
city finds one or more of the following:
   A.   The applicant is under twenty one (21) years of age.
   B.   The applicant is overdue in payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines
or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed on the applicant in
relation to a sexually oriented business.
   C.   The applicant has falsely answered a material question or request for
information as authorized by this chapter.
   D.   The applicant has violated a provision of this chapter or similar
provisions found in statutes or ordinances from any jurisdiction within two (2)
years immediately preceding the application; a criminal conviction for a
violation of a provision of this chapter or similar provisions from any
jurisdiction, whether or not it is being appealed, is conclusive evidence of a
violation, but a conviction is not necessary to prove a violation.
   E.   The premises to be used for the business has been disapproved by the
county health department, fire department, sheriff's department, building
officials or zoning officials as not being in compliance with applicable laws
and ordinances of the city.
If any of the foregoing reviewing agencies cannot complete their review within
the ninety (90) day approval or denial period, the agency or department may
obtain from the city recorder an extension of time of no more than ninety (90)
days for their review.
   F.   The required license fees have not been paid.
   G.   All applicable sales and use taxes have not been paid.
   H.   An applicant for the proposed business is in violation of or not in
compliance with this chapter or similar provisions found in statutes or
ordinances from any jurisdiction.
   I.   An applicant has been convicted or pleaded or pled nolo contendere to
crime involving: prostitution, exploitation of prostitution; aggravated
promotion of prostitution; aggravated exploitation of prostitution;
solicitation of sex acts, sex acts for hire; compelling prostitution; aiding
prostitution; sale, distribution or display of material harmful to minors,
sexual performance by minors, possession of child pornography, lewdness,
indecent exposure, any crime involving sexual abuse or exposure, any crime
involving sexual abuse or exploitation of a child, sexual assault or aggravated
sexual assault, rape, forcible sodomy, forcible sexual abuse, incest, harboring
a runaway child, criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses, or offenses involving similar elements from any
jurisdiction or any felony. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-14: APPROVAL TIME; REVIEW:
The total time for the city to approve or deny a license shall not exceed one
hundred eighty (180) days from the receipt of a completed application and
payment of all fees. Businesses located outside of the corporate boundaries of
the city, but requiring a license under this chapter, may be denied a license
pursuant to this chapter if the business does not have a valid business license
to conduct business at the business location from the appropriate jurisdiction
for that location.
   A.   Determination Of Complete Application: Upon receipt of an application,
all departments required to review the application shall determine within ten
(10) working days whether or not the application is incomplete in items needed
for processing. Incomplete applications shall immediately be returned to the
applicant with a specification of the items which are incomplete.
   B.   Complete Application Starts Processing Time: The time for processing
applications specified in this chapter shall begin to run from the receipt of a
complete application.
   C.   Issuance Pending Completion Of City Review; Revocation:
      1.   In the event that a license for an adult business or seminude
entertainment business has not been disapproved within ninety (90) days or the
one hundred eighty (180) days allowed after an extension, the city shall issue
the license pending completion of the city's review.
      2.   Any license pursuant to subsection C1 of this section may be revoked
by the city pursuant to the revocation procedures provided for herein if the
completed review determines that the license should have been denied. (Ord.
2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-15: TERM OF LICENSE:
Sexually oriented business and employee licenses issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of issuance.
Licenses may be renewed prior to the end of the license period to assure
continued operation. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-16: NOTICE OF CHANGE OF INFORMATION:
Any change in the information required to be submitted under this chapter for
either a sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business
employee license shall be given in writing to the city recorder and the
sheriff's department within fourteen (14) days after such change. (Ord. 2014-
01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-17: TRANSFER LIMITATIONS:
Sexually oriented business licenses granted under this chapter shall not be
transferable. It is unlawful for a license held by an individual to be
transferred. It is unlawful for a license held by a corporation, partnership or
other noncorporate entity to transfer any part in excess of ten percent (10%)
thereof without filing a new application and obtaining prior city approval. If
any transfer of the controlling interest in a business licensee occurs, the
license is immediately null and void and the business shall not operate until a
separate new license has been properly issued by the city as provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-18: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
   A.   Required: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business location
within the boundaries of the city to fail to display the license granted
pursuant to this chapter in a prominent location within the business premises.
It is unlawful for any individual licensed pursuant to this chapter to fail to
carry, at all times while engaged in licensed activities within the corporate
boundaries of the city, their employee license on their person. If the
individual is nude, such license shall be visibly displayed within the same
room the employee is performing.
   B.   Failure To Produce License When Requested: When requested by the
sheriff's department, city licensing or other enforcement personnel or county
health official it is unlawful to fail to show the appropriate licenses while
engaged in licensed activities within the corporate boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-19: STATEMENT IN ADVERTISING:
   A.   Required: It is unlawful for any advertisement by the sexually oriented
business or employee to fail to state that the business or employee is licensed
by the city and shall include the city license number.
   B.   Prohibited Advertising: No sexually oriented business or adult
bookstore shall allow advertising on the outside of a building which depicts or
describes specified sexual activities or specified sexual anatomical areas, or
instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in connection
with specified sexual activities. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-20: REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business or sexually oriented business
employee to:
   A.   Presence Of Minors: Allow persons under the age of twenty one (21)
years on the licensed premises, except that in adult businesses which exclude
minors from less than all of the business premises, minors shall not be
permitted in excluded areas.
   B.   Locking Outside Door: Allow the outside door to the premises to be
locked while any customer is in the premises.
   C.   Gambling: Allow, offer or agree to gambling on the premises.
   D.   Touching: Allow, offer or agree to any sexually oriented business
employee touching or being touched by any patron or customer.
   E.   Controlled Substances:
      1.   Allow, offer or agree to illegal possession, use, sale or
distribution of controlled substances on the premises.
      2.   Allow sexually oriented business employees to possess, use, sell or
distribute controlled substances while engaged in the activities of the
business.
   F.   Prostitution: Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution,
solicitation of prostitution, solicitation of a minor or permitting activities
harmful to a minor to occur on the premises.
   G.   Specified Sexual Activities: Allow, offer, commit or agree to any
specified sexual activity as validly defined by city ordinances or state
statute in the presence of any customer or patron.
   H.   Nudity: Allow, offer or agree to any employee to appear nude.
   I.   Masturbation: Allow, offer or agree to allow masturbation on the
premises of a sexually oriented business. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-21: DESIGN OF PREMISES:
   A.   Adult Business:
      1.   In addition to the general requirements of disclosure for a sexually
oriented business, any applicant for a license as an adult business shall also
submit a diagram, drawn to scale, of the premises of the license. The design
and construction, prior to granting a license or opening for business, shall
conform to the following:
         a.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms.
         b.   Restrooms may not contain any video equipment or any of the
business merchandise. Signs shall be posted requiring only one person be
allowed in the restroom and only one person in any stall at a time, and
requiring that patrons shall not be allowed access to operator's station areas.
         c.   For businesses which exclude minors from the entire premises, all
windows, doors and other apertures to the premises shall be darkened or
otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from seeing the
inside of the premises. Businesses which exclude minors from less than all of
the premises shall be designed and constructed so that minors may not see into
the area from which they are excluded.
         d.   The diagram required does not necessarily need to be a
professional engineer's or architect's blueprint; however, the diagram must
show marked internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures and ratings for
illumination capacity.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the licensee and the licensee's employees to
ensure that the views from the operator's station in subsection A1 of this
section remain unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or
any other materials at all times that any patron is present in the premises and
to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which
has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted.
      3.   The premises shall at all times be equipped and operated with
overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to
which patrons are permitted access at an illumination of not less than one
foot-candle, measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the licensee
and the licensee's employees present on the premises to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present on the premises.
   B.   Seminude Entertainment Business:
      1.   It is unlawful for business premises licensed for seminude
entertainment to:
         a.   Permit a bed, sofa, mattress or similar item in any room on the
premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the
public or in any office to which patrons are not admitted, and except that in
an adult theater, such items may be on the stage as part of a performance.
         b.   Allow any door on any room used for business, except the door to
an office to which patrons shall not be admitted, outside doors and restroom
doors to be lockable from the inside.
         c.   Provide any room in which the employee or employees and the
patron are alone together without a separation of a solid physical barrier at
least three feet (3') high and six inches (6") wide. The patron or patrons
shall remain on one side of the barrier and the employee or employees shall
remain on the other side of the barrier. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-22: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Seminude Agencies:
      1.   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book or
otherwise engage the services of a professional dancer, model or performer to
appear in a state of seminudity for pecuniary compensation in or for any
seminude entertainment business or adult theater if licensed pursuant to this
chapter, unless such agency is licensed pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book or
otherwise engage or permit any person to perform as a professional dancer,
model or performer in a state of seminudity or nudity, either gratuitously or
for compensation, in or for any business licensed pursuant to this chapter,
unless such person is licensed pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   Performers: It is unlawful for any professional dancer, model or
performer, while performing in any business licensed pursuant to this chapter,
to:
      1.   Touch in any manner any other person.
      2.   Throw any object or clothing off the stage area.
      3.   Accept any money, drink or any other object directly from any
person.
      4.   Allow another person to touch such performer or to place any money
or object on the performer or within the costume or person of the performer.
      5.   Place anything within the costume or adjust or move the costume
while performing so as to render the performer in a state of nudity.
   C.   Patrons: It is unlawful for any person or any patron of any business to
touch in any manner any performer; to place any money or object on or within
the costume or person of any performer; or to give or offer to give to any such
performer any drinks, money or object; except that money may be placed on the
stage, which shall not be picked up by the performer except by hand. (Ord.
2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-23: DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION:
It is a defense to prosecution or violation under this chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   A.   By a proprietary school licensed by the state or a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   B.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation. (Ord. 2014-01,
3-11-2014)
3-9-24: EXISTING BUSINESSES; COMPLIANCE TIME LIMITS:
The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and
businesses described herein, whether the herein described activities were
established before or after the effective date hereof and regardless of whether
such persons and businesses are currently licensed to do business in the city.
All adult businesses and seminude entertainment businesses shall have one
hundred thirty five (135) days from the effective date hereof or until their
current license must be renewed, whichever is first, to comply with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-25: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Procedure: The denial, suspension or revocation of any license issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be done in accordance with section
3-1-6 of this title, which sets forth the applicant's right to present evidence
why the license should not be denied, suspended or revoked.
   B.   Conditions Specified: The city may issue a notice suspending or
revoking a sexually oriented business license or employee license granted under
this chapter if a licensee or an employee of the licensee has:
      1.   Violated or is not in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter;
      2.   Refused to allow any inspection of the premises of the sexually
oriented business specifically authorized by this chapter, or by any other
statute or ordinance;
      3.   Failed to replenish the cost bond as provided in this chapter. Such
a suspension shall extend until the bond has been replenished;
      4.   Given materially false or misleading information in obtaining the
license;
      5.   Knowingly operated the sexually oriented business or worked under
the employee license during the period when the business license or employee
licensee's license was suspended;
      6.   Committed an offense which would be grounds for denial of a license
for which the time period required has not elapsed;
      7.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person committed in or on, or solicited for on the licensed premises, or an
outcall employee solicited or committed on or off the premises, an offense
which would be grounds for denial of a license for which a conviction has been
obtained, and the person was an employee, whether or not licensed, of the
sexually oriented business at the time the offenses were committed;
      8.   Delinquent in payment to the city for ad valorem taxes or sales
taxes related to the sexually oriented business.
   C.   Effective Date: Suspension or revocation shall take effect within
fifteen (15) days of the issuance of notice, unless an appeal is filed as
provided by this title.
   D.   Appeal No Effect On Revocation: The fact that a conviction is being
appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the license.
   E.   Length Of Revocation: When a license issued pursuant to this chapter is
revoked, the revocation shall continue for one year from its effective date and
the license shall not be reissued to the sexually oriented business or employee
for six (6) months from the date of such revocation. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-2014)
3-9-26: PENALTY:
   A.   Suit For Injunction: An entity or individual who operated or causes a
sexually oriented business to be operated without a valid license, or who
employs or is employed as an employee of a sexually oriented business, or who
operates such a business or functions as such an employee in violation of the
provisions of this chapter is subject to a suit for injunction in addition to
the civil and criminal violations provided herein and any other remedy
available at law or in equity.
   B.   Civil Penalty: In addition to revocation or suspension of a license, as
provided in this chapter, each violation of this chapter shall, upon citation
by the city recorder, require the licensee to pay a civil penalty established
by resolution. Such fines shall be deducted from the cost bond posted pursuant
to this chapter, unless paid within ten (10) days of notice of the fine or the
final determination after any appeal.
   C.   Misdemeanor Offense: In addition to a civil fine provided in this
chapter, the violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Employee Violations: Every act or omission by an employee constituting
a violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or
omission of the sexually oriented business licensee and/or operator. If such
act or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge or approval of
the licensee and/or operator, or as a result of the licensee's and/or
operator's negligent failure to supervise the conduct of the employee, the
sexually oriented business licensee shall be punishable for such act or
omission in the same manner as if the licensee committed the act or caused the
omission.
   E.   Responsibility For Conduct: A sexually oriented business licensee and/
or operator shall be responsible for the conduct of all employees while on the
licensed premises and any act or omission of any employee constituting a
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission
of the licensee and/or operator for the purposes of determining whether the
licensee's license shall be revoked, suspended or renewed. (Ord. 2014-01, 3-11-
2014)
CHAPTER 10
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL LICENSE
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: Licenses
3-10-3: Application
3-10-4: Renewal
3-10-5: Grounds For Denial
3-10-6: Appeal Of Denial
3-10-7: Application Transfer
3-10-8: License Revocation
3-10-9: Penalties
3-10-10: General Operating Standards
3-10-11: Parking Requirements
3-10-12: Prevention Of Noise, Nuisance, Or Trespass
3-10-13: Required Posting
 
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
        A.   The use, occupancy, rent, or lease, for direct or indirect compensation, of
        a structure or any portion thereof, constructed for single household or multi-
NIGHTLY household occupancy, or of any other residential property, or residential
RENTAL/ property within a commercial building, less than thirty (30) consecutive days.
HORT-   B.   The commercial use, by any person, of residential property, or residential
TERM    property within a commercial building, for hostel, hotel, inn, lodging, motel,
RENTAL: resort, or other transient lodging uses, where the term of occupancy,
        possession, or tenancy of the property is less than thirty (30) consecutive
        days. (Ord. 2022-04, 11-8-2022)
 
3-10-2: LICENSES:
   A.   No person shall operate or engage in any nightly rental activity within
the City of Green River without first obtaining and maintaining a valid nightly
rental license.
   B.   An individual owner who owns multiple nightly rental properties must
obtain a separate license for each nightly rental property. A nightly rental
license fee will be assessed on each property location. All applicable City
sales tax for each location must be reported and remitted to the Utah State Tax
Commission as per current state regulations and requirements.
   C.   If an owner of a nightly rental is using a D.B.A, that D.B.A. must be
registered with the Utah Department of Commerce.
   D.   The owner shall be the licensee, but the property manager or local
representative, if applicable, shall be deemed the responsible party for the
purposes of operating standards and management standards. (Ord. 2022-04, 11-8-
2022)
3-10-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   The applicant must show that the facility meets minimum performance
standards as specified below in "General Operating Standards."
   B.   An inspection by the Building Inspector and Fire Inspector shall be
required prior to issuance of a license and as often as necessary for the
enforcement of this chapter. The applicant is responsible for all fees.
   C.   If the owner is not a permanent resident of Green River, a local
property manager shall be listed on the application for the purpose of promptly
dealing with complaints, violations, or any other safety and nuisance issues.
(Ord. 2022-04, 11-8-2022)
3-10-4: RENEWAL:
The license for nightly rental property shall be renewed annually on or before
July 1. (Ord. 2022-04, 11-8-2022)
3-10-5: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL:
An application for a nightly rental license may be denied for failure to
fulfill any of the application requirements. (Ord. 2022-04, 11-8-2022)
3-10-6: APPEAL OF DENIAL:
Shall be the same as outlined in Green River City Code 3-1-6. (Ord. 2022-04,
11-8-2022)
3-10-7: APPLICATION TRANSFER:
   A.   No license issued under this chapter may be assigned or transferred to
any person or entity not named therein; nor shall any license be assigned or
transferred to another nightly rental property, whether owned by the named
licensee or by another person or business entity.
   B.   Upon the sale, conveyance, or transfer of a nightly rental property,
the new owner or the transferee shall, within ten (10) business days of
completion of the conveyance or sale, apply for a new nightly rental license if
he/she continues to operate a nightly rental on the premises. (Ord. 2022-04,
11-8-2022)
3-10-8: LICENSE REVOCATION:
A nightly rental license may be revoked for a violation of any of the operating
standards or management standards set forth below, and where there is impact on
adjacent properties and neighborhoods. (Ord. 2022-04, 11-8-2022)
3-10-9: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any owner of any dwelling, in any zone within Green River City who
allows or permits occupation of said dwelling as a short term rental, as
defined herein, without first having first obtained a business license in
accordance with the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a fine of up to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) and imprisonment for up to six (6) months, or any combination
thereof for each violation.
   B.   Any owner of any dwelling, who, having first obtained a business
license for use or occupation of said dwelling as a short term rental,
thereafter, operates or permits operation of said short term rental in
violation of the terms and provisions of this section shall be guilty of an
Infraction, and shall be punished by a fine of not less than to seven hundred
and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation.
   C.   Any person who occupies a short term rental as a guest and who violates
any local ordinance or state law shall be subject to arrest, issuance of a
citation, or other criminal process in accordance with all state, federal or
local statutes, rules or ordinances.
   D.   Violation of any provision of this section regulating short term
rentals shall constitute a separate offense for each day said violation occurs
or continues.
   E.   In the event of three (3) or more violations of this section committed
by an owner or guest, or any combination of the two, within any twelve (12)
month period, the City Council may, depending on the nature or extent of the
violations, proceed with revocation of the business license for any short term
rental property in accordance with the provisions of the general business
license ordinance. (Ord. 2022-04, 11-8-2022)
3-10-10: GENERAL OPERATING STANDARDS:
Nightly rentals may be allowed where the applicant can show evidence of
compliance with the standards and procedures outlined below:
   A.   The nightly rental must meet all applicable building, health, and fire
codes for the intended use.
   B.   A maximum stay at a nightly rental by an individual or particular group
shall not exceed thirty (29) consecutive days.
   C.   Each sleeping room must meet current International Residential Code for
egress and be equipped with smoke and CO (carbon monoxide) detectors.
   D.   All nightly rental owners or property managers must collect and pay the
applicable taxes and pay the City business license fee.
   E.   Water, sewer, and garbage fees for nightly rentals will be calculated
at the commercial rate.
   F.   The owner or property manager shall respond to complaints and concerns
within one hour of any phone call or other notification. Failure of the owner
or property manager to respond in a timely manner may result in a violation and
possible revocation of the nightly rental license.
   G.   The Licensee and/or property owner will be responsible to provide
contact information of the responsible individual to all property owners/
residents within three hundred feet (300'). radius of the nightly rental
property so they will be able to make direct contact with the responsible
individual in the case of a complaint, violation, or any other safety or
nuisance issues. (Ord. 2022-04, 11-8-2022)
3-10-11: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
The owner of any property licensed as a nightly rental shall provide off street
parking for guests in accordance with the following:
   A.   Off-street parking shall be provided on the same lot as the dwelling
which is licensed as a nightly rental. Shall be the same as outlined in Green
River City Code 10-12-13. (Ord. 2022-04, 11-8-2022)
3-10-12: PREVENTION OF NOISE, NUISANCE, OR TRESPASS:
The owner of any dwelling licensed as a nightly rental shall be responsible to
ensure that guests or occupants do not:
   A.   Create noise that be reason of time, nature, intensity, or duration are
out of character with noises customarily heard in the surrounding residential
neighborhood.
   B.   Interfere with the privacy of surrounding residents or trespass onto
surrounding residential properties.
   C.   Allow pets or animals to create noise, roam the off the property, or
trespass on neighboring properties. (Ord. 2022-04, 11-8-2022)
3-10-13: REQUIRED POSTING:
The following information must be posted in a clear, concise, and unambiguous
manner inside any dwelling licenses as a nightly rental:
   A.   A copy of the nightly rental license.
   B.   The name and phone number of the owner and/or property manager.
   C.   The location of all fire extinguishers.
   D.   A list of all rules applicable for nightly rentals.
   E.   The maximum occupancy of the nightly rental. (Ord. 2022-04, 11-8-2022)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE PROTECTION
SECTION:
4-1-1: General Provisions
4-1-2: Fire Chief
4-1-3: Compensation
4-1-4: Equipment
4-1-5: Regulations
4-1-6: Fire Code Adopted
4-1-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: Pursuant to the powers granted by the state, the city intends
by this chapter to provide for the protection of its citizens from the dangers
of fire, and to set requirements, rules and regulations for the organization of
its fire department. (1995 Code § 25-1-1)
   B.   Authority: The city council shall have the authority, power and duty to
enforce these provisions. The city council shall have the authority to
interpolate, amend, delete, change any or all of this chapter at any regular
scheduled or special meeting called for that purpose, being that a quorum is
present and a majority vote so dictates. (1995 Code § 25-1-2)
   C.   Definitions: For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings herein described:
    CHIEF: The duly elected and approved fire chief of the Green River
volunteer fire department.
   CITY: The city of Green River, Utah.
   DEPARTMENT: The Green River volunteer fire department. (1995 Code § 25-1-3)
4-1-2: FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Appointment: The fire chief and other fire department officers shall be
elected by the fire department by majority vote, and approved by the city
council. (1995 Code § 25-2-1)
   B.   Powers And Duties: The duty of extinguishing fires and of protecting
life and property within the city is entrusted to the chief of the fire
department. He may divide the city into fire districts and make such rules and
regulations, subject to the approval of the city council, for the government of
all officers and members of the department as he may deem expedient. He may
make suitable regulations under which the officers and members of the
department shall be required to wear appropriate uniform or badge, by which, in
case of fire and at other times, their authority and position in the fire
department may be known. The chief shall have sole and entire command over all
officers and members of the department at fires. He shall have full charge at
all times of all apparatus and appurtenances belonging to the department, and
he shall adopt such measures as he shall deem expedient for the extinguishment
of fire, protection of property or preservation of order and observance of the
laws of the state and city, duties required of him by law and the ordinances of
the city council. It shall be the duty of the chief to examine and inspect
engines, hose, hook and ladder, and other equipment of the fire department.
(1995 Code § 25-2-2)
   C.   Special Duty: It shall be especially the duty of the chief to see that
at all times the provisions of this chapter relating to the protection and
regulation of property and all provisions of this chapter for the prevention of
and the protection against fires are strictly enforced. (1995 Code § 25-2-3)
   D.   Investigation And Reports: The chief, or in his absence, his assistants
in charge of the fire, shall, after its extinguishment, make a prompt and
thorough investigation of the cause of the fire, the time of dispatch, the
amount of loss and insurance, a description of the affected buildings and
premises, and shall secure all other useful information and data available and
record the same in a record book kept for that purpose in the office of the
department, and shall report the same to the city council at such times as it
may direct. (1995 Code § 25-2-4)
   E.   Appoint And Remove: The chief shall have power to appoint members and
to remove any officer or member of the department at any time he sees fit,
subject to confirmation by the city council. (1995 Code § 25-2-5)
4-1-3: COMPENSATION:
The salary of the chief and the members of the fire department shall be fixed
by resolution of the city council from time to time, and shall be paid from the
funds of the city upon warrants drawn upon the city; provided, however, that
the chief and members of the fire department may act on a volunteer basis
without compensation. (1995 Code § 25-2-6)
4-1-4: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Apparatus: All engines, hoses and other fire equipment shall be kept at
such place or places as the city council shall provide and designate, and shall
be kept in proper condition for immediate use. (1995 Code § 25-3-1)
   B.   Interference With Apparatus; Penalty: Any person who may use or in any
way interfere with any of the fire apparatus, without the consent of the chief,
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 25-3-2; amd. 2003 Code)
4-1-5: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Driving Over Fire Hose: It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in
charge or control of any motor vehicle, or for anyone driving or operating any
other type of vehicle, to drive the same over any fire hose on any street in
the city. (1995 Code § 25-4-1)
   B.   Right Of Way: It is hereby provided that all mobile firefighting
apparatus, fire trucks and authorized emergency vehicles of the city shall have
the right of way over all other vehicles of every kind in the city, and it
shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle to drive or operate
the same ahead of or in front of said fire truck at a distance less than one
hundred feet (100') or to follow the same at a distance closer than one hundred
feet (100'). (1995 Code § 25-4-2; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Parking Near Fire Hydrants: It shall be unlawful for the owner or
operator of any motor vehicle to stop or park the same within a distance of ten
feet (10') from any fire hydrant within the city. (1995 Code § 25-4-3; amd.
2003 Code)
   D.   Right To Enter Upon Premises: The fire chief or his deputies shall have
the right to enter upon any business or commercial premises open to the public
at all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspecting the same. (1995 Code §
25-4-4)
   E.   Dangerous, Unsafe Conditions; Notice: Whenever, in the judgment of the
fire chief, any building or structure or any portion thereof, or any
appurtenances or fixtures thereto, or any chimney, smokestack, stove, oven,
furnace or wiring or thing connected with such building or premises, is deemed
defective or unsafe, and such defect or unsafe condition is such as to create a
danger from fire; or whenever the owner or occupant of any building or
structure or part thereof keeps or stores any explosive, combustible,
inflammable material, waste or rubbish of any description in such a manner that
the same creates a danger from fire, the fire chief or his deputies shall give
the owner, or person having control of such building or structure, notice of
required changes, alterations or repairs necessary to render the same safe to
life and property from fire, and any person refusing or neglecting to comply
with such notice within five (5) days shall be deemed guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 25-4-5; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Unoccupied, Unsecured Buildings; Notice: Whenever any unoccupied
building is not properly secured or enclosed, the fire chief, or his deputies,
shall immediately visit the premises and notify the owner, or person having
control of the same, to secure or enclose the same, and the person so notified
shall comply within forty eight (48) hours or be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 25-4-6; amd. 2003 Code)
   G.   Removal Of Obstructions At Fire: The chief, or his deputies, may order
the removal or destruction of any fence, building or structure, when it may be
deemed necessary for the purpose of checking the progress of a fire. All
persons present at any fire shall be subject to the orders of the officer in
charge of the removal and protection of property and in extinguishing the fire.
(1995 Code § 25-4-7)
   H.   Limits At Fire Site: The chief may prescribe the limits in the vicinity
of the fire within which no person, except members of the department, and
police, or those admitted by order of the chief, shall be permitted to come.
(1995 Code § 25-4-8)
   I.   Disobedience Of Bystanders: The chief, foreman or any officer in charge
of the department, may require the aid or assistance of every citizen,
inhabitant or bystander, and upon the refusal or neglect of any such person to
immediately comply with such requirement, the offender shall, upon conviction
thereof, be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty five dollars ($25.00). All
officers authorized to command the aid or assistance of any citizen, inhabitant
or bystander are hereby authorized likewise to arrest such citizen, inhabitant
or bystander for refusal to obey any reasonable directions for the
extinguishing of fire or the protection of property. (1995 Code § 25-4-9; amd.
2003 Code)
   J.   Interference Unlawful: Any person who shall wilfully hinder any officer
or foreman in the discharge of his duty at a fire, or in any manner injure,
deface or destroy any engine, hose or other fire apparatus belonging to the
city, or who shall interfere with any fire company or person, or who shall
wilfully break or injure any water pipe, or in any way interfere with the water
or its source of supply, shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 25-4-10; amd. 2003 Code)
   K.   False Alarms: Any person who shall, without cause, give an alarm of
fire by outcry or ringing of bells or otherwise, shall be deemed guilty of a
class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 25-4-11; amd. 2003 Code)
4-1-6: FIRE CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Boundaries Of Fire Limits: All that portion of the city embraced within
the city limits shall be known as the fire limits of the city. (1995 Code § 25-
5-1)
   B.   Fire Code Adopted: The uniform fire code published by the International
Fire Code Institute, as modified and amended from time to time by the Utah
uniform building code commission in compliance with the uniform building
standards act is enacted and adopted by reference for use in the city and shall
be enforced by the city for all construction under the jurisdiction of the
city. (1995 Code § 25-5-2)
   C.   Successor Editions Adopted: All successor editions of the uniform fire
code which may be adopted by the uniform building code commission of the state
are enacted and adopted by reference for use in the city and shall be enforced
by the city for all construction under the jurisdiction of the city. (1995 Code
§ 25-5-3)
   D.   Amendments Adopted: Each amendment to the uniform fire code which is
adopted as described by the Utah building code commission in the Utah
administrative rules, and more specifically in R156-56-20, is enacted and
adopted for the city except where such provisions are expressly limited to
political entities described in the rules. (1995 Code § 25-5-4)
   E.   Copies Available: Current editions of the uniform fire code book will
be kept on file at the city offices for public reference. (1995 Code § 25-5-5)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions, Purpose, Authority And Scope
4-2-2: Prohibited Acts, Emergency Orders And Condemnation
4-2-3: Permits And Bonds
4-2-4: Accumulation And Storage Of Waste
4-2-5: Collection Fees, Transportation And Storage
4-2-6: Disposal Sites
4-2-7: Notice Of Violation, Enforcement, Appeal, Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS, PURPOSE, AUTHORITY AND SCOPE:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this chapter and unless defined in
other sections, the terms, phrases and words shall have the following meanings:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: A vehicle is presumed abandoned if it is left unattended on
a highway for a period in excess of twenty four (24) hours or on any public or
private property for a period in excess of seven (7) calendar days without
express or implied consent of the owner or person in lawful possession or
control of the property.
AGRICULTURAL WASTE: The manure or crop residues from various agricultural
pursuits, including, but not limited to, dairies and the raising of livestock
and poultry; solid waste that results from the rearing and slaughtering of
animals and the processing of animal products and orchard and field crops.
BULKY WASTE: Large items of solid waste, including, but not limited to,
appliances, furniture, trees, branches and stumps. Items whose large size
precludes or complicates handling by normal collection, processing or disposal
methods.
CITY: The city of Green River, Utah.
COLLECTOR: Any person who collects or transports solid waste.
COMPACTION: The volume reduction of material under load.
COMPOST: Organic waste material that has biologically decomposed or is in the
process of biologically decomposing under controlled conditions.
COMPOST PLANT: Any place or facility where composting occurs, except as
provided in subsection 4-2-4H of this chapter.
COMPOSTING: The biological decomposition or organic waste under controlled
conditions.
CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE: Waste building materials and rubble
resulting from construction, remodeling, repair or demolition operations on
houses, commercial buildings, structures or pavements.
CONTAINER: City and collection agency approved metal, heavy duty paper, or
plastic receptacles used for storage or disposal of solid waste.
COVER MATERIAL: Soil or other material used to cover compacted solid waste,
which is free of objects that hinder compaction and free of content conducive
to vector harborage, feeding or breeding.
DISPOSAL SITE: Any location, place, tract of land, or area, including any
structure where solid waste is finally deposited.
DUST: Any particulate matter capable of being suspended in air.
FACILITY: Any structure, machinery, equipment or recycling, reclamation
resource recovery, or processing facility, system or process used in the
storage, collection, transfer, incineration, pyrolization, consolidation,
segregation, treatment, conversion, utilization, processing, classification,
volume reduction or disposal of solid waste.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste or food refuse resulting from handling,
preparing, cooking or consumption of food.
GROUND WATER: Water occurring in the zone of saturation in any aquifer or soil.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: 1. Any solid waste or combination of solid wastes that,
because of its quantity, concentration, physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics, may cause or significantly contribute to an increase in
mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitation reversible
illness; or poses a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment if improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed or
otherwise managed.
      2.   Any waste exempted or that does not meet the criteria as a hazardous
waste under state or federal ordinances shall be exempted as a hazardous waste
under this chapter.
HOUSEHOLD: The association of persons who live in the same dwelling, sharing
its furnishings, facilities, accommodations and expenses.
HOUSEHOLD INCOME: All income received by all persons of a household in the
calendar year next preceding the year in which a claim is filed.
INCOME: The sum of federal adjusted gross income as defined in the internal
revenue code and all nontaxable income, including, but not limited to, the
amount of capital gains excluded from adjusted gross income, alimony, support
money, nontaxable strike benefits, cash public assistance and relief, the gross
amount of any pension or annuity, including railroad retirement act benefits
and veterans disability pensions, all payments received under the federal
social security and state unemployment insurance laws, nontaxable interest
received from the federal government or any of its instrumentalities, workers
compensation, and the gross amount of "loss of time" insurance. "Income" does
not include gifts from nongovernmental sources or surplus foods or other relief
in kind supplied by a public or private agency.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Any waste, either liquid, solid or gas, or any combination of
these, resulting from any process of industry, manufacturing, trade, business,
mining, agriculture, or the development of a natural resource.
INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any automobile, truck, motor home or bus not currently
registered and licensed in this state or another state, or in any of the
following conditions that shall be considered unsightly or deleterious:
dismantled; broken windows; flat or no tires; missing doors, fenders, hood or
trunk; will not start; is not driveable; or any other condition that would
result in the vehicle's failure to pass state inspection.
JUNK: Any salvaged or scrap copper, glass, iron, steel, metal, rope, rags,
batteries, paper, wood, trash, plastic, rubber, tires, waste, dismantled,
wrecked, or inoperable motor vehicles or parts or other articles or materials
commonly designated as "junk".
LEACHATE: Liquid that has percolated through or drained from solid waste and
contains extracted, dissolved or suspended material.
LITTER: Any quantity of uncontainerized paper, metal, plastic, glass or
miscellaneous solid waste.
LITTERING: The wilful or negligent throwing, dropping, placing, depositing, or
sweeping of solid waste onto any premises other than in approved storage
container and sites.
MAYOR: The mayor of the city of Green River, Utah, or authorized
representative.
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE: Household waste, commercial solid waste and nonhazardous
sludge.
NUISANCE: Unlawfully doing an act that annoys, injures or endangers the
comfort, repose, health or safety of any person, or that renders a person
insecure in life or the use of property.
OPEN BURNING: A fire whose products of combustion are emitted directly into the
open air without passage through a stack or chimney.
OPEN DUMP: Any disposal site that does not comply with this chapter.
OPERATOR: A person who owns, leases or manages a site or facility.
OWNER: Any person who, alone, jointly or severally with others has legal title
to any premises, dwelling or dwelling unit, with or without accompanying actual
possession thereof; or has charge, care or control of any premises, dwelling or
dwelling unit, as legal or equitable owner, agent of the owner, lessee, or is
an executor, executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of
the estate of the owner.
PERSON: Any individual, public or private corporation and its officers,
partnership, association, firm, trustee, executor of an estate, the state or
its departments, institution, bureau, agency, county, city, political
subdivision, or any legal entity recognized by law.
POLLUTION: The condition caused by the presence in the environment of substance
of such character and in such quantities that the quality of the environment is
impaired or rendered offensive to live.
PROCESSING: Any method, system or other treatment designed to change the
physical form or chemical content of solid waste.
RECLAMATION FACILITY: A facility where solid wastes are stored, dismantled,
segregated or reprocessed to recover salvageable materials for sale or reuse.
RECYCLING: The process by which recovered resources are transformed into new
products in such a manner that the original products lose their identity.
RECYCLING FACILITY: Any place, plant or equipment designed and operated to
store, collect, redistribute and return processed material to market.
REFUSE: Garbage, rubbish and other discarded material.
RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE: Refuse produced by or resulting from the normal
activities of residential households, and excluding asphalt, concrete, dirt,
rocks or other similar materials not normally associated with day to day
residential household activities. Applicable to the solid waste from a building
of four (4) or less separate residential units.
RESIDUE: All solids that remain after incineration, including grade siftings,
ash and fly ash.
RUBBISH: All solid waste except garbage and hazardous waste, including, but not
limited to, ashes, bedding, cardboard, paper, wood, cans, metal, glass,
crockery, rubber, plastic, leather, rags and yard trimmings.
SALVAGING: The controlled removal of waste materials for utilization.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A site where solid waste is disposed of using sanitary
landfilling techniques.
SCAVENGE: The uncontrolled removal of solid wastes from a site or facility at
any point in solid waste management.
SEWAGE: Liquid or water carried wastes, or both, produced by any person,
animals or fowl from residences, business building, institutions, industrial
establishments, or agricultural, recreational or other locations, including,
but not limited to, septic tanks, privy vaults and cesspools, together with
ground water, surface water and storm water.
SITE: Any place, tract of land or facility used for the storage, collection,
transfer, conversion, utilization, processing, treatment, incineration,
pyrolization, handling or disposal of solid waste.
SLUDGE: Any solid, semisolid or liquid waste having similar characteristics and
effects, generated from municipal, commercial, industrial wastewater and water
supply treatment plants, or air pollution control facilities.
SOLID WASTE: Garbage, junk, inoperable vehicles, refuse, trash, rubbish,
residential solid waste, hazardous waste, special waste, industrial waste,
construction and demolition waste, dead animals, manure or feces, sludge,
liquid or semiliquid waste, asphalt other than that being used for hard
surfacing, organic materials, and waste concrete or rock larger than twelve
inches (12") in diameter, other spent, useless, worthless or discarded
materials or materials stored or accumulated for the purpose of discarding
materials that have served their original intended purpose; or waste material
resulting from industrial, manufacturing, mining, commercial, agricultural,
residential, institutional, recreational or community activities. "Solid waste"
does not include solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage or in
irrigation return flows or discharges for which a permit is required under Utah
Code Annotated title 28, chapter 11, as amended, or under the federal water
pollution control act, 33 United States Code section 1251 et seq.
SPECIAL WASTE: Those wastes that are not considered hazardous, but may require
complex or special management due to characteristics such as high moisture
content or bulk.
STORAGE: The actual or intended containment of solid or hazardous waste either
on a temporary basis or for a period of years in such a manner as not to
constitute disposal of the waste.
TRANSFER STATION: A facility where solid waste is transferred from collection
to haulage vehicles for transportation to another facility or site.
TRASH: Materials, including, but not limited to, garbage, construction or
demolition debris, clothing, rags, yard trimmings or other refuse resulting
from the conducting of any business, trade or industry.
USED OIL: Oil which has been refined from crude oil, used, and as a result of
that use, contaminated by physical or chemical impurities.
USED OIL COLLECTOR: Any person who has obtained from the state of Utah a permit
allowing the collection of used oil for resale to oil refining facilities or
disposal by other methods approved by law.
WASTE CONTRACTOR: A person engaged in the business of collecting, hauling or
transporting garbage, refuse, agricultural or hazardous waste, sewage, sludge,
dead animals, bones or other solid waste.
WATER TABLE: The upper surface of the zone of saturation, if unconfined by an
impervious formation, and that can be referred to in terms of elevation.
WORKING FACE: Any part of a disposal site where solid waste is being disposed
and compacted prior to placement of cover material.
   B.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the
accumulation, storage, collection, transportation, processing, treatment,
handling and disposal of solid wastes in a way that will protect and promote
the public health, safety and welfare; prevent damage to property; prevent the
spread of disease; prevent the creation of nuisances; and prevent air and water
pollution.
   C.   Jurisdiction Of City: All solid waste management activities which are
enumerated in subsection B of this section shall be subject to the direction
and control of the city.
   D.   Powers And Duties: The city, by the mayor or the mayor's
representative, shall be responsible for the administration of this chapter and
any other powers vested in it by law and shall:
      1.   Require the submission of reports, plans and specifications for
public or private facilities or sites as necessary to implement the provisions,
requirements and standards of this chapter.
      2.   Issue permits and charge fees as necessary to implement the
provisions, requirements and standards of this chapter.
      3.   Make inspections of any facilities or sites and issue orders as
necessary to effect the purposes of this chapter.
      4.   Take samples and make analyses of any solid waste or require the
sampling and analysis of any such materials.
      5.   Require and comment on any proposed contract or agreement between
any district, city, county, governmental unit, or person for the handling,
treatment, processing or disposal of any solid waste within the city.
      6.   Do any and all acts permitted by law that are necessary for the
successful enforcement of this chapter.
   E.   Scope: It shall be unlawful for any person not to comply with any rule
or regulation promulgated by the city, unless expressly waived by this chapter.
(Ord. 8-13-02, 8-13-2002, eff. 8-13-2002)
4-2-2: PROHIBITIVE ACTS, EMERGENCY ORDERS AND CONDEMNATION:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: Except as otherwise provided by law, it shall be
unlawful for any person:
      1.   To dispose of any solid waste in any place except at a facility or
site that has been approved by the city.
      2.   To operate a facility or site or engage in the business of waste
contractor without a valid permit from the city, unless specifically exempted
elsewhere in this chapter.
      3.   To deposit any solid waste upon any public or private property
without the consent of the owner and approval of the city.
      4.   To construct, alter, operate or change the operating procedure of a
site or facility without the corresponding permit or approval from the city.
      5.   To scavenge at a site.
      6.   To feed farm or domestic animals on an existing site, unless
approved by the city.
      7.   To dispose of any solid waste in a way prohibited by any applicable
laws.
      8.   To open burn, except as provided by law.
      9.   To create or operate an open dump.
      10.   To accumulate litter, store, collect, transport, transfer, treat,
process, utilize, reclaim, recover, recycle, consolidate, incinerate or dispose
of any solid waste contrary to this chapter or orders of the city.
      11.   To create, cause or allow insect or rodent propagation, conditions
for transmission of disease, any unsanitary condition, or any other safety or
public health hazards.
      12.   To accumulate litter, store, collect, transport, transfer, treat,
process, utilize, reclaim, recover, recycle, incinerate or dispose of any solid
waste in such a way that a nuisance is created.
      13.   To dispose of used oil, except through a used oil collector.
      14.   To discharge used oil into sewers, drainage systems, surface
waters, ground waters or watercourses or deposit used oil on land, unless
authorized under other provision of law.
      15.   To mix or commingle used oil with solid waste that is to be
disposed of in landfills or otherwise by trash collection.
      16.   To apply used oil to road oiling, dust control, weed abatement or
other similar uses that have the potential to release used oil into the
environment.
   B.   Emergency Orders: Whenever the city finds that an emergency exists
requiring immediate action to protect the public health, safety or well-being,
the mayor may issue an order declaring the existence of an emergency and
requiring that remedial action be taken. The order shall be effective
immediately, but on application to the city, the recipient of the order shall
be granted a hearing within forty eight (48) hours before the mayor. On the
basis of the hearing, and not more than twenty four (24) hours after
adjournment of the hearing, the mayor shall revoke, modify or continue such
order in effect.
   C.   Prohibition Of Waste At Threatened Sites: The mayor shall prohibit
waste from being accepted at any site or facility if there is a threat to the
health, safety or welfare of the employees, the users of the site or facility,
or the public.
   D.   Condemning Or Closing A Facility Or Site:
      1.   Any facility or site that fails to meet the requirements of this
chapter and has been found to be a threat to the public health, safety or
welfare, may be condemned and closed by the city and designated by a placard
posted in a conspicuous place.
      2.   The city shall give notice in writing to the owner or operator of
the facility or site condemned and closed.
      3.   No facility or site that has been condemned, closed and placarded
shall accept solid waste or be used for the accumulation, storage, treatment,
handling, processing or disposal of solid waste until written approval is
received from the city. The city shall remove the placard whenever, or if, the
violation upon which condemnation, closing, and placarding were based has been
remedied.
      4.   No person shall deface or remove a placard from any facility or site
that has been condemned and closed by the city.
      5.   Any owner or operator affected by the condemning, closing and
placarding of a facility or site may request a hearing within ten (10) calendar
days of such action. The hearing shall be held before the city council within
ten (10) calendar days after the request. Within ten (10) calendar days after
the hearing, the city recorder shall send written notice to all parties of the
decision of the city council and the reasons therefor. (Ord. 8-13-02, 8-13-
2002, eff. 8-13-2002)
4-2-3: PERMITS AND BONDS:
   A.   Building Permits Required: A properly authorized building permit will
be required for the construction of any facility or site. No construction
building permit for a facility or site shall be issued without approval from
the city.
   B.   Operational Permit Required: No business license for the operation of a
facility, site or waste contractor shall be issued except upon the presentation
of a signed inspection report from the city indicating that all facilities,
site and vehicles to be used in handling solid waste have been inspected and
approved by the city and an operational permit has been issued to the applicant
for each vehicle to be used in such handling of solid waste. No person shall
operate a facility or site without a corresponding valid operational permit
from the city.
   C.   Permit Exemptions: The city may exempt a hazardous waste facility or
site from the permit requirements if the facility or site is permitted under a
hazardous waste program authorized by the state or the United States
government, or both.
   D.   Application Requirements: Application for approval of a building permit
for construction of a facility or site or an operational permit for operating a
facility or site or engaging in the business of a waste contractor shall be in
writing, setting forth the plans, specifications and reports as required in the
applicable sections of this chapter. The city may prescribe the form on which
the information required under this chapter shall be submitted. Applications
shall be made within the following time periods:
      1.   For approval of a building permit for construction of a new
facility, site or business, at least sixty (60) calendar days prior to the
start of construction.
      2.   For an operational permit to operate a new facility, site or
business, prior to commencement of operation of the facility, site or business,
one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the commencement of work to construct
the facility; or for an operational permit to operate an existing facility,
site or business, no later than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days after
the effective date hereof.
   E.   Issuance Of Business License: Upon approval of the operational permit
application and receipt of the bond as required in subsection K of this
section, the city shall issue a business license. Such license shall expire on
June 30 of each year following issuance, and be renewable within sixty (60)
calendar days prior to the expiration date.
   F.   Operational Permit Fees: Operational permits shall be issued for two
(2) year periods and may be renewed under the terms and requirements of this
chapter. Each applicant shall pay a fee with the permit application of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and agree to reimburse the city for all costs
incurred by the city to review and consider the application as well as all
costs incurred prior to the filing of the application to respond to the
applicant concerning the site of the landfill.
      1.   Each operational permit shall require the payment of the operational
permit fee no later than thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar
quarter ending March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. The required
fee shall be calculated based on the total tonnage of solid waste delivered to
the facility for which the permit is issued during the calendar quarter prior
to the date the fee payment is due. The fee payable shall be the amount of
tonnage delivered to the permitted facility multiplied by the charges per ton
as follows:
From the date construction starts and for the remainder of that municipal
fiscal year in which construction starts, the fee will be ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00).
Second municipal fiscal year, fifty cents ($0.50).
Third municipal fiscal year, seventy five cents ($0.75).
Fourth municipal fiscal year, one dollar ($1.00).
After year four, an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the gross revenue from
landfill operations or one dollar ($1.00) per ton, whichever is greater.
      2.   For a waste contractor, the fee shall be eighty five dollars
($85.00) per vehicle of ten (10) wheels or less; each trailer shall be
considered as a vehicle.
      3.   A late fee of eight hundred twenty five dollars ($825.00) shall be
charged in addition to the permit fee for every business applying subsequent to
the time periods specified in subsection D of this section.
      4.   No operational permit fee is refundable for any reason.
   G.   Fee Exemptions: The following exemptions shall be made to the permit
fee requirement:
      1.   Governmental agencies applying for a permit may be exempted from
paying the fee unless there is some rule or policy of that agency allowing for
the payment of a fee.
      2.   With the approval of the city council, a volunteer special recycling
collection center or resource recovery activity, including, but not limited to,
paper, bottle and can drives or sites for disposal of inert wastes, may be
issued a permit without cost or bond requirement, or both. Any approval
provision shall not be construed as an exemption from complying with the
requirements of this chapter.
      3.   Municipal solid waste originating in the city.
   H.   Permit Not Transferable: No permit shall be transferable from one
person to another, one site or facility to another, or one vehicle to another.
   I.   Suspension Or Revocation: Construction approval of any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter may be denied, suspended or revoked by the city
council for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Failure of the reports, plans or specifications to show that the
facility or site will be constructed, operated or maintained in accordance with
the requirements and standards of this chapter.
      2.   Submission of incorrect or false information in the application,
reports, plans or specifications.
      3.   Failure to construct, operate or maintain the facility, site or
vehicles in accordance with the application, reports, plans and specifications
approved by the city and the state.
      4.   Operation of the facility, site or business in a way that causes or
creates a nuisance or hazard to the public health, safety or welfare.
      5.   Violation of any ordinances, restrictions or requirements adopted by
the city.
      6.   Violation of any condition upon which the permit was issued.
      7.   Failure to pay the permit fee or post the surety bond.
      8.   Failure to pay any deficiency in the required bond.
      9.   Failure of the owner or operator of a facility or site to permit or
allow the city to conduct inspections to determine compliance with this
chapter.
   J.   Hearing: If any permit is denied, suspended or revoked, the applicant
may request a hearing within ten (10) calendar days of such action. The hearing
shall be held before the city council within ten (10) calendar days after the
request. Within ten (10) calendar days after the hearing, the city shall send
written notice to all parties of the decision of the city council and the
reasons therefor.
   K.   Bond Required: Prior to the issuance of a permit, the applicant shall
file with the city a surety bond in favor of the city to ensure operation,
maintenance and closure of the facility or site in accordance with subsections
4-2-6G and H of this chapter.
      1.   Surety bonds submitted for sanitary landfills, land disposal sites
and processing facilities shall be:
 
0–15 tons/day maximum design capacity      $ 5,000.00
16–200 tons/day maximum design capacity    10,000.00
201–700 tons/day maximum design capacity   15,000.00
701 or more tons/day maximum design capacity 20,000.00
 
!SETLR
M!
      2.   Each bond shall provide assurance for the operation or maintenance
of a finished sanitary landfill, land disposal site or processing facility for
a period of two (2) years after the landfill, disposal site or processing
facility is completed or closed as provided in subsections 4-2-6G and 4-2-6H of
this chapter.
      3.   Government operated facilities and sites are exempted from the
surety bond requirement.
The city may exempt a hazardous waste facility or site from the bond
requirements if the facility or site is bonded under a hazardous waste program
authorized by the state or the United States government, or both. (Ord. 8-13-
02, 8-13-2002, eff. 8-13-2002)
4-2-4: ACCUMULATION AND STORAGE OF WASTE:
   A.   Accumulation Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
accumulate, throw, discard, deposit, place, sweep, dump, conduct or allow any
person to accumulate, throw, discard, deposit, place, sweep, dump or conduct
any solid waste or litter into or upon any public place, private premises,
street, road, alley, property abutting any alley, stream, well, spring, canal,
ditch, gutter, lot or any other property or place, above or below ground level.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to waste thrown, deposited or placed in
containers meeting the requirements of this chapter and provided for the
person's use, or a facility or site approved by the city.
      2.   This section shall not apply to spreading of manure or other
materials upon the land for fertilizing or conditioning the soil, provided a
nuisance or health hazard is not created.
      3.   This section does not preclude solid waste from being temporarily
accumulated for immediate removal, if approved by the city.
      4.   This section does not preclude the construction or operation of a
compost pile, as provided in this section.
      5.   This section does not apply to junk and scrap metal accumulated on
the premises of a business enterprise lawfully situated and licensed for the
same, if a nuisance or health hazard is not created.
   C.   Abandoned Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon a
vehicle upon any highway or public or private property without the express or
implied consent of the owner or person in lawful possession or control of the
property. For the purpose of this section, a vehicle shall be presumed to be
abandoned if it is left unattended on a highway for a period in excess of
twenty four (24) hours or on any public or private property for a period in
excess of seven (7) calendar days without express or implied consent of the
owner or person in lawful possession or control of the property.
   D.   Accumulation Of Abandoned Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person
to cause or permit any scrap metal, dismantled, junked, wrecked, abandoned or
inoperable vehicles or vehicle parts to remain on any property or premises,
unless in connection with a lawfully situated and licensed business or in an
enclosed accessory structure such as a garage or barn, provided such building
does not impose a threat to life safety, or a nuisance or health hazard and is
constructed in accordance with all municipal ordinances and state building
codes and zoning regulations at the time of the original building construction.
Carports are not considered "enclosed" for the purpose of this chapter.
   E.   Removal Of Abandoned Vehicles: Any abandoned or inoperable vehicle on
private property and not owned by the property owner may be removed upon the
property owner's request.
   F.   Cleaning Vacated Premises: Any person vacating a dwelling, storeroom or
any other structure or the immediate grounds shall remove all garbage, trash,
and refuse and leave the property in a sanitary condition within twenty four
(24) hours after vacating.
   G.   Removal Of Dead Animals: It shall be unlawful for any owner of a dead
animal to knowingly permit said dead animal to remain upon any public street or
property or private premises. If the owner of the dead animal does not remove
and properly dispose if it himself, or cause it to be properly removed and
properly disposed of within twenty four (24) hours after receipt of notice from
the city, the city may cause it to be removed and disposed of and shall assess
against the owner the actual costs of removal and disposal. The city may avail
itself of all remedies at law to enforce removal, disposal and recovery of
cost. If ownership of the dead animal cannot be determined, the owner of the
property on which the dead animal is located shall be responsible for proper
removal and disposal of the animal, and the assessing and recovering of costs
shall apply to the property owner.
   H.   Compost: A person may keep or maintain compost on his property for home
gardening if the following requirements are met:
      1.   The compost shall be located and maintained to prevent the spread of
disease, the propagation or harborage of insects or rodents, the creation of
any odor or nuisance, or any other condition that might affect the public
health, safety or welfare.
      2.   The compost shall not be used or sold as a commercial product or
used in any licensed business operation unless the requirements of approval,
permits, and operation given in sections
4-2-3 and
4-2-6 of this chapter are complied with.
   I.   Handbills And Leaflets: Every person distributing commercial handbills,
leaflets, flyers, advertising or information material shall prevent these
materials from littering public or private property.
   J.   Containers Provided: To facilitate proper disposal of litter by
pedestrians and motorists, public establishments and institutions shall provide
adequate containers that are emptied and maintained in good condition and meet
the prescribed standards in this chapter. The requirements shall be applicable,
but not limited to, fast food outlets, shopping centers, convenience stores,
supermarkets, service stations, commercial parking lots, mobile canteens,
motels, hospitals, schools and colleges.
   K.   Construction And Demolition Projects: It shall be unlawful for the
owner, agent or contractor in charge of any construction or demolition project
to cause, maintain, permit or allow to be caused, maintained or permitted, the
accumulation of any litter on the site before, during or after completion of
the construction or demolition project.
      1.   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent or contractor to have on
the site adequate containers for the disposal of litter and to make appropriate
arrangements for its collection or final disposition at an authorized facility.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the owner, agent or contractor in charge of
any construction or demolition project to place, for city furnished bulky waste
collection, waste from construction or demolition projects.
      3.   The owner, agent or contractor may be required by the city to show
proof of appropriate collection, or if personally transported, of final
disposition at an authorized facility.
   L.   Loading And Unloading Operations: Any owner or occupant of an
establishment or institution where litter is attendant to the packing or
unpacking or loading or unloading of materials at exterior locations shall
provide suitable containers for the disposal and storage of such litter. It
shall be the duty of such owner or occupant to remove at the end of each
working day any litter that has not been containerized at exterior locations.
   M.   Keeping Property Clean:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of property to keep
property free of litter. This requirement applies not only to removal of loose
litter, but to materials that are or become trapped at fence and wall bases,
grassy and planted areas, borders, embankments or other lodging points.
      2.   The owner or occupant whose property faces on municipal sidewalks,
strips between streets and sidewalks, or strips between such properties and
streets shall be responsible for keeping those sidewalks and strips free of
litter.
      3.   It shall be unlawful to sweep or push litter from sidewalks and
steps into streets. Sidewalk and step sweepings shall be picked up and put into
household or commercial solid waste containers.
   N.   Sanitary Storage Of Waste Materials Required: The owner or occupant of
any premises, residence, business establishment, institution, industry or
recreation area shall ensure that all solid waste generated by such premises or
establishment is stored to prevent the attraction, harborage, or breeding of
insects or rodents or both and eliminate conditions harmful to public health or
that create safety hazards, odors or nuisances.
   O.   Sufficient Containers Required: Except as otherwise provided herein,
each premises, residence, business establishment, institution, industry,
construction or demolition project, or recreation area shall provide a
sufficient number of containers meeting the requirements in subsections Q
through T of this section, suitable for the type of material accumulated. The
containers shall be sufficient to prevent overflowing and to accommodate all
waste and litter accumulated between scheduled collections.
   P.   Automated Collection Solid Waste Containers:
      1.   All dwellings and commercial units shall utilize the city furnished
automated collection solid waste containers.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to deface or otherwise damage city furnished
automated collection solid waste containers.
      3.   The city may supply additional automated collection solid waste
containers to dwelling and commercial units, upon written request, at the fees
set forth in the consolidated fee schedule and for minimum time periods
established by the city.
   Q.   Containers Provided: No waste contractor shall supply to customers
solid waste storage containers that do not meet the requirements of this
chapter. The name and phone number of the waste contractor shall be legibly
written on the container in letters at least one inch (1") high.
   R.   Maintenance Of Containers: If a waste contractor furnishes storage
containers, the contractor shall be responsible for maintaining the containers
in clean and good condition unless they are furnished under other terms,
conditions or agreements. The waste contractor shall plan and work with the
property owner or occupant, or both, for placement of the storage containers to
minimize traffic and other problems on the property and for the general public.
   S.   Loading Of Containers: Automated collection solid waste containers
shall not be packed tightly with solid waste such that the waste will not
easily slide out of the container when emptied. Automated collection solid
waste containers shall not be filled with residential solid waste weighing more
than two hundred (200) pounds.
   T.   Containers To Be Kept Closed: Containers shall be kept securely closed
at all times except when placing waste in or emptying waste from the container.
All containers, including nonreusable containers, shall be stored and securely
closed to prevent insects, rodents and other animals from gaining access to the
contents and to prevent littering. The city may exempt containers used for the
storage of rubbish from the cover requirements of this section.
   U.   Standards Of Storage Containers: Containers used for the storage of
solid waste shall meet the following minimum requirements:
      1.   Reusable type containers shall be:
         a.   Constructed of metal, plastic or rubber; durable; rust and
corrosion resistant; watertight; and insect and rodentproof;
         b.   Kept clean and sanitary;
         c.   Outfitted with tight fitting lids or covers;
         d.   Provided with handles or devices sufficiently strong and
accessible that the container may be handled conveniently;
         e.   Constructed with wide necks and mouth and tapered sides to
prevent clogging and littering, if the containers are emptied manually; and
         f.   Capable of being emptied without the collector coming into
physical contact with the solid waste.
      2.   Nonreusable containers shall be constructed of reinforced weather
resistant kraft paper or plastic designed specifically for the storage and
collection of solid waste and have holding strength capable of withstanding
stress until after collection. Plastic bags used for the storage and collection
of solid waste shall be a thickness of 2.0 mils or more.
      3.   Pasteboard boxes may be used for the storage and collection of waste
material if the boxes can be easily handled and placed in the collection
vehicle; weigh no more than fifty (50) pounds (23 kilograms) when filled; are
filled with dry waste; are dry when collected; and are tightly covered to
prevent littering.
      4.   Wooden boxes, barrels and similar containers may be used if they
have tight fitting covers.
      5.   Other types of containers shall meet the requirements of this
chapter and be approved by the city and collection agency.
   V.   Storage Of Bulky Waste: Bulky waste, or waste too large or otherwise
unsuitable for storage containers, shall be stored temporarily in a way that
does not create a health hazard, nuisance, fire hazard, rodent harborage or
litter. No person shall store or leave outside any unattended or discarded ice
box, refrigerator, freezer, washer, dryer or other similar bulky waste without
removing or sealing any door or latch attached thereto and otherwise prevent it
from being a hazard to children.
   W.   Storage Of Agricultural Waste: Agricultural waste shall be stored to
prevent insect or rodent production or sustenance, conditions for transmission
of disease to man or animals, water and air pollution, and to minimize odors
and nuisance conditions. No person having charge of any stable, stall, shed,
coop, apartment or yard where any animal is kept, or in any place where manure
or liquid discharges from any animal accumulate or collect, shall permit such
stable, stall, shed, coop, apartment or yard to be kept unclean or unsanitary.
Manure stacks shall be constructed or established and maintained to prevent
runoff and leachate from entering surface or ground water.
   X.   Provision For New Building Site: Before a building permit is issued for
construction of a commercial building or multiple dwelling units, plans for the
adequacy, location and accessibility of solid waste containerization and
storage facilities shall be approved by the city.
   Y.   Storage Rooms: Storage houses, rooms or areas used to store solid waste
shall be of rodentproof construction, readily cleanable, and have proper
drainage. Storage rooms or buildings not refrigerated shall be adequately
vented and all openings screened to prevent entrance or egress of insects or
rodents. Storage houses, rooms or areas used to store solid waste shall be kept
in good repair, free from rodent or insect production, and any nuisance or
unsanitary condition.
   Z.   Location Of Containers: Solid waste and containers used for the storage
of solid waste shall be stored at least three feet (3') (0.91 meters) from the
property line of another person and located in places convenient for authorized
users. No container shall be placed where it creates a nuisance.
   AA.   Unauthorized Use Of Container: No person shall tamper, modify, remove
or deposit solid waste in any container that has not been provided for his use,
without the permission of the container owner. No person shall deposit solid
waste from any business, apartment house, multiple dwelling or public building
in any receptacle for disposal of litter by pedestrians. (Ord. 8-13-02, 8-13-
2002, eff. 8-13-2002)
4-2-5: COLLECTION FEES, TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE:
   A.   Solid Waste Collection Fees: The owner of every residential dwelling
unit or multi-family dwelling unit, and the owner of every commercial business
shall be responsible and liable for the monthly charges enumerated in the
consolidate fee schedule for solid waste collection services. For the purpose
of this chapter, commercial business shall include all governmental buildings,
churches, parks and other nonbusiness units. The charge for such services shall
be billed on a periodic basis to each address of which the city has record. In
those instances where the periodic utility bill is currently being sent to a
tenant at the owner's request, solid waste collection services may be similarly
billed.
   B.   Billing And Delinquency:
      1.   The city shall cause billing for solid waste collection services to
be rendered periodically at rates established in the consolidated fee schedule,
in a manner approved by the city council.
      2.   Fees and charges levied in accordance herewith shall be a debt due
to the city, unless otherwise determined by the city council. If this debt is
not paid within thirty (30) days after billing, it shall be deemed delinquent
and shall be subject to recovery in a civil action for which the city may
recover reasonable attorney fees and collection costs or shall be certified as
an unpaid service charge to the county treasurer for collection with the
property tax.
   C.   Deposits Required: The city may require that all users of solid waste
collection services who are not the owners of the premises, pay to the city,
for deposit with the city treasurer, an amount sufficient to cover the cost of
solid waste collection services that may accumulate. The amount deposited shall
not be less than two (2) times any monthly or bimonthly bill for solid waste
collections over the preceding year on such premises, but in no case shall the
amount be less than fifteen dollars ($15.00). The city shall issue a receipt of
deposit. The city treasurer shall refund the amount deposited to the holder;
provided, that all solid waste bills and other charges have been paid. All
bills for solid waste collection services must be paid promptly without
reference to said deposit. Whenever any user of solid waste collection services
has failed to pay for solid waste collection services rendered to such
premises, the city may apply the money deposited, or any part thereof, to the
payment of any such delinquent bills.
   D.   Indigent Abatement: Any tenant or real property owner of any
residential single-family dwelling unit or multiple-family dwelling unit shall
be granted a one hundred percent (100%) annual abatement of the above charges
for residential solid waste collection services in any given year, subject to
the following:
      1.   The applicant shall file with the city an application for abatement,
in a form approved by the city, which shall set forth sufficient facts to
support the applicant's eligibility to receive the abatement.
      2.   The applications shall include an affidavit setting forth the
eligibility of the applicant for the abatement. The affidavit shall be signed
by both husband and wife if they seek abatement of a dwelling unit in which
they both reside.
      3.   The applicant shall reside for not less than ten (10) months of each
year in the residence for which the abatement is requested. (Ord. 8-13-02, 8-
13-2002, eff. 8-13-2002)
      4.   The applicant's total household income for the year in which a claim
for abatement has been filed shall not exceed the maximum annual income
allowable according to the standards set, which shall be eight thousand dollars
($8,000.00). (Ord. 8-13-02, 8-13-2002, eff. 8-13-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
      5.   Any decision by the city relative to the abatement of residential
solid waste collection fees may be appealed to the mayor by filing a written
notice of said appeal with the mayor within ten (10) business days following
the written decision of the city. Any decision of the mayor may be appealed to
the city council by filing a written notice of appeal with the city council
within ten (10) days following the written decision of the mayor. The decision
of the city council shall be final.
      6.   No abatement of fees for residential solid waste collection services
shall be applied retroactively. The charges for any person applying for an
abatement shall be abated only from the date the application is approved by the
city, forward. Such abatement shall be effective only for the next succeeding
twelve (12) month period.
   E.   Customer's Duties And Liabilities: The storage containers shall be in
the possession and control of the customer. The customer shall be responsible
for the cleanliness and safekeeping of the storage containers. The customer
shall not make any alterations or improvements to the storage containers
without the prior written consent of the waste contractor. Customer shall be
responsible for loss or damage in excess of reasonable wear and tear.
   F.   Approved Collection And Transportation Required: Solid waste shall be
collected and transported by means approved by the city in order to prevent
public health and safety hazards, unsanitary conditions and nuisances.
   G.   Removal Of Waste By Owner Required: All solid waste not collected and
hauled by the city or its contracted agent in its regular waste collections
shall be collected, hauled and disposed of by the owner, occupant or licensed
waste contractor as required by this chapter.
   H.   Frequency Of Collections: Solid waste, except bulky waste, shall be
removed from the storage containers on premises and disposed at least once a
week. Waste of every kind shall be removed from commercial, industrial,
institutional, residential and recreational properties as often as necessary to
prevent a nuisance, overfilling of storage containers, rodent harborage, or the
creation of a fire hazard or unsanitary conditions, and at minimum of once a
week to prevent other adverse health or nuisance conditions.
   I.   Placement Of Containers For Collection: The city may designate the time
and place of solid waste collected and hauled by the city. Containers of solid
waste shall not be set out upon the street prior to the evening of the day
before scheduled collection and shall be set out before seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. on the scheduled collection day. All empty containers shall be removed
from the street the same day they were emptied.
   J.   Uncontained Waste: No person shall place or cause to be placed upon any
street or alley for collection any loose paper, yard trimmings, or other solid
waste. All such waste shall be properly contained, baled or securely tied
before collection is made.
   K.   Bulky Waste Collection: The city may designate the time and place for
collection of bulky waste. No bulky waste shall be placed on any curbside or
roadside earlier than one day prior to the scheduled collection date. Bundles
of small limbs, twigs and shrubs too large for containers shall be securely
tied before being placed for bulky waste collection. It shall be unlawful to
place on any curbside or roadside any of the following materials: construction
and demolition waste, commercial waste, car bodies, tires, used oil, batteries,
hazardous materials, rocks, brick, broken concrete or dirt.
   L.   Burning Or Hot Waste: No person shall place smoking, smoldering or
burning waste for collection, and no collector or hauler shall provide service
if waste materials show evidence of smoking, smoldering or burning. All waste
in transit that must be dumped in an emergency due to smoking, smoldering or
burning shall be cleaned up by the collector or hauler. The operator of the
vehicle shall immediately notify the police and fire departments having
jurisdiction.
   M.   Spillage From Container: No person, waste contractor or any employee of
a governmental entity engaged in the collection and transportation of solid
waste shall permit, allow or cause any solid waste to fall and remain on any
property, place, building, premises, street, road or highway. If spillage
occurs, the material shall be picked up immediately by the collector and
returned to the vehicle or container and the area properly cleaned. If the
waste was not properly contained pursuant to the requirements of this chapter,
the waste shall be cleaned by the person responsible for the improper
containerization of the waste.
   N.   Transportation Of Waste Material: The waste collector shall be
responsible for the satisfactory transportation of all solid waste to an
approved site or facility. No person, waste contractor or any employee of a
governmental entity engaged in waste collection and transportation shall:
      1.   Permit or allow any vehicle loaded with manure, slops, swill,
refuse, solid waste, or any other type of waste material to remain standing
upon any public street any longer than necessary for loading and transporting.
      2.   Haul, convey or transport any manure, tree limbs, brush, clippings,
solid waste, or any other type of waste material in any open truck, transfer
vehicle, open trailer, or other open conveyances for a distance of five (5)
blocks or more without making a waste collection stop, unless covered
completely or secured to prevent littering. The duties and responsibilities
imposed by this subsection shall be applicable to both the owner of the vehicle
and the operator.
      3.   Operate any vehicle used for the collection and transportation of
solid waste in a way that the contents fall, leak or spill. If spillage occurs,
the material shall be picked up immediately by the collector or transporter and
returned to the vehicle and the area properly cleaned.
      4.   Convey, transport or haul any swill, sewage, sludge, fecal material
or other similar solid waste except in a sanitary receptacle or vehicle
especially constructed for that purpose and with a current permit from the
city.
      5.   Carry or haul any sewage or contents of any grease trap between the
hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. from May 1 to
October 30 and between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. from November 1 to April 30, unless authorized by the city.
   O.   Unloading Of Waste Material: All solid waste material shall be unloaded
only within a facility or site approved by the city, and all unloading shall be
done according to the requirements of the approved site and the city. Unless
warranted by an emergency such as severe weather conditions, equipment
breakdown or accident, no solid waste shall be allowed to remain or be stored
in any collection or hauling vehicle in excess of twenty four (24) hours.
   P.   Inspection Of Vehicle: Vehicles used by waste contractors to haul or
transport solid waste shall be inspected and approved by the city. Upon making
application for the required permit or license, or both, each vehicle used in
such business shall be made available to the city for inspection. If the
vehicle meets the requirements of subsection Q of this section and is approved,
the following documents shall be issued:
      1.   An inspection report signed by the mayor or representative stating
that the vehicle identified by the report has passed inspection.
      2.   Two (2) permit stickers that shall be placed on the vehicle by the
mayor or representative to identify the vehicle as having been inspected for
the current year. Such stickers shall not be removed, except by the city, so
long as the vehicle is used for hauling.
      3.   A receipt showing payment of the permit fee.
   Q.   Vehicle Requirements: Each vehicle to be used by a waste contractor in
the collection or transportation of solid waste shall meet the following
requirements:
      1.   The vehicle body shall be clean, easily cleanable and in good
condition and repair.
      2.   The body shall be metal lined with steel and welded at all seams or
constructed of other materials approved by the city.
      3.   The size capacity of the vehicle body or tank shall be certified by
the manufacturer or a size certification company approved by the city.
      4.   The vehicle shall be easily loaded and emptied.
      5.   The tailgate or hopper of the vehicle shall be constructed so that
the contents of the body will not spill or blow from the vehicle while in
motion.
      6.   A heavy duty canvas or other acceptable heavy duty cover that is
adequate in size to cover the open body of the vehicle shall accompany the
vehicle.
      7.   The outside of the body shall be painted and identified by the name
and telephone number of the person or company owning the vehicle and the size
capacity of the truck body or tank in letters and numbers that are legible and
at least three inches (3") (7.5 centimeters) in height.
      8.   All equipment attached to a vehicle hauling liquid or hazardous
waste, including, but not limited to, pumps, hoses, valves, and the containers
or tanks, or both, used to contain the waste shall be watertight and in good
repair.
      9.   The vehicle shall comply with all applicable air pollution and noise
control ordinances and regulations.
   R.   Report Required: At the request of the city, a waste contractor or
other person collecting and hauling solid waste shall report to the city: 1)
the names and addresses of all places of business or person; 2) where
collection of solid waste is made; and 3) where such waste is hauled or
deposited. The report shall be made as required by the city.
   S.   Continuing Compliance Required: A collection vehicle that fails to meet
the requirements of this chapter shall be repaired or corrected within the time
specified in the notice of violation. If the corrections are not made to the
collection vehicle within the time specified in the notice of violation, its
use shall be discontinued, and the permit issued the owner of the vehicle shall
be revoked pursuant to the revocation provision of subsection 4-2-3I of this
chapter.
   T.   Equipment To Be Maintained: All equipment used for the collection and
transportation of solid waste shall be maintained in good condition and cleaned
with a frequency and method determined by the city to prevent the propagation
or attraction of flies, rodents or other vectors and prevent the creation of a
nuisance.
   U.   Transportation Of Only Approved Waste: A vehicle shall be used to
collect and transport only that type of solid waste for which it was approved
when the permit was issued. (Ord. 8-13-02, 8-13-2002, eff. 8-13-2002)
4-2-6: DISPOSAL SITES:
   A.   Sanitary Disposal Required: Solid waste shall be disposed in a way that
will protect the public health, safety and welfare and prevent air and water
pollution.
   B.   Disposal Of Waste Restricted: No person, city, town, municipality,
county, or other government unit shall dispose of any solid waste at any place
except at a disposal site approved by the city, which is operated and
maintained in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   City Approval And Bond Required: No construction or operation of a
disposal facility or site shall be initiated before plans and specifications
are approved in writing by the city. No significant modifications shall be made
in any disposal site or its operations without approval of the city. No person
shall operate a disposal site without first obtaining a valid permit from the
city and posting a bond, if required in section
4-2-3 of this chapter.
   D.   Report, Application And Approval Required For Permit: The city
regulates the construction and operation of waste disposal sites under the land
use authority granted to the city under the provisions of state law. All waste
disposal sites are conditional uses within the industrial zone established
under the zoning ordinances of the city. The term "application" used in this
section is an application for a conditional use permit and the permit under
this section which may be issued by the city upon approval of the application
and site condition is a conditional use permit. Each conditional use permit
issued under this section shall be annually renewable and may be reviewed by
the city based on the failure of the permittee to comply with all of the terms
and conditions for operation of the site specified by the city and the state.
Before issuance of approval to construct or a permit to operate a disposal
site, an application for a permit and a report shall be submitted to the city
for review and approval. The report shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer, except this requirement may be waived by the city if
justified by the size, simplicity or location of the disposal site. The
application shall be submitted on a form provided by the city with the
operational permit, application and required fee. Unless otherwise directed by
the city, the report shall include the following information:
      1.   The names or persons responsible for actual operation and
maintenance of the site and the number of personnel to be employed at the site.
      2.   The present and future population and area to be served by the
proposed site.
      3.   Evidence of land ownership or lease agreements.
      4.   The total area of the proposed site.
      5.   A plat, map, or aerial photograph that accurately shows the exact
location of the proposed disposal site, current land use and zoning within one-
fourth (1/4) mile (402 meters) of the site. The map or aerial photograph shall
be of sufficient scale to show all homes, industrial buildings, airports,
wells, watercourses, surface drainage channels, rock, outcroppings, roads,
general topography, and other applicable details. All such details shall be
identified and indicated on the plat, map or aerial photograph.
      6.   A soil description to a depth of at least five feet (5') (1.5
meters) below the proposed site or proposed excavations and a general
description of geology of the area. Data shall be obtained by soil boring,
trenching or other methods approved by the city.
      7.   A description of surface water within one-fourth (1/4) mile (402
meters) of the land disposal site, including seasonal variations; a description
of minimum and maximum ground water elevations throughout the site; ground
water flow patterns; and ground water quality and quantity. In addition, the
city may require ground water monitoring wells and a water quality sampling and
analysis program of ground and surface waters prior to construction and
operation of a site, during operation of a site, and after closure of a site.
If the program is required, the following provision of the program shall be
submitted to city approval:
         a.   The number, location and depth of the wells;
         b.   Methods of construction of the wells;
         c.   The name of the person to perform the sampling, the sampling
frequency, and sampling period;
         d.   The type of analysis that is to be performed;
         e.   The methods of analysis; and
         f.   The name of the laboratory performing the analysis.
      8.   The availability, source, and characteristics of cover material.
      9.   Potential leachate and decomposition gas generation, including the
amount and physical and chemical characteristics; proposed leachate and
decomposition gas control systems, if necessary, including the methods of
monitoring, collection, treatment, and necessary disposal.
      10.   The anticipated type, quantity, and source of solid waste to be
deposited at the site.
      11.   The intended operating program and procedures, including:
         a.   The hours and days of operation;
         b.   Existing and proposed utilities;
         c.   The method and plan of landfilling;
         d.   The type and availability of equipment for efficient excavating,
earth moving, spreading, compaction and other needs;
         e.   Fencing for control of access and the prevention of scattering of
waste material by wind;
         f.   Provisions for fire control;
         g.   Provisions for handling special or hazardous wastes or both;
         h.   Employee facilities; and
         i.   Any other pertinent information that clearly indicates the
orderly development, operation and completion of the sanitary landfill.
      12.   Evidence of year round accessibility, including an all weather road
to the site.
      13.   The expected life span of the site, the anticipated use of the land
following completion as a disposal site, and the program for maintaining the
site following closure, as required in subsection G of this section.
      14.   Any other information specifically requested by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
   E.   Basis And Procedure For Plan Approval: The following conditions and
procedures of plan approval shall be followed:
      1.   Plan approval will depend, in part, upon adequate isolation and
avoidance of excessively irregular topography, ground water elevations;
extremely pervious soil formations; surface rock formations and outcroppings;
and close proximity to natural drainage channels. There shall be at least five
feet (5') (1.5 meters) of separation between the bottom of disposal trenches
and the highest ground water elevation. Exceptions to this requirement will be
considered on a case by case basis, but only if the site can be modified to
demonstrably preclude any wetting of deposited waste by ground water.
      2.   Upon approval of the plans and supporting information, persons
conamed will be notified in writing by the city. Approval will include
appropriate limitations of types of solid waste to be accepted.
      3.   The city may revise its approval or disapproval to construct or
operate a site in order to make it compatible with new ordinances that are
adopted by the city.
   F.   Minimum Site Requirements: Unless otherwise ordered or approved by the
city, each sanitary landfill or land disposal site shall be designed,
constructed, operated and maintained to meet the following minimum
requirements:
      1.   Only waste for which the site has been designed and for which the
city has given approval shall be accepted at the site.
      2.   The site shall be designed, constructed, operated and maintained in
a way that will protect the health and safety of individuals employed at the
site, users of the site, and the public.
         a.   A safety manual shall be available for use by employees and they
shall be instructed in application of the manual's procedures.
         b.   Personal safety devices, including, but not limited to, hard
hats, gloves, safety glasses and footwear, shall be required for site
employees.
         c.   Safety devices, including, but not limited to, rollover
protective structures, seat belts, audible reverse warning devices and fire
extinguishers, shall be provided on all equipment used to spread and compact
solid wastes or cover material.
      3.   Qualified personnel shall be at the site to supervise activities
during all hours of scheduled operation.
      4.   The site shall not allow uncontrolled public access, and the site
shall be accessible only when operating personnel are on duty.
      5.   A sign shall be posted at the entrance of the site that indicates
the name, permit number, hours of use, penalty for unauthorized use, necessary
safety precautions, types of waste accepted or prohibited, and any other
pertinent information to ensure the safety and health of the public and
employees. Signs shall be posted to direct traffic in an orderly manner, to
show general discharge area, restrictions and access to hazardous waste or
special waste disposal area, and to maintain efficient operating conditions.
      6.   The supervisor or other responsible person shall keep records of
amounts and types of solid waste accepted. This may be done by weighing the
material brought to the site, measuring the volume of waste deposited, or
estimating the area filled on the site. This amount and location of area
completed shall be recorded and kept on file. Such records shall be made
available to the city upon request.
      7.   Dust shall be controlled at the site and along access roads as
necessary to maintain the comfort and health of employees and users of the site
and to comply with applicable air pollution control ordinances and regulations.
      8.   Access roads and the site shall be cleaned as often as necessary to
prevent unsightly conditions caused by blowing papers and other misplaced
refuse.
      9.   All solid waste shall be unloaded and deposited only in those areas
of the site designated by site personnel and as authorized by the city in the
plan approval.
      10.   Adequate equipment for trenching, compacting and covering shall be
available.
      11.   All solid waste shall be compacted to the greatest degree
practical. The working face shall be limited to the smallest area practical to
confine the amount of exposed waste without interfering with effective
operation procedures.
      12.   At least six inches (6") (15.2 centimeters) of covered material
shall be placed daily over all solid waste received each day or as often as
directed by the city, after compaction to the smallest practical volume. Cells
that will not have additional solid waste placed on them for three (3) months
or more shall be covered with twelve inches (12") (30.5 centimeters) of cover
material. A minimum of two feet (2') (61 centimeters) of cover material shall
be placed over any completed segment of the site.
      13.   Salvaging shall be conducted in a way that it prevents injury,
interference with required site operations, and the creation of a health
hazard, nuisance or vector harborage. Drugs, cosmetics, foods, beverages,
hazardous chemicals, poisons, pesticides, pathogenic or medical wastes,
syringes, needles, or other similar materials capable of impairing public
health shall not be salvaged unless approved by the city. Scavenging shall be
prohibited.
      14.   Insects and rodents or other disease or nuisance vectors shall be
controlled at the site through minimization of food and harborage and through
initiation of additional control programs if vector populations become
established.
      15.   No open burning shall be permitted. Provisions shall be made to
extinguish any fires in solid waste being delivered to the site or that occur
at the working face or within equipment or personnel facilities.
      16.   A disposal site shall not cause:
         a.   A discharge of pollutants into waters of the United States that
is in violation of the requirements of the national pollutant discharge
elimination system (NPDES) under section 402 of the clean water act, as
amended.
         b.   A discharge of dredged material or fill material into waters of
the United States that is in violation of the requirements under section 401 of
the clean water act, as amended.
         c.   Nonpoint source pollution of waters of the United States that
violates applicable legal requirements implementing an area wide water quality
management plan that has been approved by the administrator of the United State
environmental protection agency under section 208 of the clean water act, as
amended.
      17.   Surface water runoff shall be controlled at the site by the
following measures:
         a.   Final grading of the site shall promote rapid surface runoff
without excessive erosion.
         b.   The site shall be equipped with suitable channelling devices,
including, but not limited to, ditches, berms or dikes, to divert surface
runoff from the land area contiguous to the site.
         c.   Final cover material shall be well compacted to enhance runoff
while minimizing infiltration.
         d.   Runoff not contaminated by solid waste or by leachate shall be
routed to a settling basin or by other equally effective control measures to
remove sediment before discharge to a receiving stream.
         e.   The final soil cover on any completed portion of the site shall
be seeded or otherwise vegetated to minimize erosion and maximize
evapotranspiration.
      18.   A disposal site shall not contaminate an underground drinking water
source of the ground water beyond the boundary of the disposal site as
established in the plan approved by the city. For the purpose of this section,
"contaminate" means the introduction of a substance that would cause the
concentration of that substance in the ground water to exceed the maximum
contaminant level specified by state or federal law or the city, or the
introduction of a substance that would cause an increase in the concentration
of that substance in the ground water if the existing concentration of that
substance exceeds the maximum contaminate level specified by state or federal
law, or the city.
      19.   Surface water, ground water, and decomposition gases shall be
monitored to determine when remedial action plans are to be implemented:
         a.   Monitoring wells or other monitoring devices shall be installed
and maintained as approved or directed by the city.
         b.   Samples from the monitoring wells or other monitoring devices for
surface and ground water shall be collected and analyzed prior to disposal of
solid waste in order to obtain baseline data.
         c.   Samples shall be collected from all monitoring wells or devices
and analyzed at least once a year and more often if directed by the city.
Copies of the required analysis shall be submitted to the city within thirty
(30) calendar days after sampling, unless otherwise directed by the city.
         d.   Monitors or suitable probes shall be used to enable detection of
gases migrating from the site. Explosive gases shall be monitored for their
presence above the lower explosive limit. Toxic or asphyxiating gases shall be
monitored periodically on a schedule approved by the city.
      20.   If required by the city, leachate control shall be accomplished by
one or more of the following practices:
         a.   The bottom of the disposal site shall be five feet (5') (1.5
meters) or more above the seasonal high ground water table.
         b.   Leachate monitoring devices shall be approximately placed to
monitor the passage of leachate from the site to the ground water.
         c.   The water table shall be lowered.
         d.   There shall be no uncontrolled hydraulic connection between the
site and standing or flowing surface water. Surface runoff diversion structures
shall be constructed surrounding the landfill that are capable of diverting
away from the landfill all of the surface water runoff from upland drainage
areas. Disposal sites located in the 100-year floodplain shall have a dike of
sufficient structural strength and height to prevent inundation.
         e.   If natural hydrogeologic conditions are unable to eliminate the
impact of the total quantity of leachate upon underlying ground water, the
bottom of the site shall be lined with low permeability soil or other approved
material. If natural hydrogeologic conditions are virtually incapable of
eliminating the impact of any leachate upon the underlying ground water, the
escape of leachate from the bottom and sides of the site shall be prevented by
the placement of liners and constant drainage systems. Such liners shall have:
            (1)   A permeability of one by ten (1 x 10) (to the minus 7th
degree) centimeters per second (one inch or 2.54 centimeters per year), or
less.
            (2)   The ability to resist physical and chemical attack by
leachate.
            (3)   The capability of maintaining integrity for the design life.
            (4)   A minimum thickness of twelve inches (12") (30.5 centimeters)
for natural soil liners and a minimum thickness of twenty (20) mils for
synthetic membrane liners, unless otherwise approved by the city.
         f.   Leachate collection, treatment and disposal shall be:
            (1)   Discharged into a municipal or industrial wastewater
treatment system if the discharge does not impede the operation of the
wastewater treatment system;
            (2)   Disposed of by controlled application onto the surface of
land if sufficient acreage is available and hydrology, soil type, vegetation,
topography and climate for leachate disposal are suitable and ground water
contamination will not occur;
            (3)   Recirculated onto active or completed sections of the site;
or
            (4)   Accomplished using other methods approved by the city. (Ord.
8-13-02, 8-13-2002, eff. 8-13-2002)
      21.   Decomposition gases shall be prevented from migrating to other
property or from concentrating in such volume that a danger of explosion of
toxicity hazard is created. The concentration of explosive gases generated by
the site shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the lower explosive
limit for the gases in a site structure, except for gas control or recovery
system components. Explosive gases shall not exceed the lower explosive limit
for the gases at the property line. For the purpose of this section, "lower
explosive limit" shall mean the lowest percentage by volume for mixture of
explosive gases that will produce a flame in the air at 78.8 degrees
Fahrenheit, and atmospheric pressure using a testing method approved by the
city. Gas control shall be accomplished: (Ord. 8-13-02, 8-13-2002, eff. 8-13-
2002; amd. 2003 Code)
         a.   By restricting from disposal at the site volatile solid waste
materials with a known high potential for release of harmful gases as a result
of chemical reaction;
         b.   By construction barriers of natural or artificial materials to
prevent the horizontal migration of gases;
         c.   By constructing venting or exhaust systems consisting of gravel
filled trenches, or perforated pipe or both;
         d.   By providing a combination of barriers or venting systems; or
         e.   By using other methods approved by the city. (Ord. 8-13-02, 8-13-
2002, eff. 8-13-2002)
      22.   Wastewater treatment plant sludges containing no free moisture
shall be placed on the working surface and covered with municipal solid waste.
(Ord. 8-13-02, 8-13-2002, eff. 8-13-2002; amd. 2003 Code)
      23.   Bulky wastes, including, but not limited to, automobile bodies,
furniture, appliances and similar items shall be crushed and deposited on the
working face near the bottom of the cell or in a separate disposal area. Other
bulky items, including, but not limited to, demolition and construction debris,
tree trunks, stumps and large timbers shall be deposited on the working face
near the bottom of the cell or in a separate disposal area.
      24.   Dead animals received at the site shall be deposited on the working
face at or near the bottom of the cell with other solid waste or in a separate
disposal area, provided they are covered immediately with at least six inches
(6") (15.2 centimeters) of cover material to prevent odors and the attraction,
propagation and harborage of rodents and insects.
      25.   Any land disposal site disposing of garbage that may attract birds
and that exists within ten thousand feet (10,000') (3.048 meters) of any
airport runway used by turbo jet aircraft or within five thousand feet (5,000')
(1,524 meters) of any airport runway used by only piston type aircraft shall
ensure there is not a bird hazard to aircraft.
      26.   In addition to the requirements given in this chapter, a disposal
site located in the 100-year floodplain shall not:
         a.   Restrict the flood that has a one percent (1%) or greater chance
of recurring in any year or a flood of a magnitude equalled or exceeded once in
every one hundred (100) years on the average over a significantly long period;
         b.   Reduce the temporary water storage capacity of the floodplain;
and
         c.   Result in solid waste being washed out or carried away by the
waters of a flood.
      27.   Adequate shelter and sanitary facilities shall be available for
facility or site personnel, which shall include, but not necessarily be limited
to, protection from cold and wet weather, hand washing and toilet facilities,
and drinking water.
   G.   Closing Of Land Disposal Sites:
      1.   Any person owning or operating a disposal site shall, prior to
closure of the site, furnish the city at least a thirty (30) calendar day
written notice.
      2.   If directed by the city, a maintenance program shall be initiated
immediately following closure of a completed site and continued by the owner or
operator for as long as deemed necessary by the city. The maintenance program
may include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:
         a.   Monitoring and analysis of surface water, ground water and
decomposition gases;
         b.   Leachate and decomposition gas management, including collection,
storage, transportation and treatment;
         c.   Land surface care, including proper drainage, erosion prevention,
settlement and vegetation.
   H.   Closing Of Existing Or Abandoned Open Dumps: Existing or abandoned open
dumps shall be closed within two (2) years following the effective date hereof,
or sooner if ordered by the city and in accordance with the following
requirements:
      1.   Absence of rats and other vermin shall be positively established. If
rats or other vermin are present, an extermination procedure shall be
established and carried out by qualified individuals prior to closing.
      2.   All fires shall be extinguished before final cover of earth is
applied.
      3.   All solid wastes shall be consolidated, compacted and covered with
at least two feet (2') (81 centimeters) of suitable cover material.
      4.   The final grading shall be accomplished to provide proper surface
drainage and to avoid ponding.
      5.   If feasible, the area should be planted with grass or other
vegetation.
      6.   Any other corrective measures to protect the public health, safety
or welfare shall be made as directed by the city. (Ord. 8-13-02, 8-13-2002,
eff. 8-13-2002)
4-2-7: NOTICE OF VIOLATION, ENFORCEMENT, APPEAL, PENALTY:
   A.   City To Notify Owners: If the mayor or representative has inspected any
property and has found and determined that the property is in violation of this
chapter or has reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of
any part of this chapter, the mayor or representative shall give notice of the
violations to the owner or other responsible person thereof.
   B.   City To Issue Written Notice Of Violations: Prior to initiating a court
complaint for the violation of this chapter, the mayor or representative shall
issue a notice pursuant to subsection A of this section and shall:
      1.   Describe the property;
      2.   Give a statement of the cause for its issuance;
      3.   Set forth an outline of the remedial action that complies with the
provisions of this chapter; and
      4.   Set a reasonable time for the performance of any required remedial
act.
   C.   City To Service Notice: The mayor or representative shall serve notice
upon the owner of the property or other responsible person pursuant to
subsections A and B of this section. Service shall be deemed complete if the
notice is served in one of the following ways:
      1.   Served in person;
      2.   Sent by certified mail to the last known address of the owner or
other responsible person; or
      3.   Published in a newspaper of general circulation.
   D.   City To Endure Compliance: It shall be the duty of the mayor or
representative upon the presentation of proper credentials, to make inspections
of any property where solid waste is accumulated, stored, or where a facility
or site is located or will be located as is necessary to ensure compliance with
this chapter.
   E.   Inspections Made: Inspections may be made with the consent of the owner
of property or any lawful occupant over the age of sixteen (16). If consent is
not granted, search may be made pursuant to an administrative search warrant
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   F.   Report Of Inspections: Owners may request a factual report of
inspections. Upon request, the owner or other responsible person of any
property shall receive a report setting forth all facts found that relate to
the owner's compliance status.
   G.   Right To Appeal: Within ten (10) calendar days after the city has given
a notice of violations, any person aggrieved by the notice may request in
writing a hearing before the city. The hearing shall take place at a regularly
scheduled council meeting after the city council notice is received. A written
notice of the city council's final determination shall be given within ten (10)
calendar days after adjournment of the hearing. The city council may sustain,
modify or reverse the action or order. (Ord. 8-13-02, 8-13-2002, eff. 8-13-
2002)
   H.   Penalty: Any person who is found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this chapter, either by failing to do those acts required herein,
or by doing a prohibited act, is guilty of a class B misdemeanor pursuant to
Utah Code Annotated, and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. If a person is found guilty of a subsequent similar
violation within two (2) years, he is guilty of a class A misdemeanor pursuant
to Utah Code Annotated. (Ord. 8-13-02, 8-13-2002, eff. 8-13-2002; amd. 2003
Code)
   I.   Each Day Separate Offense: Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate violation.
   J.   Mayor May Request Legal Action: The city attorney or, if appropriate,
the county attorney, may initiate legal action, civil or criminal, requested by
the mayor, to abate any condition that exists in violation of this chapter.
   K.   Guilty Persons Liable For Expenses: In addition to other penalties
imposed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any person found guilty of
violating this chapter shall be liable for all expense incurred by the city in
removing or abating any nuisance, source of filth, cause of sickness or
infection, health hazard or sanitation violation. (Ord. 8-13-02, 8-13-2002,
eff. 8-13-2002)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES AND ABATEMENT
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Nuisances Defined, Enumerated
4-3-4: Exceptions
4-3-5: Responsibility For Nuisances
4-3-6: Nuisance Abatement; Administration
4-3-7: Nuisance Abatement; Enforcement
4-3-8: Voluntary Correction
4-3-9: Administrative Notice
4-3-10: Other Remedies
4-3-11: Appeals
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
The city of Green River ("the city") intends by this chapter to provide a means
for the city and individuals to identify nuisances within the city and to
provide a means for correcting or abating the nuisances. The city needs the
ability to abate nuisances in order to protect the health and safety of the
public, to foster neighborhood stability, to preserve the appearance, character
and beauty of neighborhoods, to encourage community pride, to preserve the
value of property, and to protect the general welfare of the city and its
citizens, businesses and visitors. This chapter provides for progressive
enforcement measures to abate nuisances; the most aggressive forms of
enforcement are generally reserved for the most recalcitrant violators of this
chapter. (Ord. 2009-04, 2-10-2009, eff. 2-10-2009)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
herein prescribed:
ABANDON: To surrender one's claim to, right to, or interest in.
ABATE: To repair, replace, remove, destroy, correct or otherwise remedy a
condition which constitutes a nuisance by such means, in such a manner and to
such an extent as the city designated representative determines is necessary in
the interest of the general health, safety and welfare of the community.
CITY DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE: The person(s) designated to hear appeals
pursuant to this chapter. The city designated representative shall be the mayor
or a person appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city
council. The designee need not be a city employee.
COMPLETION DATE: The date by which the responsible person must abate a
nuisance. The completion date is originally set by the city designated
representative in the voluntary correction agreement or in a notice from the
city. The completion date may be modified by the city designated
representative.
EMERGENCY: A situation which, in the opinion of the city designated
representative, requires immediate action to prevent or eliminate an immediate
threat to the health or safety of a person or property.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: Any person or persons authorized by the city to receive,
initiate or investigate complaints that a nuisance or nuisances exist, and any
person or persons authorized by the city to engage in abatement practices on
behalf of the city.
INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any used car or motor vehicle not in the process of
reconditioning. Any used car or motor vehicle which has been abandoned on a
public right of way.
   A.   No person, firm or corporation shall keep, place, store, locate,
maintain, discard, dispose of or scrap more than two (2) unlicensed and/or
inoperative motor vehicles located outside of an enclosed structure upon any
property in any zoning district unless it is a permitted use on review as a
salvage yard operation.
   B.   Any vehicle or portion thereof, which is used as a storage building
must be placed, altered or constructed by obtaining a building permit and the
removal of all running gear, axles, fuel tanks, engines, drive train
components, seats and instrumentation.
   C.   Operation of a salvage yard, military surplus or vehicle recycling and
storage shall conform to all zoning district requirements and be fully
surrounded by a view obscuring fence at a height of at least six feet (6') and
can be at a height equal to the height of the materials stored within.
   D.   Means a vehicle not currently registered or licensed in this state or
another state, or a vehicle that is or has any of the following conditions:
dismantled, broken windows, flat tires, no tires, missing doors, missing
windows, missing fenders, missing hood, missing trunk, will not start, or is in
a condition that would result in the vehicle's failure to pass state safety
inspection pursuant to the motor vehicle act, Utah Code Annotated 41-1a-101 et
seq.
   E.   Storage of vehicles for parts or restoration must do so in a manner
which will not contaminate the soil and will assure that they are not visible
from the road, highway or from dwellings in the neighborhood. Fences, tarps,
car covers can be used to cover a vehicle.
JUNK: Any or all worn out, cast off, destroyed or discarded article or material
which is ready for destruction. Any items that have been collected and stored
for salvage or conversion to some other use and properly contained or any
article or material which, unaltered, unchanged and without further
reconditioning, can be used for its original purpose as readily as when new and
shall not be considered "junk".
OWNER: Any person who, alone or with others, has title or interest in any
building or premises, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.
For the purpose of giving notice, the term "owner" also includes any person in
physical possession.
PREMISES: A plot of ground, whether occupied or not.
PROPERTY: A building or structure, or the premises on which the building or
structure is located, or undeveloped land.
PUBLIC PLACE: An area generally visible to public view and includes alleys,
bridges, driveways, parking lots, parks, plazas, sidewalks, streets, and
buildings open to the general public, the doorways and entrances to buildings
or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: The person(s) responsible for correcting or abating a
nuisance pursuant to this chapter. The responsible person includes the property
owner and any person who causes or permits a nuisance to occur or remain upon
property in the city, and includes, but is not limited to, the owner(s), lessor
(s), lessee(s), or other person(s) entitled to control, use and/or occupy
property where a nuisance occurs. In cases where there are more than one
responsible persons, the city may proceed against one, some or all of them.
RUBBISH: Refuse, debris, litter, garbage, trash and junk and/or any similar
waste material.
VEHICLE: Includes any means of transportation, whether driven, pulled, or
pushed and whether transporting persons, goods or materials as defined in the
motor vehicle act, Utah Code Annotated section 41-1a-101 et seq. (Ord. 2009-04,
2-10-2009, eff. 2-10-2009)
4-3-3: NUISANCES DEFINED, ENUMERATED:
   A.   Nuisance Definitions And Examples: This section defines nuisance by
providing five (5) general definitions of what constitutes a nuisance
(subsection B of this section), and then providing specific examples of
situations, conduct or activities that constitute nuisances (subsection C of
this section). The purpose of the general definitions is to allow the city to
classify an offending situation, conduct or activity as a nuisance, even though
the situation, conduct or activity may not be listed as a nuisance in the
specific examples. The first three (3) general definitions are taken directly
from Utah state law. The purpose of listing the specific examples is to
identify some of the specific situations, conduct and activities that the city
intends to abate as nuisances.
   B.   General Definitions Of Nuisance: Any activity that meets any one or
more of the five (5) definitions set forth below shall constitute a nuisance if
it occurs within the city of Green River:
      1.   Nuisance As Defined In Utah Code Annotated Section 78B-6-1101(1):
Anything which is injurious to health, indecent, offensive to the senses, or an
obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
      2.   Nuisance As Defined In Utah Code Annotated Section 76-10-801: Any
item, thing, manner, or condition whatsoever that is dangerous to human life or
health or renders soil, air, water, or food impure or unwholesome.
      3.   Nuisance As Defined In Utah Code Annotated Section 76-10-803:
Unlawfully doing any act or omitting to perform any duty, which act or
omission:
         a.   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or
safety of three (3) or more persons, at separate and distinct addresses in the
affected neighborhood of the city;
         b.   Offends public decency;
         c.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake, stream, canal, or basin, or any public
park, square, street, or highway; or
         d.   In any way renders three (3) or more persons, at separate and
distinct addresses in the affected neighborhood of the city, insecure in life
or the use of property. An act which affects three (3) or more persons, at
three (3) separate and distinct addresses in the affected neighborhood of the
city, in any of the ways specified in this subsection is still a nuisance
regardless of the extent to which the annoyance or damage inflicted on
individuals is unequal.
      4.   Nuisance: A condition which:
         a.   Injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of
others; or
         b.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
render dangerous for passage, any public park, square, street or highway, or
any other public place; or
         c.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or in the use
of property, and which affects the rights of an entire community or
neighborhood, although the extent of the damage may be unequal.
      5.   Specific Nuisances Listed In Subsection C: Anything specifically
listed as a nuisance in subsection C of this section.
   C.   Nuisances Enumerated: Every situation, conduct or activity listed below
constitutes a nuisance and may be abated pursuant to this chapter. The listed
examples are not exhaustive; a situation, conduct or activity not listed below,
but coming within one of the general definitions of nuisance listed above,
shall also constitute a nuisance. The first six (6) listed nuisances are also
listed as nuisances pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 78B-6-1107:
      1.   Unsafe Condition: A condition that unreasonably or unlawfully
affects the health or safety of one or more persons.
      2.   Fire Hazard: Any situation, process, material or condition that, on
the basis of applicable data, may cause a fire or explosion or provide a ready
fuel supply to augment the spread or intensity of the fire or explosion and
that poses a threat to life and/or property.
      3.   Noxious Emanations: Emanation of noxious, carcinogenic or
unreasonable odors, fumes, or excessive gas, smoke, soot or cinders.
      4.   Refuse: Keeping or storing of any refuse or waste matter which
interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of nearby property.
      5.   Stagnant Water: Polluted or stagnant water which constitutes an
unhealthy or unsafe condition.
      6.   Improper Accumulations: Accumulation of soil, litter, debris, plant
trimmings, or trash, visible from the street or an adjoining property.
      7.   Accumulation Of Junk: Accumulation of used or damaged lumber; junk;
scrap metal; machinery or machinery parts; salvage materials; abandoned,
discarded or unused furniture; stoves, sinks, toilets, boxes, barrels, bottles,
cans, containers, iceboxes, refrigerators, cabinets, or other fixtures or
equipment stored. However, nothing herein shall preclude the placement of
stacked firewood for personal noncommercial use on the premises.
      8.   Attractive Nuisances: Any attractive nuisance dangerous to children
and other persons including, but not limited to, abandoned, broken, or
neglected household appliances, equipment and machinery, abandoned foundations
or excavations, or improperly maintained or secured pools.
      9.   Vegetation: Dead, decayed, diseased, or hazardous trees, weeds,
hedges, and overgrown or uncultivated vegetation which is in a hazardous
condition, is an obstruction to pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or which is
likely to harbor rats, vermin or other pests.
      10.   Improper Storage: The keeping, storing, depositing or accumulating
of dirt, sand, gravel, concrete, or other similar materials, or maintenance of
such material on the premises for ninety (90) days or in the public right of
way. Material stored within twenty five feet (25') as part of an active
construction project shall not be considered a nuisance.
      11.   Garbage Can Or Containers: The leaving of any garbage can or refuse
container in the street, other than on collection day, or for more than seventy
two (72) hours before or after the collection day, or the use of worn out,
rusted or filthy garbage containers.
      12.   Construction Equipment: Construction equipment or machinery of any
type or description parked or stored on property when it is readily visible
from a public street, alley or adjoining property, except while excavation,
construction or demolition operations covered by an active building permit are
in progress on the subject property or an adjoining property, or where the
property is zoned for the storage of construction equipment and/or machinery,
or not in public right of way, or is means of property owner's livelihood.
      13.   Improper Sign: Improper maintenance of a sign; or signs which
advertise a business that is no longer existent or operational on the property.
      14.   Improper Parking Or Storage:
         a.   Parking or storage of inoperative vehicles, or vehicle parts, on
a premises within twenty five feet (25') of or in the public right of way.
         b.   Parking of an inoperative vehicle which is actively being
repaired, on a weekly basis, or restored is allowed anywhere on the premises.
         c.   Parking or storage of registered vehicles in violation of city
ordinance.
      15.   Improper Maintenance: Maintenance of buildings and/or structures in
such condition as to be deemed defective or in a condition of deterioration or
disrepair including, but not limited to:
         a.   Any building or structure which is unfit for human habitation, or
which is an unreasonable hazard to the health of people residing in the
vicinity thereof, or which presents an unreasonable fire hazard in the vicinity
where it is located; or
         b.   Any building or structure set up, erected, constructed, altered,
enlarged, converted, moved or maintained contrary to the provisions of city
ordinances, or any use of land, buildings or premises in violation of city
ordinances; or
         c.   Buildings which are abandoned, partially destroyed, or left in an
unreasonable state of partial construction for a period of twelve (12) months
or longer. An "unreasonable state of partial construction" is defined as any
unfinished building or structure where the appearance or condition of the
building or structure does not meet the requirements for finished buildings or
structures as required by applicable city ordinances or building codes. The
building or structure shall not be considered to be a nuisance if it is under
active construction; or
         d.   Buildings having dry rot, warping, termite infestation, decay,
excessive cracking, as to render the building unsightly and/or in a state of
disrepair; or
         e.   Buildings with missing doors and/or windows containing broken
glass and/or no glass at all where the window is of a type which normally
contains glass; or
         f.   Building exteriors, walls, fences, gates, driveways, sidewalks,
walkways, signs or ornamentation, or alleys maintained in such condition as to
render them unsightly and/or in a state of disrepair; or
         g.   Buildings or conditions that violate any building, electrical,
plumbing, fire, housing, or other code adopted by the city.
      16.   City Code Nuisances: Any violation of the Green River ordinances
that expressly declares a specific situation, conduct or activity to be a
nuisance.
      17.   Dangerous Conditions: Any fence, wall, shed, deck, house, garage,
building, structure or any part of any of the aforesaid; or any tree, pole,
smokestack; or any excavation, hole, open well, pit, basement, cellar,
sidewalk, subspace, dock, or loading dock; or any lot, land, yard, premises or
location which in its entirety, or in any part thereof, by reason of the
condition in which the same is found or permitted to be or remain, shall or may
endanger the health, safety, life, limb or property, or cause any hurt, harm,
inconvenience, discomfort, damage or injury to any one or more individuals in
the city, in any one or more of the following particulars:
         a.   By reason of being a menace, threat and/or hazard to the general
health and safety of the community.
         b.   By reason of being a fire hazard.
         c.   By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, or use on, in, upon,
about or around the aforesaid property.
         d.   By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the
property, and/or being vacant, any of which depreciates the enjoyment and use
of the property in the immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful
to the community in which such property is situated or such condition exists.
      18.   Habitat For Insects: Any condition that creates a habitat for
mosquitoes, flies or other harmful or undesirable insects.
      19.   Weeds: Any vegetation commonly referred to as a weed or which shall
have been designated a noxious weed by the state commissioner of agriculture.
         a.   Weeds constitute a nuisance when they create a fire hazard, a
source of contamination or pollution of the water, air or property, a danger to
health, a breeding place or habitation for insects or rodents or other forms of
life deleterious to humans or are unsightly or deleterious to their
surroundings or in excess of two feet (2') tall.
      20.   Dead Animals: Any premises that contains any decaying animals,
animal parts or animal matter of any kind.
      21.   Parking On City Streets: Parking or storage of vehicles in excess
of thirty six thousand (36,000) GVW in public rights of way for a period of
time longer than ninety six (96) consecutive hours. (Ord. 2009-04, 2-10-2009,
eff. 2-10-2009)
4-3-4: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   General Exception: No act which is done or maintained under the express
authority of an authoritative statute, ordinance, conditional use permit or
court ruling shall be declared a nuisance.
   B.   Agricultural Exception: Agricultural operations that are consistent
with sound agricultural practices are presumed to be reasonable and do not
constitute a nuisance under this chapter unless the agricultural operation has
a substantial adverse effect on the public health and safety. As used herein,
"agricultural operation" means any facility for production for noncommercial or
commercial purposes of crops, livestock, and poultry. This also includes any
vehicle used or stored for agricultural purposes or operations. (Ord. 2009-04,
2-10-2009, eff. 2-10-2009)
4-3-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR NUISANCES:
The responsible person(s) is responsible for abating nuisances pursuant to this
chapter. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or occupant, who creates, aids in
creating, or contributes to a nuisance, or who supports, continues, or retains
a nuisance, is responsible for the nuisance and is a responsible person
pursuant to this chapter. Every successive owner or tenant of a property or
premises who fails to abate a continuing nuisance upon or in the use of such
property or premises caused by a former owner or tenant is responsible therefor
in the same manner as the one who first created it. (Ord. 2009-04, 2-10-2009,
eff. 2-10-2009)
4-3-6: NUISANCE ABATEMENT; ADMINISTRATION:
This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the sheriff's department or
other designee. In case of nuisances involving dangerous buildings or
violations of codes typically administered and enforced by the board of health,
this chapter may also be administered and enforced by the zoning administrator
or building official. (Ord. 2009-04, 2-10-2009, eff. 2-10-2009)
4-3-7: NUISANCE ABATEMENT; ENFORCEMENT:
If the code enforcement officer finds that a nuisance exists, the code
enforcement officer will attempt to have the responsible person abate the
nuisance. Although the code enforcement officer's first usual step in
correcting or abating the nuisance will be to attempt to obtain voluntary
compliance, the code enforcement officer is not required to first attempt to
obtain voluntary compliance, and the code enforcement officer may pursue any
remedy or combination of remedies available pursuant to this chapter, state law
or common law in order to abate the nuisance. Nothing in this chapter shall be
interpreted to prohibit the city from engaging in its standard prosecution or
abatement practices, or to require the city to attempt to obtain voluntary
compliance before or as a condition precedent to taking other action to abate
the nuisance. Therefore, the city may prosecute violators of city ordinances or
state laws without first attempting to give notice as stated herein. Nothing in
this chapter shall be interpreted to prevent the city from enforcing applicable
city ordinances, or building codes without first treating the offending
conduct, situation or activity as a nuisance pursuant to this chapter. (Ord.
2009-04, 2-10-2009, eff. 2-10-2009)
4-3-8: VOLUNTARY CORRECTION:
This section applies whenever the city designated representative determines
that a nuisance exists.
   A.   Contact: Before taking other steps to abate the nuisance, the code
enforcement officer will usually make a reasonable attempt to secure voluntary
correction or abatement of the nuisance by:
      1.   Determining the name and last known address of the property owner or
occupant and a description of the premises where the violation exists. This
information can be obtained from the county assessor.
      2.   Verifying if the violation exists and taking pictures of the
violation noting the date and time of the pictures.
      3.   Serving written notice of the violation on the owner of the property
either personally, or by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to
the owner as determined above. A copy of a recommended form of written notice
is attached to the ordinance codified herein as exhibit A.
   B.   Voluntary Correction Agreement: If the code enforcement officer and the
responsible person agree to terms for abating the nuisance, they shall enter
into and sign a voluntary correction agreement. The voluntary correction
agreement is a contract between the city and the responsible person in which
the responsible person agrees to abate the nuisance within a specified time and
according to specified conditions. The voluntary correction agreement shall
include the following terms:
      1.   The name and address of the responsible person;
      2.   The street address of the nuisance, or a description sufficient to
identify the building, structure, premises, or land upon or within which the
nuisance is occurring;
      3.   A description of the nuisance;
      4.   The necessary corrective action to be taken, and a date or time by
which correction must be completed;
      5.   An agreement by the responsible person that the city may enter the
premises and inspect the premises as may be necessary to determine compliance
with the voluntary correction agreement;
      6.   An agreement by the responsible person that the city may abate the
nuisance and recover its costs and expenses to abate the nuisance pursuant to
this chapter from the responsible person, if terms of the voluntary correction
agreement are not met;
      7.   An agreement by the responsible person acknowledging that they waive
the right to appeal the city designated representative's finding that a
nuisance exists and waives the right to appeal the specific corrective action
required in the voluntary correction agreement; and
      8.   An agreement by the responsible person that failure to comply with
the voluntary correction agreement may be grounds for criminal prosecution.
The code enforcement officer may grant an extension of the time limit for
correcting or abating the nuisance if the responsible person has shown due
diligence and/or substantial progress in correcting or abating the nuisance but
unforeseen circumstances render abatement under the original conditions
unattainable. If the responsible person complies with the terms of the
voluntary correction agreement, the city shall take no further action against
the responsible person related to the nuisance described in the voluntary
correction agreement unless the nuisance recurs.
   C.   No Agreement: If the code enforcement officer and the responsible
person cannot agree to terms for correcting or abating the nuisance, the code
enforcement officer may still abate the nuisance using one or more of the
procedures set forth in this chapter, state law, or common law. (Ord. 2009-04,
2-10-2009, eff. 2-10-2009)
4-3-9: ADMINISTRATIVE NOTICE:
   A.   Administrative Notice: When the code enforcement officer determines
that a nuisance exists, and is unable to secure voluntary correction, the code
enforcement officer may issue an administrative notice to the responsible
person. The code enforcement officer may issue an administrative notice without
having attempted to secure voluntary correction as provided herein under the
following circumstances:
      1.   When an emergency exists;
      2.   When the code enforcement officer representative is unable to locate
or determine the identity of the responsible person; or
      3.   When the city designated representative determines other reasons
exist which make it impractical or useless to attempt to engage in efforts to
obtain voluntary abatement.
   B.   Content Of Administrative Notice: The administrative notice shall
include the following:
      1.   The name and address of the responsible person; and
      2.   The street address of the nuisance or a description sufficient for
identifying the building, structure, premises, or land upon or within which the
nuisance is occurring; and
      3.   A description of the nuisance; and
      4.   The required corrective action; and
      5.   The completion date and a notice that the city may abate the
nuisance and charge the responsible person for all abatement costs if the
responsible person does not correct the nuisance before the completion date;
and
      6.   The time for appealing the administrative notice to the city
designated representative and the procedure for filing an appeal.
      7.   A statement that the city may abate the nuisance and assess costs
and expenses of abatement and a monetary fine against the responsible person if
the correction is not completed by the responsible person and approved by the
city designated representative before the completion date. A copy of a
recommended form of written notice is attached to the ordinance codified herein
as exhibit A.
   C.   Service Of Administrative Notice: The city designated representative
shall serve the administrative notice upon the responsible person, either
personally or by mailing, certified, return receipt requested, a copy of the
administrative notice to the responsible person at their last known address. If
the responsible person cannot after due diligence be personally served within
Emery County and if an address for mailed service cannot after due diligence be
ascertained, notice shall be served by posting a copy of the administrative
notice conspicuously on the affected property or structure. Proof of service
shall be made by a written declaration under penalty of perjury executed by the
person effecting the service, declaring the time and date of service, the
manner by which the service was made, and if by posting, the facts showing that
due diligence was used in attempting to serve the person personally or by mail.
   D.   No Extension: No extension of the time specified in the administrative
notice for correction of the nuisance may be granted, except by order of the
city designated representative. (Ord. 2009-04, 2-10-2009, eff. 2-10-2009)
4-3-10: OTHER REMEDIES:
The city may take one or more of the following actions against any responsible
person who fails to comply with the terms of a voluntary consent agreement, an
administrative notice, or an order of the city designated representative:
   A.   Abatement By The City:
      1.   The city may abate a nuisance when:
         a.   The terms of a voluntary correction agreement have not been met;
or
         b.   The requirements of an administrative notice have not been
complied with, or, if the administrative notice is appealed to a city
designated representative and the terms of the administrative notice are
amended by the city designated representative, the terms of the city designated
representative order have not been complied with; or
         c.   The condition is subject to summary abatement as provided for in
subsection A2 of this section.
      2.   Whenever a nuisance is occurring which constitutes an immediate and
emergent threat to the public health, safety or welfare or to the environment,
the city may summarily and without prior notice abate the condition. Notice of
such abatement, including the reason for it, shall be given to the responsible
person as soon as reasonably possible after the abatement.
      3.   Using any lawful means, the city may enter upon the subject property
and may remove or correct the condition which is subject to abatement. Remove
or correct may include, but not be limited to, closing a building. The city may
seek, but is not required to seek, such judicial process as it deems necessary
to effect the removal or correction of such condition. Such judicial process
may include, but not be limited to, condemnation or destruction proceedings.
      4.   The costs, including incidental expenses, of correcting or abating
the violation shall be billed to the responsible person and/or the owner,
lessor, tenant or other person entitled to control, use and/or occupy the
property and shall become due and payable to the city within thirty (30) days
of actual receipt of the bill (within 35 days of the mailing date if the bill
is mailed) or unless other arrangements are made with the city. A copy of a
recommended form of written notice is attached to the ordinance codified herein
as exhibit B. The term incidental expenses includes, but is not limited to:
         a.   Personnel costs, both direct and indirect, including attorney
fees and costs;
         b.   Costs incurred in documenting the violation;
         c.   Hauling, storage and disposal expenses; and
         d.   Actual expenses and costs for the city in preparing notices,
specifications and contracts, and in accomplishing and/or contracting and
inspecting the work; and
         e.   The costs of any required printing and mailing.
   B.   Civil Actions: Either the city or any private person directly affected
by a nuisance may bring a civil action to abate or enjoin the nuisance, or for
damages for causing or maintaining the nuisance (including the cost, if any, of
cleaning the subject property). The civil action may be brought pursuant to
this chapter or pursuant to state law. The city may recover its reasonable
attorney fees and costs incurred in connection with any such civil action.
   C.   Criminal Actions: Criminal actions may be initiated by criminal
citation or by information.
      1.   Any person who maintains or assists in maintaining a nuisance is
guilty of a class C misdemeanor. No person shall be prosecuted under this
subsection C1 unless the city designated representative attempted to obtain
voluntary correction as provided herein.
      2.   If the alleged nuisance is also a violation of a provision of this
code (other than this chapter) or state law, the responsible person may be
charged under the specific provision of this code or state law, even if the
city designated representative did not first attempt to obtain voluntary
correction as provided herein.
      3.   Any person who knowingly obstructs, impedes, or interferes with the
city or its agents, or with the responsible person, in the performance of
duties imposed by this chapter, or a decision and order issued by the city
designated representative, or a voluntary correction agreement, is guilty of a
class B misdemeanor.
   D.   Lien For Costs: If a person fails to pay any fines or costs related to
nuisance abatement when due, the city may record a lien on the property or
premises for the full amount of the unpaid fines and costs. A copy of a
recommended form of written notice is attached to the ordinance codified herein
as exhibit C.
   E.   Nonexclusive Remedies: Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the
contrary, the city may proceed pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections
10-11-1 through 4 without complying with any of the provisions of this chapter.
In addition, the city may take any or all of the above mentioned remedies
(administrative, civil or criminal) to abate a nuisance and/or to punish any
person or entity who creates, causes or allows a nuisance to exist. The
abatement of a nuisance does not prejudice the right of the city or any person
to recover damages or penalties for its past existence. (Ord. 2009-04, 2-10-
2009, eff. 2-10-2009)
4-3-11: APPEALS:
   A.   Grounds: Any person receiving an administrative notice may appeal the
administrative notice to the city designated representative. Only the following
issues may be appealed to the city designated representative:
      1.   The person charged in the administrative notice as the responsible
person is not the "responsible person" as defined in this chapter.
      2.   The condition described as a nuisance in the administrative notice
is not a "nuisance" as defined in this chapter.
      3.   The method required by the administrative notice to abate the
nuisance is inappropriate or is not the most cost effective method of
effectively correcting or abating the nuisance.
      4.   The time period given to abate the nuisance in the administrative
notice is unreasonable.
      5.   The city designated representative refused to approve a corrective
action that met the requirements of the administrative notice.
      6.   The responsible person claims that the requirement(s) of the
administrative notice violates their constitutional rights.
   B.   Filing: The person desiring to appeal must file a notice of appeal with
the city within ten (10) days of receipt of the administrative notice (within
15 days of the mailing date if the administrative notice is mailed).
   C.   Hearing: The hearing before the city designated representative shall be
informal according to rules and procedures established by the city designated
representative. The appellant may, but is not required to, bring an attorney or
other representative to assist him or her. The appellant and the city
designated representative may each call witnesses at the hearing. The city
designated representative may, with or without the parties present, visit the
site of the alleged nuisance. If the city designated representative allows the
parties at the site visit, both parties must be given the opportunity to be
present. The hearing shall be scheduled by the city designated representative
within thirty (30) days of when the notice of appeal is filed with the city.
   D.   Burden Of Proof: The appellant shall have the burden of proof to
demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that they had legitimate grounds
for an appeal. The determination of the city designated representative as to
the need for the required corrective action shall be accorded substantial
weight by the city designated representative in determining the reasonableness
of the corrective action.
   E.   Authority Of City Designated Representative: The city designated
representative shall have authority to affirm or vacate the administrative
notice, or to modify or waive specific provisions of the administrative notice.
If the appellant fails to attend the hearing, the city designated
representative shall affirm the administrative notice. The city designated
representative shall not vacate the administrative notice unless they find that
no nuisance exists. The city designated representative shall modify the
administrative notice if they find that a nuisance exists, but that one or more
of the requirements of the administrative notice is improper or inappropriate.
A requirement is improper if it is contrary to this chapter. A requirement is
inappropriate if the city designated representative finds that there is a
better means of resolving the problem or that the proposed solution is
inappropriate given the nature or severity of the problem. When determining
whether to waive or modify a requirement of the administrative notice, the city
designated representative may also consider:
      1.   Whether the appellant responded to the city designated
representative's attempts to contact the appellant and cooperated with efforts
to correct the nuisance;
      2.   Whether the appellant has shown due diligence and/or substantial
progress in correcting the nuisance;
      3.   The financial ability of the appellant and the amount, if any, that
the appellant has benefited financially by maintaining the nuisance.
      4.   Any other relevant factors.
If the appellant appeals the city designated representative's refusal to
approve appellant's corrective action, the city designated representative shall
visit the site and determine if the appellant complied with the requirements of
the administrative notice.
   F.   Order: The city designated representative shall issue a written order
to the appellant and the city notifying them of their decision. The order shall
include the city designated representative findings of fact, conclusion of law,
and an ultimate decision. If the city designated representative modifies or
waives provisions of the administrative notice, the order shall specify which
portions are modified and how they are modified. The city designated
representative shall mail a copy of the order to the appellant and the city
within five (5) working days of the close of the hearing.
   G.   Appeal To District Court: Either the city or the appellant may appeal
the city designated representative order by filing a petition for review of the
order. The petition must be filed in the district court within thirty (30)
calendar days from the date the city designated representative order was mailed
to the appellant. In the petition, the plaintiff may only allege that the city
designated representative order was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. The city
designated representative shall transmit to the reviewing court the record of
its proceedings, including any minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a
true and correct transcript of its proceedings. If, in the opinion of the
district court, there is a sufficient record to review the city designated
representative order, the court's review is limited to the record provided by
the city designated representative. The district court may not accept or
consider any evidence outside of the city designated representative record
unless the evidence was offered to the city designated representative and the
court determines that it was improperly excluded by the city designated
representative. If, in the opinion of the district court, there is not a
sufficient record to review the city designated representative order, the court
may call witnesses and take evidence. No petition or appeal may be filed in
district court unless the responsible person first appeals to the city
designated representative pursuant to the terms set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-04, 2-10-2009, eff. 2-10-2009)
CHAPTER 4
SMOKING BAN
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose
4-4-2: Definition
4-4-3: Prohibited Acts
4-4-4: Violation; Penalty
4-4-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the public by prohibiting smoking in city parks, cemeteries and
recreational areas at any time and other city owned property at and during city
sponsored events subject to certain exceptions. (Ord. 2009-09, 12-8-2009)
4-4-2: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter and unless defined in other sections, the
terms, phrases and words shall have the following meanings:
CITY PARKS, CEMETERIES AND RECREATIONAL AREAS: City owned ball diamonds, parks
(including any streets and sidewalks therein), pocket parks, soccer fields,
linear parks/trails, bleachers and spectator areas, picnic pavilions and
shelters, the city cemetery and playgrounds. (Ord. 2009-09, 12-8-2009)
4-4-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Smoking is hereby prohibited in all city parks, cemeteries and
recreational areas at any time as defined above except in the following areas:
      1.   Those areas specifically designated by the city as smoking areas.
   B.   Smoking is prohibited on city owned property at and during city
sponsored events except in those areas specifically designated by the city as
smoking areas. (Ord. 2009-09, 12-8-2009)
4-4-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   A violation of this chapter is an infraction for the first offense and
a class C misdemeanor for any subsequent offense. (Ord. 2009-09, 12-8-2009)
TITLE 5
PUBLIC PROTECTION
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL 1
SECTION:
5-1-1: Purpose
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Animal Control Officer
5-1-4: Licensing Provisions
5-1-5: Commercial Animal Establishments; Business License Required
5-1-6: Restraint
5-1-7: Vicious Or Dangerous Animals
5-1-8: Wild Animals
5-1-9: Care Of Animals
5-1-10: Performing Animal Exhibitions
5-1-11: Impoundment
5-1-12: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-12-18 of this code for zoning provisions related to farm animals.
5-1-1: PURPOSE:
The city intends by this chapter to provide for the humane control and
regulation of animals, registration and licensing of dogs and kennels, the
animal control officer, isolation of biting animals and other necessary
purposes. (1995 Code §
11-1-1)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings herein
described:
ANIMAL: Any live, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, except livestock.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: A person or persons designated by the city to enforce
the provisions of this chapter, including collection of licensing and permit
fees and the performance of other delineated duties. Said officer shall, where
feasible, meet the qualifications set forth in Utah Code Annotated.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any facility operated by a humane society or municipal agency
or its authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals
held under the authority of this chapter or state law.
ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT: Any animal under the control of its owner or under the
control of the person having charge, care, custody or control of the animal. A
dog shall not be considered under control of the owner unless on a leash or
lead, confined within a vehicle, or restrained within the real property limits
of the owner by a fence or line.
ATTACK: Any attempted biting or action by an animal which places a person or
another animal in danger of imminent bodily harm. Actual physical contact shall
not be required to constitute an attack.
AUCTIONS: Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this chapter. This
definition does not apply to individual sales of animals by owners.
CIRCUS: A commercial variety show featuring animal acts for public
entertainment.
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any pet shop, grooming shop, auction, riding
school or stable, zoological park, circus, performing animal exhibition or
kennel.
ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to confine a potentially vicious/dangerous dog in
conjunction with other measures which may be taken by the owner or keeper, such
as tethering of the potentially vicious/dangerous dog.
EUTHANASIA/HUMANE KILLING: Killing by any instantaneous and/or painless method.
GROOMING SHOP: A commercial establishment where animals are bathed, clipped,
plucked or otherwise groomed.
GUARD DOG: A working dog that must be kept in a fenced run or other suitable
enclosure during business hours, or on a leash or under absolute control, so it
cannot come into contact with the public.
KENNEL: Any land or building wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, selling or
keeping three (3) or more dogs or cats of the age of four (4) months old or
older.
LICENSE: A document or tag evidencing a license granted by the city.
LICENSING AUTHORITIES: The city, by and through its clerical personnel and/or
animal control officer.
LIVESTOCK: Cows, horses, pigs, sheep and any other animal commonly kept for its
meat, hide, milk, eggs, hair or fur, for riding purposes or for profit, not
including dogs, cats or animals commonly used as pets.
LIVESTOCK AT LARGE: Any branded or unbranded livestock that move about without
restraint or confinement, roving or rambling at will.
OWNER: Any person, partnership or corporation owning, keeping or harboring one
or more animals, or any said person, partnership or corporation who allows
another person, partnership or corporation to keep or harbor one or more
animals. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for
three (3) consecutive days or more.
PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITION: Any spectacle, display, act or event other than
circuses, in which performing animals are used.
PET: Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
PET SHOP: Any person, partnership or corporation whether operating separately,
or in connection with another business enterprise, except for a licensed
kennel, that buys, sells or boards any species of animal other than livestock
or farm animals.
PROVOKED: Any deliberate act by a person toward a dog or any other animal done
with the intent to tease, abuse, assault or otherwise cause a reaction by the
dog or other animal; provided, however, that any act by a person done with the
intent to discourage or prevent a dog or other animal from attacking, shall not
be considered to be a provocation.
PUBLIC NUISANCE OR NUISANCE ANIMALS: Any animal or animals which:
   A.   Is a "vicious/dangerous animal", as defined in this section.
   B.   Molests a passerby or chases a passing vehicle.
   C.   Attacks another domestic animal.
   D.   Is determined by the animal control officer to be a public nuisance by
virtue of being offensive or dangerous to the public health, welfare or safety.
   E.   Trespasses on school grounds, parks or private property other than that
of the owner.
   F.   Barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion.
REGISTRATION: Notation of license in the public record of the animal control
officer.
VETERINARY HOSPITAL: Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
VICIOUS/DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal which is dangerously aggressive or
uncontrollable, including, but not limited to, any animal which has bitten or
in any other manner attacked any person or animal. Any animal by its unique
nature or breeding which has known propensities to be aggressive toward any
person or animal.
VICIOUS/DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog which, in a vicious or terrorizing manner,
approaches any person in apparent attitude of attack upon the streets,
sidewalks or any public grounds or place; or any dog with a known propensity,
tendency or disposition to attack, to cause injury, or to otherwise endanger
the safety of human beings or animals; or any dog which bites, inflicts injury,
assaults or otherwise attacks a human being or domestic animal on public or
private property.
WILD ANIMAL: Any animal which can normally be found in the wild state.
ZOOLOGICAL PARK: Any facility, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying or
exhibiting one or more species of nondomesticated animals operated by a person,
partnership, corporation or government agency. (1995 Code §
11-1-2; amd. 2003 Code)
5-1-3: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   Compliance Enforcement: The animal control officer shall see that all
dogs and dog kennels in the city required to have a license or permit shall
comply with this chapter. (1995 Code § 11-10-1)
   B.   Collection Of Carcasses: The animal control officer shall collect the
carcasses of all dead dogs, cats and animals, other than livestock, from the
streets and other public places in the city and deliver them, together with the
carcasses of all animals he shall have put to death as hereinafter provided, to
such place as may be designated by the city council. (1995 Code § 11-10-2)
   C.   Collection Of Fees: The animal control officer or city recorder shall
issue all licenses required hereunder and collect fees therefor, and shall keep
an accurate account of all monies collected by him and from whom collected for
all animal licenses, kennel permits, and for any other services rendered by him
in his capacity as animal control officer, and to account for said funds to the
city treasurer on or before the first day of each month following such
collections. (1995 Code § 11-10-3)
   D.   Registry: The animal control officer shall keep a register showing the
breed, sex and color of each animal impounded, and date and reason for such
impounding, and the disposition of such animal. (1995 Code § 11-10-4)
   E.   Supervision Of Animal Shelter: The animal control officer shall
supervise the animal shelter and keep the same in a sanitary and orderly
condition. (1995 Code § 11-10-5)
   F.   Destruction Of Animals: The animal control officer shall humanely kill
any impounded animal as permitted or required by this chapter. (1995 Code § 11-
10-6)
   G.   State Requirements: The animal control officer shall perform all
duties, if any, incumbent on him under the Utah agricultural code; provided,
that any contracts with the state department of agriculture shall be approved
by the city council prior to becoming effective. (1995 Code § 11-10-7)
   H.   Interference With Officer Prohibited: It shall be a violation of this
chapter to interfere with the animal control officer in the performance of his
duties. (1995 Code § 11-10-8)
5-1-4: LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required: Any person owning, keeping, harboring or having
custody of any dog over six (6) months of age within the city must obtain a
license as herein provided. Dogs must be licensed under the procedures and fees
set forth in this chapter. (1995 Code §
11-2-1)
   B.   Application For License: Written application for licenses shall be made
to the city recorder. Said application shall include the name and address of
applicant, description of the animal, the appropriate fee and rabies
certificate issued by a licensed veterinarian or antirabies clinic. Application
for a license must be made within thirty (30) days after obtaining a dog over
six (6) months. (1995 Code §
11-2-2)
   C.   Term Of License: The period for licenses for the keeping of dogs shall
be for a period of up to one year. The licensing period shall be the city
fiscal period from July 1 through June 30. (1995 Code §
11-2-3)
   D.   Renewal Of License: Application for renewal license may be made up to
thirty (30) days before or up to thirty (30) days after the start of fiscal
year. (1995 Code §
11-2-4)
   E.   Issuance Of License And Tag: Upon acceptance of the license application
and fee, the animal control officer shall issue a durable tag stamped with an
identity number and the year of issuance. Tags should be designed so that they
may be conveniently fastened or riveted to the animal's collar or harness. Dogs
must wear identification tags or collars at all times when off the premises of
the owners. (1995 Code §
11-2-5)
   F.   Registry: The animal control officer shall keep a register of animals
by maintaining a record of the identification numbers of all tags issued and
shall file a duplicate record with the city recorder, which record shall be
available to the public. (1995 Code §
11-2-6)
   G.   Fine For Failure To Comply: Persons who fail to obtain a license as
required within the time period specified in this section will be subject to a
fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) in addition to the registration fee. (1995 Code
§ 11-2-7)
   H.   Unlawful To Keep Dog Without License: It shall be unlawful for any
person to own, keep, harbor or maintain any dog over the age of six (6) months
without registering and obtaining a license for such dog from the animal
control officer. No person may use any license for any animal other than the
animal for which it was issued. (1995 Code § 11-2-8)
   I.   Two-Year License: Any person shall have the option to register and
license a dog for two (2) consecutive years by paying to the animal control
officer double the license fee at the time of registration and licensing. The
purpose of this section is such that the licensing period may coincide with the
immunization of the dog for rabies. (1995 Code § 11-2-9)
   J.   Exemptions To License Fees:
      1.   The fee provisions of subsection K of this section shall not apply
to:
         a.   Seeing eye dogs properly trained to assist blind persons if such
dogs are actually being used by blind persons to assist them in moving from
place to place.
         b.   Hearing dogs properly trained to assist deaf persons if such dogs
are actually used by deaf persons to aid them in responding to sounds.
         c.   Dogs especially trained to assist officials of government
agencies in the performance of their duties and which are owned by such
agencies.
      2.   Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as to exempt any dog
from having a current rabies vaccination. (2003 Code)
   K.   Fee Schedule: A license shall be issued after payment of the applicable
annual fee as set by resolution of the city council. (1995 Code § 11-2-11; amd.
2003 Code)
   L.   Duplicate License: A duplicate license may be obtained upon payment of
a five dollar ($5.00) replacement fee. (1995 Code § 11-2-12)
5-1-5: COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS; BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person, partnership or corporation shall operate a commercial animal
establishment, animal shelter or kennel without first obtaining a city business
license. (1995 Code §
11-3-1; amd. 2003 Code)
5-1-6: RESTRAINT:
   A.   Dogs: All dogs shall be kept under "restraint", as defined in section
5-1-2 of this chapter, so as not to become a public nuisance. An animal shall
not be considered "under restraint" within the real property limits of the
owner if an individual engaged in a normal and expected activity may come in
contact with such animal on the owner's property. There must be sufficient
protection to ensure individual safety. (1995 Code § 11-4-1)
   B.   Care And Control Of Animals: No owner shall fail to exercise proper
care and control of his animals to prevent them from becoming a public
nuisance. (1995 Code § 11-4-2)
   C.   Female Dogs Contained: Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a
building or secured enclosure in such a manner that such female dog cannot come
into contact with another animal, except for planned breeding. (1995 Code § 11-
4-3)
   D.   Isolation/Quarantine Of Biting Animals:
      1.   Any animal which bites or, in the opinion of a licensed physician,
otherwise exposes any person to the danger of any disease, shall be isolated in
strict confinement, at the owner's expense, in the animal shelter or observed
for at least fourteen (14) days, ten (10) days for dogs and cats, except as
provided in subsection D2 of this section, after the day of infliction of the
bite. (1995 Code § 11-4-4; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Dogs and cats which have been isolated in strict confinement under
proper care and under observation of a licensed veterinarian in a pound,
veterinary hospital or other adequate facility, in a manner approved by the
animal control officer, after five (5) days of veterinary observation, if upon
conducting a thorough physical examination on the fifth day or more after
infliction of the bite, the observing veterinarian certifies that there are no
clinical signs or symptoms of any disease, said dog or cat may be released.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, the animal control officer may
authorize, with the permission of the owner and other legal restrictions
permitting, the euthanasia of a biting animal for the purpose of laboratory
examination for rabies using the fluorescent rabies and antibody (FRA) test in
an approved public health laboratory. (1995 Code § 14-4-5)
5-1-7: VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Defined: The definition of potentially dangerous or vicious animals is
as follows:
      1.   Any animal that, with or without provocation, chases or approaches a
person upon the streets, sidewalks or any public grounds in a threatening or
menacing fashion, or apparent attitude of attack, with or without provocation,
shall be considered potentially vicious or dangerous. In addition, a
potentially vicious/dangerous animal is any animal that, because of witnessed
action, is believed capable of causing injury, or otherwise posing a threat to
the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      2.   Any animal which has inflicted severe injury on a human being, with
or without provocation, on public or private property, has killed a domestic
animal, with or without provocation, while off the owner's property, or has
been previously found to be dangerous, the owner having received notice of such
and the animal again aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the safety of
humans or domestic animals, is deemed to be a vicious animal. Any "dangerous
animal", as defined in subsection A1 of this section, may be declared to be a
vicious animal if the animal is not maintained in the proper enclosure or the
animal is found to be in violation of any legal restrictions formerly placed on
such animal by the department of animal care and control, as provided in this
chapter. (1995 Code § 11-5-1)
   B.   Restriction Of Animal; Enclosure: Any person who owns or maintains a
potentially vicious/dangerous animal, shall use all reasonable means at his or
her disposal to restrict a potentially vicious/dangerous animal from injuring
any other person or animal. Any dangerous animal, while on the owner's
property, must be securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping. Such pen
or structure for an animal shall have secure sides and top and shall also
provide protection from the elements for the animal. The structure shall be
such that the animal cannot burrow or dig under the sides of the enclosure.
Potentially vicious/dangerous dogs must be kept in a fenced yard, dog run or
other structure which is at least six feet (6') in height by six feet (6') wide
by ten feet (10') in length. (1995 Code § 11-5-2)
   C.   Control Of Animal: It is unlawful for an owner of a dangerous animal to
permit the animal to be outside the proper enclosure unless the animal is
muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash and under physical
restraint of a responsible person. The muzzle shall be made in a manner that
will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration, but shall prevent it from biting any person or animal. (1995 Code
§ 11-5-3)
   D.   Right To Take Possession: Any animal control officer is authorized to
take immediate possession of a dangerous animal if the animal control officer
determines that the dangerous animal is not maintained in a proper enclosure,
is outside of the dwelling of the owner or outside of the proper enclosure and
not under physical restraint of some person, or if there are any further
violations of any legal restrictions formerly placed on such animal by the
department of animal care and control, as provided in this chapter. (1995 Code
§ 11-5-4)
   E.   Destruction Authority: If the department of animal care and control
believes that an animal is dangerous and finds that the animal is in violation
of such restrictions as the department deems necessary for the safety of
persons and animals in the community, the department may declare such an animal
to be a vicious animal. The department of animal care and control is hereby
authorized to immediately take possession of a vicious animal and place the
vicious animal in a proper quarantine facility and, after a proper and legal
quarantine period, destroy the animal in an expeditious and humane manner, if
the owner or custodian fails to make a request for a formal hearing as
hereinafter set forth. (1995 Code § 11-5-5)
   F.   Proper Holding Period: It is determined that a proper holding period
for vicious/dangerous animals shall be ten (10) consecutive days. In the event
the owner or custodian of the vicious/dangerous animal fails to request in
writing a formal hearing within the ten (10) day holding period, the department
of animal care and control is authorized to destroy the vicious/dangerous
animal in a humane manner. The holding period shall be extended to meet state
and local regulations for quarantine of animals for rabies evaluation. (1995
Code § 11-5-6)
   G.   Hearing: Any owner or custodian who files a written request shall be
afforded a hearing before the city council to determine whether the animal
should be returned to the owner or custodian, or be destroyed. Such request
shall be in writing and delivered to the city hall at least seventy two (72)
hours prior to the close of the quarantine period. The city council shall
notify the owner of the animal by certified mail at the last known address
twenty four (24) hours prior to the hearing of the date, time and place of
hearing. The hearing shall be held within thirty (30) days or at the next
regularly scheduled city council meeting, whichever is later. (1995 Code § 11-
5-7; amd. 2003 Code)
5-1-8: WILD ANIMALS:
   A.   Display Or Exhibition Prohibited; Exception: No person shall keep or
permit to be kept on his premises any wild or vicious animal for display or for
exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee. This subsection shall
not be construed to apply to zoological parks, performing animal exhibitions or
circuses, or animals duly permitted and licensed by the state division of
wildlife resources. (1995 Code § 11-8-1)
   B.   Keeping As Pet Prohibited: No person shall keep or permit to be kept
any wild animal as a pet. (1995 Code § 11-8-2)
5-1-9: CARE OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Owner To Provide Proper Care: No owner shall fail to provide his
animals with sufficient good and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and
protection from the weather, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering,
and with humane care and treatment. (1995 Code § 11-7-1)
   B.   Mistreatment: No person shall beat, cruelly ill treat, torment,
overload, overwork, or otherwise abuse an animal, or cause, instigate or permit
any dog fight, cockfight, bullfight or other combat between animals or between
animals and humans. (1995 Code § 11-7-2)
   C.   Abandonment: No owner of an animal shall abandon such animal. (1995
Code § 11-7-3)
   D.   Vehicular Accidents: Any person who, as the operator of a motor
vehicle, strikes a domestic animal, shall stop and render such assistance as
may be reasonably possible, and shall immediately report such injury or death
to the animal's owner. In the event the owner cannot be ascertained and
located, such operator shall at once report the accident to the animal control
officer or other city official, appropriate law enforcement agency or to a
local humane society. (1995 Code § 11-7-4)
   E.   Immunizations: Owners of animals shall be required to obtain rabies
shots for said animals, and keep all shots and immunizations current. If an
animal is found not to have a current rabies shot, the owner shall be required
to post a cash deposit with the city, in such amount as established by
resolution of the city council, on the condition that the rabies shot is
obtained. Upon proof that the rabies shot has been obtained, the cash deposit
will be refunded. (1995 Code § 11-7-5; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Poison: No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether
mixed with food or not, so that the same may be eaten by any animal; provided,
that it shall not be unlawful for a person to expose on his own property common
rat poison mixed only with vegetable substance. (1995 Code § 11-7-6)
5-1-10: PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITIONS:
   A.   Inducement By Force: No performing animal exhibition or circus shall be
permitted in which animals are induced or encouraged to perform through the use
of chemical, mechanical, electrical or manual devices in a manner which will
cause, or is likely to cause, physical injury or suffering. (1995 Code § 11-9-
1)
   B.   Proper Equipment Required: All equipment used on a performing animal
shall fit properly and be in good working condition. (1995 Code § 11-9-2)
5-1-11: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Authority; Time Of Impoundment: Unrestrained dogs and nuisance animals
shall be taken by the animal control officer and impounded in the animal
shelter and there confined in a humane manner. Impounded dogs shall be kept for
not less than five (5) working days, except that if any animal shall have
bitten or attacked a person or other animal, the impoundment shall be for ten
(10) days. (1995 Code § 11-6-1)
   B.   Removal To County Impound: Any animal not claimed within twenty four
(24) hours will be removed to a county impound yard, and will then come under
the control of the county animal control officer. (1995 Code § 11-6-2)
   C.   Identification Of Owner: If by a license, tag or other means, the owner
of an impounded animal can be identified, the animal control officer shall
immediately, upon impoundment, notify the owner by telephone, mail or personal
contact. (1995 Code § 11-6-3)
   D.   Reclamation Fee: An owner reclaiming an impounded animal before said
animal is picked up by Emery County animal control shall pay a fee, in such
amount as established by resolution of the city council, for each day the
animal has been impounded. (1995 Code § 11-6-4; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Citations: In addition to, or in lieu of impounding an animal found at
large, the animal control officer may issue to the known owner of such animal a
citation for ordinance violation, as provided in subsection 5-1-12B of this
chapter. (1995 Code § 11-6-5; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Livestock Exemption: Livestock shall not be governed by this section to
the extent they are under the regulation and control of the state department of
agriculture or fall under provisions of the Utah agricultural code. (1995 Code
§ 11-6-6)
5-1-12: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person, individual, public or private corporation,
government, partnership or unincorporated association or firm violating any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 11-11-1; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Fine Schedule: The fine schedule shall be as established by resolution
of the city council. (Res. 1-9-97/B, 1-9-1997; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Purpose
5-2-2: Authority
5-2-3: Criminal Code Adopted
5-2-4: Prohibited Acts And Activities On City Parks And Grounds
5-2-5: Intoxicating Chemical Compounds
5-2-1: PURPOSE:
Pursuant to powers granted by the state set forth in various provisions of Utah
Code Annotated, the city intends by this chapter to govern and regulate actions
deemed to be criminal and/or offensive to life, property, health or safety of
its citizens. (1995 Code § 18-1-1)
5-2-2: AUTHORITY:
The city council shall have the authority, powers and duty to enforce these
provisions. The city council shall have the authority to interpolate, amend,
delete or change any or all of this chapter at any regular scheduled or special
meeting called for that purpose, being that a quorum is present and a majority
vote so dictates. (1995 Code § 18-1-2)
5-2-3: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   Adoption Of State Code: The Utah state criminal code, as modified and
amended from time to time by the Utah state legislature, is enacted and adopted
by reference for use in the city and shall be enforced by the city for all
criminal acts under the jurisdiction of the city. (1995 Code § 18-2-1)
   B.   Amendments Adopted: Each amendment to the Utah state criminal code
which is adopted is enacted and adopted for the city, except where such
provisions are expressly limited to political entities described in the code.
(1995 Code § 18-2-2)
   C.   Availability To Public: Current editions of the Utah state codes will
be kept on file at the city offices for public reference. (1995 Code § 18-2-3)
5-2-4: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES ON CITY PARKS AND GROUNDS:
   A.   Purpose: The city intends by this section to preserve and protect all
city owned public parks and property and to govern and regulate actions deemed
to be criminal and/or offensive to property, health or safety of its citizens
and to encourage use of designated areas for the activities stated herein.
   B.   Prohibited Acts And Activities: It shall be unlawful to ride bicycles,
skateboards, rollerblades, roller skates, motorcycles, ATVs, or other related
items on any of Green River city parks. This includes baseball parks, O.K.
Anderson Park, Shooting Sports Park, grounds adjacent to city hall, the JWP
Museum grounds and Elgin Park. This section does not apply when stated items
are used for transportation to or past said parks. Traveling through the parks
as a "shortcut" on stated items is a violation. Wheelchairs operated in a
normal manner by persons who are confined to them are not in violation.
   C.   Penalty: Penalty for violating this section shall be a class C
misdemeanor. (Ord. 2009-05, 11-10-2009)
5-2-5: INTOXICATING CHEMICAL COMPOUNDS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including a corporation or other
entity to manufacture, distribute, dispense, ingest, use, possess, purchase,
attempt to purchase, sell, publicly display for sale, attempt to sell, give,
trade or barter, any one or more of the following chemical compounds and/or
substances including their salts, isomers, homologues and salts of their
isomers and homologues:
      1.   Salvia divinorum or Salvinorum A. All parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as Salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
      2.   Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-0l8);
      3.   (6ar, 10ar)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan- 2-
yl)6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c] chromen-1-ol (also known as HU-210 or 1, 1-
dimethylheptyl-11-hydrody-delta8- tetrahydrocannabinol);
      4.   2-(3-hydroxycyclohexyl)-2-methyloctan-2-yl) pheno (also known as CP-
47,497), and the dimethylhexyl, dimethyloctyl and dimethyinonyl homologues of
CP-47,497;
      5.   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-073);
      6.   1-(2-(4 -(morpholinyl)ethyl))-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as
JWH-200);
      7.   1-Pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole (also known as JWH-250);
      8.   1-Hexyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-019);
      9.   1-Pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-398);
      10.   N-benzylpiperazine (also known as BZP);
      11.   1-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl) piperazine (also known as TFMPP);
      12.   Mephedrone or MDPV (3,4-methylenedioxypyrovalerone);
      13.   Any similar structural analogs of the above chemical compounds;
      14.   Any other synthetic cannabinoids.
   B.   It is not an offense under subsection A of this section if the person
was acting at the direction of an authorized agent of Emery County to enforce
or ensure compliance with this law prohibiting the sale of the aforementioned
intoxicating chemical compounds.
   C.   If any of the aforementioned intoxicating chemical compounds are found
in the possession of any person, they may be confiscated and destroyed by law
enforcement officials.
   D.   This section shall not apply to drugs or substances lawfully prescribed
or to drugs or substances which have been approved by the federal food and drug
administration or which are specifically permitted by Utah law.
   E.   Any person found to be in violation of this section will be guilty of a
class B misdemeanor and/or subject to a term of imprisonment not to exceed six
(6) months and a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or
both. Each day during which a violation of subsection A of this section occurs
shall constitute a separate offense.
   F.   The city of Green River shall have the authority to seek an injunction
to compel compliance of any business which fails to or refuses to comply with
this section.
   G.   If any provision of this section is held invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect the remaining provisions of this section which shall remain
effective absent the invalid provision, and to this end, the provisions of this
section are declared to be severable. (Ord. 2011-01, 2-8-2011)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-3-1: Curfew, Minors; Exceptions
5-3-2: Responsibility Of Parents And Guardians
5-3-3: Penalty
5-3-1: CURFEW, MINORS; EXCEPTIONS:
No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be or remain upon any of
the streets, alleys, or public places or vacant lots on Friday or Saturday
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to five o'clock (5:00)
A.M., and Sunday through Thursday between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. to five o'clock (5:00) A.M., unless such person is accompanied by a
parent, guardian or other person having legal custody of such minor person, or
unless the employment of lawful business of such minor makes it necessary to be
upon the streets, alleys, or public places between such specified hours. On any
night when school, civic or church functions are taking place, the hours of
curfew shall be twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to five o'clock (5:00) A.M. in
order to provide adequate time to attend such functions provided for minor
persons. The minor persons shall have no more than thirty (30) minutes to
arrive home. (Ord. 2008-03, 10-14-2008)
5-3-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS AND GUARDIANS:
No parent, guardian or other person having legal charge or custody of any
person under eighteen (18) years of age shall knowingly allow or permit any
such person or child, ward, or other person under such age while in such legal
custody, to go or be in or upon any of the streets, alleys or public places
when such going or being in or upon such streets, alleys or public places would
be a violation of such minor person or any provision of this chapter. (Ord.
2008-03, 10-14-2008)
5-3-3: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be a class B misdemeanor. (Ord. 2008-03,
10-14-2008)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Code Adopted By Reference
6-1-2: Operation Of OHV By Persons Sixteen Years Of Age And Older
6-1-3: Operation Of OHV By Persons Under Sixteen Years Of Age
6-1-4: Designation Of OHV Routes
6-1-5: Engine Brake Restrictions
6-1-6: Stopping Or Parking; Prohibited In Certain Areas
6-1-7: Parking Signs Required
6-1-8: Unauthorized Use Of Streets; Penalties
6-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   A.   Adoption Of Utah Traffic Code: Except insofar as the application
thereof is clearly impractical or inappropriate, in view of the context of
purposes or penalty as provided, all of the definitions, requirements,
regulations, prohibitions, provisions and sections of the Utah traffic code
(title 41), as amended, are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations
thereof shall be considered violations of this section and each such violation
shall subject the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this section if
proceeded hereunder and shall be enforced under the direction of Emery County
Sheriff Department and designees to include Officers of Green River City.
   B.   Adoption Of Off Highway Vehicle Act: Utah Code Annotated title 41,
chapter 22, as it applies to all off highway vehicles other than snowmobiles,
shall constitute the city ordinances as to the rules and regulations governing
off highway vehicles (hereinafter OHV) and the same shall be construed to make
them applicable as city ordinances. (Ord. 04-03, 9-14-2004; amd. Ord. 2018-03,
7-10-2018)
6-1-2: OPERATION OF OHV BY PERSONS SIXTEEN YEARS OF AGE AND OLDER:
No person sixteen (16) years or older shall operate an OHV on the designated
streets of the city unless such person has a valid driver's license. The
violation of this provision shall be punishable as a class C misdemeanor. (Ord.
04-03, 9-14-2004)
6-1-3: OPERATION OF OHV BY PERSONS UNDER SIXTEEN YEARS OF AGE:
No person under sixteen (16) may operate and no owner may give permission to
person under sixteen (16) to operate an OHV on the designated streets of the
city unless such person is under the direct visual supervision of an adult
eighteen (18) years of age or older holding a valid driver's license. The
violation of this provision shall be punishable as an infraction with a maximum
fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) per offense. (Ord. 04-03, 9-14-2004)
6-1-4: DESIGNATION OF OHV ROUTES:
   A.   All streets within the city are designated as permissible routes for
the use of OHVs subject to all other rules and regulations outlined in this
chapter.
   B.   The use of the above designated routes by OHVs shall be exclusively for
the purpose of accessing approved trails or roadways on state and federal lands
outside the city limits. (Ord. 04-03, 9-14-2004)
6-1-5: ENGINE BRAKE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for a person to operate or permit the
operation of the engine of a motor vehicle so as to assist in braking or
slowing the vehicle through the use of any engine exhaust brake device (unless
muffled) on any street or roadway within the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Punishment: Any person violating this section, upon conviction, shall
be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00), along with
cost of prosecution and, in default of the payment thereof, shall be sentenced
to undergo imprisonment for a period not to exceed five (5) days. Each day such
violation continues is a separate offense.
   C.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to emergency driving
situations requiring the utilization of an engine brake to protect the safety
and property of the residents of the city, other motor vehicle operators,
pedestrians and the operator and passengers of the motor vehicle involved in
said emergency situation.
   D.   Posting Of Signs: Signs shall be posted at the appropriate places
advising motor vehicle operators of the prohibition of the use of engine brakes
within the city limits of the city of Green River. Sign to read:
UNMUFFLED ENGINE BRAKE USE PROHIBITED - $50 FINE
(Ord. 2011-03, 9-13-2011)
6-1-6: STOPPING OR PARKING; PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk area;
      2.   In front or within five feet (5') of a private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant, as measured in both
directions along the street or highway curb line from the line extending from
the center of the hydrant to the curb line at its nearest point;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within fifty feet (50') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach of any flashing beacon or
traffic control device located at the side of a roadway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb, or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless authorized signs or markings indicate a different length;
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station, and on the side of a street opposite the entrance when properly
signposted;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct or be hazardous to traffic;
      12.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street, or
within a street tunnel or underpass;
      13.   At any place where official signs or traffic markings prohibit
stopping, standing or parking;
      14.   At any place in any public park, playground or grounds of any
public buildings other than on the roads or parking lots provided for public
parking and then only in accordance with the provisions of any signs,
officially installed by the city;
      15.   On any footpath in any park or playground;
      16.   Within a fire lane, as designated by the city, whether on public or
private property;
      17.   On any median or island, or on any dividing section of a roadway;
      18.   On any public street or alley where the width of the roadway is
less than twenty feet (20');
      19.   Upon any private driveway where the width of the driveway is less
than twenty feet (20').
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle under such person's control into any
such prohibited area, or upon any area not designated for vehicular travel or
parking. (Ord. 2018-03, 7-10-2018)
6-1-7: PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED:
When by this chapter or any other ordinance of the city, and except for parking
meter zones, any parking time limit is imposed or parking is prohibited on
designated streets or parts of streets, the city shall erect or place and
maintain appropriate signs or traffic markings giving notice thereof and no
such regulations shall be effective unless said signs or traffic marking are
erected and in place at the time of any alleged violation. (Ord. 2018-03, 7-10-
2018)
6-1-8: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF STREETS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person engaging in the unauthorized use of streets within the city
shall be liable for a civil penalty. Any penalty assessed herein may be in
addition to such other penalties as may be provided in this title.
   B.   Civil penalties shall be imposed as follows:
 
Section Penalty
6-1-5   $50.00
6-1-6   $25.00
 
   C.   Any penalty that is paid within twenty (20) days from the date of
receipt of notice shall be reduced by the sum of ten dollars ($10.00).
   D.   Any penalty that remains unpaid beyond thirty (30) days from date of
receipt of notice shall be increased by the sum of ten dollars ($10.00).
   E.   Any penalty that remains unpaid beyond sixty (60) days from the date of
receipt of notice shall be increased by the sum of an additional fifteen
dollars ($15.00).
   F.   As used in this section, "receipt of notice" means the affixing of a
notice to the vehicle alleged to have been employed in such unauthorized use,
or by delivery of such notice to the owner or driver thereof. (Ord. 2018-03, 7-
10-2018)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
TREES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Tree Board
7-1-3: Rules, Regulations And Requirements
7-1-4: Arborists; License And Insurance
7-1-5: Penalty
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, as used herein, shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them by this section:
PARK TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in parks and
public areas owned by the city of Green River, Utah.
STREET TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on property
or rights of way owned by the city of Green River, Utah, lying between property
lines on either side of all streets, avenues or alleyways within the city.
(1995 Code § 86-1-1)
7-1-2: TREE BOARD:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created and established a tree board for the
city, which shall consist of five (5) members, citizens and residents of the
city, who shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the city
council. One member of the board shall be a member of the city council. (1995
Code § 86-1-2)
   B.   Terms Of Office: The term of the five (5) persons to be appointed by
the mayor shall be two (2) years, except that the term of two (2) of the
members appointed to the first tree board shall be for one year and the term of
two (2) of the members of the first tree board shall be for two (2) years. The
term of the member of the city council shall coincide with his term of office.
In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his
successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term being
vacated. (1995 Code § 86-1-3)
   C.   Compensation: Members of the tree board shall serve without
compensation. (1995 Code § 86-1-4)
   D.   Duties And Responsibilities: It shall be the responsibility of the tree
board to study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and
administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting,
replanting, removal or disposition of street trees and park trees. Such plan
will be presented annually to the city council and, upon their acceptance and
approval, shall constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan for the
city. The tree board, when requested by the city council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or
question coming within the scope of its work. (1995 Code § 86-1-5)
   E.   Operation Of Board: The tree board shall choose its own officers, make
its own rules and regulations in accordance and in compliance with applicable
law, and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the members shall be
a quorum for the transaction of business. (1995 Code § 86-1-6)
   F.   Review By City Council; Appeal: The city council shall have the right
to review the conduct, acts and decisions of the tree board. Any person may
appeal from any ruling or order of the tree board to the city council, who may
hear the matter and make final decisions. (1995 Code § 86-3-2)
7-1-3: RULES, REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Species To Be Planted: The tree board shall develop and maintain a list
of desirable trees for planting along streets in three (3) size classes based
on mature height: small (under 20 feet); medium (20 to 40 feet); and large
(over 40 feet). Lists of trees not suitable for planting will also be created
by the tree board. (1995 Code § 86-2-1)
   B.   Spacing: The spacing of street trees and park trees will be in
accordance with the tree species size classes listed in subsection A of this
section, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, thirty feet (30'); medium trees, forty feet (40'); and large trees,
fifty feet (50'); except in special plantings designed or approved by a
landscape architect. (1995 Code § 86-2-2)
   C.   Distance From Curb And Sidewalk: The distance trees may be planted from
curbs or curblines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three (3)
species size classes listed in subsection A of this section, and no trees may
be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, one
foot (1'); medium trees, three feet (3'); and large trees, four feet (4').
(1995 Code § 86-2-3)
   D.   Distances For Street Corners And Fireplugs: No street tree or park tree
shall be planted within thirty five feet (35') of any street corner, measured
from the point of nearest intersecting curbs and curblines. No street tree or
park tree shall be planted within ten feet (10') of any fireplug. (1995 Code §
86-2-4)
   E.   Utilities: No street tree or park tree, other than those species listed
as small trees in subsection A of this section, may be planted under or within
ten feet (10') of any overhead utility wire. (1995 Code § 86-2-5)
   F.   Public Tree Care: The city shall have the right to plant, prune,
maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds as may be necessary to
ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such
public grounds. (1995 Code § 86-2-6)
   G.   Removal Of Trees: The tree board may remove, or cause or order to be
removed, any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which, by
reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines,
water lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious
fungus, insect or other pest. This subsection does not prohibit the planting of
street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and
location of said trees is in accordance with subsections A through E of this
section. (1995 Code § 86-2-7)
   H.   Tree Topping: It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person,
firm or city department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on
public property. "Topping" is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to
stubs larger than three inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such
a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees
severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility
wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical, may
be exempted from this subsection at the determination of the tree board. (1995
Code § 86-2-8)
   I.   Pruning; Corner Clearance: Every owner of any tree overhanging any
street or right of way within the city shall prune the branches so that such
branches shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp, or obstruct the
view of any street intersection, and so that there shall be a clear space of
thirteen feet (13') above surface or eight feet (8') above the sidewalk
surface. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property
when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a
streetlight, or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device or
sign or sight triangle at intersections, at the owner's expense. Tree limbs
that grow near high voltage electrical conductors shall be maintained clear of
such conductors by the electric utility company in compliance with any
applicable franchise agreements. (1995 Code § 86-2-9)
   J.   Dead Or Diseased Tree Removal On Private Property: The tree board shall
have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private
property within the city when such trees constitute a hazard to life and
property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to
other trees within the city. The tree board will notify in writing the owners
of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense within
sixty (60) days after the date of service of notice. In the event of failure of
owners to comply with such provisions, the city shall have the authority to
remove such trees and charge the cost of removal to the owner's property tax
notice. (1995 Code § 86-2-10)
   K.   Removal Of Stumps: All stumps of street trees and park trees shall be
removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not
project above the surface of the ground. (1995 Code § 86-2-11)
   L.   Interference With Tree Board Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to prevent, delay or interfere with the tree board, or any of its
agents, while engaging in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching,
pruning, spraying or removing of any street trees, park trees or trees on
private grounds, as authorized in this chapter. (1995 Code § 86-2-12)
7-1-4: ARBORISTS; LICENSE AND INSURANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating or removing street trees or park trees within
the city without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee
shall be in accordance with current license fee schedules of the city, paid in
accordance to the licensing ordinance of the city; provided, however, that no
license shall be required of any public service company or city employee doing
such work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any license
shall be issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of
liability insurance in the minimum amounts of three hundred thousand dollars
($300,000.00) for bodily injury and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
property damage indemnifying the city or any person or property injured or
damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described. (1995
Code § 86-3-1)
7-1-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class B
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 86-3-3; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MUSEUM
SECTION:
7-2-1: Purpose
7-2-2: Definitions
7-2-3: Advisory Board
7-2-4: City Responsibilities
7-2-1: PURPOSE:
The John Wesley Powell river history museum is a facility owned and operated by
the city. The purpose of the museum is to collect and display historical
material related to the early exploration of the Green and Colorado Rivers and
the development of the early history of the city and the west. The museum
enhances educational opportunities for citizens of the city and visitors to the
area. The museum is an asset to the community and a source of community pride,
and the city intends to operate and manage the museum in connection with an
advisory board of citizens interested in the purposes for which the museum was
founded. (1995 Code § 55-1-1)
7-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings herein described:
ADVISORY BOARD: The John Wesley Powell river history museum advisory board.
CITY: The city of Green River, Utah.
MUSEUM: The John Wesley Powell river history museum. (1995 Code § 55-1-2)
7-2-3: ADVISORY BOARD:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created a John Wesley Powell river history
museum advisory board comprised of seven (7) to nine (9) citizens, one of whom
shall be a member of the city council. There shall be one ex officio
representative who is an employee of the city. All members of the advisory
board shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city
council. (Ord., 7-7-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Terms Of Office: Members of the advisory board shall serve a term of
four (4) years. Initial terms of office of the board members shall be staggered
as follows: three (3) members shall be appointed to terms of two (2) years and
three (3) members shall be appointed to terms of four (4) years. The council
member's term shall coincide with his council term. Members of the advisory
board may be reappointed at the expiration of each term of office. (1995 Code §
55-2-2)
   C.   Compensation: Members of the advisory board shall serve as volunteers
without pay. The city may reimburse members of the advisory board for actual
out of pocket expenses upon request. (1995 Code § 55-2-3)
   D.   Powers And Duties: The advisory board shall have the following powers
and duties:
      1.   To meet as often as needed, but no less than twice per year to
review the operations of the museum, the exhibits on display at the museum, the
staff services offered by the museum, the retail sales of articles at the
museum, and such other matters as may be incorporated into the activities of
the museum from time to time.
      2.   To investigate and recommend to the city council improvements of the
museum, including additional exhibits, utilization of space, staff and
personnel needs and improvements in the day to day functioning of the museum
which will enhance the purposes for which the museum has been established.
      3.   To annually, on or before May 15 of each year, recommend to the city
a budget for the operations of the museum for the next fiscal year which shall
coincide with the budget year for the city, which is July 1 to June 30 of each
year.
      4.   The advisory board shall select a chairman and vice chairman and
secretary as officers of the board. (1995 Code § 55-2-4)
7-2-4: CITY RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Fund Accounting: A separate account shall be established in the budget
and fund accounting system of the city to account for all revenues and expenses
of the museum, including revenues generated from sales of merchandise, rental
of space, tours and other activities sponsored under or by the direction of the
city at the museum. (1995 Code § 55-3-1)
   B.   Treasurer To Deposit: It is the responsibility of the city treasurer to
assure the collection of all funds which are revenues of the museum, and the
deposit of such funds to the account of the city for use and benefit to the
museum. (1995 Code § 55-3-2)
   C.   Insurance And Maintenance: The city shall assure that the building
structure, internal operating system, personal property owned by the city, and
property leased or on loan to the city, is fully insured and that the building
is maintained in a safe, attractive and operable condition consistent with the
operations of the museum and the purposes for which the museum was constructed.
(1995 Code § 55-3-3)
   D.   Operating Procedures: The city may, from time to time by resolution,
define the operating hours of the museum and the terms and conditions of staff
employment at the museum to operate the museum in a manner consistent with the
purposes for which the museum was founded. (1995 Code § 55-3-4)
CHAPTER 3
AIRPORT
SECTION:
7-3-1: Administrative Provisions
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Rules, Regulations And Requirements
7-3-4: Aeronautical Activities Standards
7-3-5: Lease Agreements For New Aircraft Storage Hangars
7-3-6: Compliance And Annual Review
7-3-1: ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Name Designated: The airport facility located approximately five (5)
miles south of the city and owned by the city is hereby designated as the Green
River airport.
   B.   Scope Of Authority: The city's inherent power to contract and to
enforce its policies and all of its ordinances related to the maintenance of
order and the protection of its property, and all other pertinent provisions of
the city shall be applicable to and effective upon the territory included in
the Green River airport.
   C.   Airport Manager:
      1.   The airport manager, with the concurrence of the mayor, is hereby
authorized and directed to promulgate rules and regulations not in conflict
with law or ordinance with reference to the use of the airport and control and
management thereof.
      2.   The airport manager, with the concurrence of the mayor, may restrict
or terminate any person's privilege to use the airport facilities if that
person violates this chapter or any of the airport rules or regulations. (1995
Code §
10-1-1)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used herein, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them by this section:
ACCIDENT: A collision between an aircraft or a vehicle, person, stationary
object or other thing which results in property damage, personal injury or
death; or an entry into or emergence from a moving aircraft or vehicle by a
person which results in personal injury or death to such person or some other
person, or which results in property damage.
AEROBATIC FLYING: Any activity, whether or not conducted on the airport, which
involves, makes possible, or includes, but is not limited to, all activities
commonly conducted on airports, such as charter operations, pilot training,
aircraft rental and sight seeing, aerial photography, crop dusting, flying
clubs, aerial advertising and surveying, air carrier operations, aircraft
sales, aircraft service, aviation petroleum product sales, repair and
maintenance of aircraft, sale of aircraft parts, sale of aircraft accessories,
radio sales and repair, navigation equipment sales and repair, and other
activity which, because of its direct relationship with the operation of
aircraft, can properly be regarded as an aeronautical activity.
AIR TRAFFIC: Aircraft in operation anywhere in the airspace and on that area of
the airport normally used for the movement of aircraft.
AIRCRAFT: A device that is used or intended to be used for flight in the air.
AIRCRAFT OPERATION: An aircraft arrival at or departure from the airport.
AIRCRAFT PARKING AND STORAGE AREA: The open areas of the airport set aside for
aircraft parking and storage space for the parking and storage of aircraft, or
areas for the servicing of aircraft with fuel, lubricants or other supplies, or
for making minor or emergency repairs to aircraft, or for any and all such
purposes.
AIRPLANE: An engine driven fixed wing aircraft heavier than air, that is
supported in flight by the dynamic reaction of the air against the wings; or
any helicopter.
AIRPORT: All of the city owned or leased real or personal property comprising
the Green River airport, located approximately five (5) miles south of the city
of Green River, Utah, as now exists or as may hereinafter be expanded and
developed, which shall include all of its facilities.
AIRPORT MANAGER: The duly appointed manager of the airport.
CITY: The municipality known as the city of Green River, Utah.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Green River.
COMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY: Any "aeronautical activity", as defined in
this section, which is conducted for profit and personal or collective gain.
FIXED BASE OPERATOR: Any person meeting the minimum standards for a commercial
aeronautical activity established by this chapter and engaging in a least three
(3) of the following commercial aeronautical activities: public aviation fuel
sales; aircraft engine, airframe, and accessory sales and service; flight
training; aircraft charter and taxi service.
FLYING CLUB: An association or group of more than three (3) persons, jointly
owning or leasing aircraft, where payment is made to the club for the operating
time of such aircraft.
FUEL HANDLING: The transportation, delivery, fueling and drainage of fuel or
fuel waste products.
FUEL STORAGE AREA: Any portion of the airport designated by the airport manager
as areas in which gasoline or any other type of fuel may be stored or loaded.
LAYOUT/CONCEPT PLAN: The currently approved, scaled dimensional layout of the
entire airport properties, indicating current and proposed usage for each
identifiable segment as approved by the city council and amended from time to
time.
MAYOR: The duly elected or appointed mayor of the city.
MOTOR VEHICLE: A vehicle which is self-propelled.
NONCOMMERCIAL AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITY: Any "aeronautical activity", as defined in
this section, which is conducted by a person or organization incorporated under
the laws of the state of Utah as a nonprofit corporation, or as a duly
organized nonprofit functioning incorporated association, and which is not
conducted for personal or collective profit.
OFF AIRPORT USER: A person owning or controlling one or more aircraft stored,
hangared, tied down, maintained or otherwise kept on property adjacent to the
airport, and who requires access to the airport for the use of said aircraft.
OPERATIONAL AREA: Any place on the airport not leased or demised to anyone for
exclusive occupancy.
OWNER: A person who holds legal title of an aircraft or vehicle, or in the
event that the aircraft or vehicle is the subject of a conditional sale or
lease thereof, the person entitled to possession.
PERMISSION: Permission granted by the airport manager pursuant to this chapter
to engage in a specific aeronautical or other activity of the airport.
PERMIT: A permit is required for any person or business to conduct commercial
activity on airport property when such activity is not pursuant to the terms of
a lease for airport property.
PERSON: Any person, firm, general or limited partnership, corporation, trust or
other association making application for, leasing or using any land or facility
at the airport.
STANDARDS: The qualifications established herein, as amended from time to time
by the city council, setting forth the minimum policies and requirements to be
met as a condition for the right to conduct an aeronautical activity on the
airport or use of the airport.
TRAFFIC PATTERN: The traffic flow that is prescribed for aircraft landing at,
taxiing on, or taking off from the airport.
VEHICLE PARKING AREA: Any portion of the airport designated and made available,
temporarily or permanently, by the airport manager for the parking of vehicles.
(1995 Code §
10-1-2)
7-3-3: RULES, REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Aeronautical Regulations; Compliance Required: It is the city's policy
to require any aviator, or other person, to comply with all of the rules and
regulations adopted and promulgated by the federal aviation administration, and
the Utah state aeronautics commission in the use of the airport. All said rules
and regulations so adopted and promulgated from time to time and the current
version thereof are hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof as fully
as if the same and each of them were completely set forth herein. (1995 Code §
10-1-3)
   B.   Civil Aircraft; U.S. License Required; Exceptions: It is the city's
policy to prohibit any person to pilot any civil aircraft, unless such person
is the holder of a currently effective pilot certificate of competency issued
by the government of the United States, but this restriction shall not apply to
any person operating an aircraft licensed by a foreign country with which the
United States has a reciprocal agreement covering the operation of such
licensed aircraft. (1995 Code § 10-1-4)
   C.   Fuel Flowage Fee: The city, at its own option, may impose an aviation
fuel flowage fee for aviation fuel delivered by any fixed base operator located
at the airport. (1995 Code § 10-1-5)
   D.   Aircraft Tie Down Fee: The city, at its own option, may impose a tie
down fee for aircraft secured in public areas. (1995 Code § 10-1-6)
   E.   Height Of Flight: It shall be unlawful for any airman, or other person,
to fly or otherwise navigate any aircraft over the city limits at a lower
altitude than one thousand feet (1,000') above ground level, except in landing
or taking off from the airport and on the established landing pattern. (1995
Code § 10-1-7)
   F.   Pilots; Commercial Flights: It is the city's policy to prohibit any
person to carry any passenger for hire or reward in any aircraft unless such
person has been properly licensed as a transport pilot or is a commercial
pilot, and no person shall use any aircraft in commercial flights which has not
been licensed and inspected in accordance with air commerce regulations of the
federal aviation administration. (1995 Code § 10-1-8)
   G.   Exceptions For Military: All officers and members of the United States
army, the United States air force, the United States navy and officers and
members of the national guard, while engaged in service of the United States,
and all aircraft owned and operated under the authority of the United States
army, United States air force, United States navy and national guard, shall be
subject to the provision of this chapter, except as to licensing of aircraft
and airmen. (1995 Code § 10-1-9)
   H.   Landing Field: It shall be unlawful for any person to set up or
maintain within the city limits any landing field for aircraft without written
permission first obtained from the city council. (1995 Code § 10-1-10)
   I.   Tampering With Aircraft: It is city policy to prohibit any person from
interfering or tampering with any aircraft or to put in motion the engine of
such aircraft, or use any aircraft, aircraft parts, instruments or tools
without permission of the owner or by specific direction of the airport
manager. (1995 Code § 10-1-11)
   J.   Tampering With Airport Or Equipment: It is city policy to prohibit any
person from interfering or tampering with any airport located within or under
the jurisdiction of the city, or any landing field, airway, heliports or the
equipment thereof. (1995 Code § 10-1-12)
   K.   Accident Reporting: It is city policy to require persons involved in
aircraft accidents occurring on the airport to make a full report thereof,
including names and addresses, time, place and cause, and any inquiries
occasioned thereby to the airport manager as soon after the accident as is
possible. When a written report of an accident is required by federal aviation
administration regulations, a copy of such report may be submitted to the
airport manager in lieu of the report required by this subsection. (1995 Code §
10-1-13)
   L.   Removal Of Aircraft: It is city policy for aircraft owners, their
pilots or agents, to be responsible for the prompt removal of disabled aircraft
and parts thereof, unless required or as directed by the federal aviation
administration and the airport manager to delay such action pending an
investigation of an accident. In the event of failure to promptly remove such
disabled aircraft, the airport manager shall cause the aircraft to be removed
and bill the owners thereof for all charges incurred in the removal of same.
(1995 Code § 10-1-14)
   M.   Refusal Of Clearance: The airport manager may delay or restrict any
flight or other operations at the airport for any reason the airport manager
believes justifiable to protect life, limb or property. The airport manager may
also prohibit the use in all or in part of the airport for any purpose, by any
individual or group, as may be needed to protect public health, safety or
welfare. (1995 Code § 10-1-15)
   N.   Airport Navigational Rules And Regulations:
      1.   Federal aviation administration regulations, together with Utah
state and airport rules and regulations, are the rules for all airport use. The
mayor will be the final authority in the interpretation of airport rules.
      2.   The city and the airport manager assume no responsibility for
damages or theft to aircraft or other vehicles operated or parked at the
airport. The field is open to other flying public, day and night, weather
permitting. It is the city's policy to enforce the following:
         a.   Tie downs are available and mandatory for both permanent and
transient aircraft.
         b.   Cars must be kept off the ramps, taxiway and runways, except for
official vehicles on duty. Nonofficial vehicles may be driven to an aircraft
for passenger/baggage loading and unloading. Drivers will proceed carefully
through access gates and observe a speed limit of twenty (20) miles per hour
while inside the fenced area. Upon completion of the passenger/baggage
transfer, the vehicle will be driven to a designated parking area.
         c.   There shall be no maintenance for profit conducted on the ramp or
in aircraft hangars. This is not meant to prohibit aircraft owners from
performing routine caretaking functions such as oil changes, minor adjustments,
washing, waxing and the like. However, nonemergency repairs to aircraft
requiring the expertise of a licensed airframe and/or power plant mechanic
shall only be performed on the premises by persons employed by entities
licensed to operate on the airport.
      3.   The airport manager shall inform users of the airport's navigational
and flight operations aids, and shall operate and maintain such aids.
      4.   The airport manager shall be responsible for formulating and
informing aviators of the airport's pilot operational procedures. (1995 Code §
10-1-16)
   O.   Airport Use; Permits And Licenses: It is the city's policy to prohibit
any person to use any land within the airport unless a valid contract or
agreement has been executed with the city and said land is used in conformance
with all laws, regulations and standards herein and elsewhere established for
said use. No person shall be granted an exclusive right to conduct any
aeronautical activity upon the airport, unless it would be infeasible to allow
more than one person to conduct that aeronautical activity. Furthermore, no
person shall be permitted to use any land or conduct any aeronautical activity
or the solicitation of business in connection therewith unless such
aeronautical activity is conducted in accordance with the standards herein
established, and is based upon the issuance of the proper permits or licenses.
(1995 Code § 10-1-17)
   P.   Application For Use: Applications for lease of ground and/or facilities
on the airport, or for permission to carry on any commercial or noncommercial
aeronautical activity on the airport, shall be made to the airport manager. The
airport manager shall thereafter present the application to the mayor. The
application shall be signed and submitted by a party owning an interest in the
business, or the individual who will be managing the business, or partner of a
partnership or a director or an officer of a corporation.
      1.   The mayor will not accept or take action on a request for any
commercial or noncommercial activity until after the applicant, in writing,
submits a proposal which sets forth the scope of operation proposed, including
the following:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant.
         b.   The proposed land use, facility and/or activity sought, including
layout of buildings, appurtenances and spaces to be occupied.
         c.   An organizational chart showing employees names, duty status and
job qualifications.
         d.   Proof of sufficient available operating resources to sustain the
operation for reasonable length of time. Operating resources shall not include
prospective profits from the operation.
         e.   Names and financial statement of any proposed guarantors.
         f.   Pro forma operating statement for the first year.
         g.   A statement of tools, equipment, services and inventory, if any,
proposed to be furnished in connection with such activity.
         h.   The requested or proposed date for commencement of the activity,
and the term of conducting the same.
         i.   The estimated cost of any structure or facility to be furnished,
the proposed specifications of the same, and the means or method of financing
such.
         j.   The specific types and amounts of insurance proposed in
accordance with minimum requirements for the activity.
         k.   Proposed operational hours.
      2.   If requested by the mayor, the applicant shall submit the following
supportive documents to the mayor, together with such other documents and
information as may be required by the mayor, which shall include, but not be
limited to, the following:
         a.   A current financial statement.
         b.   A written listing of the assets owned or being purchased which
will be used in the aeronautical activity.
         c.   A current credit report.
         d.   A written authorization from the FAA and the CAB and all aviation
or aeronautical commissions, administrators or departments of all states in
which the applicant has engaged in aeronautical activities, to supply the mayor
with all information in their files relating to such applicant or his
operation. The applicant shall execute such forms, releases and discharges as
may be requested by any of these agencies.
         e.   Proof of insurance required by this chapter.
      3.   At the discretion of the mayor, all other persons then conducting
aeronautical activities on the airport who, in the opinion of the mayor, would
be directly affected by the granting of the application in question, may also
be notified of the filing of such application. (1995 Code § 10-1-18)
   Q.   Action On Application By Mayor: The mayor shall consider the
application within a reasonable time and shall thereafter either approve the
application, approve the application subject to reasonable conditions or deny
the application. Upon approval or conditional approval, the city shall enter
into a lease agreement with the applicant. Applications may be denied for one
or more of the following reasons:
      1.   The applicant for any reason does not meet the qualifications,
standards and requirements established by this chapter.
      2.   The applicant's proposed operations or construction will create a
safety hazard on the airport.
      3.   The granting of the application will require expenditure of city
funds, or use of city labor or materials in connection with the proposed
operations, to an extent which, or at a time when, the city is unwilling to
enter into such arrangements; or the operation will result in financial loss to
the city.
      4.   There is no appropriate, adequate or available space or building on
the airport to accommodate the entire activity of the applicant at the time of
the application.
      5.   The proposed operation or airport development or construction does
not comply with the concept/layout plan of the airport.
      6.   The development or use of the area requested by the applicant will
result in depriving existing fixed base operators of portions of the areas in
which they are operating; or will result in a congestion of aircraft or
buildings; or will unduly interfere with the operations of any present fixed
base operator on the airport through problems in connection with the aircraft
traffic or service, or preventing free access to the fixed base operator's
area.
      7.   Any party applying, or interested in the business, has supplied the
city, the mayor, or the airport manager with any false information or has
misrepresented any material fact in his application or in supporting documents
or has failed to make full disclosure on his application or in supporting
documents.
      8.   Any party applying or interested in the business, has a record of
violating the provisions of this chapter, or the rules and regulations of any
other airport, federal aviation regulations, or any other rules and regulations
applicable to the airport.
      9.   Any party applying, or interested in the business, has defaulted in
the performance of any lease or other agreement with the city.
      10.   Any party applying, or interested in the business, has a credit
report which contains derogatory information and who does not appear to be a
person of satisfactory business responsibility and reputation.
      11.   The applicant does not appear to have or have access to the
finances necessary to conduct the proposed operation for a minimum period of
six (6) months.
      12.   Any party applying, or interested in the business, has been
convicted of any crime or violation of any ordinance of such nature that it
indicates to the mayor that the applicant would not be a desirable operator on
the airport.
      13.   The protection of the health, welfare, safety or morals of the
inhabitants of the city require such denial.
      14.   The applicant is unwilling or unable to post a performance bond
equal to six (6) months' rental or a deposit of a cash equivalent, or advance
payment of six (6) months' rental. (1995 Code § 10-1-19)
7-3-4: AERONAUTICAL ACTIVITIES STANDARDS:
   A.   Standard Requirements For All Aeronautical Activity: In order for any
proposed agreement to be approved by the mayor, the following findings must be
made:
      1.   That the applicant has a history of management and/or personnel with
the ability in conducting the same or similar or comparable type of service or
activity in a good and workmanlike manner.
      2.   That the applicant has the financial responsibility and ability to
provide facilities and services proposed.
      3.   That the applicant has, or can secure, necessary certificates from
the FAA or other authority where the same are required for the activity
proposed.
      4.   That the applicant has, or can furnish, suitable indemnity insurance
or bond to protect and hold the city harmless from any liability in connection
with the conduct of the activity proposed.
      5.   That the applicant will provide the city with a performance bond
equal to or not less than six (6) months' rental, or other revenue, to the
airport.
      6.   That the applicant can meet the minimum standards herein stated for
the activity requested. (1995 Code §
10-2-1)
   B.   Standards For Commercial Aeronautical Activities: All persons engaging
in commercial aeronautical activities shall meet the following general
requirements:
      1.   Insurance: Carry property damage, personal injury and comprehensive
public liability insurance policies. The insurance shall not be less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence general liability, with bodily
injury liability of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per
person to a total of five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence
and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) property damage per occurrence.
Lower limits liability may be negotiated if the business can show lower
liability exposure than is normally associated with aeronautical activity.
         a.   The policy shall state that the insurance company shall have no
right of subrogation against the city.
         b.   Such insurance must name the city as a coinsured and provide for
specific coverage of the contractually assumed obligation to indemnify the
city.
         c.   The permittee/lessee must maintain a current, authenticated
certificate of insurance on file with the city. Failure to do so is cause for
immediate suspension of operations under the permit/lease.
         d.   The permittee/lessee shall indemnify and hold harmless the city
against any responsibility for damage, death, injury or loss to persons and
property which may occur during the permit/lease period or as a result of such
use.
         e.   The permittee/lessee shall furnish a copy of the insurance policy
to the mayor. The policy shall stipulate that the city be notified thirty (30)
days in advance of the termination or modification of the policy. For multi-
year operations, the insurance policy must be provided the first year, but each
subsequent year, the mayor may accept a valid certification of insurance. Those
permittee/lessees holding insurance policies which only insure the permittee/
lessee's employees must ensure that their employees also have the required
insurance in effect, and that a certificate of insurance is furnished by the
city. For short term and seasonal operations, the insurance need only be valid
during periods of actual use.
         f.   Provision of adequate building floor space, as determined by the
mayor, meeting applicable laws and ordinances in which to carry on the
commercial aeronautical activity.
      2.   Additional Regulations For Commercial Aeronautical Activities: Every
person conducting the following specific commercial aeronautical activities
shall meet the additional requirements as hereinafter set out:
         a.   A fixed base operator must engage in at least three (3) of the
following commercial aeronautical activities: aircraft engine, airframe and
accessory sales and maintenance; flight training; aircraft charter and taxi
service; or other commercial aeronautical activities subject to the minimum
standards set forth below pursuant to each specific activity. In addition, a
fixed base operator must meet the following standards:
            (1)   Provide storage space sufficient to hangar craft.
            (2)   Provide and maintain clean and appropriately finished
separate restrooms, labeled male and female, available to the general public.
            (3)   Provide a public telephone.
            (4)   Provide a clean, well maintained and finished waiting room
and pilot lounge.
            (5)   Provide and maintain a hard surfaced parking area for at
least four (4) aircraft.
         b.   Only fixed base operators shall be licensed to conduct aviation
fuel and oil sales or service to the public or the airport and shall be
required to provide:
            (1)   Two (2) grades of aviation fuel located in an approved
storage facility.
            (2)   An adequate inventory of at least two (2) brands of generally
accepted grades of aviation engine oil and lubricants.
            (3)   Property trained line personnel on duty.
            (4)   Adequate and sanitary handling and disposal, away from the
airport, of all trash, waste and other materials, including, but not limited
to, used oil, solvents and other waste. The piling and storage of crates,
boxes, barrels and other containers will not be permitted within the leased
premises.
            (5)   All refueling operations, procedures and equipment must be in
compliance with applicable federal, state and local fire codes, ordinances and
rules pertaining to fire safety as presently, or as hereinafter may be,
adopted. These include, but are not limited to, the international building
code, uniform fire code standards and national fire protection association
standards.
         c.   Duly licensed commercial aeronautical entities may conduct
private fueling services for aircraft owned and operated by each such entity
subject to the approval of the airport manager and/or the mayor, subject to the
following standards:
            (1)   Provision of approved fuel and oil storage facilities in a
location designated by the airport manager.
            (2)   Provision of mobile fuel-dispensing equipment meeting all
NFPA criteria to service aircraft.
            (3)   No refueling of any privately owned aircraft, other than by
fixed base operators is permitted, except in designated fueling areas.
            (4)   Nothing herein shall be construed as waiving the fuel flowage
fees, if any, to be paid to the city.
            (5)   All refueling operations, procedures and equipment must be in
compliance with applicable federal, state and local fire codes, ordinances and
rules pertaining to fire safety as presently, or as hereinafter may be,
adopted. These include, but are not limited to, the international building
code, uniform fire code standards, and national fire protection association
standards.
         d.   All persons operating aircraft engine, airframe and accessory
maintenance facilities to the public for hire shall provide:
            (1)   In case of airframe and/or engine repairs, sufficient hangar
space to house any aircraft upon which such service is being performed.
            (2)   Suitable inside and outside storage space for aircraft
awaiting repair or maintenance or delivery after repair and maintenance have
been completed.
            (3)   Adequate shop space to house the equipment and adequate
equipment and machine tools, jacks, lifts and testing equipment to perform top
overhauls as required for FAA certification and repair of parts not needing
replacements on all single engine land and light multi-engine land general
aviation aircraft.
            (4)   At least one federal aviation administration certified
airframe and power plant mechanic available eight (8) hours a day, five (5)
days per week.
            (5)   Proper equipment for repairing and inflating aircraft tires,
servicing oleostruts, changing engine oil, facilities for washing and cleaning
aircraft, recharging or energizing discharged aircraft batteries and starters.
            (6)   Adequate towing equipment and parking and tie down area to
safely and efficiently move aircraft and store them in all reasonably expected
weather conditions.
         e.   All persons conducting flight training activities shall provide:
            (1)   At least one properly certified flight instructor.
            (2)   At least one dual equipped single engine land aircraft
properly equipped and maintained for flight instruction and such additional
types of aircraft as may be required to give flight instruction of the kind
advertised.
            (3)   Adequate office and classroom space, and adequate mockups,
pictures, slides, film strips or other visual aids necessary to provide proper
ground school instruction.
            (4)   Properly certified ground school instructors providing
regularly scheduled ground school instruction.
            (5)   Continuing ability to meet certification requirements of the
FAA for the flight training proposed.
            (6)   Adequate facilities for storing, parking, servicing and
repairing all its aircraft or satisfactory arrangements with other operators
licensed or otherwise permitted by the mayor on the airport for such services.
         f.   Persons conducting an aircraft charter and/or air taxi service
shall provide:
            (1)   Passenger lounge, restroom and telephone facilities.
            (2)   Adequate table, desk or counter for checking in passengers,
handling ticketing or fare collection and handling luggage.
            (3)   Suitable, properly certified aircraft with properly certified
and qualified operation crew, one of which shall be located at the airport and
ready for departure during at least eight (8) hours of daylight operation, five
(5) days per week, except for legal holidays.
         g.   Persons conducting an aircraft rental and sales activity shall
provide:
            (1)   Suitable office space for consummating sales and/or rentals
and the keeping of proper records in connection therewith.
            (2)   Hangar storage space for at least one aircraft to be used for
sales or rental.
            (3)   For rental, at least one airworthy aircraft suitably
maintained and certified.
            (4)   Adequate facilities for servicing and repairing the aircraft
or satisfactory arrangements with other operators licensed by the mayor on the
airport for such service and repair.
            (5)   The minimum stock of readily available expendable parts, or
adequate arrangements for securing spare parts required for the type of
aircraft and models sold.
            (6)   Current up-to-date specifications and price lists for types
and models of new aircraft sold.
            (7)   Proper checklists and operating manuals on all aircraft
rented and adequate parts catalogue and service manual on new aircraft sold.
         h.   Persons conducting aircraft commuter and air carrier service
shall provide:
            (1)   An adequately manned and operated terminal facility,
including ticket and operations counter area, lounge and restroom facilities.
            (2)   A published schedule of operating times and rates.
            (3)   Reservations service with continuity of communication with
public which will help to prevent overbooking, provide ease of tickets
purchased, and cancellations, and provide interline reservations.
            (4)   Baggage handling service.
            (5)   Satisfactory evidence or reliability and responsibility,
including FAA operating permit.
            (6)   Operator shall furnish airport reports on operations on a
monthly basis.
         i.   Commercial aeronautical activities other than those listed above,
such as paint and upholstery shops, propeller shops, avionics shops, may also
be operated on the airport. General standards will be as directed by the mayor
or the airport manager and shall be in compliance with applicable local, state
and federal rules and regulations.
         j.   Any person conducting a combination of the specific activities
listed herein shall not be required to duplicate the requirements if the
combination is sufficient to meet the requirements of the separate activity to
be conducted.
      3.   Noncommercial Aeronautical Activities: Every person conducting the
following specific noncommercial aeronautical activities shall meet the
requirements hereinafter outlined:
         a.   Persons seeking to operate flying clubs shall be required to:
            (1)   Furnish the airport manager with a current roster of all
officers and directors, including places of residence, business address and the
telephone numbers, who are responsible for compliance by their members with all
regulations of the airport.
            (2)   Document that the flying club, or any individual member
thereof, is not providing instruction for other than its members, and is not
engaging in charter service or in any other commercial aeronautical activity at
the airport.
            (3)   Register all aircraft owned, leased or used by the flying
club with the airport manager.
            (4)   Assure that each aircraft operated, owned or leased by the
flying club is in full compliance with air worthiness requirements of the
appropriate federal agency.
            (5)   Provide each aircraft owned by the flying club with valid and
current aircraft liability insurance coverage in the following amounts:
aircraft general liability, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00); bodily injury,
two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) each person, five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) each accident; property damage, five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) each accident. Certificates of such insurance coverage
shall be filed with the airport manager and the policy shall contain a
provision whereby such insurance may be cancelled only after giving thirty (30)
days' written notice to the mayor at the city offices.
         b.   Other commercial or noncommercial activities may also be
conducted at the airport subject to the issuance of a permit as set forth
herein. The general standards stated above shall be applied as deemed
appropriate by the mayor, upon the recommendation of the airport manager. (1995
Code § 10-2-2)
7-3-5: LEASE AGREEMENTS FOR NEW AIRCRAFT STORAGE HANGARS:
   A.   Applications: Applications for airport lease agreements for the
construction of aircraft storage hangars on the airport property shall be made
to the mayor. The application shall be signed and dated by the party interested
in leasing said space. (1995 Code § 10-3-1)
   B.   Minimum Application Information: The mayor will only accept or take
action on request for construction for noncombustible type II N structures, as
specified in the international building code. The applicant shall submit at
least two (2) complete sets of plans and specifications. The plans shall
include the following:
      1.   Site, plot plan and elevation drawing.
      2.   Footing, foundation or grade beam detail, to include floor section.
      3.   Anchor bolt layout.
      4.   Wall cross sections, column and rafter detail.
      5.   End wall framing detail.
      6.   Door and threshold details.
      7.   Roof and sidewall panel layout.
      8.   End wall and side wall panel layout.
      9.   Mechanical, plumbing and electrical applicable.
      10.   Certification for roof structure live load.
      11.   Certification of wind stagnation pressure. (1995 Code § 10-3-3)
   C.   Action By Mayor: The mayor shall consider the application within a
reasonable time, and shall thereafter approve the application, approve the
application subject to conditions, or deny the application. In approving each
application, the mayor shall specify the following: (1995 Code § 10-3-3; amd.
2003 Code)
      1.   Color schemes or color patterns for each individual hangar, or
multiple storage hangars to be constructed.
      2.   Responsibility of each applicant to install asphalt taxiway hookups
for each hangar.
      3.   Any other requirements deemed reasonably necessary by the mayor.
(1995 Code § 10-3-3)
   D.   City Owned Hangars: Single aircraft hangars owned by the city shall be
rented to persons for noncommercial use. Such hangars are to be assigned on a
first come, first served basis with the airport manager maintaining a waiting
list. The primary purpose of these hangars is to store and maintain privately
owned aircraft that are registered and taxed in the city. Upon adoption of the
ordinance codified herein, leases shall be offered to the current hangar
tenants. The mayor will establish or adjust lease rates after consultation with
the airport manager and hangar tenants. (1995 Code § 10-3-4)
7-3-6: COMPLIANCE AND ANNUAL REVIEW:
   A.   Incidents Of Noncompliance: When the airport manager or the mayor
witness or become aware of a violation of the airport standards or any contract
relating to other use of the airport, the manager shall issue a notice of
noncompliance to the apparent violator.
      1.   The notice of noncompliance shall include the following: time and
date of incident, the provision of this chapter or contract which appears to
have been violated, action recommended to correct the noncompliance; and
provide the alleged violator the right to appear before the city council at a
regularly scheduled meeting within sixty (60) days.
      2.   The mayor shall supply the city council with a copy of the notice of
noncompliance along with any supporting documentation and a list of witnesses
for its next scheduled meeting. The city council will consider this
documentation along with the statement of any witnesses and any verbal or
written response of the alleged violator.
      3.   After due consideration, the city council may take one of the
following actions:
         a.   Dismiss the notice of noncompliance if it was issued in error or
is unsubstantiated by the record.
         b.   Accept or modify the notice, in which case the recommended action
to terminate the noncompliance shall be binding on the violator, and when the
violations are repeated, sanction the apparent violator.
         c.   In either case, the city council shall provide a written
determination to the alleged violator. (1995 Code §
10-4-1)
   B.   Annual Review: Commercial operations permitted or under lease by the
terms of this chapter may be subject to an annual review. Such review shall be
conducted by the mayor in January, and cover provisions and requirements of the
airport standards and review any incidents of noncompliance that have been
recorded during the year. There are two (2) possible outcomes of the review:
      1.   Acceptable performance is represented by: a) no violation of law,
ordinance or contract provisions; and/or b) correction of all notices of
noncompliance to the satisfaction of the mayor.
      2.   Unacceptable performance is demonstrated by unresolved incidents of
noncompliant performance, and a notice of noncompliance shall be issued. (1995
Code §
10-4-2)
CHAPTER 4
CEMETERY
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose, Scope, And General Supervision
7-4-2: Definitions
7-4-3: Sexton
7-4-4: Administration
7-4-5: Grave Lots
7-4-6: Burials And Disinterments
7-4-7: Headstones, Benches And Decorations
7-4-8: Perpetual Care Fund
7-4-9: Injury Or Disturbance Of Facilities; Penalty
7-4-1: PURPOSE, SCOPE, AND GENERAL SUPERVISION:
   A.   Purpose: It is the intent of the City of Green River to establish the
following rules that will provide direction and information concerning
procedures with respect to the cemetery owned and maintained by the City of
Green River.
   B.   Scope: The following policy will include but is not limited to
contracts or arrangements concerning all aspects of cemetery maintenance and
policies. This will include the City's responsibilities and the
responsibilities of each party visiting and conducting business with the City
Cemetery. It will be the responsibility of individuals, mortuaries and
monument/headstone companies, who are visiting or conducting business within
the City Cemetery to be guided by and to act according to the rules and
regulations of this chapter.
Special cases may arise in which the literal enforcement of a rule may impose
unnecessary hardship. The City therefore reserves the right, without notice, to
make exceptions, suspensions, or modifications to any of these rules and
regulations, when, in the exercise of its direction the same appear advisable,
and such a temporary exception, suspension or modification shall in no way be
construed as affecting the general application of such rule, or impose
liability on the City therefor.
   C.   General Supervision Of Cemetery: The City shall take reasonable
precautions to protect the property rights of the owners of burial-right
agreement within the City Cemetery from loss or damage, but hereby disclaims
all liability for loss or damages caused by the elements, acts of God, common
enemy, thieves, vandals, strikers, malicious mischief makers, explosions,
unavoidable accidents, invasions, insurrections, riots, or order of any
military or civil authority, whether the damage be direct or collateral, other
than as herein provided. (Ord. 2018-04, 10-9-2018)
7-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
CEMETERY: Any burial ground owned or maintained by the City for the purpose of
receiving the remains of deceased humans for interment.
CERTIFICATE: The Certificate of Burial Right.
CREMAINS: The cremated remains of a human corpse. For the purposes of this
policy, cremains also include the processed remains of a human corpse.
EXHUMATION OR DISINTERMENT: The unearthing of any human remains.
INTERMENT: The burial, entombment or inurnment of human remains.
OWNER: The owner or purchaser of burial privileges as to any burial lot as
evidenced by a certificate for said lot or by proved and recognized descent or
devise from the original owner or by certificate issued by the City.
PERMITS: Any form provided by the City Cemetery staff to authorize work being
done or services rendered.
PERPETUAL CARE: The general care and maintenance provided by the City for the
cemetery, including but not limited to, filling in of sunken graves, cleaning
and weeding of driveways, and along fence line and vacant lots. Perpetual care
shall not include repairing or replacing headstones or memorial structures of
any kind, except when the need for repair or replacement is directly caused by
the City.
RESIDENT: Any person who has lived in the Green River Valley (whether inside or
the surrounding area outside of City limits) for at least two (2) years at some
time in their life.
RESPONSIBLE PARTY: Any person designated by the family of the deceased to act
on its behalf, including, an heir or personal representative of the deceased, a
member of the clergy or other religious leader, mortician, funeral director or
any other person the family authorizes to choose graves, make available
information on the deceased party, assume liability for the family's
obligations concerning the funeral cortege or services performed on the City's
Cemetery property. (Ord. 2018-04, 10-9-2018)
7-4-3: SEXTON:
   A.   Appointed; Duties: The Mayor with approval from the City Council shall
designate a person to act as sexton. The person so appointed shall be
responsible for the opening and closing of gravesites, so far as practicable,
the prevention of destruction or defacing of any marker placed therein, the
property maintenance of cemetery facilities, and such other duties as set forth
in this chapter or as may be assigned by the City Council. He/she will record
all interments and exhumations in electronic format and books provided and
maintained for that purpose.
   B.   Establishment Of Rules And Regulations: The sexton may from time to
time with the advice and consent of the City Council make such additional rules
and regulations as he/she shall deem necessary and proper for the
administration of the cemetery. Such rules and regulations shall not become
effective until approved by resolution of the City Council and a copy of said
rules and regulations must be available for review by the public at all times
with both the sexton and the City Recorder. (Ord. 2018-04, 10-9-2018)
7-4-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Graves Spaces - Application And Certification Requirements: All
applications for purchase or conveyance of grave spaces shall be made at the
City office. The sexton will provide verification of the grave space(s) to be
conveyed. Upon verification of receipt of the full purchase price, and any fees
or costs as may be assessed, the sexton shall deliver to each purchaser/grantee
a Certification of Burial Right for each grave space, showing the description
and stating the price paid, and any and all conditions and restrictions as may
be imposed thereon. All grave spaces are conveyed subject to perpetual care,
and the certificate shall so state. The certificate shall also state that such
land is conveyed for the purpose of burying the human dead only, and that the
purchaser shall abide by all ordinances and regulations now in force or
hereinafter enacted concerning burials and the use, maintenance and care of the
cemetery. The certificate shall be signed by the Mayor, and countersigned by
the City Recorder and the sexton. In the event of clerical error in the
cemetery certificate, no interest in the subject grave space shall exist until
a corrected certificate is furnished.
   B.   Records: The sexton shall retain one of the duplicate copies of all
Certificates of Burial Rights issued for the use of grave spaces, and shall
maintain and keep current a plat showing the description and locations of all
grave spaces, and if conveyed, the purchaser thereof, as part of the records of
his/her office. A verified copy of all work orders and certificates will be
maintained by the City and will at all times during regular business hours be
open to public inspection.
   C.   Subsequent Deeding Of Grave Spaces By City: Whenever title to unused
grave spaces revert to or are purchased by the City, new Certificates of Burial
Rights will be issued by City when these grave spaces are thereafter purchased
or otherwise conveyed. The original Certificate(s) of Burial Rights will be
cancelled or a quit claim deed given and the records of City will be changed,
to reflect the action taken. (Ord. 2018-04, 10-9-2018)
7-4-5: GRAVE LOTS:
   A.   Sale Of Lot Certificates: All applications for lots shall be made to
the sexton who shall designate the lot or lots to be sold and the price thereof
then in effect.
   B.   Transfer Of Grave Lots: The City may purchase the burial rights of
unused grave spaces. For any grave spaces purchased prior to 2011 the buyback
price is one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). Grave spaces purchased back after
2011 will be purchased at the amount equal to the original purchase price.
      1.   Whenever a certificate to burial rights or lots reverts to the City,
as provided for in this subsection, or becomes vested in the City for any
reason, before new certificates are issued, the original certificate shall be
canceled or an assignment given and the record shall be so changed.
   C.   Abandonment: The fact that the grantee or holder of a lot or grave
space(s) within the City Cemetery has not used portions of the lots or grave
space(s) for the purpose of burial for more than sixty (60) years, and during
the time has not provided the care to the lots or grave space(s) provided
uniformly to all lots or grave space(s), has not given to the City a written
notice of claim or interest in the lots or grave space(s), or has not kept nor
paid for perpetual care to keep the lots or grave space(s) free of weeds or
brush, shall be evidence that the grantee or holder has abandoned the lots or
grave space(s). (Ord. 2018-04, 10-9-2018)
7-4-6: BURIALS AND DISINTERMENTS:
   A.   Only Humans To Be Buried: There shall be no interment or burial of
anything other than the remains of human bodies in the City Cemetery and no
interment of any deceased human shall be made in any place within the City
limits other than the City Cemetery.
   B.   Burial Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to bury the
body of a deceased person in the cemetery without first obtaining a burial
permit and paying the required grave opening fee. No burial permit shall be
issued by the City except to the holders of a "certificate of purchase" of the
lot proposed to be used, or a written permit, signed by the owner of the
certificate or such owner's nearest living relative, authorizing the use of
such lot, which permit shall be filed with the City Recorder.
   C.   City To Be Notified: All persons in charge of bodies to be buried in
the cemetery must make the necessary arrangements for the opening of graves,
time of arrival at the cemetery, supplier of vault and other pertinent matters
at least forty eight (48) hours prior to any burial. Families desiring to
purchase grave space for any burial must contact the sexton at least forty
eight (48) hours prior to burial time.
   D.   Vaults Required: All earth interred remains must be casketed and also
encased in a vault made of concrete, metal, PVC/plastic, fiberglass, or similar
material, substantially constructed to prevent the collapse of the gravesite
over time. Cremains are an exception to this requirement and do not require a
vault, but shall be encased in a container approved by the sexton.
   E.   Companion Burials: A grave is allowed to contain one full body and one
cremated body or one full body and one child up to six (6) years old or two (2)
cremains.
   F.   Exhumations: It shall be unlawful for any person to disinter any human
remains without the express permission and authorization of the sexton. Before
disinterment, the sexton will require a written order from the owner of the
grave space, authorizing such removal. All disinterments shall comply with
applicable Utah laws. Headstone removal or transfer is the responsibility of
the grave owner or the immediate family or legal representative thereof. Any
repair of damages caused during headstone removal or transfer, to the
surrounding headstones, roadways and fences shall be the responsibility of the
grave space owner or the immediate family or legal representative thereof.
   G.   Registration Of Burials: The sexton shall be the registrar of burials
for the cemetery, and before burying any dead or disinterring any body which
has been buried in the cemetery, the person requesting such burial or
disinterment shall be required to furnish a certified copy of the death
certificate of the deceased as filed with the State Bureau of Vital Statistics,
which copy shall be kept with the records of the cemetery. In the event no
death certificate has been prepared, the person requesting burial shall file a
statement which shall include the name of the person deceased, when and where
born, the date of death and the cause thereof, the name of the attending
physician and also the date of burial and the lot and grave number where
buried. In the case of the disinterment for reburial in another place, the
statement shall also include the destination of the body, and if to be reburied
within the cemetery the lot number and grave number of the new grave.
   H.   Opening Grave Fee: No grave will be opened in the City Cemetery until
the payment of a fee for the labor and expenses of opening the grave.
   I.   Burial Of Indigents: The sexton, with the advice and consent of the
City Council, may designate a portion of the cemetery for the burial of
indigents. Whenever it is made to appear to the sexton that any person who died
does not have an estate sufficient to pay the purchase price of a gravesite in
the cemetery and the nearest relative or representative of such deceased person
desires to have the body interred in the cemetery, the sexton may grant burial
space for such deceased person upon written request.
   J.   Prohibited Days: The City has established that there will not be
burials on Sundays and the following holidays: New Year's Day, Memorial weekend
(Saturday through Monday), Independence Day, Pioneer Day, Labor Day, Melon Days
weekend (Friday through Sunday), Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day. (Ord.
2018-04, 10-9-2018)
7-4-7: HEADSTONES, BENCHES AND DECORATIONS:
   A.   Headstones: All headstones/benches to be placed in any part of the
cemetery shall be preapproved and under the supervision of the sexton or
designee. All headstones must be marked prior to placement. No heavy equipment
is allowed in the cemetery. All headstones/benches must be installed during
regular business hours, Monday thru Friday from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to
three o'clock (3:00) P.M.
      1.   Maximum Size Of Upright Headstones: Markers will not exceed sixty
inches (60") in length, twenty four inches (24") in width, or thirty two inches
(32") in height overall, including border and base. A double marker,
representing two (2) family members on two (2) adjoining gravesites, will not
exceed one hundred twenty inches (120") in length, twenty four inches (24") in
width, or thirty two inches (32") in height overall, including border and base.
      2.   Maximum Size Of Flat Headstone: The maximum size of a standard flat
headstone will not exceed sixty inches (60") in length and twenty four inches
(24") in width, including border and base. A double marker, representing two
(2) family members on two (2) adjoining gravesites, will not exceed one hundred
twenty inches (120") in length, twenty four inches (24") in width, including
border and base.
      3.   Veterans Recognition Headstones: Veterans recognition headstones may
be used as a primary headstone with the same restrictions and regulations as
the aforementioned headstone criteria. When used as secondary headstones, they
may be placed in the center of the grave space or at the foot of the grave in
accordance with the requirements for flat headstones.
      4.   Benches: Benches may be placed in lieu of primary upright headstones
and shall comply with the same dimensions as headstones. Benches shall be made
of granite, or other durable material, and will be placed on a concrete pad and
securely attached thereto in such a way that they may be removed from the pad
if necessary. It shall be the responsibility of the person(s) installing the
bench(es), to repair, alter, realign, and maintain the bench(es) following
original placement.
      5.   Vases: All permanent vases will be pre-poured within the cement base
or incorporated as part of the headstone or bench.
   B.   Plants And Flowers: No shrubbery, vines, trees, flowers or other plants
shall be planted in any part of the cemetery.
   C.   Prohibited Decorations: No glass or glass containers, fences, borders
or cement pad. No decorations outside of the grave perimeter.
   D.   Decoration Guidelines: Boxes, shells, toys, metal designs, ornaments,
chairs, settees, vases, wood or iron cases, shepherd's hooks, lawn or yard
ornaments, porcelain and/or hanging baskets, etc., are personal property. All
care and upkeep of the grave is the responsibility of the owner, their heirs,
or the responsible party. The City does not undertake any responsibility or
assume any liability for damage to or disrepair of any decorations. The City
reserves the right to remove any decorations when necessary while opening and
closing a surrounding grave. (Ord. 2018-04, 10-9-2018)
7-4-8: PERPETUAL CARE FUND:
The City shall maintain a Perpetual Care Fund according to the laws of the
State and this chapter. All funds received from the sale of perpetual care
services shall be placed in a special Perpetual Care Fund, invested in
compliance with the laws of the State and used for the purposes herein
provided. (Ord. 2018-04, 10-9-2018)
7-4-9: INJURY OR DISTURBANCE OF FACILITIES; PENALTY:
Any person who shall injure, molest, deface or disturb any headstone,
tombstone, or any property in the City Cemetery without authority from the City
shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2018-04, 10-9-2018)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: General And Administrative Provisions
8-1-3: Water System Operations
8-1-4: Annual Review Of Costs, Setting Of Rates
8-1-5: Use Of Water
8-1-6: Cross Connections
8-1-7: Installation And Maintenance Of Service Laterals
8-1-8: Extensions To Water System
8-1-9: Hearing Board
8-1-10: Enforcement And Penalty
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings herein described:
APPROVED        Accepted by the Utah department of health, bureau of general
BACKFLOW        sanitation, as meeting an applicable specification or as
ASSEMBLY:       suitable for the proposed use.
                Any water supply on or available to the premises other than the
                purveyor's public water supply will be considered as an
                auxiliary water supply. These auxiliary waters may include water
AUXILIARY WATER from another purveyor's public potable water supply or any
SUPPLY:         natural source such as a well, spring, river, stream, harbor,
                etc., or "used waters" or "industrial fluids". These waters may
                be contaminated or polluted or they may be objectionable and
                constitute an unacceptable water source over which the water
                purveyor does not have authority for sanitary control.
                The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances under
BACK PRESSURE:  pressure into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply
                system from any source other than the intended source.
                The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
BACK SIPHONAGE: the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any
                source other than the intended source, caused by the reduction
                of pressure in the potable water supply system.
BACKFLOW:       The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
                pressure or back siphonage.
                An assembly or means designed to prevent backflow.
                Specifications for backflow prevention assemblies are contained
BACKFLOW        within the plumbing code, and the cross connection control
PREVENTION      program for Utah. All backflow prevention assemblies must be
ASSEMBLY:       approved by the Utah department of health, bureau of general
                sanitation, prior to installation. A listing of these approved
                backflow prevention assemblies may be found in the cross
                connection control program for Utah.
CITY:           The governing body of the city of Green River, as in the mayor
                and council members.
CONNECTION:     A connection to the water system that includes a meter box.
                An impairment of the quality of the potable water supply by
                sewage, industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other
CONTAMINATION:  materials to a degree which creates an actual or potential
                hazard to the public health through poisoning or through the
                spread of disease.
                Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or fixtures
                between two (2) otherwise separate piping systems, one of which
                contains potable water and the other nonpotable water or
CROSS           industrial fluids of questionable safety, through which, or
CONNECTION:     because of which, backflow may occur into the potable water
                system. This would include any temporary connections, such as
                swing connections, removable sections, four (4) way plug valves,
                spools, dummy sections of pipe, swivel or change over devices or
                sliding multi-port tubes.
                The installation of an approved backflow assembly at the water
                service connection to any customer's premises where it is
                physically and economically infeasible to find and permanently
CROSS           eliminate or control all actual or potential cross connections
CONNECTION,     within the customer's water system; or, it shall mean the
CONTAINMENT:    installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly on the
                service line leading to and supplying a portion of a customer's
                water system where there are actual or potential cross
                connections which cannot be effectively eliminated or controlled
                at the point of the cross connection (isolation).
CROSS           A connection between a potable water system and a nonpotable
CONNECTION,     water system with an approved backflow prevention assembly
CONTROLLED:     properly installed and maintained so that it will continuously
                afford the protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
LONG TERM DEBT  The principal and interest cost of loans.
SERVICE:
O&M:            Operation and maintenance. Cost of O&M is the cost required to
                operate and maintain the water system.
RECONNECT FEE:  That fee required to turn on water service after it has been
                turned off for nonpayment of charges.
REPLACEMENT     Refers to that amount calculated to replace existing water
RESERVES:       system infrastructure within a given time period.
SERVICE         That part of the water service system from the city connection
LATERAL:        to the property owner's building or service outlet.
WATER           A department created by the city to manage, operate, maintain
DEPARTMENT:     and repair the water system.
WATER SYSTEM:   The city owned system that carries potable water to residences,
                commercial buildings, industrial plants and other institutions.
                A person appointed by the mayor with the consent of the city
WATER           council who is responsible for the supervision and management of
SUPERINTENDENT: the water system. (1995 Code § 91-1-1; amd. Ord. 2019-01, 2-12-
                2019)
 
8-1-2: GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Ownership Of Water System: The water system, including all facilities
for the treatment and distribution of culinary water, is the property of the
city and shall be under its exclusive control and jurisdiction. The city
council may, from time to time, authorize and direct the making of needed
additions, improvements, alterations and repairs to said system and, to this
end, may contract with other public or private agencies to perform necessary
work to said system. (1995 Code § 91-2-1)
   B.   Water Department Established: There is hereby created a water
department, which shall have responsibility for administration and operation of
the city water system. (1995 Code § 91-2-2)
   C.   Superintendent; Appointment, Powers And Duties: There is hereby created
the position of water superintendent. Said position shall be filled by
appointment of the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council, and
the individual so appointed serves at the pleasure of the city council. The
superintendent shall manage and supervise the activities of the water system
under the direction of the city council. The city council, from time to time,
may, by resolution or otherwise, more fully prescribe his powers and duties and
direct the manner and frequency with which he shall make reports to the mayor
relating to the system. The city council may delegate all or part of the
responsibility for performing the duties of the superintendent and for
providing services required in the operation of the water department. (1995
Code § 91-2-3)
   D.   Service Outside Corporate Limits:
      1.   Service Intended For City Residents: The city water system is
intended for the use of the inhabitants of the city and, therefore, water
service is intended and provided only for residents of the city. Subject to the
limitations and conditions provided below, water service shall not be provided
to properties which are not within the municipal boundaries of the city.
      2.   Incidental Service: In the past incidental and limited single-family
residential water service has been extended without authorization from the city
to single-family residential properties and livestock maintained in connection
with the occupants of single-family residential homes. Single-family
residential service and related livestock watering occurring immediately
adjacent to, but beyond the municipal boundaries of the city, may be continued
but in no event, shall such service be extended to additional uses or expanded
beyond the use on the effective date hereof.
      3.   Approval For Extension; Costs: Any person located outside of city
limits who desires to be supplied with water services from the city water
system and is approved in writing by the city shall pay the whole expense of
the extension to his property, including the cost of extending any water main
beyond its present location and may apply to the city council by petition
containing:
         a.   A detailed description of the proposed extension.
         b.   A map showing the location thereof.
         c.   An acknowledgment that the city, in granting the water supply to
the petitioner, need supply only such water to the petitioner which from time
to time the city council deems beyond the requirements of water users within
the city limits, and that such extension shall be the property of and subject
to the control of the city. Proper easements for maintenance of main lines
crossing private property shall have been obtained.
      4.   Costs Determined: Upon receipt of such petition and map and before
the petition is granted, the city council shall determine what portion, if any,
of the extension of the city water mains to the city limits the city shall
construct, and shall obtain from the city staff a verified statement showing
the whole cost and expense of making such extension. Such costs and expenses
shall include administrative and supervisory expenditures of the water
department, which shall in no event be deemed to be less than ten percent (10%)
of the cost of materials and labor.
      5.   Extensions May Be Master Metered: When an extension supplying more
than one house or user outside the city limits is connected to city water
mains, the city may require a master meter to be installed near the point where
the connection is to be made to the city main. This installation will be at the
expense of the persons served by such extension according to the regular rates
for meter installation. Responsible parties must agree to pay all bills for
water served through the meter at the applicable water rates.
      6.   Unlawful To Extend Beyond Property Authorized: It shall be unlawful
to connect to, or extend the city water system or extend service to properties
other than the intended service properties approved in writing by the city.
(Ord. 2013-01, 6-18-2013)
   E.   Opening And Closing Of Valves Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person to open or close any water or meter box valve unless duly authorized by
the city council or designated representative. (1995 Code § 91-2-5; amd. Ord.
2019-01, 2-12-2019)
8-1-3: WATER SYSTEM OPERATIONS:
   A.   Meters Required: Each structure, dwelling unit and other establishments
using water from the city water system shall be connected to said system
through a water meter. Each service connection shall have an additional stop or
stop waste valve for user control. A connection will be assigned to a specific
address when issued and may be transferred only with consent of the city. (1995
Code § 91-3-1)
   B.   Application And Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person,
member of his family or agent, to obtain water from the city system without
first submitting an application for and receiving a permit to do so, as
provided for in this chapter. Any person desiring, or who is required, to
secure water service shall apply in writing to the city recorder on a form
furnished by the city as hereinafter set out. A connection shall be granted
only upon payment of all water connection fees, the issuance of a building
permit, and a determination by the city council that water for the connection
is presently available at the address at which the water is to be delivered. In
addition, all ordinances and regulations must be complied with before the
connection may be granted. (1995 Code § 91-3-2)
   C.   Fees For Connection: The connection fees shall be paid by each person,
firm or entity connecting to the City water system prior to connection to the
system shall be as established by resolution of the City Council. (1995 Code §
91-3-3; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Application For Connection: The application to connect to the City
water system shall be in such form as is on file in the City office. (1995 Code
§ 91-3-4; amd. 2003 Code)
   E.   Waiting List Of Applicants: In the event there are more applicants for
water connections than there are available connections, the City shall maintain
a list of applicants waiting for a connection. When a connection becomes
available, the City shall attempt to contact the person whose name is at the
top of the list and ascertain whether that person wishes to purchase the
connection. If the person does not wish to do so, his name will remain in place
on the list, and the process will be repeated until someone purchases the
available connection. It shall be sufficient that the City mailed notice of the
availability of a connection to the address given on the list. The person shall
have ten (10) days from the time the notice is mailed to notify the City that
he wishes to purchase the connection. (1995 Code § 91-3-5)
   F.   Priorities Granted: The City may grant priority according to use
independent of the waiting list, and the commitment of many connections to a
single person or entity is discouraged. General priority of uses at the
discretion of the City may be commercial, industrial, single-family dwellings
or multi-family dwellings. (1995 Code § 91-3-6)
   G.   Deadline For Installation: When a connection is approved, the applicant
shall have two (2) months following the approval to have the meter installed;
provided, that reasonable extensions for cause may be granted in the discretion
of the City. In the event the connection is not utilized, the applicant shall
forfeit all applicable fees. (1995 Code § 91-3-7)
   H.   Deposit Required: A deposit equal to two (2) months of water bill can
be assessed before water and sewer service can be instated. (1995 Code § 91-3-
8; amd. 2003 Code)
   I.   Turn On And Turn Off Requests: Each person requiring water to be turned
on or turned off at the meter will contact the City office and complete the
form provided therefor, giving date of requested service, name and address, and
meter address. (1995 Code § 91-3-9; amd. Ord. 2019-01, 2-12-2019)
8-1-4: ANNUAL REVIEW OF COSTS, SETTING OF RATES:
   A.   Annual Review: The City shall review the total annual cost of operation
and maintenance, long term debt service and replacement reserves relating to
the water system, as well as each user's water use percentage, not less often
than every year, and will revise the user rate as necessary to assure equity of
the system established herein and to assure that sufficient funds are obtained
from the City user charge system to adequately operate and maintain the water
system, cover all debt service, and maintain an adequate replacement reserve.
The City will apply all excess revenues collected from a previous year to the
costs of operation and maintenance for the next year, and adjust the user rate
accordingly. Annual water rates will be proposed and heard at the budget
hearings prior to each fiscal year. (1995 Code § 91-4-1)
   B.   Addendum Used To Calculate Rates: The addendum attached to the
ordinance codified herein and on file in the City office, entitled "City of
Green River, Utah - Calculation of User Rates - Water User Charge System",
shall be used for calculation of rates, fees and charges for connection, use
and access to the system. The addendum is adopted and made part of the chapter
codified herein. (1995 Code § 91-4-2; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Billing Procedure: The City shall mail to the address given on the
service request, a written or printed statement showing thereon the amount of
water service charge assessed against him once each month or such other regular
interval as the City Council shall direct. Said statement shall specify the
amount of the bill for the water service and other services and the place of
payment and date due. (1995 Code § 91-4-3)
   D.   Failure To Pay:
      1.   Water users are required to pay the balance due stated on the water
bill sent from the City within thirty (30) days after the water bill is mailed
from the City. Water accounts that are not paid in full within thirty (30) days
after the water bill is mailed from the City are delinquent accounts and the
service address is subject to termination of service.
      2.   The City will send a notice to all delinquent accounts describing
the service address, the amount which is delinquent and a final payment due
date. The notice from the City shall specify that if payment is not made by the
final payment due date, service will be discontinued without further notice.
   E.   Reconnection After Shut Off For Nonpayment: Before water service to
premises which have been shut off for nonpayment shall be restored, the
responsible party must pay the following: all charges and delinquency fees; a
reconnect fee in the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00) or such other amount as
established by resolution of the City Council; and a security deposit in an
amount equal to the greater of one hundred dollars ($100.00) or the average
monthly utility bill for the prior twelve (12) months multiplied by two (2).
Security deposits retained by the City are intended to provide collateral for
payment to the City. In the event the responsible party does not pay for water
service after the date the security deposit is received, the City may apply any
security deposit held by the City to pay the delinquent water bill for the
responsible party. If the security deposit held by the City as collateral for
payment of services is applied to a bill which is delinquent, the responsible
party shall replace the security deposit which has been applied to pay the
bill. If the security deposit is not replaced by the date required by the City
in the notice to the responsible party, service shall be terminated after five
(5) days written notice to the responsible party. (Ord. 2016-02, 11-9-2016)
   F.   Authorization To Enforce Payment: The City is authorized and empowered
to enforce the payment of all delinquent water service charges by an action at
law in the corporate name of the City. (1995 Code § 91-4-6)
   G.   Turning On Water After Being Turned Off Prohibited: It is unlawful for
any person, after the water has been turned off from his premises for
nonpayment of charges or other violation of the rules and regulations
pertaining to the water supply, to turn on, or allow the water to be turned on
or used without authority. (1995 Code § 91-4-7; amd. Ord. 2019-01, 2-12-2019)
8-1-5: USE OF WATER:
   A.   Waste Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any water user to waste
water or to allow water to be wasted by imperfect stops, taps, valves, leaky
joints or pipes, or to allow tanks or water troughs to leak or overflow, or to
wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets or stops, or through basins, water
closets, urinals, sinks or other apparatus, or to use water in violation of the
rules, regulations or ordinances for controlling the water supply. (1995 Code §
91-5-1)
   B.   Termination Of Service: If, in the judgment of the City Council, a user
of Municipal water engages in practices which result in the needless waste of
water and continues to do so after reasonable notice to discontinue said
wastefulness has been given, they may thereupon terminate the right of said
individual to use culinary water. (1995 Code § 91-5-2)
   C.   Scarcity Of Water: In time of scarcity of water, whenever in the
judgment of the City Council it shall be necessary, the Mayor shall, by
proclamation, limit the use of water for other than domestic purposes to such
extent as may be necessary for public good. It shall be unlawful for any person
by himself, his family, or agents, to violate any proclamation made by the
Mayor in pursuance of this chapter. (1995 Code § 91-5-3)
   D.   Nonliability For Damages: The City shall not be liable for any damage
to a water service user by reason of stoppage or interruption of his water
supply service caused by fires, scarcity of water, accidents to the water
system or its mains, or as the result of maintenance and extension operations,
or from any unavoidable cause, unless the City is found to be grossly
negligent. (1995 Code § 91-5-4)
   E.   Unauthorized Users: It is unlawful for any water service user to permit
any person from other premises or any person other than those authorized by the
City to use or obtain water services from their premises. (1995 Code § 91-5-5)
   F.   Fire Hydrants: All public hydrants shall be under the control of, and
shall be kept in repair by, the City; and, in case of fire, the Fire Department
shall have free access to said hydrants. It shall be unlawful for any person to
obstruct the approach to a fire hydrant or to open or operate a fire hydrant or
attempt to draw water therefrom without first obtaining permission from the
City Council or Fire Department. (1995 Code § 91-5-6; Ord. 2019-01, 2-12-2019)
8-1-6: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Protection Required: No water service connection to any premises shall
be installed or maintained by the city unless the water supply is protected as
required by state laws, regulations, codes and this chapter. Service of water
to any premises shall be discontinued by the city if a backflow prevention
assembly required by this chapter for control of backflow and cross connections
is not installed, tested and maintained, or if it is found that a backflow
prevention assembly has been removed, bypassed, or if an unprotected cross
connection exists on the premises. Service will not be restored until such
conditions or defects are corrected. (1995 Code § 91-6-1)
   B.   Inspections Authorized: The water user's system shall be open for
inspection at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the city to
determine whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards,
including violation of this chapter, exist. When such a condition becomes
known, the city shall deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises
by providing a physical break in the service line until the customer has
corrected the condition in conformance with the state statutes and city
ordinances relating to plumbing, water supplies and the regulations adopted
thereto. (1995 Code § 91-6-2)
   C.   Backflow Devices Installed: An approved backflow prevention assembly
shall be installed on each service line at the water user's expense to a water
user's system at or near the property line, or immediately inside the building
being served; but, in all cases, before the first branch line leading off the
service line, whenever the city deems the protection of the water supply to be
in the best interest of the water supply customers. (1995 Code § 91-6-3)
   D.   Type Defined By Degree Of Hazard: The type of protective assembly
required under this section shall depend upon the degree of hazard which exists
at the point of cross connection (whether direct or indirect) as stipulated in
the plumbing code. (1995 Code § 91-6-4)
   E.   Current Installations Excluded: All presently installed backflow
prevention assemblies which do not meet the requirements of this section, but
were approved assemblies for the purposes described herein at the time of
installation, and which have been properly maintained, shall, except for the
inspection and maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirements of
these rules so long as the city is assured that they will satisfactorily
protect the public water system. Whenever the existing assembly is moved from
the present location, or requires more than minimum maintenance, or when the
city finds that the maintenance of this assembly constitutes a hazard to
health, the unit shall be replaced by an approved backflow prevention assembly
meeting the requirements of this chapter. (1995 Code § 91-6-5)
   F.   Responsibility For Inspections: It shall be the duty and responsibility
of the water user at any premises where backflow prevention assemblies are
installed to have certified inspections and operational tests made at least
once per year at the water user's expense. In those instances where the city
deems the hazard to be great, the city may require certified inspections and
tests at more frequent intervals. These inspections and tests shall be
performed by a certified backflow assembly technician, licensed through the
state department of health. It shall be the duty of the city to see that these
tests are made according to the standards set forth by the state department of
health, bureau of public water supplies. Annual testing will be completed prior
to September 1 of each year. (1995 Code § 91-6-6)
   G.   Installation Of Backflow Devices: Backflow prevention assemblies shall
be installed in water supply lines to provide at least the degree of protection
stipulated in the plumbing code. All backflow prevention assemblies shall be
readily accessible for inspection and testing. No backflow prevention assembly
shall be installed so as to create a safety hazard, i.e., installed over an
electrical panel, steam pipes, boilers, pits or above ceiling level. All hose
bibs that have threads to accept a garden hose must have an approved hose bib
vacuum breaker. (1995 Code § 91-6-7; amd. 2003 Code)
   H.   Maintenance Of Backflow Devices: All backflow prevention assemblies
installed in the city water system for protection against backflow shall be
maintained in good working condition by the person or persons having control of
such assemblies. The state department of health, bureau of public water
supplies, and the city may inspect such assemblies and, if found to be
defective or inoperative, shall require the replacement thereof. No assembly
shall be removed from use, relocated or another assembly substituted, without
the approval of the city. (1995 Code § 91-6-8)
   I.   Testing Of Backflow Devices: All backflow prevention assemblies shall
be tested within ten (10) working days of installation. (1995 Code § 91-6-9)
   J.   Backflow Devices Mandatory: In order to protect the public potable
water supply of the city from the possibility of contamination or pollution by
isolating within the water user's internal distribution system or the water
user's private water system such contaminates or pollutants which could
backflow into the public water systems, and to promote the elimination or
control of existing cross connections, actual or potential, between the water
user's in plant potable water system, and nonpotable water system, plumbing
fixtures and industrial piping system, it shall be mandatory that all water
users install backflow prevention devices in accordance with the currently
adopted plumbing code. All sprinkling systems connected to the city potable
water system shall have backflow protection. (1995 Code § 91-6-10; amd. 2003
Code)
   K.   Water Superintendent Responsible For Protection: The water
superintendent shall be responsible for the protection of the public potable
water distribution system from contamination or pollution due to the backflow
of contaminates or pollutants through the water service connection. If, in the
judgment of said water superintendent, an approved backflow prevention assembly
is required (at the water user's water service connection, or within the water
user's private water system) for the safety of the water system, the water
superintendent or his designated agent shall give notice in writing to said
water user to install such an approved backflow prevention assembly at specific
locations on his premises. The water user shall immediately install such
approved assembly at the water user's own expense, and failure, refusal or
inability on the part of the water user to install, have tested and maintain
said assembly shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the
premises until such requirements have been satisfactorily met. (1995 Code § 91-
6-11)
   L.   Responsibility Of Building Official: The building official has the
responsibility, not only to review building plans and inspect plumbing as it is
installed, but it also has the explicit responsibility of preventing cross
connections from being designed and built into the structures within its
jurisdiction. Where the review of building plans suggests or detects the
potential for a cross connection being made an integral part of the plumbing
system, the building official has the responsibility to require such cross
connections be either eliminated, or provided with an approved backflow
prevention assembly in accordance with the plumbing code. The building
official's responsibility begins at the point of service (the downstream side
of the meter) and carries throughout the entire length of water user's water
system. The building official should inquire about the intended use of water at
any point where it is suspected that a cross connection might be made or where
one is actually called for by the plans. When such a cross connection is
discovered, it will be mandatory that a suitable, approved backflow prevention
assembly be required by the plans and be properly installed, in accordance with
the plumbing code. (1995 Code § 91-6-12; amd. 2003 Code)
   M.   Certified Backflow Assembly Technician: When employed by the water user
or the city to test, repair, overhaul and/or maintain backflow prevention
assemblies, a backflow assembly technician will have the following
responsibilities:
      1.   Be responsible for ensuring acceptable testing equipment and
procedures are used for testing, repairing or overhauling backflow prevention
assemblies.
      2.   Make reports of such testing and/or repair to the water user, the
city, and the bureau of public water supplies on forms approved for such by the
bureau of public water supplies.
      3.   The report shall include the list of materials or replacement parts
used.
      4.   It is the technician's responsibility to ensure replacement parts
are equal in quality to parts originally supplied by the manufacturer of the
assembly being repaired.
      5.   It will be the technician's responsibility not to change the design,
material or operational characteristics of the assembly during repair or
maintenance.
      6.   A certified technician shall perform the work tests and be
responsible for the competence and accuracy of all tests and reports.
      7.   It will be the technician's responsibility to ensure his license is
current, the testing equipment being used is acceptable to the state, and is in
proper operating condition.
      8.   Failure to report a failing assembly to the bureau of public water
supplies and the city within five (5) working days, may be grounds for
revocation of the technician's certification.
      9.   The technician shall be equipped with, and be competent to use, all
necessary tools, gauges and other equipment necessary to properly test, repair
and maintain backflow prevention assemblies.
      10.   The certified technician must tag each double check valve, pressure
vacuum breaker, reduced pressure backflow assembly and air gaps, showing the
serial number, date tested and by whom. The technician's license number must
also be on this tag.
      11.   In the case of a water user requiring a commercially available
technician, any certified technician is authorized to make the test and report
the results of that test to the water user, the city and the bureau of public
water supplies. If such a commercially tested assembly is in need of repair, a
licensed plumber shall make the actual repair. (1995 Code § 91-6-13; amd. 2003
Code; Ord. 2019-01, 2-12-2019)
8-1-7: INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LATERALS:
   A.   Separate Connection Required For Each Premises: A separate and
independent service lateral shall be provided for each premises, except that
one meter may service multi-family dwellings, condominiums and trailer courts.
However, in such event, the fees, monthly rates and all other assessments shall
be treated as though each unit were a separate premises. (1995 Code § 91-7-1)
   B.   Installation Of Laterals: All water service laterals to the property
line of premises, including water meter and meter setter, are to be installed
by the city or under the direction thereof, and the cost of installation shall
be borne by the applicant. Said cost shall be covered by the connection fee
unless such fee is insufficient to fully reimburse the city for its expenses,
in which event such installation shall be done on a cost basis. (1995 Code §
91-7-2)
   C.   Ownership Of Service Lateral; Maintenance Responsibility: All water
service lines lying between the meter box and the connection with the main
line, including the meter box and meter setter, shall be owned and maintained
by the city. Maintenance of service laterals lying between the meter box and
the owner's building or other tap shall be the responsibility of the property
owner, and have a water user owned control valve to control flow for repairs.
(1995 Code § 91-7-3)
   D.   New Subdivisions: Water service laterals shall be installed from the
main line to the outer edge of the lot as part of the required improvements for
a subdivision. Water service laterals shall include the installation of the
meter box and meter setter. (1995 Code § 91-7-4)
   E.   Installations According To Standards: All materials and construction
used in connection with the installation of water service laterals or the
extension of the city water system shall be in accordance with city standards.
Appropriate easements shall be executed in favor of the city. (1995 Code § 91-
7-5; amd. Ord. 2019-01, 2-12-2019)
8-1-8: EXTENSIONS TO WATER SYSTEM:
   A.   Application For Extension: Any person desiring to extend water mains
within the city may make application to the city. Said application shall
contain a description of the proposed extension, accompanied by a map showing
the location thereof. The city council may grant or deny the application as in
its discretion deems best for the welfare of the existing water users in the
city. (1995 Code § 91-8-1)
   B.   Planning Commission Review: Before acting on an application for
extension to the system, the city council shall refer the application to the
planning commission for its review and recommendation. (1995 Code § 91-8-2)
   C.   Detailed Plans Submitted: Upon receiving preliminary approval from the
city council, the applicant shall submit to the city detailed engineering plans
showing the location and size of all mains, service laterals, fire hydrants and
any other facilities to be included as part of the extension. The applicant
shall also submit to the city council documentation, acceptable to the city
council, agreeing to construct all required off site or oversize facilities as
shown on the plans and accept the conditions relating to reimbursement. Said
plans shall be submitted to the water superintendent for review. (1995 Code §
91-8-3)
   D.   Conformance With Standards: The design, location, materials and
standards of construction shall be in accordance with city standards as
approved by the city. The design and sizing of all extensions shall be based
upon considerations of adequacy to meet both present and future requirements
for domestic water supply, fire protection and sanitation within the city.
(1995 Code § 91-8-4)
   E.   Connection To Existing Mains: The requested water main extension shall
be connected to an adequate existing main as determined by the city and shall
extend the full width of the property to be provided with such service. (1995
Code § 91-8-5)
   F.   Oversized And Off Site: The city may require the construction of off-
site and/or oversized lines and facilities as condition of approval of the
extension. (1995 Code § 91-8-6)
   G.   City Council Action Upon Application: Upon receipt of documents and the
report of the water superintendent, the city council shall consider the
question of authorizing construction of the extension, and, upon a motion
properly presented, shall act to approve or deny the extension. (1995 Code §
91-8-7)
   H.   Applicant To Construct Improvements: All costs in connection with
approval and construction shall be borne by the applicant, except that off site
or oversized lines or facilities constructed by the applicant shall be eligible
for reimbursement as hereinafter provided. (1995 Code § 91-8-8)
   I.   Reimbursement Of Off Site Lines: All applicants shall be eligible for
reimbursement for that portion of the cost incurred in making the extension
which benefits properties fronting on the extension other than those owned by
the applicant. The amount of eligible reimbursement and the method of payment
shall be as follows:
      1.   Upon completion of an extension, the water superintendent shall make
a determination of the per frontage foot cost for such extension. Thereafter,
the city will enter a deferred credit on their books for the water department
in an amount equal to the cost of the extension less the prorated amount
represented by the length of the frontage of the property owned by the
applicant and any existing public street. Thereafter, the applicant or his
successor or assigns will be reimbursed by the city upon collection for fees
assessed against the benefitted properties as service connections are made. The
period of reimbursement shall extend for a period of five (5) years from the
date of completion of the extension or until the initial prorated costs of the
extension along the frontage not owned by the applicant shall have been
refunded, whichever is shorter.
      2.   A water main extension fee for each and every subsequent service
connection to an extension installed under the provisions of this subsection
shall be paid before such service connection is made, except for frontage owned
by the applicant or for which a water connection fee has already been paid. The
water main extension fee is separate and is in addition to any other charges
required by the city.
      3.   The amount of the extension fee to be paid by the benefitted
property shall be determined by multiplying the number of linear feet of
frontage in the lot or parcel for which service connection is requested by one-
half (1/2) the average cost per linear foot of said extension.
      4.   All extension fees levied for purposes of reimbursement of off site
utilities shall be determined using the actual costs for installing water mains
of six inches (6") in diameter. (1995 Code § 91-8-9)
   J.   Oversized Lines And Facilities: Where the city council determines that
the future development within an area requires the construction of a water main
or other facility which is larger than required to serve an immediate
development, the city may require the construction of such oversized line or
facility as a condition of approval of the extension. The applicant shall be
eligible for reimbursement for that portion of the cost incurred in the
construction of the oversized line or facility which benefits properties other
than those owned by the applicant. The amount of reimbursement and the method
of payment shall be as follows:
      1.   The city council shall first make a determination of either the
total area or number of potential connections which are to be benefitted by the
oversized facility. Thereafter, the city shall enter a deferred credit on their
books for the water department in an amount equal to the actual cost of
constructing that portion of the oversized line or facility which is in excess
of the cost of the standard line or facility, less a prorated share of the cost
of the oversized facility in an amount equal to the proportion of the territory
or number of potential connections (as applicable) within the defined service
area which is owned by the applicant. Thereafter, the applicant or his
successors or assigns will be reimbursed by the city upon collection of fees
assessed against the benefitted properties as service connections are made
thereto. The period for which the applicant shall remain eligible shall be as
determined on a case by case basis by the city.
      2.   A facility reimbursement fee will be charged to each and every
subsequent service connection located within the designated service area. Said
fee shall be paid before any water service connection is made, except that no
fee shall be required for development occurring on land owned by the applicant.
The fee required under this provision shall be in addition to all other charges
levied by the city.
      3.   The amount to be levied shall be a proportionate share of the cost
of said oversized line or facility as determined by the city in accordance with
the criteria established at the time of approval of the facility. (1995 Code §
91-8-10)
   K.   Correlation With Subdivision Regulations: Where the request for
extension is being submitted conjointly with a request for approval of a
subdivision, large scale development or similar development, the two (2) shall
be considered together, and separate application for extension will not be
required. (1995 Code § 91-8-11; amd. Ord. 2019-01, 2-12-2019)
8-1-9: HEARING BOARD:
A hearing board shall be appointed as needed for arbitration of differences
between the city and water users on matters concerning interpretation and
execution of the provisions of this chapter. The board members shall be
appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, and
shall consist of three (3) members, one of which shall be representative of a
local commercial enterprise, one a residential user and one council member. The
board shall meet as required to arbitrate or decide any differences brought
before the city council. As the board deems necessary, and upon concurrence by
the city, a qualified attorney may be consulted by the board as to a specific
case. (1995 Code § 91-9-1; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2019-01, 2-12-2019)
8-1-10: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor Violation: Any person, firm or corporation violating any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 91-10-1; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Additional Enforcement; Authority To Terminate Service: In addition to
any such penalty, the city council may, as a means of collecting delinquent
charges and enforcing the provisions of this chapter or any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, terminate culinary water service to any
user; provided, that if said city council elects to consider the question of
termination, it shall give written notice to the water user of the intention to
terminate his water connection at least five (5) days prior to the meeting of
the city council at which said termination of water service is to be
considered. Said notice shall inform him of the time and place of the meeting
and of the charges which led to the consideration of said termination. (1995
Code § 91-10-2)
   C.   Hearing: A water user whose privilege to utilize city water is being
reviewed shall have opportunity to appear with or without counsel and present
his reasons why his water service should not be disconnected in accordance with
section
8-1-9 of this chapter. (1995 Code § 91-10-3)
   D.   Notification Of Determination: After due hearing, the hearing board
shall arrive at a determination, and shall notify the water user of said
decision and of the period during which said water service will remain
discontinued. (1995 Code § 91-10-4; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2019-01, 2-12-2019)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE REGULATIONS AND USER CHARGE SYSTEM 1
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Use Of Public Sewers
8-2-3: Private Wastewater Disposal
8-2-4: Connections
8-2-5: Use Regulations
8-2-6: User Charge System
8-2-7: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. Refer to ordinance 1-20-98B, 1-20-1998, which enacts temporary prohibition
  of new connections or additions to the city sewer system.
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
ADDENDUM: The document appended to the ordinance codified herein and on file in
the city office entitled "service user charge system". The addendum is
incorporated in this chapter.
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20oC), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from solid waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called "house connection".
CESSPOOL: An underground reservoir for liquid waste (as household sewage).
CITY: The city of Green River, Emery and Grand Counties.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in physical state such that it will separate
by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility. A
wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is properly
pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
GARBAGE: All waste resulting from residences, commercial trades or businesses
and institutions. Commercial and industrial waste shall be distinct from
domestic or household sanitary wastes.
GOVERNING BODY: The mayor and council members of the city.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or business
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
MAY: Is permissive (see definition of Shall).
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ions concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of seven (7) and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 107.
PRIVY: A small building having a bench with holes through which the user may
defecate or urinate.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT UNIT (ERU): A structure, building or unit discharging
effluent into the system placing no more burden or discharge than residential
flows. Each single-family residential connection is deemed to be one ERU. Other
users will be determined to equate to an ERU based on metered culinary water as
defined in addendum A.
RESIDENTIAL FLOWS: The assumed average and/or standard flow expected from a
single-family dwelling based on wintertime culinary water usage. A residential
flow volume strength is two hundred fifty (250) mg/l TSS (total suspended
solids) and two hundred (200) mg/l BOD5 (biochemical oxygen demand). Rates for
volume and strength of residential flow are as set out in addendum A.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
SEPTIC TANK: A tank in which the solid matter of continuous flowing sewage is
disintegrated by bacteria.
SEWAGE: The spent water of a community. The preferred term is "wastewater" (see
definition of Wastewater).
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty four (24)
hour concentration or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect
the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A drain or sewer for conveying
water, ground water, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent of wastewater facilities, and/or of
wastewater treatment works, and/or of water pollution control of the city or
his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of,
or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "standard methods for the
examination of water and wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
SYSTEM: The sewer, wastewater or combined wastewater and storm or surface water
facilities of the city.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial waste and dispose of the
effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "water
pollution control plant".
WATERCOURSE: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water, either
continuously or intermittently. (Ord., 8-15-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
8-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Deposits Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city,
any human excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharges Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Facilities Prohibited: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or a facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   D.   Connection To Public Sewer Required: The owners of all houses,
buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or
other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley or
right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the city, or within three hundred feet
(300') of the system, is hereby required, at the owner's expense, to install
suitable sewer facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with
the public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within one
hundred eighty (180) days after date of official notice to do so; provided,
that said sewer is within three hundred feet (300') of the owner's property
line.
   E.   Penalty: To evidence compliance with the requirements of this section,
the city adopts the penalty and compensatory sanctions, the violation of which
shall constitute a class B misdemeanor, under the authority of Utah Code
Annotated section 10-8-38, as amended, and, upon conviction, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 8-15-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
8-2-3: PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
   A.   Permitted: Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available,
under the provisions of subsection 8-2-2D of this chapter, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of this section.
   B.   Permit Required; Fee: Before commencement of construction of a private
wastewater disposal system the owner shall first obtain a written permit issued
by the city's water and sewer superintendent. The application for such permit
shall be made on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed
necessary. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the city at the time
the application is filed.
   C.   Authority For Use; Inspection: Permission to use the system for a
private wastewater disposal system shall not be authorized until the
installation is completed in compliance with the approved plans applicable with
all state and local codes and this chapter. Authorized city employees shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction. The applicant for the
permit shall notify the city recorder when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within forty eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice by the
city recorder.
   D.   Compliance With State: The type, capacity, location and layout of a
private wastewater disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the
department of environmental quality of the state as defined in Utah state
administrative rules R317-501, "individual wastewater disposal systems".
   E.   Availability Of Public Sewer: At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to a property served by a private wastewater disposal system, as
provided in subsection 8-2-2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer within one hundred eighty (180) days, in compliance
with this chapter, and the private disposal system shall be disconnected and
made inoperable.
   F.   Maintenance Of System: When a public sewer is not available, the owner
shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal facilities in a
sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the city.
   G.   Scope Of Regulations: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the Utah state department of environmental quality. (Ord., 8-15-2000)
8-2-4: CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city. (Ord., 8-15-2000)
      2.   In every case, the owner or agent shall make application on a form
obtained from the city (see attachment 1 attached to the ordinance codified
herein and on file in the city office). The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the sewer superintendent. (Ord., 8-15-2000; amd.
2003 Code)
   B.   Costs And Expenses Borne By Owner: All costs and expenses incidental to
the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   C.   Separate Sewer Required; Exception: A separate and independent building
sewer shall be provided for every building; except, where one building stands
at the rear of another or on an interior lot and no private sewer is available
or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court,
yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to
the rear building and the whole system will be considered as one building
sewer.
   D.   Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are examined and tested by the sewer
superintendent and found to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   E.   Construction Requirements: The size, slope, alignment, materials or
construction of all sanitary sewers, including building sewers, and the methods
to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and
backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building
and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the city and the
state. In the absence of these code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM
manual of practice no. 9 shall apply.
   F.   Elevation Of Building Sewer: Whenever possible, the building sewer
shall be brought from the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In
all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to
the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be
lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer. Where such
means are necessary, the owner shall be responsible for all installations,
maintenance and operating costs of such operation.
   G.   Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord., 8-15-2000)
8-2-5: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Surface Runoff Or Ground Water Connections Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      2.   Any existing drain that accidentally or purposely could collect
petroleum product spillage (such as service station or fuel depot parking or
service areas) shall be sealed or terminated.
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described water or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred five degrees
Fahrenheit (105oF) (65 degrees Celsius).
      2.   Wastewater containing more than twenty five (25) milligrams per
liter of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral
oil origin.
      3.   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the treatment works exceeds the limits
established by the state of Utah administrative rules R317.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing odor producing substances exceeding
limits acceptable by the city.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes.
      8.   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both, which constitute a
"slug" (see definition set forth in section
8-2-1 of this chapter).
      9.   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed.
      10.   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   C.   Authority Of City Regarding Prohibited Wastes: If any water or wastes
are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the public sewers, which
contain the substances or possess the characteristics enumerated in subsection
B of this section, and which are determined by the city to have a deleterious
effect upon the wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the city may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge, and/or
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
this section. If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to review and approval of the city. (Ord., 8-15-2000)
8-2-6: USER CHARGE SYSTEM:
   A.   Responsibility For Payment Of Charges: Irrespective of the occupant,
user, tenant, cotenant, permissive user, or any other person, firm,
partnership, corporation or entity being in possession of the premises to which
a connection is supplied or service made available, the owner of the premises
according to the records of the Emery or Grand County recorder (whichever is
applicable) shall be legally responsible for the payment of all charges, fees,
assessments and any obligation or liability of a user. Water service to
delinquent property shall be turned off by the city for failure to pay any and
all sewage and wastewater fees, assessments, charges or liability and will not
be turned on again to those premises where a delinquency occurs unless and
until all liabilities to the city for sewer service are paid in full.
   B.   Interest On Past Due Accounts: The city may, at their discretion and in
circumstances that are equitable, impose interest at the highest legal rate on
all past due accounts either for connection fees, user charges or any other
legally imposed charges as authorized by this chapter.
   C.   Annual Review Of User Charges: The city shall review the total annual
cost of operation and maintenance, long term debt service relating to the
wastewater treatment works, as well as each user's wastewater contribution
percentage not less often than every year. The user charge system will be
revised as necessary to assure equity of the system established and to assure
that sufficient funds are obtained from the city's user charge system to: 1)
adequately operate and maintain the wastewater treatment works; 2) cover debt
service sewer; and 3) to provide for adequate reserves. Users will be notified
at least annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of any changes to the
user charge system.
   D.   Deposit: A deposit equal to two (2) months of sewer bill can be
assessed before water and sewer service can be instated. (Ord., 8-15-2000)
   E.   Calculating Rates: Addendum A attached to the ordinance codified herein
and on file in the city office, and entitled "city of Green River user charge
system", shall be used for calculating rates. The addendum is adopted and made
a part of this chapter. (Ord., 8-15-2000; amd. 2003 Code)
8-2-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person found to be violation any provision of this chapter shall be
served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations. Failure to fail to make the necessary actions may be
cause for the city to prosecute the violator to the fullest extent of the law.
(Ord., 8-15-2000)
   B.   Violations of this chapter shall be a class C misdemeanor and subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2003 Code)
TITLE 9
BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: International Building Codes
9-1-2: Permit Procedure
9-1-3: Building Inspector
9-1-4: Liability Of Inspections
9-1-5: Legal Rights Reserved
9-1-6: Discretion In Granting Permits
9-1-7: Penalty
9-1-1: INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODES:
   A.   Codes Adopted: The international building code, the international
electrical code, the international plumbing code, the international mechanical
code, and the adopted code for the abatement of dangerous buildings, as
modified and amended from time to time by the Utah building code commission in
compliance with the international building standards act are enacted and
adopted by reference for use in the city, and shall be enforced by the city for
all construction under the jurisdiction of the city. (1995 Code § 15-1-1; amd.
2003 Code)
   B.   Successor Editions Adopted: All successor editions of the international
building code, the international electrical code, the international mechanical
code and the code for the abatement of dangerous buildings, which may be
adopted by the Utah building code commission are enacted and adopted by
reference for use in the city, and shall be enforced by the city for all
construction under the jurisdiction of the city. (1995 Code § 15-1-2; amd. 2003
Code)
   C.   Fees Adopted: The schedule of fees and charges provided in the building
code are also hereby adopted by the city, and shall be paid by each building
permit applicant to the city; provided, however, that the city reserves the
right to require payment of such additional fees and charges as may be
necessary to reimburse the city for specialized construction inspection where
such inspection must be completed by personnel who are not employed by the city
and who must be contracted for their service. In each such case, the city shall
collect from the owner of the project inspected the amount required to fully
reimburse the city for all costs of inspection and/or engineering services in
connection with the review of plans and other professional services deemed by
the city to be reasonable and necessary to comply with the provisions of the
uniform building standards act. (1995 Code § 15-1-4)
   D.   Availability For Public Use: Current editions of the international
building code, the international electrical code, the international plumbing
code, and the international mechanical code will be kept on file at the city
offices for public reference. (1995 Code § 15-1-5; amd. 2003 Code)
9-1-2: PERMIT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
alter, repair, move, remove or occupy any construction within the city without
first taking out or procuring the permit required for such construction,
alteration, repair, movement, removal or occupancy, or for any person to
continue with any such action when the permit pertaining thereto has been
suspended or stop order has been issued.
   B.   Application For Permit: All applications for a building permit shall be
made to the building inspector on a form prescribed by the city, and shall be
accompanied by plans which have been drawn to scale showing the dimensions of
the planned construction, actual dimension of the lot to be built upon, the
size and location of existing buildings and, as required, the location and
layout of off street parking and a landscaping plan. Applications will be
signed by the owner of the property to be built upon or altered, and also by
any contractor who will be involved in the building or alteration, giving his
Utah state contractor's license number. (1995 Code § 15-2-2)
   C.   Valuation Chart And Fees: The fee for a building permit shall be set
according to a valuation table to be developed and reviewed on a regular basis
by the building inspector, and approved by the city council at a regularly
scheduled meeting. The valuation table shall be based upon the current Utah
state building costs as derived from the International Conference of Building
Officials building standards table published yearly. Current building
valuations for our area shall be available upon request from the city recorder.
(1995 Code § 15-2-3)
   D.   Permits To Comply: No permit shall be granted for the construction or
alteration of any building or structure, for the moving of a building or
structure onto a lot, or for the change in use of any land, building or
structure, if such construction, alteration, moving or change in use would be a
violation of any of the provisions of title 10 of this code, nor shall any
sewer or water service line or electric or gas utilities be installed to serve
the premises if such use would be in violation of said ordinance. (1995 Code §
15-2-4)
   E.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon approval of the application for building
permit by the building inspector and payment of the required fee, a building
permit shall be issued in duplicate by the city recorder on a form prescribed
by the city. Each permit shall be numbered consecutively. (1995 Code § 15-2-5)
   F.   Index Of Permits: The city recorder shall keep an index of all permits
issued in numerical order, stating the permit number, name of applicant, date
issued and amount paid. (1995 Code § 15-2-6)
   G.   Records Maintained: A careful record of said application, plans and
completed building permit shall be kept in the office of the city recorder for
a period of two (2) years from the date of receipt thereof. The application and
completed building permit shall thereafter be kept in perpetuity, or in the
case of commercial construction, all plans and papers pertaining to the permit
application in addition to the completed building permit, will be kept in
perpetuity. (1995 Code § 15-2-7)
   H.   Responsibility For Obtaining Permit: It shall be the sole
responsibility of the owner of the property to be built upon or altered to make
application for and obtain a building permit. Should it be necessary that a
person be required by the building inspector to make application for a permit,
the city will have the right to charge an additional one hundred percent (100%)
double permit fee. (1995 Code § 15-2-8)
   I.   Separate Permit Required For Each Location; Changes: A separate permit
shall be required for each building site. In addition, a separate permit shall
be required for any construction or alteration which was not included and
approved on the original building permit application for which the current
building permit was issued. (1995 Code § 15-2-9)
   J.   Display Of Permit: It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
property to be built upon or altered to display a duplicate copy of the
building permit in a conspicuous place on the construction site. Failure to do
so may result in a stop order. (1995 Code § 15-2-10)
   K.   Inspections: Inspections by the building inspector of each phase of the
construction project shall be required, and shall include, but not be limited
to, zoning plan check, rough and final. Upon completion and acceptance of each
phase, both the owner's and the city's copies of the building permit shall be
signed by the building inspector. (1995 Code § 15-2-11)
   L.   Occupancy: No building shall be occupied or used for any purpose until
a final inspection has been made and approved by the building inspector.
Whenever any building or structure or equipment therein regulated by this
chapter is being used contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the building
inspector may order such use discontinued and the structure, or portion
thereof, vacated by notice served on any person causing such use to be
continued. Such person shall discontinue use within the time prescribed by the
building inspector after receipt of such notice. (1995 Code § 15-2-12)
9-1-3: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
   A.   Powers And Duties, Generally: The building inspector is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce all the provisions of this chapter and of
the building codes heretofore mentioned. For such purposes:
      1.   The building inspector shall have the powers of a law enforcement
officer;
      2.   The building inspector shall have the power to render
interpretations of this chapter and to adopt and enforce rules and supplemental
regulations in order to enforce and clarify the application of its provisions.
Such interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in conformance with the
intent and purpose of this chapter. (1995 Code § 15-3-1)
   B.   Right Of Entry: When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce
the provisions of this chapter, or when the building inspector has reasonable
cause to believe that there exists in a building or upon a premises a condition
which is contrary to or in violation of this chapter which makes the building
or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the building inspector may enter
the building or premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform the
duties imposed by this chapter; provided, that if such building or premises be
occupied, that credentials be presented to the occupant and entry requested. If
such building or premises be unoccupied, the building inspector shall first
make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having charge or
control of the building or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the
building inspector shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to
secure entry. (1995 Code § 15-3-2)
   C.   Nonliability: The building inspector charged with the enforcement of
this chapter, acting in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the
duties required by this chapter or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not
thereby be rendered personally liable for damages that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of an act or by reason of an act or omission in the
discharge of such duties. (1995 Code § 15-3-3)
9-1-4: LIABILITY OF INSPECTIONS:
This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, operating or controlling any building or
structure from any damage to persons or property caused by defects, nor shall
the city be held as assuming any such liability by reason of the inspections
authorized by this chapter or any permits issued under this chapter. (1995 Code
§ 15-2-17)
9-1-5: LEGAL RIGHTS RESERVED:
The city reserves all of its legal rights to collect the underpayment of
building permit fees, penalties and interest, and to seek appropriate equitable
relief against a permittee, including an injunction from any construction or
alteration within the city limits. (1995 Code § 15-2-16)
9-1-6: DISCRETION IN GRANTING PERMITS:
Nothing in this chapter shall in any way limit the right of the city council or
the building inspector to act upon an application for a building permit as they
shall deem fair, just and proper in regard to granting or denying said
application. (1995 Code § 15-2-15)
9-1-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1995 Code § 15-2-13; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Effect Of Conviction; Prosecution Not Barred: The conviction and
punishment of any person for violation of this chapter shall not excuse or
exempt such person from the payment of any of the building permit fees due or
unpaid at the time of such conviction, and nothing herein shall prevent a
criminal prosecution for any violations of the provisions of this chapter.
(1995 Code § 15-2-14)
CHAPTER 2
IMPACT FEES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Adoption Of Capital Facilities Plan And Economic Analysis
9-2-2: Preliminary Findings
9-2-3: Definitions
9-2-4: Application Procedures And Computation Of Impact Fee
9-2-5: Appeal Of Impact Fee Computation
9-2-1: ADOPTION OF CAPITAL FACILITIES PLAN AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS:
   A.   The capital facilities plans which were subject to a public hearing by
the city council on March 26, 2002, be and the same hereby are approved,
adopted and designated as the 2002 capital facilities plan for water and sewer
system improvements of the city and replace and supersede all prior master
plans for water and sewer system improvements or capital facilities plans of
the city.
   B.   The 2009 impact fee analysis for water and sewer system improvements
which were subject to public hearing by the city council on January 12, 2010,
is hereby approved and supersedes and replaces all prior impact fee analyses
and is incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein.
   C.   Based on the 2002 capital facilities plan and the 2009 impact fee
analysis and on the requirements of Utah law, the city council enacts this
chapter to require the payment of impact fees as a condition of connection to
the water system and sewer system of the city, and to receive water and sewer
service from the city. (Ord. 2010-01, 1-12-2012)
9-2-2: PRELIMINARY FINDINGS:
   A.   The city council finds that it is in the best interest of the city to
enact an ordinance requiring the payment of impact fees as a condition to the
receipt of water and wastewater collection and treatment service from the city
for the properties and facilities which are connected to and serviced by the
facilities of the city.
   B.   This chapter is based upon the experience of the city, the 2002 capital
facilities plan adopted by the city council, and the 2009 impact fee analysis,
which has been approved by the city council after notice and public hearing, as
required by Utah law. The city finds that all required notices have been given
and made and the city is entitled to adopt this impact fee chapter requiring
the payment of impact fees.
   C.   In the enactment of the 2002 capital facilities plan, the 2009 impact
fee analysis and this chapter, the city has taken into consideration, and in
certain cases will consider on a case by case basis in the future, the future
capital facilities needs of the city, the capital financial needs of the city
which are the result of the future facilities needs of the city, the
distribution of the burden of costs to different properties within the city
based on the use of the water and sewer systems of the city by such properties,
the financial contribution of those properties and other properties similarly
situated in the city at the time of computation of the required fee and prior
to the enactment of this chapter, all revenue sources available to the city and
the impact on future water and sewer system improvements which will be required
by new development activities in the city.
   D.   The city council finds that future development activities will cause a
need for water and sewer system improvements and the capital facility
improvement requirements which are analyzed in the capital facilities plans and
impact fee analysis are the direct result of additional facility needs caused
by future development activities.
   E.   The city council finds that the impact fees which are required to be
paid in the future under this chapter adopted herein are necessary to achieve
an equitable financial allocation between the costs paid by properties in the
city in the past and the costs to be paid in the future, in comparison to the
benefits received by properties connected to the city in the past, and those
properties to be connected to the city system in the future as a result of
development activity. (Ord. 2010-01, 1-12-2012)
9-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions are applicable to the terms of this chapter:
CITY OF GREEN RIVER: A Utah municipal corporation.
CONNECTION APPLICANT: A person or entity who will connect to the system of the
city.
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU): Water service - nine thousand (9,000)
gallons of water per month.
Sewer service - three hundred fifty (350) gallons per day of wastewater.
GROSS IMPACT FEE: The initial impact fee calculated by the city based on the
application from the connection applicant.
IMPACT FEE CLERK: An employee of the city authorized and designated by the city
council to evaluate impact fee requirements and to calculate and determine the
amount of impact fee required from an applicant from each connection applicant
for connection to the facilities of the city.
IMPACT FEE PAYMENT REQUIREMENTS: The requirements in the ordinance adopted by
the city which state the fees payable to the city as a requirement for
permission to connect to the city water and sewer systems.
IMPACT FEES: The fees payable for system improvements to the city under this
chapter.
INSPECTION FEES: Fees collected by the city for the inspection of service lines
as required by the provisions applicable to such fees, and costs associated
with account setup.
NET IMPACT FEE: The impact fee calculated by the city after considering studies
and data submitted by the connection applicant and making all adjustments
required by this chapter.
NONRESIDENTIAL USERS: Commercial, industrial and/or either of the above in
combination with residential units.
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: Single-family and condominium dwelling units or other multi-
family dwelling units which are individual living units containing kitchen or
kitchenette facilities intended for the preparation of meals, and which may
include connecting hallways, lobbies, etc., intended for use of the individuals
occupying the residential units. (Ord. 03-26-02, 3-26-2002)
9-2-4: APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND COMPUTATION OF IMPACT FEE:
   A.   Information Required: Each applicant for connection to the city water
system or sewer system shall make an application for the connection in writing
to the city for connection to the city systems on forms provided by the city.
Each connection applicant shall: 1) state, define and characterize the nature
of the use of the building proposed to be connected to the city system; 2)
provide the approved architectural plans which will be submitted for building
permit application purposes for the structure to be connected to the city
system; and 3) such other and further information as may be requested by the
city which is reasonably necessary to determine the size and nature of the use
of the building proposed for connection; and 4) to allow the city to verify the
nature of the information presented by the connection applicant.
   B.   Use Of Plans And Specifications: The plans and specifications submitted
by the connection applicant may be used by the city for review and to determine
compliance with the design and construction specifications of the city, and
become a permanent record of the city.
   C.   Calculation Of Fee: The city impact fee clerk shall evaluate the
building use, size and characteristics and shall calculate a gross impact fee
based on the information submitted by the impact fee applicant using the fees
required by this chapter and calculation procedure described in the 2009 impact
fee analysis for each year, according to the following requirements:
      1.   Residential Units:
 
                For Each ERU
Water impact fee $1,000.00
Sewer impact fee 1,000.00
 
(Ord. 2010-01, 1-12-2010)
      2.   Nonresidential Units:
         a.   The impact fee for nonresidential establishments is based on
estimated water usage during the months of November through March. Estimates
will be calculated by the project engineer or architect. Actual water usage
from similar facilities can also be used.
         b.   Wastewater flow shall be divided by three hundred fifty (350)
gallons per day in order to determine the number of ERUs. The impact fee shall
be computed by multiplying the ERUs times the sewer impact fee.
   D.   Written Notice Of Fee; Reduction: The impact fee clerk shall inform the
impact applicant in writing of the gross impact fee. The written notice of the
gross impact fee shall state that the city will consider information from the
impact fee applicant which may reduce the gross impact fee. The city will allow
the impact applicant to submit the following information for consideration to
reduce the gross impact fee in determining the net impact fee:
      1.   Studies and data concerning the water delivery and use and sewer
collection and treatment demand imposed on the city systems by the proposed
connection and use;
      2.   Evidence of the payment of connection or impact fees, taxes or
service charges to the city by the past owners of the property to be connected;
      3.   An identification of property or facilities contributed by the
connection applicant to the city with the prior written approval of the city,
which are planned by the city in the 2002 capital facilities plan, together
with relevant cost or economic data;
      4.   An identification or description in detail of any other economic
credit or matter which the impact fee applicant believes should be taken into
consideration in the computation of the net impact fee.
   E.   Consideration Of Information; Payment Of Fees: All of the relevant
information submitted by the connection applicant shall be taken into
consideration in the calculation of the final net impact fee to be charged to
the connection applicant for permission to connect to and use the city
facilities.
      1.   Reductions in the gross impact fee based on the information provided
by the connection applicant, including studies and data submitted by the impact
fee applicant concerning water use of the proposed connection, shall be based
solely on verifiable economic data and, if applicable, specific use prediction
data which is certain to assure the city that the city system use is less than
the use estimated by the city and can be confirmed as represented by the
connection applicant.
      2.   After considering studies and data, if any, submitted by the
connection applicant, the impact fee clerk shall calculate the net impact fee,
administrative fees, other required fees, less reservation of capacity fees and
interest, and inform the connection applicant in writing of each fee required
and charged by the city to the connection applicant prior to approving the
connection application.
      3.   After the connection applicant receives the written final net fee
computation statement from the city, the connection applicant shall indicate in
writing in the space provided whether or not the connection applicant concurs
with the net impact fee computed by the city. If the connection applicant
concurs with the net impact fee, the connection applicant shall pay the net
impact fee and obtain a receipt prior to obtaining a building permit.
      4.   The city is authorized to complete a visual inspection of the
building prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy. If the constructed
building is not as presented to the city in the approved plans and the city has
reason to believe that more demand on the city water and/or sewer system will
occur than the use used to compute the collected impact fees, the city may
assess an additional impact fee to account for the additional use and shall not
issue a certificate of occupancy or allow temporary use of the building until
the required impact fee is paid in full.
      5.   When the impact fee for a structure is paid in full, applicant shall
have one year from the date of payment to apply for a building permit, during
which time applicant will not be liable for impact fee increases. After one
year, applicant shall pay the then applicable fees.
      6.   When an existing structure is remodeled which results in additional
living sections being added, new plans must be submitted to the city and
additional fees paid for additional demand on the city systems. Fees will be
paid according to the rate effective at the time of the remodel. (Ord. 03-26-
02, 3-26-2002)
9-2-5: APPEAL OF IMPACT FEE COMPUTATION:
   A.   Filing Of Appeal: If the connection applicant does not concur with a
net impact fee, and if the fee is contested by the connection applicant, the
connection applicant shall notify the city and appeal the computation and
imposition of the net impact fee to the city council of the city. Appeal to the
city council shall be considered filed by the connection applicant when the
connection applicant executes the notice of appeal and provides the date of
execution of the notice of appeal on the form provided by the city.
   B.   Written Request For Reduction; Documents: The connection applicant
shall prepare a written request for impact fee reduction to the city council
stating the grounds and reasons why the connection applicant does not concur
with the net impact fee computed by the city. A written request before the city
council shall be accompanied by all written data and information upon which the
connection applicant will rely in the hearing before the city council.
   C.   Hearing; Decision; Time Limit: No later than twenty (20) days after the
notice of appeal or the final submission of data by the connection applicant,
the city council shall hear the appeal. At the hearing, the city council shall
admit and consider evidence presented by the connection applicant upon which
the connection applicant may rely to show that the impact fee clerk failed to
consider the evidence submitted by the connection applicant or misinterpreted,
misconstrued or misapplied this chapter. No later than thirty (30) days after
the date of the hearing with the city council, the city council shall decide
the matter in writing and advise the connection applicant of its decision. The
city council may affirm the decision of the impact fee clerk, modify or
recompute the net impact fee, or submit the matter to the impact fee clerk for
recomputation of the net impact fee with such directions as the city council
find are appropriate under the circumstances to achieve compliance with this
chapter and the provisions of Utah law.
   D.   Accept; Further Review: No later than ten (10) days after receipt of
the decision of the city council by the connection applicant, the connection
applicant shall advise the city council that it either concurs with or accepts
the decision of the city council and will pay the net impact fee determined or
to be computed under the directions of the city council to the impact fee
clerk, together with all administrative fees or that the connection applicant
intends to seek further review of the decision of the city council. In the
event the connection applicant desires to seek further review of the decision
of the city council, the city council shall cause all documents, tape
recordings, evidence and information relied upon by the impact fee clerk or the
city council to be collected and compiled as a record and designated as a
record of the proceeding for purposes of further review. (Ord. 03-26-02, 3-26-
2002)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title, Intent And Purpose
10-1-2: Declaration
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-1: TITLE, INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   This title shall be known as, and shall be entitled THE ZONING
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF GREEN RIVER, UTAH, and may be so cited and pleaded. It
is the intent and purpose of the city council to promote the health, safety,
morals, convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare of the present and
future inhabitants of the city by guiding development within said city in
accordance with a comprehensive plan, which plan has been designed to:
      1.   Encourage and facilitate orderly growth and development in the area.
      2.   Promote safety from fires, floods, traffic hazards and other
dangers.
      3.   Promote sanitation and health of the inhabitants.
      4.   Discourage undue scattering of population and unnecessary
expenditures of the monies for excessive streets, water and sewer lines and
other public requirements.
      5.   Stabilize and improve property values.
      6.   Protect the residents from objectionable noise, odor, dust, fumes
and other deleterious substances or conditions.
      7.   Promote a more attractive and wholesome environment.
   B.   It is also the intent and purpose of the city council that the
regulations and restrictions as set forth in this title shall be so interpreted
and construed as to further the purposes of this title. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-
1981)
10-1-2: DECLARATION:
In establishing the zones, the boundaries thereof, and regulations and
restrictions applying within each of the zones, due and careful consideration
was given, among other things, to the suitability of the land for particular
uses, and to the character of the zone, with a view to conserving the value of
buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the city.
(Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying this title, the provisions hereof shall be held to
be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health,
safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Except as specifically herein
provided, it is not intended by the adoption of this title to repeal, abrogate,
annul or in any way to impair or interfere with any existing provisions of law
or ordinance, or any rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or
issued, or which shall be adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the
erection, construction, establishment, moving, alteration or enlargement of any
building or improvement; nor is it intended by this title to interfere with or
abrogate or annul any easement, covenant or other agreement between parties;
provided, however, that in cases in which this title imposes a greater
restriction than is imposed or required by other existing provisions of law or
ordinance, then in such case the provisions of this title shall control. (Ord.
6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
It is the intent of the city council to define certain words and phrases as a
means of facilitating understanding of terms which may not be universally
understood in the sense that the city council intends that they should be
understood.
AGRICULTURE: The growing of soil crops in the customary manner in the open. It
shall not include large scale livestock raising activities, nor shall it
include retailing of products on the premises.
APARTMENT HOUSE (MULTIPLE DWELLING): Any building or portion thereof which is
designed, built, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or which is
occupied as the home or residence of three (3) or more families living
independently of each other and doing their own cooking within the premises.
BOARDING HOUSE; LODGING HOUSE: A building containing not more than one kitchen,
where for compensation, meals are provided pursuing previous arrangements on a
daily, weekly or monthly basis and distinguished from a motel, cafe or rooming
house.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building, the use of which is incidental to
that of the main building.
BUILDING LINE: A line designating the minimum distance which buildings must be
set back from the street; the easement line.
BUILDING, MAIN: One or more of the principal buildings upon a lot.
CARPORT: A structure not completely enclosed by walls for the shelter of
automobiles.
CLINIC: A building used for the diagnosis and treatment of ill, infirm and
injured persons, but which building does not provide board, room or regular
inpatient care and service.
CLUB: A building used, occupied and operated by an organized association of
persons for social, fraternal, religious or patriotic purposes, whose
activities are confined to the members and their guests, but shall not include
any organization, group or association, the principal activity of which is to
render a service usually and ordinarily carried on as a business.
COMMON AREA: An area designed to serve two (2) or more dwelling units or
separate uses with convenient access to the area.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: A coordinated plan, which has been prepared and adopted for
the purpose of guiding development, including, but not limited to, a plan or
plans of land use, circulation, housing, public facilities and grounds.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use which is related to the permitted uses within a zone;
but which may be suitable or desirable only in certain locations in that zone
due to conditions or circumstances peculiar to that location and zone. A use
for which a conditional use permit is required by this title.
CONVALESCENT HOME: See definition of Rest Home; Nursing Home; Convalescent
Home.
CURB CUT: A cut in the curb line for the passage of vehicles.
DENSITY: Density of population measured by the number of dwelling units or
people per acre of land.
DRIVE-IN, RETAIL: Any form of merchandising, serving or dispensing of goods in
which the customer is serviced while in his automobile.
DWELLING, CARETAKER'S: A dwelling which is occupied by a person or persons
whose function is to watch or take care of a business, industry, property or
goods, which is contiguous or within the same premises as the dwelling.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building containing three (3) or more separate
dwelling units, each of which is designed for or occupied by one family.
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A building containing only one dwelling unit which is
designed for or occupied by one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building containing two (2) separate dwelling units,
each of which is designed for or occupied by one family.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a building designed for living purposes,
having one kitchen or set of cooking facilities, and independent water closet
and bathing facilities.
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption living together in a single dwelling unit maintaining a common
household. A family may include two (2), but not more than two (2), nonrelated
persons living as guests with a residing family. The term "family" shall not be
construed to mean a group of unrelated individuals, a fraternity, club or
institutional group.
FENCE:
Fence, Wall, Hedge: A barrier made of wood, metal, masonry or plants that
defines the limits of a parcel, lot or tract of land.
Sight Obscuring: See definition of Sight Obscuring.
FLOOR AREA: The floor area of a building is the sum of the areas of the several
floors of the building, including mezzanines and penthouses, of headroom
height, measured from the interior walls or from the centerline of walls
separating buildings. The floor area does not include unoccupied features such
as pipe trenches, exterior terraces or steps, chimneys, roof overhang, etc.
FRACTIONAL NUMBERS OR MEASUREMENTS: In determining the requirements of this
title, whenever a fraction of a number or a unit is one-half (1/2) or more, and
whenever a fraction of a number or a unit resulting from a computation is one-
half (1/2) or more, said fraction shall be considered as a whole number or a
unit; where the fraction is less than one-half (1/2), said fraction shall not
be included in determining requirements.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A building or part thereof designed for the parking or
temporary storage of automobiles of the occupants of the premises.
GRADE: A. For buildings fronting one street only, the elevation of the sidewalk
or centerline of the street, whichever is higher, at right angles to the
midpoint of the fronting walls.
   B.   For buildings fronting more than one street, the average of the
elevations of the sidewalk or centerline of the street, at right angles to the
midpoint of the fronting walls.
   C.   For buildings having no walls fronting the street, the average level of
the sidewalk or centerline of surrounding streets, whichever is higher.
HARD SURFACE: Asphalt, concrete, graveled road base, or similar substance that
will not deteriorate under weather conditions or consistent use.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The vertical distance from the grade to the top of the
building walls; where the building walls vary in height along a side, the
height of the building shall be determined by multiplying the length of each
section of said wall by its height and dividing the sum derived therefrom by
the total length of said wall.
HOME BUSINESS OCCUPATION: Any home business or professional occupation
conducted within a dwelling and carried on by persons residing in the dwelling.
JUNKYARD: A place where scrap, waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
brought, sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled, handled or stored,
including auto wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards and
places or yards for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel
materials and equipment, but not including such places where such uses are
conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building or where salvaged
materials are kept incidental to manufacturing operations conducted on the
premises.
KENNEL: Any land or building wherein any person engages in the business of
boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee, selling or
keeping three (3) or more dogs or cats of the age of four (4) months old or
older.
LAND USE PLAN: A plan adopted and maintained by the city council which shows
how the land was, is and should be used; an element of the master plan.
LANDSCAPING: Some combination of planted trees, shrubs, vines, ground cover,
flowers or lawns. In addition, the combination or design may include rocks and
such structural features as fountains, pools, artworks, screens, walls, fences
or benches, but such objects alone shall not meet the requirements of this
title. The selected combination of objects for landscaping purposes shall be
arranged subject to the provisions of this title.
LIVESTOCK CORRAL: A place or pen where livestock is kept on a seasonal basis as
part of an agricultural enterprise or operation as distinguished from a
livestock feed yard.
LIVING OPEN SPACE: That portion of the yards on a zoning lot which is not used
by automotive vehicles, but reserved for outdoor living space, recreational
space and landscaping.
LODGING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House; Lodging House.
LOT: A single parcel or tract of land.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at a junction of two (2) public streets or situated
on a curved street or way, the radius of which is thirty five feet (35') or
less and where the angle formed by the intersection of the tangent is one
hundred five degrees (105°) or less.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot designated on a subdivision plat or deed, duly recorded
pursuant to statute in the county recorder's office. A lot of record may or may
not coincide with the zoning lot.
LOT, ZONING: A parcel of land composed of one or more recorded lots, occupied
or to be occupied by a principal building or buildings, or principal use or
uses, along with permitted accessory buildings or uses, meeting all the
requirements for area, buildable area, frontage, width, yards, setbacks and
other requirements set forth in this title.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A dwelling unit which meets the building code requirements
for permanent structures, designed to be transported after fabrication and
which is generally ready for occupancy as an independent unit, except for
connection to utilities and location on a foundation.
MOBILE HOME: A dwelling unit designed to be transported, after fabrication, on
its own wheels or on detachable wheels, and which is ready for occupancy as an
independent dwelling unit, except for connection to utilities and/or location
on a foundation. The term "mobile home" shall not include conventional houses
which are manufactured elsewhere and moved into an area for use as permanent
housing.
MOBILE HOME PARK: An area or tract of land used to accommodate two (2) or more
mobile homes.
NONCONFORMING USE: The prior lawful use of land or of a building or structure
which subsequently is prohibited by zoning regulations pertaining to the zone
in which the building or land is situated.
NURSERY, DAYCARE: A home or building in which children are tended or kept for
compensation. Does not include overnight accommodations for such children, as
does a foster home or an orphanage.
PARKING SPACE: Any space within a building or parking area, exclusive of
driveways, ramps, columns, office and working area, designated for the parking
of a motor vehicle, not less than twenty feet (20') in length and not less than
eight and five-tenths feet (8.5') in width.
REST HOME; NURSING HOME; CONVALESCENT HOME: Any building for the care and
keeping of elderly people or people afflicted with infirmities or chronic
illness.
SALVAGE YARD: See definition of Junkyard.
SETBACK: The shortest distance between the front easement line and the
foundation, wall or main frame of the building.
SIGHT OBSCURING: Concealed or hidden, difficult to see, a barrier consisting of
wood, masonry, evergreen shrubbery, berms or natural objects or other
appropriate material that conceals or hides that which is stored from public
view.
SIGN: Any device for visual communications that is used for the purpose of
bringing the subject thereof to the attention of the public, but not including
a flagpole. Signs in the various zones will be in conformance with chapter 14
of this title.
SPECIAL EXCEPTION, TEMPORARY: A temporary exception from any term or condition
of this title, granted by motion of the city council for a period not to exceed
three (3) months in duration, which time may be extended by the city council
for an additional three (3) months, for a total duration for any one tract of
land not to exceed six (6) months. The granting of a temporary exception may be
made by the city council with or without the prior recommendation concerning
the same from the planning commission. Such temporary exceptions may be granted
upon the city council's determination that such a temporary exception is
justified because of some unusual emergency or act of God situation, and that
the health, safety, convenience, order and welfare of the inhabitants of the
city will not be materially adversely affected if such temporary exception is
granted.
STREET, MAJOR: One of the principal thoroughfares, as shown or designated on
the master street plan.
STREET, MINOR: Any dedicated street serving as the means of access to property,
which street is not shown on the master street plan as a principal
thoroughfare.
VACATION VEHICLE COURT: An area or tract of land used to accommodate two (2) or
more vacation vehicles, travel trailers or camper units.
VACATION VEHICLE; TRAVEL TRAILER; CAMPER: A vehicle with or without self-power,
used or maintained primarily as a temporary dwelling for travel, vacation or
recreation purposes and having a width of eight feet (8') or less.
VARIANCES: A waiver of specific regulations of this title granted by the board
of adjustment in accordance with the provisions set forth in this title for the
purpose of assuring that no property owner, because of special circumstances
applicable to it, shall be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other
property owners in the same zone.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a building unoccupied or unobstructed
from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this title.
YARD, FRONT: The minimum horizontal distance between the street line and the
front line of the building or any projection thereof, excluding nonenclosed
steps. On the corner lot, the front yard may be applied to either street.
YARD, REAR: An open, unoccupied space on the same lot as a building, measured
from the rear line of the building (exclusive of steps) and the rear lot line,
and extending for the same width of the lot. In case of a corner lot where the
building facade faces on the side street, the rear yard may be established from
the side of the dwelling to the side property line.
YARD, REQUIRED: The open space around buildings which is required by the terms
of this title.
YARD, SIDE: A yard between the building and the side line of the lot, and
extending from the front yard to the rear yard. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981; amd.
Ord. 2-12-98B, 2-12-1998; 2003 Code; Ord. 2007-05, 4-10-2007)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2010-06, 10-12-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 3 of this code.
CHAPTER 4
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
SECTION:
10-4-1: Zones Established
10-4-2: Official Zone Map
10-4-3: Boundaries Of Zones
10-4-4: Regulations Within Zones
10-4-1: ZONES ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the purposes of this title, the City is hereby divided
into zones as follows:
A-1   Agricultural Zone
G-1   Grazing Zone
R-1   Residential Zone
R-2   Residential Zone
R-3   Residential Zone
C-1   Commercial Zone
C-2   Commercial Zone
I-1   Light Industrial Zone
I-2   Medium Industrial Zone
I-3   Heavy Industrial Zone
OS-1  Open Space Zone
Sp-1  Special Overlay Zone
 
(Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981; amd. Ord. 6-18-81B, 6-18-1981; Ord. 9-24-92, 9-2-
1992; Ord. 9-23-96A, 9-23-1996; 2003 Code; Ord. 2005-02, 4-12-2005; Ord. 2007-
03, 2-13-2007; Ord. 2009-02, 1-13-2009; Ord. 2011-02, 5-10-2011; Ord. 2014-04,
11-11-2014; Ord. 2017-01, 5-9-2017)
10-4-2: OFFICIAL ZONE MAP:
   A.   Designated: The location and boundaries of each of the zones are shown
on the official zone map of the City of Green River, Utah, and said map is
hereby declared to be an official record and a part of this title.
   B.   Amendments Or Changes To Map: Whenever amendments or changes are made
in zone boundaries, such amendments or changes shall be made on the official
zone map promptly. No amendment or change shall become effective until after it
has been properly noted and attested to on the official zone map.
   C.   Conformance Required: No changes of any nature shall be made in the
official zone map, except in conformity with the procedure set forth in this
title. An unauthorized change of whatever kind by any person or persons shall
be considered a violation of this title and punishable as provided in this
title.
   D.   Final Authority: Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the
official zone map which may, from time to time, be made or published, the
official zone map, which shall be located in the Office of the City Recorder,
shall be final authority in determining current zoning status. (Ord. 6-18-81A,
6-18-1981)
10-4-3: BOUNDARIES OF ZONES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of various zones, the
following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where the intended boundaries on the zone map are approximately street
or alley lines, said streets or alleys shall be construed to be the zone
boundaries.
   B.   Where the indicated boundaries on the zone map are approximately lot
lines, said lot lines shall be construed to be the zone boundaries, unless
otherwise indicated.
   C.   Where land has not been subdivided into lots, the zone boundary shall
be determined by the use of the scale of measurement shown on the map.
   D.   Where other uncertainty exists, the Board of Adjustment shall interpret
the map 1 . (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 2-3-3A2 of this Code.
10-4-4: REGULATIONS WITHIN ZONES:
Within each of the zones, the use, location, height and size of buildings and
structures, the use of land, size of lots, yards, courts, and other open
spaces, and the density of population, are regulated as hereinafter set forth.
(Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
CHAPTER 5
AGRICULTURAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. A-1 AGRICULTURAL ZONE
ARTICLE A. A-1 AGRICULTURAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Objectives And Characteristics Of Zone
10-5A-2: Permitted Uses
10-5A-3: Conditional Uses
10-5A-4: Purpose Of Requirements
10-5A-5: Area Requirements
10-5A-6: Width Requirements
10-5A-7: Location Requirements
10-5A-8: Height Requirements
10-5A-9: Size Of Dwellings
10-5A-10: Special Provisions
10-5A-11: Supplementary Regulations
10-5A-1: OBJECTIVES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF ZONE:
   A.   The A-1 agricultural zone has been established for the primary purpose
of providing a location where the cultivation of crops and the raising and
keeping of livestock and related uses can be carried on, and where such uses
can be protected and encouraged.
   B.   Owners or developers of land should bear in mind that primacy is given
in this zone to agriculture and livestock raising, and any development should
be undertaken in recognition thereof.
   C.   The A-1 agricultural zone is characterized by large lots and tracts of
land intermixed with dwellings.
   D.   In order to accomplish the objectives and purposes of this title, and
to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of this zone, the
following regulations shall apply. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-10-2010)
10-5A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted in the
A-1 agricultural zone upon compliance with requirements set forth in this
title:
Agriculture, including, but not limited to, the raising of row and forage
crops, grains and fruits, and buildings incidental to the use of land for
agricultural purposes.
Animals and fowl, raising and keeping, except for porcine and ratites.
Barns, corrals, pens and buildings for the housing of animals and fowl, and the
storage of farm products, provided such use for the care and keeping of
livestock and fowl are located at least fifty feet (50') in distance from any
dwelling.
   A.   Fowl and rabbits may be located anywhere on the property provided that
animals and pens are at least fifty feet (50') from any dwelling on other
surrounding lots.
Daycare nurseries that have been approved by the state health department and
the state welfare department.
Fairgrounds, equestrian centers, and golf courses.
Individual manufactured homes that comply with the requirements set forth in
section
10-12-17 of this title.
Kennels, veterinary clinics and animal hospitals.
Plant nurseries and beehives.
Public utility buildings and facilities and airports.
Rest homes.
Schools and churches.
Single-family dwellings and buildings necessary thereto.
Temporary buildings and yards for the storage of construction materials and
equipment incidental and necessary to construction of uses otherwise permitted
in the zone. A permit therefor shall be valid for not more than one year and
shall not be renewable for more than two (2) successive ninety (90) day periods
on the same lot.
The retail sale of products and services, provided such products are raised by
the owner. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-10-2010)
10-5A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Other uses which may be suitable or desirable only in certain locations of this
zone due to circumstances peculiar to said location, and for which a
conditional use permit is required by this title. The following are suggested,
but not limited to:
Feedlots, fur farms and hatcheries.
Home business or professional occupations.
Industry subject to recommendation of the planning commission and approval of
the city council, provided that a conditional use permit has been granted
pursuant to chapter 13 of this title. Such conditional use permits are not
transferable from one site to another.
Porcine and ratite raising and keeping.
Residential subdivisions.
Water reservoirs, water facilities and oil and gas wells. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-10-
2010)
10-5A-4: PURPOSE OF REQUIREMENTS:
The purpose of requiring area, width, height and location requirements is to
provide for a yard area around structures to ensure access to and around
buildings for fire and emergency services; adequate privacy; desirable and safe
visibility; natural light, ventilation and sunlight; and space for landscaping,
gardening and recreation. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-10-2010)
10-5A-5: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each dwelling or individual manufactured home shall be located on a lot
containing at least sixteen thousand (16,000) square feet of land, except that
when connected to a public sewer, a one-family dwelling may be located on a lot
containing not less than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet.
   B.   Lots upon which animals or fowl, except customary household pets, are
kept, or upon which barns, pens, coops and corrals for the keeping of such
animals or fowl are maintained, shall contain twenty nine thousand (29,000)
square feet.
      1.   The keeping of animals or fowl on smaller lots is covered in chapter
12, "Supplementary Procedures Applicable Within Zones", of this title.
   C.   Rest homes, schools and churches shall be located upon lots containing
at least one acre.
   D.   Except as may otherwise be provided for in subsections A, B, and C of
this section, there shall be no other area requirements. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-10-
2010)
10-5A-6: WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The minimum width of lot with a dwelling, fronting on a single street,
shall be seventy feet (70'), measured at a distance of thirty feet (30') back
from the front easement line of the street.
   B.   The minimum width of any corner lot with a dwelling shall be eighty
feet (80') measured at a distance of thirty feet (30') back from the front
easement line of the street.
   C.   For uses other than dwellings and structures, there shall be no width
requirements except as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-10-2010)
10-5A-7: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Distance Between Main And Accessory Buildings: The minimum distance
between the main building and accessory buildings shall be ten feet (10').
   B.   Front Setback: All buildings and structures shall be set back at least
twenty five feet (25') from the front easement line.
   C.   Side Setback:
      1.   All dwellings and individual manufactured homes shall be set back
from the side property line a distance of at least six feet (6') and the total
distance of the two (2) side setbacks shall be at least sixteen feet (16').
      2.   The minimum side setback for accessory buildings shall be the same
as for main buildings.
         a.   No side setback shall be required for accessory buildings that
are located more than fifty feet (50') at the rear of any dwelling.
      3.   On corner lots, the side setback from the street easement line for
any dwelling or other building shall be not less than twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Rear Setback:
      1.   For interior lots, all dwellings and other main buildings shall be
set back from the rear property line a distance of at least thirty feet (30').
      2.   Accessory buildings shall be set back not less than six feet (6')
from the rear property line.
      3.   Alley rights of way measured from the centerline may be used for
setback requirements.
   E.   Architectural Features Setback:
      1.   Decks, patios, driveways, cornices, eave overhangs, and similar
architectural features are covered in chapter 12, "Supplementary Procedures
Applicable Within Zones", of this title. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-10-2010)
10-5A-8: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The maximum height of any building measured from grade to the square of
the building shall be two (2) stories or twenty five feet (25'), and the
minimum height of any dwelling shall be nine feet (9').
   B.   Where the ground or the square of the building is uneven in height, the
average elevation shall apply.
   C.   Chimneys, flagpoles, television antennas, church towers and similar
structures not used for human occupancy are excluded in determining height.
(Ord. 2010-03, 8-10-2010)
10-5A-9: SIZE OF DWELLINGS:
   A.   The ground floor area of any single-family dwelling shall not be less
than eight hundred fifty (850) square feet.
   B.   The exterior minimum width of any dwelling shall be twelve feet (12').
   C.   In multiple-family developments, the first unit shall be not less than
eight hundred fifty (850) square feet and each additional unit shall not be
less than six hundred (600) square feet on the ground floor. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-
10-2010)
10-5A-10: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
For the purpose of determining front, side and rear setback requirements, any
separate building situated within ten feet (10') from a dwelling or other main
building shall be considered as part of the main building and not as an
accessory building. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-10-2010)
10-5A-11: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
See also chapter 12, "Supplementary Procedures Applicable Within Zones", of
this title for the following:
   A.   Fences;
   B.   Parking;
   C.   Architectural features;
   D.   Exemptions to setbacks. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-10-2010)
ARTICLE B. G-1 GRAZING ZONE
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Objectives And Characteristics Of Zone
10-5B-2: Permitted Uses
10-5B-3: Conditional Uses
10-5B-4: Lot Size
10-5B-5: Location Requirements
10-5B-6: Height
10-5B-7: Size Of Dwellings
10-5B-8: Special Provisions
10-5B-1: OBJECTIVES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF ZONE:
This zone covers the portion of the city most appropriately suited to the
grazing of livestock, intense agriculture, sand and gravel operations, and
shooting sports parks. It is the intent of this zone to promote rural
activities and a rural lifestyle for its residents. In order to accomplish the
objectives of this zone, the following regulations shall apply. (Ord. 9-23-96A,
9-23-1996)
10-5B-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building or land shall be used and no building shall be erected which is
arranged, designed or intended to be used for other than one or more of the
following uses:
Any use permitted in the A-1 agricultural zone.
Cemeteries and memorial park facilities.
Commercial equine operations, including racing, boarding, auctions and
training.
Hunting, both commercial and private.
Quarries, gravel pits, rock crushers, cement mixing plants and accessory uses
to the above.
Safe discharge of arms. (Ord. 9-23-96A, 9-23-1996)
10-5B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses will be considered to be conditional uses:
Asphalt mixing plants.
Outdoor theaters and facilities for river tour and land tour companies,
including warehousing facilities, office facilities, maintenance facilities,
vehicular parking and including temporary storage facilities.
Overnight camping areas.
Retailing of concessions, gifts, souvenirs and supplies.
Rifle, shotgun, handgun and archery shooting ranges. (Ord. 9-23-96A, 9-23-1996)
10-5B-4: LOT SIZE:
The minimum lot size for all dwellings and other buildings, structures and uses
shall be five (5) acres, except uses listed as conditional uses, in which case
the board of adjustment may determine a suitable area. (Ord. 9-23-96A, 9-23-
1996)
10-5B-5: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
Same as A-1 agricultural zone. (Ord. 9-23-96A, 9-23-1996)
10-5B-6: HEIGHT:
Same as A-1 agricultural zone. (Ord. 9-23-96A, 9-23-1996)
10-5B-7: SIZE OF DWELLINGS:
Same as A-1 agricultural zone. (Ord. 9-23-96A, 9-23-1996)
10-5B-8: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
Same as A-1 agricultural zone. (Ord. 9-23-96A, 9-23-1996)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. R-1 RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Objectives And Characteristics Of Zone
10-6A-2: Permitted Uses
10-6A-3: Conditional Uses
10-6A-4: Purpose Of Requirements
10-6A-5: Area Requirements
10-6A-6: Width Requirements
10-6A-7: Location Requirements
10-6A-8: Height Requirements
10-6A-9: Size Of Dwellings
10-6A-10: Supplementary Regulations
10-6A-1: OBJECTIVES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF ZONE:
   A.   The R-1 residential zone covers the portion of the city which is
primarily suited for residential development represented by one- or two-family
dwellings, plus parks, playgrounds, schools, churches and other community
facilities designed to serve the residents of the zone.
   B.   Spacious lots, uncrowded buildings and quiet residential conditions
favorable to the rearing of children characterize this zone.
   C.   Attractive lawns, shrubs, trees and other landscape plantings about the
house are appropriate, and xeriscaping is also encouraged.
   D.   These dwellings will conform to other established residential
characterizations.
   E.   In order to accomplish the objectives and purposes of this title and to
stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of this zone, the following
regulations shall apply in the R-1 residential zone. (Ord. 2014-03, 11-11-2014)
10-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted in the
R-1 residential zone upon compliance with requirements as set forth in this
title:
Accessory nondwelling buildings, including a private garage for the storage of
vehicles used by persons residing on the premises.
"Agriculture" as defined in this title.
Fences, walls and hedges that meet the regulations of supplementary
requirements and regulations applicable to all zones in chapter 12 of this
title.
Greenhouses for private use only; arbors; produce gardens.
Individual modular homes, which comply with the requirements set forth in
section
10-12-17 of this title.
Private swimming pools.
Public parks, public recreation grounds, not including privately owned
amusement parks or recreation grounds.
Schools and churches.
Single-family dwellings.
Temporary buildings and yards for the storage of construction materials and
equipment incidental and necessary to construction of uses otherwise permitted
in the zone. A permit therefor shall be valid for not more than one year and
shall not be renewable for more than two (2) successive ninety (90) day periods
on the same lot. (Ord. 2014-03, 11-11-2014)
10-6A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Other uses which may be suitable or desirable only in certain locations of this
zone due to circumstances peculiar to said location, and for which a
conditional use permit is required by this title. The following are suggested,
but not limited to:
Boarding houses and bed and breakfast establishments.
Home business or professional occupations.
Public utility buildings and facilities.
Residential subdivisions.
Rest homes and daycare nurseries, which are constructed to resemble residential
homes.
Two-family dwellings (duplexes), which are constructed to resemble single-
family homes. (Ord. 2014-03, 11-11-2014)
10-6A-4: PURPOSE OF REQUIREMENTS:
The purpose of requiring area, width, height and location requirements is to
provide for a yard area around structures to ensure access to and around
buildings for fire and emergency services; adequate privacy; desirable and safe
visibility; natural light, ventilation and sunlight; and space for landscaping,
gardening and recreation. (Ord. 2014-03, 11-11-2014)
10-6A-5: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   An area of not less than seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square
feet shall be designated and maintained for each dwelling lot. (Ord. 2014-03,
11-11-2014)
10-6A-6: WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The minimum width of any residential lot fronting on a single street
shall be seventy feet (70') measured at a distance of thirty feet (30') back
from the street easement line.
   B.   The minimum width of any residential corner lot shall be eighty feet
(80') measured at a distance of thirty feet (30') back from the street easement
line. (Ord. 2014-03, 11-11-2014)
10-6A-7: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Distance Between Main Building and Accessory Buildings: The minimum
distance between the main building and accessory buildings shall be ten feet
(10').
   B.   Front Setback: All buildings and structures shall be set back at least
twenty-five feet (25') from the nearest street easement line. The front setback
is encouraged to match neighboring structures so as to maintain a consistent
residential street frontage; where the twenty-five foot (25') front setback is
not consistent with the neighboring dwellings the setback may be reduced to
match the neighboring dwellings.
   C.   Side Setback:
      1.   All dwellings shall be set back from the side property line a
distance of at least eight feet (8').
      2.   The minimum side setback for accessory buildings shall be the same
as for main building.
      3.   On corner lots, the side setback from the street easement line for
any dwelling, main building, or accessory building shall be not less than
twenty-five feet (25').
   D.   Rear Setback:
      1.   For interior lots, all dwellings and other main buildings shall be
set back from the rear property line a distance of at least fifteen feet (15'
      2.   Accessory buildings on interior lots shall be set back not less than
six feet (6') from the rear property line.
      3.   Alley rights of way measured from the centerline may be used for
setback requirements.
   E.   Architectural Features Setback:
      1.   Decks, patios, driveways, cornices, eave overhangs, and similar
architectural features are covered in supplementary regulations, chapter 12 of
this title. (Ord. 2014-03, 11-11-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-05, 7-11-2023)
10-6A-8: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The maximum height of any building measured from average grade to the
square of the building shall be two (2) stories or twenty five feet (25'), and
the minimum height of any dwelling shall be nine feet (9').
   B.   Where the ground or the square of the building is uneven in height, the
average elevation shall apply.
   C.   Chimneys, flagpoles, television antennas, church towers and similar
structures not used for human occupancy are excluded in determining height.
(Ord. 2014-03, 11-11-2014)
10-6A-9: SIZE OF DWELLINGS:
   A.   The ground floor area of any one-family dwelling shall not be less than
seven hundred (700) square feet.
   B.   No single exterior wall shall be less than sixteen feet (16') in
length. In multiple-family developments, the first unit shall be not less than
six hundred fifty (650) square feet, and each additional unit shall not be less
than four hundred (400) square feet on the ground floor. (Ord. 2014-03, 11-11-
2014; amd. Ord. 2022-03, 11-8-2022)
10-6A-10: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
See also chapter 12, "Supplementary Procedures Applicable Within Zones", of
this title, for the following:
   A.   Fences;
   B.   Parking;
   C.   Architectural features;
   D.   Exemptions to setbacks. (Ord. 2014-03, 11-11-2014)
ARTICLE B. R-2 RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Objectives And Characterization Of Zone
10-6B-2: Permitted Uses
10-6B-3: Conditional Uses
10-6B-4: Purpose Of Requirements
10-6B-5: Area Requirements
10-6B-6: Width Requirements
10-6B-7: Location Requirements
10-6B-8: Height Requirements
10-6B-9: Size Of Dwellings
10-6B-10: Special Provisions
10-6B-11: Supplementary Regulations
10-6B-1: OBJECTIVES AND CHARACTERIZATION OF ZONE:
   A.   The objective in establishing the R-2 residential zone is to provide a
residential environment within the city that is typified by modular built
homes. It is also to ensure that such facilities blend harmoniously with the
surrounding residential neighborhoods. Attractive lawns, shrubs, trees and
other landscape plantings about the buildings are appropriate, and xeriscaping
is also encouraged.
   B.   Typical of the uses in the R-2 residential zone are single- family
dwellings which are transportable factory built housing units constructed on or
after June 15, 1976, according to the federal home construction and safety
standards act of 1974 (HUD code).
   C.   These dwellings will conform to other established residential
characterizations.
   D.   In order to accomplish the objectives and purposes of this title and to
stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of this zone, the following
regulations shall apply in the R-2 residential zone. (Ord. 2014-04, 11-11-2014)
10-6B-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted in the
R-2 residential zone upon compliance with requirements as set forth in this
title:
Accessory nondwelling buildings, including a private garage for the storage of
vehicles used by persons residing on the premises.
"Agriculture" as defined in this title.
Fences, walls and hedges that meet the regulations of supplementary
requirements and regulations applicable to all zones in chapter 12 of this
title.
Greenhouses for private use only; arbors; produce gardens.
Individual manufactured homes which comply with the requirements set forth in
section
10-12-17 of this title.
Private swimming pools.
Public parks, public recreation grounds, not including privately owned
amusement parks or recreation grounds.
Schools and churches.
Single-family dwellings which conform to R-1 residential zone setbacks.
Temporary buildings and yards for the storage of construction materials and
equipment incidental and necessary to construction of uses otherwise permitted
in the zone. A permit therefor shall be valid for not more than one year and
shall not be renewable for more than two (2) successive ninety (90) day periods
on the same lot. (Ord. 2014-04, 11-11-2014)
10-6B-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Other uses which may be suitable or desirable only in certain locations of this
zone due to circumstances peculiar to said location, and for which a
conditional use permit is required by this title. The following are suggested,
but not limited to:
All attached structures, including stairs and porches, must meet current
building code requirements.
Home business or professional occupation.
Mobile home parks, provided such parks meet the requirements and standards
prescribed by chapter 10, article B of this title.
Multiple-family dwellings, such as:
Apartments.
Boarding houses.
Condominiums.
Rooming houses.
Tourist homes.
Townhomes.
Two-family (duplexes).
Residential subdivisions. (Ord. 2014-04, 11-11-2014)
10-6B-4: PURPOSE OF REQUIREMENTS:
The purpose of requiring area, width, height and location requirements is to
provide for a yard area around structures to ensure access to and around
buildings for fire and emergency services; adequate privacy; desirable and safe
visibility; natural light, ventilation and sunlight; and space for landscaping,
gardening and recreation. (Ord. 2014-04, 11-11-2014)
10-6B-5: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
An area of not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet shall be designated
and maintained for each family dwelling. (Ord. 2014-04, 11-11-2014)
10-6B-6: WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The minimum width of any residential lot fronting on a single street
shall be fifty feet (50') measured at a distance of thirty feet (30') back from
the street easement line.
   B.   The minimum width of any residential corner lot shall be sixty feet
(60') measured at a distance of thirty feet (30') back from the street easement
line. (Ord. 2014-04, 11-11-2014)
10-6B-7: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Distance Between Main Building and Accessory Buildings: The minimum
distance between main building and accessory buildings shall be ten feet (10').
   B.   Front Setback:
      1.   All buildings and structures shall be set back at least twenty feet
(20') from the nearest street easement line. The front setback is encouraged to
match neighboring structures so as to maintain a consistent residential street
frontage; where the twenty foot (20') front setback is not consistent with the
neighboring dwellings the setback may be reduced to match the neighboring
dwellings.
   C.   Side Setback:
      1.   All dwellings shall be set back from the side property line a
distance of at least eight feet (8').
      2.   The minimum side setback for accessory buildings shall be the same
as for main building.
      3.   On corner lots, the side setback from the street easement line for
any dwelling, main building, or accessory building shall be not less than
twenty-five feet (25').
   D.   Rear Setback:
      1.   For interior lots, all dwellings and other main buildings shall be
set back from the rear property line a distance of at least fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Accessory buildings on interior lots shall be set back not less than
six feet (6') from the rear property line.
      3.   Alley rights of way measured from the centerline may be used for
setback requirements.
   E.   Architectural Features Setback:
      1.   Decks, patios, driveways, cornices, eave overhangs, and similar
architectural features are covered in supplementary regulations, chapter 12 of
this title. (Ord. 2014-04, 11-11-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-05, 7-11-2023)
10-6B-8: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The maximum height of any building measured from average grade to the
square of the building shall be two (2) stories or twenty five feet (25'), and
the minimum height of any dwelling shall be nine feet (9').
   B.   Where the ground or the square of the building is uneven in height, the
average elevation shall apply.
   C.   Chimneys, flagpoles, television antennas, church towers and similar
structures not used for human occupancy are excluded in determining height.
(Ord. 2014-04, 11-11-2014)
10-6B-9: SIZE OF DWELLINGS:
   A.   The ground floor area of any manufactured home or other dwelling shall
not be less than six hundred (600) square feet.
   B.   No single exterior wall shall be less than twelve feet (12') in length.
   C.   In Multiple-family developments, each unit shall not be less than four
hundred fifty (450) square feet on the ground floor. (Ord. 2014-04, 11-11-2014;
amd. Ord. 2022-03, 11-8-2022)
10-6B-10: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   All manufactured homes must have a solid foundation in accordance with
current building codes. (Ord. 2014-04, 11-11-2014)
10-6B-11: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
See also chapter 12, "Supplementary Procedures Applicable Within Zones", of
this title for the following:
   A.   Fences;
   B.   Parking;
   C.   Architectural features;
   D.   Exemptions to setbacks. (Ord. 2014-04, 11-11-2014)
ARTICLE C. R-3 RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Objectives And Characteristics Of Zone
10-6C-2: Permitted Uses
10-6C-3: Conditional Uses
10-6C-4: Purpose Of Requirements
10-6C-5: Area Requirements
10-6C-6: Width Requirements
10-6C-7: Location Requirements
10-6C-8: Height Requirements
10-6C-9: Size Of Dwellings
10-6C-10: Supplementary Regulations
10-6C-1: OBJECTIVES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF ZONE:
   A.   The objective in establishing the R-3 residential zone is to provide a
residential environment within the city that is characterized by a variety of
dwellings.
   B.   Typical also of the R-3 residential zone is a greater movement of
vehicular traffic and denser residential environment.
   C.   In general, this zone is situated in parts of the city where the use of
high density units is more feasible.
   D.   Attractive lawns, shrubs, trees and other landscape plantings about the
buildings are appropriate, and xeriscaping is also encouraged.
   E.   Respective of the uses in this zone are one- and two-family dwellings,
and multiple-family dwellings such as apartments, rooming houses and
condominiums.
   F.   Owners and developers of property are advised that primacy is given in
this zone to multiple-family dwellings; that vehicular and pedestrian traffic
and parking along the streets is greater than residential zones; that variety
in type, shape and design of buildings is to be expected; and that property
should be developed and maintained in recognition thereof. (Ord. 2014-05, 11-
11-2014)
10-6C-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following buildings, structures and uses of land shall be permitted in the
R-3 residential zone upon compliance with requirements as set forth in this
title:
Accessory structures, as defined in this title.
"Agriculture" as defined in this title.
Care homes:
Childcare nurseries.
Foster family group care homes.
Nursing and rest homes.
Orphanages.
Churches.
Dwellings:
      Apartments.
      Condominiums.
      Single-family.
      Townhomes.
      Two-family.
Fences, walls and hedges that meet the regulations of supplementary
requirements and regulations applicable to all zones in chapter 12 of this
title.
Individual and doublewide manufactured homes which comply with the requirements
set forth in section
10-12-17 of this title.
Public parks and recreation grounds.
Schools:
Charter schools.
Private schools.
Public schools.
Temporary buildings and yards for the storage of construction materials and
equipment incidental and necessary to construction of uses otherwise permitted
in the zone. A permit therefor shall be valid for not more than one year, and
shall not be renewable for more than two (2) successive ninety (90) day periods
on the same lot. (Ord. 2014-05, 11-11-2014)
10-6C-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Other uses which may be suitable or desirable only in certain locations of this
zone due to circumstances peculiar to said location, and for which a
conditional use permit is required by this title. The following are suggested,
but not limited to:
Clubs, lodges and nonprofit recreational buildings, except where the primary
activity of which is customarily carried on as a business.
Home occupations, as defined in this title.
Multiple-family dwellings, such as:
Boarding houses.
Rooming houses.
Tourist homes.
Privately owned amusement parks or recreation parks.
Residential subdivisions.
Retail businesses located on or below the first story of multiple-family,
apartment and condominium buildings which are incidental to living requirements
of high density residential areas. (Ord. 2014-05, 11-11-2014)
10-6C-4: PURPOSE OF REQUIREMENTS:
The purpose of requiring area, width, height and location requirements is to
provide for a yard area around structures to ensure access to and around
buildings for fire and emergency services; adequate privacy; desirable and safe
visibility; natural light, ventilation and sunlight; and space for landscaping,
gardening and recreation. (Ord. 2014-05, 11-11-2014)
10-6C-5: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum lot shall not be less than five thousand (5,000) square feet, plus
six hundred (600) additional square feet of lot area for each additional
dwelling unit in the building. (Ord. 2014-05, 11-11-2014)
10-6C-6: WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The minimum width of any residential lot fronting on a single street
shall be fifty feet (50') measured at a distance of thirty feet (30') back from
the street easement line.
   B.   The minimum width of any residential corner lot shall be eighty feet
(80') measured at a distance of thirty feet (30') back from the street easement
line. (Ord. 2014-05, 11-11-2014)
10-6C-7: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Distance Between Main Building and Accessory Buildings: The minimum
distance between main building and accessory buildings shall be ten feet (10').
   B.   Front Setback:
      1.   All dwelling and other main buildings and structures shall be set
back at least twenty feet (20') from the nearest street easement line. The
front setback is encouraged to match neighboring structures so as to maintain a
consistent residential street frontage; where the twenty foot (20') front
setback is not consistent with the neighboring dwellings the setback may be
reduced to match the neighboring dwellings.
   C.   Side Setback:
      1.   All dwellings shall be set back from the side property line a
distance of at least eight feet (8')
      2.   The minimum side setback for accessory buildings shall be the same
as for main building.
      3.   On corner lots, the side setback from the street easement line for
any dwelling, main building, or accessory building shall be not less than
twenty-five feet (25').
   D.   Rear Setback:
      1.   For interior lots, all dwellings and other main buildings shall be
set back from the rear property line a distance of at least fifteen feet (15').
      2.   Accessory buildings on interior lots shall be set back not less than
six feet (6') from the rear property line.
      3.   Alley rights of way measured from the centerline may be used for
setback requirements.
   E.   Architectural Features Setback:
      1.   Decks, patios, driveways, cornices, eave overhangs, and similar
architectural features are covered in supplementary regulations, chapter 12 of
this title. (Ord. 2014-05, 11-11-2014; amd. Ord. 2023-05, 7-11-2023)
10-6C-8: HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The maximum height of any building measured from grade to the square of
the building shall be two (2) stories or twenty five feet (25'), and the
minimum height of any building shall be nine feet (9').
   B.   Where the ground or the square of the building is uneven in height, the
average elevation shall apply.
   C.   Chimneys, flagpoles, television antennas, church towers and similar
structures not used for human occupancy are excluded in determining height.
(Ord. 2014-05, 11-11-2014)
10-6C-9: SIZE OF DWELLINGS:
   A.   The ground floor area of any one-family dwelling shall not be less than
six hundred (600) square feet.
   B.   No single exterior wall shall be less than fourteen feet (14') in
length.
   C.   In Multiple-family developments, each unit shall not be less than four
hundred fifty (450) square feet on the ground floor. (Ord. 2014-05, 11-11-2014;
amd. Ord. 2022-03, 11-8-2022)
10-6C-10: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
See also chapter 12, "Supplementary Procedures Applicable Within Zones", of
this title for the following:
   A.   Fences;
   B.   Parking;
   C.   Architectural features;
   D.   Exemptions to setbacks. (Ord. 2014-05, 11-11-2014)
CHAPTER 7
COMMERCIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS INCLUSIVE OF C-1 AND C-2 ZONES
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Objectives And Characteristics Of Zones
10-7A-2: Land Use Matrix
10-7A-3: Area, Setback And Height Requirements
10-7A-4: Special Provisions
10-7A-5: Supplementary Regulations
10-7A-6: Landscape Standards
10-7A-1: OBJECTIVES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF ZONES:
   A.   C-1 Commercial Zone:
      1.   The C-1 Commercial Zone has been established for the primary purpose
of providing a location where retail, commercial and service facilities can be
provided to residents and to the traveling public in the area. The zone is
characterized by a mixture of predominately commercial uses and limited
dwellings; however, as assurance that the goods and services will be made
available without undue detrimental effects upon the surrounding dwellings,
certain requirements have been imposed upon the use of land and buildings
within the zone.
      2.   In order to accomplish the objectives and purposes of this title and
to stabilize and protect essential characteristics of this zone, the
regulations in this chapter shall apply to the C-1 Commercial Zone.
   B.   C-2 Commercial Zone:
      1.   The C-2 Commercial Zone has been established for the purpose of
providing districts where the use of the land is to accommodate agriculture,
commercial storage, industrial warehouses and advertising sign display.
      2.   The zone is to be situated at locations adjacent to the interstate
freeway, but not at or near on ramps or off ramps.
   3.   The objectives in establishing the C-2 Commercial Zone are to promote
the general welfare of the residents of the City, to allow for commercial
storage facilities and warehouse facilities in an area that is not residential,
and to discourage any use because of its character and nature that would thwart
the use of this land for its primary purpose.
   4.   In order to accomplish the objectives and purposes of this title, and
to stabilize and protect essential characteristics of this zone, the
regulations in this chapter shall apply to the C-2 Commercial Zone. (Ord. 2017-
01, 5-9-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-02, 3-9-2022)
10-7A-2: LAND USE MATRIX:
In the following list of possible uses, those designated as being permitted in
a zone will be identified with the letter “P”. Uses designated with the letter
“C” are allowed on a conditional use basis. Uses designated with the letter “N”
will not be allowed in that zone. Uses designated with the letter “A” will be
handled administratively. All uses that are not permitted or conditionally
permitted are prohibited.
  C-1 C-2
                                                                        C-1 C-2
Agriculture:                                                                
 Agriculture accessory buildings                                       N   P
 Beehives                                                              N   P
 Equestrian centers                                                    N   P
 Fairgrounds                                                           N   P
 Golf courses                                                          N   P
Alcohol establishments:
 Bar, beer parlor, tavern, lounge, sale of draft beer                  P   P
 Liquor store                                                          P   P
 Microbrewery with restaurant                                          P   P
 Nightclub, dance hall (with alcohol)                                  C   C
Amusement centers, recreation and entertainment facilities:
 Outdoor:
    Ball fields, lighted and unlighted                              N   C
    Billiard hall, pool hall, arcade                                P   P
    Circus, carnival, or other transient amusement                  A   A
    Entertainment activities such as go-carts, skating, bowling     C   P
    Go-carts                                                        C   P
    Golf course (miniature)                                         C   P
    Park, playground, public open space, visitor center             P   P
    Skateboard park                                                 C   P
    Water park (waterslides, etc.)                                  C   P
 Indoor:
    Archery range, shooting range                                   P   P
    Bowling alley                                                   P   P
    Dance studio, martial arts                                      P   P
    Entertainment activities such as paintball, miniature golf, arcaPa  P
    Health club/spa, fitness center                                 P   P
    Nightclub, dance hall (without alcohol)                         C   C
    Recreation center, gymnasium                                    P   P
    Stadium, amphitheater, arena, sports complex                    C   P
 Outdoor and Indoor:
    Roller-skating rink
    Swimming pool, commercial                                       P   P
    Theater, motion picture or live performance                     P   P
Animal services:
 Animal boarding and shelter for large animals                         N   C
  Animal boarding and shelter (nongovernment) for small animals only
 and boarded for less than 30 days a year, provided conducted          C   P
  completely within enclosed building
 Animal hospital and veterinarian clinic, including overnight care of  N   P
  animals
 Animal hospital and veterinarian clinic, including overnight care of  C   P
  animals, provided conducted completely within enclosed building
 Kennels for commercial breeders                                       N   C
 Pet grooming                                                          P   P
Automobile and vehicle services:
 Automobile, new or used sales and service                             P   P
 Automobile parking lot                                                C   P
 Automobile parts sales (new parts only)                               P   P
 Automobile parts sales (used parts)                                   N   C
 Automobile rental                                                     P   P
  Automobile repair, storage, including paint, body and fender, brake,
 muffler, upholstery or transmission work, provided conducted within   C   P
  completely enclosed building
 Car wash, manual or automatic spray                                   P   P
 Tire sales and service                                                C   P
  Towing (impound yard shall have sight obscuring fence and placed
 behind the main building off of the street. All vehicles must be      C   P
  stored within the fenced area.)
Business and financial services:
 Bank or financial institution                                         P   P
 Professional or business office only, no merchandise on premises      P   P
  (employment, real estate, travel, accounting, attorney, etc.)
 Telemarketing or call centers                                         P   P
Food service establishments:
 Bakery                                                                P   P
 Catering establishment                                                P   P
 Delicatessen                                                          P   P
  Food truck, street vendors and mobile carts (must be a self-contained
 unit independent of water and sewer and may not be at any 1 location  C   C
  for longer than 30 continuous days)
 Ice cream parlor                                                      P   P
 Restaurant, drive-in/drive-through                                    P   P
Industrial
 Junk dealers and junkyards                                            N   N
 Materials recycling facility                                          N   N
 Septic tank pumper                                                    N   N
 Tire recapping or retreading                                          N   N
 Truck terminal                                                        N   N
 Wind turbines, power generation                                       N   N
Lodging, temporary:
 Bed and breakfast                                                     P   P
 Boarding house/hostel                                                 P   P
 Hotel/motel                                                           P   P
 RV parks, long and short term                                         C   P
Manufacturing, fabrication, storage, and distribution of goods,
including the following and similar products, provided that operations
and sales are within an enclosed building except as provided herein:
 Candy manufacture, nonindustrial production, in shop retail           P   P
  manufacturing
 Sign manufacture or sign painting (indoor only)                       P   P
 Sign manufacture or sign painting (outdoor only)                      N   C
Medical, dental, counseling services:
 Ambulance service                                                     P   P
 Counseling center, mental health, alcohol, drugs as long as it is day P   P
  use with no extended stay
 Hospitals                                                             P   P
 Laboratory, dental or medical                                         P   P
 Medical/dental office or clinic                                       P   P
 Mental health treatment center, with extended stay                    C   C
 Nursing home                                                          P   P
 Optometrist, optician                                                 P   P
Meeting and assembly uses:
 Church                                                                P   P
 Lodge, fraternal organization, senior center, meeting room, or social P   P
  hall
 Reception center, conference center or wedding chapel                 P   P
Residential:
 Living quarters for manager or security personnel for business which  C   C
  requires 24 hour assistance or security and caretaker dwellings
 Residential units - college student housing                           C   C
 Residential units, mixed use building design standards apply          C   C
 Residential units, single-family homes                                C   C
 Residential units, with R-3 Zone development standards only           C   C
Retail sale of goods with all operations conducted in an enclosed
building:
 Antique store                                                         P   P
 Athletic and sporting goods store                                     P   P
 Bookstore                                                             P   P
 Department store                                                      P   P
 Drive-through sales (pharmacy, dairy products, etc.)                  P   P
 Florist shop                                                          P   P
 Furniture and large appliances sales (used)                           P   P
 Furniture sales (new) and repair                                      P   P
 Household appliance sales and service                                 P   P
 Office supply, office machines sales and service                      P   P
 Paint or wallpaper store                                              P   P
 Pawnshop                                                              P   P
 Payday lending/title loans                                            P   P
 Pet and pet supply store, groomer                                     P   P
 Pharmacy                                                              P   P
 Retail goods establishments (predominately indoor sales)              P   P
 Seed and feed store, retail                                           P   P
 Supermarket/grocery store                                             P   P
 Thrift shop/secondhand store/consignment store (no outside storage    P   P
  and no drop off of items during the hours the business is closed)
 Vegetable and fruit stand                                             P   P
 Wholesale business                                                    C   P
Retail sale of goods with some operations outdoors:
 Auction establishment (retail goods only), swap meets                 N   C
 Building materials sales, lumberyard                                  P   P
 Cabinet shop                                                          C   P
 Christmas tree sales                                                  P   P
 Convenience markets with gas pumps                                    P   P
 Farm implement sales                                                  C   P
 Fence, sales and service                                              P   P
 Garden supplies and plant material sales                              P   P
 Gas station                                                           P   P
 Greenhouse and nursery; soil and lawn service                         P   P
 Landscape rock sales yard                                             N   C
 Landscape rock sales yard, incidental to a permitted use and less     N   C
  than 1 ton per load
 Mobile home sales lot and service                                     N   P
 Monument works and sales                                              C   P
 Motorcycle or boat sales and service                                  P   P
 Rental agency for home and garden equipment                           C   P
 Trailer sales and service                                             C   P
Service business:
 Barbershop/beauty shop                                                P   P
 Body piercing, incidental to a permitted use                          P   P
 Carpet and rug cleaning                                               P   P
 Child nursery, daycare, preschool                                     P   P
 Construction trade services, plumbing shop, electrical shop, etc.     P   P
 Crematorium, independent human                                        N   C
 Educational institutions, schools, college, learning centers, trade   P
  schools (no residential or 24 hour facilities)
 Gunsmith                                                              P   P
 Janitor service and supply                                            P   P
 Laundry or dry cleaners, laundromat                                   P   P
 Locksmith                                                             P   P
 Mail services                                                         P   P
 Massage establishment                                                 P   P
 Mortuary                                                              P   P
 Moving and storage company                                            C   P
 News stand                                                            P   P
  Permanent cosmetics, a secondary use to an establishment employing
  cosmetologist(s), barber(s), aesthetician(s), electrologist(s), or
 nail technician(s) licensed by the State under 58-11a-101 et seq.,    P   P
  Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended, excluding tattoo
  establishments and home occupations
 Pest control and extermination                                        C   C
 Pet grooming                                                          P   P
 Printing, lithographing, publishing or reproduction sales and service P   P
  (indoor)
 Psychic, tarot card reader, fortune teller, occult art practitioners, P   P
  hypnotist
 RV storage                                                            N   P
 Retail services establishments                                        P   P
 Sexually oriented businesses                                          N   N
 Sign sales                                                            P   P
 Storage rental units, ministorage and self-storage                    C   P
 Tattoo establishment                                                  P   P
 Taxidermist                                                           C   P
 Welding shop                                                          C   P
Transportation:
 Bus terminal                                                          P   P
 Taxi                                                                  P   P
Utility, government, public services and facilities:
 Cable television and satellite dish provider                          P   P
 Electrical substation, power stations                                 C   C
 Government building or uses, nonindustrial                            P   P
 Library                                                               P   P
 Museum                                                                P   P
 Post Office                                                           P   P
 Television or radio station                                           P   P
 
(Ord. 2017-01, 5-9-2017; amd. Ord. 2021-01, 2-9-2021; Ord. 2022-02, 3-9-2022)
10-7A-3: AREA, SETBACK AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS:
An area sufficient to accommodate setbacks, off street parking, loading and
unloading, and vehicular access shall be provided and maintained. Setbacks
designated with the letter “A” will be handled administratively with
considerations given to allow for fire access.
  C-1 C-2
                                       C-1       C-2
Area requirements                      See below See below
Minimum setbacks from property line:
 Front                                01        01
 Side                                 01        01
 Side facing a street on a corner lot 01        01
 Rear                                 A         A
Building heights:
 Minimum                              8 feet2   8 feet2
 Maximum                              35 feet2  35 feet2
 
Notes:
   1.    Are contingent upon meeting the Unified Fire Code and approved by the
Fire Marshal.
   2.    Height may be increased if the Unified Fire Codes are met and approved
by the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 2017-01, 5-9-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-02, 3-9-2022)
10-7A-4: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Surface Of Off Street Parking: All off street parking spaces shall be
hard surfaced.
   B.   Storage Of Flammable Liquids: All tanks for the storage of gasoline and
other flammable liquids shall be installed in accordance with the regulations
and requirements as contained in the Fire Prevention Code adopted by the City.
   C.   Recreational Vehicle Parks: Recreational vehicle parks will be subject
to regulations as set forth under chapter 10, article A, “Large Scale
Developments”, of this title.
   D.   Storage Or Display Of Merchandise: All merchandise, materials and
equipment, except for seasonal items, shall be stored within a building or
enclosure. All enclosures within seventy five feet (75') of a residence must be
sight obscuring. (Ord. 2017-01, 5-9-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-02, 3-9-2022)
10-7A-5: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
See also chapter 12, “Supplementary Procedures Applicable Within Zones”, of
this title. (Ord. 2017-01, 5-9-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-02, 3-9-2022)
10-7A-6: LANDSCAPE STANDARDS:
   A.   Application: The requirements of this section shall apply to all new
development, and the remodeling of existing development where there is an
increase in the building’s footprint.
   B.   Landscape Requirements: Landscaping and irrigation plans for new or
existing landscape shall be presented to the City administration for approval.
   C.   Design:
      1.   Landscape plans shall make provisions for erosion control on all
graded sites. No turf shall be planted on slopes greater than thirty percent
(30%).
      2.   A landscape and irrigation plan shall be submitted to the City for
review at the same time as the drawings and plans are submitted for development
of the site.
      3.   Stormwater detention and retention basins shall be put to beneficial
use either landscaped or hard surfaced of which both need to meet appropriate
drainage requirements. Beneficial use shall mean parks, view areas, common
areas, parking lots, wetland areas or other open areas approved by the Land Use
Authority all of which shall be constructed in such a manner that when a flood
or storm event occurs minimal damage is done to the area and little to no
cleanup is necessary.
      4.   Landscape/irrigation plans for projects proposed for development in
multiple phases shall clearly specify the landscape/irrigation improvements
required in conjunction with each phase.
      5.   A plan for ongoing maintenance of right-of-way areas shall be
included when landscape and irrigation plans are submitted.
   D.   Installation:
      1.   Landscaping and irrigation plans shall be completed prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      2.   Landscape and irrigation installers shall follow the plans that have
been signed and approved by the City.
      3.   Landscaping shall follow the City of Green River zoning requirements
to properly define the safe sight distances for intersections or driveways.
      4.   The City may inspect landscaping improvements and require corrective
measures regarding the installation of site landscaping and irrigation system
improvements found not to comply with the approved plan.
   E.   Irrigation:
      1.   Decorative water features such as pools, ponds and waterfalls used
in landscaped areas shall have a water recirculation system.
      2.   A backflow prevention assembly shall be properly installed and
tested to meet City requirements, and meet all State and local health safety
laws and ordinances.
   F.   Trees:
      1.   Trees or shrubs that are planted under or near power lines shall not
grow above twenty five feet (25') in height at maturity. Tree trunks and
branches shall not encroach within ten feet (10') of power lines when fully
grown as required by applicable State and Federal regulations.
      2.   Trees shall not be planted within five feet (5') horizontal distance
of public utility lines.
      3.   The City may remove any tree that is interfering with utility lines,
within the site triangle or within five feet (5') of sidewalks and right-of-
ways.
      4.   No Tamarac, Russian Olives or noxious weeds as listed by the Emery
County Weed Department.
   G.   Maintenance:
      1.   Landscaping of detention/retention basins shall be maintained by the
property owner.
      2.   Owners are required to maintain all common areas including park
strips between the street and any privacy walls.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning real property within the
City, to:
         a.   Fail to provide landscaping and irrigation in all areas where it
is required to exist. This shall apply to all real property throughout the City
regardless of the age of the development, zone or status.
         b.   Fail to install, maintain, replace or repair landscaping and
irrigation systems in all areas where it is required to exist or does exist.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person occupying real property within
the City, to:
         a.   Fail to maintain, replace or repair landscaping and irrigation
systems in all areas where it is required to exist or does exist.
         b.   Modify an approved landscape and irrigation plan or approved site
plan without permission from the City.
      5.   All property shall be hard surfaced or maintained. (Ord. 2017-01, 5-
9-2017; amd. Ord. 2022-02, 3-9-2022)
CHAPTER 8
INDUSTRIAL ZONES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Objectives And Characteristics Of Zones
10-8-2: Land Use Matrix
10-8-3: Area Requirements
10-8-4: Width Requirements
10-8-5: Location Requirements
10-8-6: Height And Size Requirements
10-8-7: Supplementary Regulations
10-8-1: OBJECTIVES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF ZONES:
   A.   I-1 Industrial Zone: The I-1 Light Industrial Zone has been established
for the primary purpose of providing a location where manufacturing,
processing, warehousing, and fabrication of goods and materials can be
conducted most appropriately and with minimum conflict or deleterious effects
upon surrounding properties. The objective of this zone is to provide a buffer
zone between medium or heavy industry and other zones. This zone is
characterized by a mixture of light industrial, manufacturing and processing
establishments that are quiet, not foul smelling, light in traffic, and with
minimum airborne contaminants. In order to accomplish the objectives and
purposes of this title, and to stabilize and protect the essential
characteristics of this zone, the regulations in this chapter shall apply in
the I-1 Light Industrial Zone.
   B.   I-2 Industrial Zone: The I-2 Medium Industrial Zone has been
established for the primary purpose of providing a location where
manufacturing, processing, warehousing, and fabrication of goods and materials
can be conducted most appropriately and with minimum conflict or deleterious
effects upon surrounding properties. The objective of this zone is to provide a
buffer zone between heavy industry and any other zones. This zone is
characterized by a mixture of medium industrial, manufacturing and processing
establishments that are less noisy and/or foul smelling, light to medium in
traffic, and cause fewer airborne contaminants than heavy industry. In order to
accomplish the objectives and purposes of this title, and to stabilize and
protect the essential characteristics of this zone, the regulations in this
chapter shall apply in the I-2 Medium Industrial Zone.
   C.   I-3 Industrial Zone: The I-3 Heavy Industrial Zone has been established
for the primary purpose of providing a location where manufacturing,
processing, warehousing, and fabrication of goods and materials can be
conducted most appropriately and with minimum conflict or deleterious effects
upon surrounding properties. The objective of this zone is to provide a zone
solely for heavy industry. This zone is characterized by a mixture of heavy
industrial, manufacturing and processing establishments that are noisy and/or
foul smelling, heavier in traffic and airborne contaminants than other
industry. In order to accomplish the objectives and purposes of this title, and
to stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of this zone, the
regulations in this chapter shall apply in the I-3 Heavy Industrial Zone. (Ord.
2017-04, 10-10-2017)
10-8-2: LAND USE MATRIX:
In the following list of possible uses, those designated as being permitted in
a zone will be identified with the letter "P". Uses designated with the letter
"C" are allowed on a conditional use basis. Uses designated with the letter "N"
will not be allowed in that zone. Uses designated with the letter "A" will be
handled administratively. All uses that are not permitted, conditionally
permitted or administratively permitted are prohibited.
 I-1 I-2 I-3
                                                                    I-1 I-2 I-3
Asphalt mixing plants                                               C   P   P
Automobile salvage and wrecking yards when surrounded by a sight
obscuring fence behind which the material stored in the enclosure   N   P   P
cannot be observed from any street adjacent to the yard
Coal yards                                                          N   P   P
Commercial power generation plants                                  N   C   C
Food processing plant                                               C   C   P
Grazing of livestock and barns, corrals, pens, coops, machinery
sheds and other buildings and structures related to agriculture and P   P   P
the grazing of livestock
Impound lots when surrounded by a sight obscuring fence behind
which the vehicles stored in the enclosure cannot be observed from  P   P   P
any street adjacent to the yard
Incidental retailing of products in association with permitted      C   P   P
industrial uses
Petroleum refining, processing, storage, loading, extraction and    N   N   C
related facilities
Public buildings and public utility facilities and buildings        P   P   P
Repair and craft shops                                              P   P   P
Sexually oriented businesses                                        N   N   C
Slaughter house/meat processing plant                               N   C   P
State permitted waste dumps and landfills                           N   N   C
Towers and high voltage power lines                                 C   P   P
Trucking dispatch, loading and docking depots                       P   P   P
Warehouse and storage facilities                                    P   P   P
 
(Ord. 2017-04, 10-10-2017)
10-8-3: AREA REQUIREMENTS:
There shall be no area requirements except that an area sufficient to
accommodate setbacks, off street parking, loading and unloading, and vehicular
access shall be provided and maintained. (Ord. 2017-04, 10-10-2017)
10-8-4: WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
No requirements. (Ord. 2017-04, 10-10-2017)
10-8-5: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
All buildings shall be set back a minimum of twenty five feet (25') from the
easement line which may be increased depending on the use. Reference the
Uniform Fire Code for the recommended setback distances. (Ord. 2017-04, 10-10-
2017)
10-8-6: HEIGHT AND SIZE REQUIREMENTS:
No requirements. (Ord. 2017-04, 10-10-2017)
10-8-7: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
All buildings shall conform to the building codes. See supplementary
requirements and procedures applicable within zones, chapter 12 of this title.
(Ord. 2017-04, 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 9
OPEN SPACE ZONES
ARTICLE A. OS-1 OPEN SPACE ZONE
SECTION:
10-9A-1: Objectives And Characteristics Of Zone
10-9A-2: Permitted Uses
10-9A-3: Conditional Uses
10-9A-4: Supplementary Regulations
10-9A-1: OBJECTIVES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF ZONE:
   A.   The OS-1 open space zone is established for the purpose of identifying
locations where development should be limited or excluded in order to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city. These areas may
include riverbeds, floodplains or undeveloped land where public utilities have
not been extended. The open space zone does not preclude the use of land for
certain purposes, however, urbanization of land should not take place in open
space areas unless the area has first been amended to other types of land use.
   B.   In order to accomplish the objectives and purposes of this title and to
stabilize and protect the essential characteristics of this zone, the following
regulations shall apply in the OS-1 zone. (Ord. 2007-03, 2-13-2007)
10-9A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses of land shall be permitted in the OS-1 open space zone upon
compliance with the requirements set forth in this title:
"Agriculture", as defined in chapter 2 of this title, including, but not
limited to, the raising of row crops, grains and fruits, and buildings
incidental to the use of the land for agricultural purposes.
Nonsupplemental feed grazing of livestock animals per BLM open range
allotments, as defined by the BLM.
Public facilities, including, but not limited to, parks, campgrounds,
recreation developments (not containing any dwelling structures), golf courses,
utility substations, water storage facilities, sewage treatment facilities.
(Ord. 2007-03, 2-13-2007)
10-9A-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following uses will be considered to be conditional uses:
Limited raising and keeping of animals or fowl in barns, pens, coops and
buildings incidental to the use thereof.
Private recreational facilities not containing any dwelling units.
All area, width, height, location, size of buildings, and special provision
requirements will be set by the planning commission at the time of conditional
use approval. (Ord. 2007-03, 2-13-2007)
10-9A-4: SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS:
See also supplementary requirements and procedures applicable within zones,
chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 2007-03, 2-13-2007)
CHAPTER 10
DEVELOPMENTS
ARTICLE A. LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-10A-1: Intent
10-10A-2: Permitted Uses
10-10A-1: INTENT:
The intent of this article is to:
   A.   Provide for the construction of certain large scale development which
will permit increased flexibility in land development and efficiency in the use
of our land resources; and
   B.   Establish minimum standards and procedures for the construction and
maintenance of such developments to the end that the quality of the living
environment shall be maintained. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10A-2: PERMITTED USES:
The following large scale developments shall be permitted upon compliance with
the regulations set forth herein, but only in the zones in which such large
scale developments are permitted:
Mobile home parks (see article B of this title).
Motels (see article E of this title).
Subdivisions (see article D of this title and title 11 of this code).
Vacation vehicle parks (see article C of this title). (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-
1981)
ARTICLE B. MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
10-10B-1: Scope
10-10B-2: Approval Of Plans And Documents Necessary
10-10B-3: Preliminary Plans And Documents
10-10B-4: Standards And Requirements
10-10B-5: Reviews And Approvals
10-10B-6: Final Site Plan
10-10B-7: Staged Construction Permitted
10-10B-8: License Required
10-10B-1: SCOPE:
Mobile home parks shall be permitted only in the zones in which mobile home
parks are specifically permitted. All such uses shall be subject to the
restrictions and conditions contained within the zone requirements and also as
hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10B-2: APPROVAL OF PLANS AND DOCUMENTS NECESSARY:
Any person wishing to construct a mobile home park shall obtain from the
planning and zoning administrator information pertaining to the city's plan of
land use, streets, public facilities and other requirements affecting the land
within the development. Before a permit can be issued for any construction
connected with a mobile home park, the preliminary plan, required documents
pertaining to the development and the final plan shall have been approved as
hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10B-3: PRELIMINARY PLANS AND DOCUMENTS:
The preliminary plans and documents shall be prepared and submitted as follows:
Three (3) copies of the preliminary plan must be submitted to the planning and
zoning administrator at least two (2) weeks prior to the meeting of the
planning commission at which the plan will be considered. The preliminary plan
shall be drawn to a scale not smaller than one inch equals one hundred feet (1"
= 100'), or as recommended by the planning and zoning administrator and shall
show the following information:
   A.   Topography represented by contours shown at no greater intervals than
two feet (2') when required by the planning commission.
   B.   The proposed street and mobile home space layout.
   C.   Proposed reservations for parks, playgrounds and open spaces.
   D.   Size and character of recreation buildings and other structures
associated with land and facilities to be used by the mobile home park
occupants.
   E.   Layout of typical mobile home spaces.
   F.   Tabulations showing:
      1.   Area of land within the mobile home park.
      2.   Number of mobile homes permitted.
      3.   Number of mobile homes provided for in the mobile home park.
      4.   Percent of area to be devoted to parks and playgrounds.
      5.   Number of off street parking spaces.
      6.   Proposed location of off street parking spaces.
   G.   Proposed landscape planting plan.
   H.   Location of existing and proposed utility lines and easements, water
and sewer lines, fire hydrants, storm drains and facilities, curbs and other
improvements.
   I.   Draft of proposed documents, including:
      1.   Management policies, covenants and restrictions.
      2.   Maintenance agreements.
   J.   Typical street cross section.
   K.   Any other data that the planning commission may require. (Ord. 6-18-
81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10B-4: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The development of a mobile home park shall conform to the following standards
and requirements:
   A.   Ownership: The area shall be in one ownership and shall remain in one
ownership and the same shall not be subdivided.
   B.   Plan Preparation: The final plan must be prepared by an engineer,
surveyor, architect or landscape architect licensed as may be required to
practice in the state.
   C.   Site Size: The minimum initial site size for a mobile home park shall
be two (2) acres.
   D.   Reduction In Site Size; Density: The mobile homes may be clustered and
individual mobile home site sizes may be reduced below that required for
single-family dwellings within the zone in which the development is located;
provided, that the gross density of the mobile home units within the
development does not exceed eight (8) units per acre, and that all lots or
spaces are served by an approved central culinary water and sewage disposal
system.
   E.   Common Areas: The land areas not contained in individual lots, roads or
parking shall be set aside and developed as parks, playgrounds and service
areas for the common use and enjoyment of the occupants of the mobile home
park.
   F.   Minimum Area For Common Use: No less than ten percent (10%) of the
gross area of the mobile home park shall be set aside for common use. The land
covered by vehicular roadways, sidewalks, off street parking and landscaped
areas surrounding mobile home spaces which are pertinent to such mobile home
and area devoted to service facilities shall not be construed as being part of
the area required for parks and playgrounds.
   G.   Distance; Setbacks: No mobile home or add on shall be located closer
than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest portion of any other mobile home or
add on; provided, that when a carport is added to a mobile home, side yards on
the carport side shall be at least six feet (6') from the side lot line, or not
less than twelve feet (12') between structures, whichever is greater. All
mobile homes and add ons shall be set back at least five feet (5') from all
roadways.
   H.   Landscaping: All area not covered by mobile homes, buildings, parking
spaces or driveways shall be planted in lawns, trees, shrubs or otherwise
landscaped within two (2) years from date of approval of the park.
   I.   Surfacing: All off street parking spaces and driveways shall be hard
surfaced within two (2) years from date of approval of the park.
   J.   Privacy Strip: A strip of land at least eight feet (8') wide
surrounding the mobile home park shall be left unoccupied by mobile homes and
shall be planted and maintained in lawn, shrubs and trees designed to afford
privacy to the development.
   K.   Compatibility Of Receptacles And Add Ons: All storage and solid waste
receptacles outside of the confines of a mobile home must be housed in a closed
structure compatible in design and construction to the mobile homes and to any
service buildings within the mobile home park; all patios, garages, carports
and other add ons must also be compatible in design and construction with the
mobile home and with the service buildings as approved by the planning
commission.
   L.   Occupancy Lease Required: Occupancy shall be by written lease, which
lease shall be made available to the city officials upon demand.
   M.   Roadway Width: Roadways shall be of adequate width to accommodate
anticipated traffic as follows:
      1.   For one-way with no parking: twelve feet (12') in width, plus extra
width as necessary for maneuvering mobile homes.
      2.   For two-way traffic with no parking: twenty four feet (24') in
width.
      3.   For entrance streets: minimum of thirty six feet (36') in width. All
streets shall be bordered by rolled curb or equivalent and shall be hard
surfaced.
   N.   Entrances: There shall be no more than two (2) entrances from the
mobile home park into any one street, which entrances shall be no closer than
twenty five feet (25') from each other, nor closer than seventy feet (70') to
the corner of an intersection.
   O.   Access: Access shall be provided to each mobile home space by means of
an accessway reserved for maneuvering mobile homes into position and shall be
kept free from trees and other immovable objects and constructions. Paving the
access way shall not be required. Use of planks, steel mats or other means
during placement of a mobile home shall be allowed, so long as the same are
removed immediately after placement of the mobile home.
   P.   Off Street Parking: Off street parking shall be provided at the rate of
two (2) parking spaces per mobile home space contained within the mobile home
park. In no case shall the parking space be located greater than one hundred
feet (100') away from the mobile home space it is designed to serve, except
that one-fourth (1/4) of the required spaces may be located not more than three
hundred feet (300') away from the mobile home space it is designed to serve.
(Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
   Q.   Code Compliance: In addition to meeting the above requirements and
conforming to the other laws of the county, all mobile home parks shall also
conform to all applicable state requirements relating to sanitation, fire, etc.
(Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
   R.   Laundry, Convenience Facilities: Mobile home parks containing not less
than twenty five (25) mobile homes may include a launderette for convenience of
the occupants of the park, but not for the general public. Also, a convenience
center may be constructed in connection with a mobile home park, provided the
sales floor space of the center does not exceed ten (10) square feet per mobile
home space within the mobile home park.
   S.   Distance From Public Street: All mobile homes shall be located at least
thirty feet (30') back from any public street and the resulting yards must be
landscaped, except for driveways.
   T.   Yard Lighting: A minimum of two tenths (0.2) foot-candles of light
shall be required for protective yard lighting the full length of all driveways
and walkways.
   U.   Storage Area: An area of at least one hundred (100) square feet for
each mobile home space contained within the park shall be provided for the
storage of boats, trailers and campers. Said storage space shall be enclosed
with a sight obscuring fence of not less than six feet (6') nor more than eight
feet (8') in height. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10B-5: REVIEWS AND APPROVALS:
   A.   Planning Commission Review: The planning commission shall review the
plans and proposed documents to determine compliance with all portions of the
city's master plan. In considering said plans, the planning commission, among
other things, shall make sure that such developments shall constitute a
residential environment of sustained desirability and stability and that it
will not adversely affect amenities in the surrounding area. The planning
commission may require changes to be made in the plans. They may also require
additional yards, buffers or other improvements to be installed along with
greater amounts of landscaping or parking spaces. Said changes may be imposed
as conditions of approval where it is determined by the planning commission
that such changes are necessary to ensure that the development will mix
harmoniously with adjoining or nearby uses.
   B.   Public Hearing: An application for approval of a mobile home park shall
be granted or denied only after a public hearing by the planning commission.
Notice of the hearing shall be given in a newspaper of general circulation at
least five (5) days prior to said hearing.
   C.   Referral To City Council: If approved by the planning commission, the
application with the planning commission's recommendations shall be submitted
to the city council for its approval.
   D.   Appeal: An application denied by the planning commission may be
appealed to the city council. Said appeal must be made in writing within ten
(10) days after the denial is made by the planning commission.
   E.   Term Of Approval: Approval of the preliminary plan shall be valid for a
period of one year. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10B-6: FINAL SITE PLAN:
Upon approval of the preliminary plan by the city council, the developer shall
submit to the planning commission a final site plan of either the entire mobile
home park or the first phase of such development that is to be constructed.
Such plan shall be drawn to scale, and provide in detail the information
required under this article. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10B-7: STAGED CONSTRUCTION PERMITTED:
Development may be carried out in progressive stages in which each stage shall
be so planned that the requirements and intent of this article shall be fully
complied with at the completion of each stage. No final plan for the initial
stage shall cover less than two (2) acres. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10B-8: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Prerequisite to the operation of any mobile home park shall be the obtaining of
an annual license which shall be issued only after inspection by the planning
and zoning administrator. It shall be unlawful to operate a mobile home park
without first obtaining a license, and said license shall be refused or revoked
upon failure of the owner and/or operator to maintain the park in accordance
with the standards and requirements as herein set forth. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-
1981)
ARTICLE C. VACATION VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
10-10C-1: Scope
10-10C-2: Intent; Purpose
10-10C-3: Approval Of Plans And Documents Necessary
10-10C-4: Preliminary Plans And Documents
10-10C-5: Review And Approvals
10-10C-6: Standards And Requirements
10-10C-7: Final Site Plan
10-10C-8: Stage Construction Permitted
10-10C-9: License Required
10-10C-1: SCOPE:
Vacation vehicle parks shall be permitted only in the zones which vacation
vehicle parks are specifically permitted. All such vacation vehicle parks shall
be permitted subject to restrictions and conditions contained within the zone
requirements. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10C-2: INTENT; PURPOSE:
It is the intent of these recreational vehicle parks provisions to provide
safe, sanitary and attractive facilities for the tourist to park a recreational
vehicle while visiting the area. It is also the intent of these provisions to
prevent the use of a recreational vehicle park as a substandard mobile home
park, and to protect the integrity and characteristics of the zone or zones in
which recreational vehicle parks are located. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10C-3: APPROVAL OF PLANS AND DOCUMENTS NECESSARY:
Any person wishing to construct a vacation vehicle park shall obtain from the
planning and zoning administrator information pertaining to the city's plan of
land use, streets, public facilities and other requirements affecting the land
within the development. Before a permit can be issued for any construction
connected with a vacation vehicle park, the preliminary plans, required
documents pertaining to the development and the final plans shall have been
approved as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10C-4: PRELIMINARY PLANS AND DOCUMENTS:
The preliminary plans and documents shall be prepared and submitted as follows:
   A.   Plan Requirements: Three (3) copies of the preliminary plan must be
submitted to the planning and zoning administrator at least two (2) weeks prior
to the meeting of the planning commission at which time the plans will be
considered. The preliminary plan shall be drawn to a scale not smaller than one
inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), or as recommended by the planning and
zoning administrator and shall show the following information:
      1.   Proposed road and vacation vehicle space layout.
      2.   Proposed reservation for parks, playgrounds and other open space.
      3.   Proposed provisions for service facilities.
      4.   A generalized landscape plan.
      5.   Location of existing and proposed utility lines and easements, water
and sewer lines, fire hydrants, storm drains and facilities, curbs and other
improvements.
      6.   Any other data the planning commission may require.
      7.   Draft copies of proposed documents, including statement of
management policies, covenants, restrictions and maintenance agreements.
   B.   Documents: Same as required for mobile home parks. See article B of
this title. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10C-5: REVIEW AND APPROVALS:
   A.   Planning Commission Review: The planning commission shall review the
plans and proposed documents to determine compliance with all portions of the
city master plan. In considering said plans, the planning commission, among
other things, shall make sure that such developments shall constitute a
residential environment of sustained desirability and stability and that it
will not adversely affect amenities in the surrounding area. The planning
commission may require changes to be made in the plans. They may also require
additional yards, buffers or other improvements to be installed along with
greater amounts of landscaping or parking spaces. Said changes may be imposed
as conditions of approval where it is determined by the planning commission
that such changes are necessary to ensure that the development will mix
harmoniously with adjoining or nearby uses.
   B.   Public Hearing: An application for approval of a mobile home park shall
be granted or denied only after a public hearing by the planning commission.
Notice of the hearing shall be given in a newspaper of general circulation at
least five (5) days prior to said hearing.
   C.   Referral To City Council: If approved by the planning commission, the
application with the planning commission's recommendations shall be submitted
to the city council for its approval.
   D.   Appeal: An application denied by the planning commission may be
appealed to the city council. Said appeal must be made in writing within ten
(10) days after the denial is made by the planning commission.
   E.   Term Of Approval: Approval of the preliminary plan shall be valid for a
period of one year. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
10-10C-6: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Ownership; Size: Each vacation vehicle park shall be held in one
ownership and shall contain at least one acre of land.
   B.   Location To Street: All vacation vehicle parks shall abut upon a
collector or arterial street, as set forth in the major street plan of the
city.
   C.   Setback From Public Street: All vacation vehicles shall be set back at
least twenty five feet (25') from any public street.
   D.   Roadway System; Entrances, Exits: The roadway system shall provide
convenient circulation through the vacation vehicle park and provide access to
each vacation vehicle space. No vacation vehicle space will be permitted direct
access to a public street, road or highway other than by means of the vacation
vehicle park roadway system. All entrances to and exits from the vacation
vehicle park shall be from a dedicated public street and no entrance or exit
shall be located closer than fifty feet (50') to the intersection of two (2)
streets.
   E.   Width Of Roadways: All one-way roadways shall be at least twelve feet
(12') in width, and all two-way roadways shall be at least twenty feet (20') in
width, and all roads shall be hard surfaced or as may be otherwise approved by
the planning commission. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
   F.   Landscaping: All areas within the park which are not hard surfaced,
including the twenty five foot (25') setback space, shall be landscaped and
maintained with lawns, trees and shrubs designed to provide privacy and noise
containment and shall be equipped with adequate watering devices as determined
by the planning and zoning administrator. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981; amd. 2003
Code)
   G.   Space Size: Each vacation vehicle space shall be at least twenty feet
(20') in width and at least forty feet (40') in length.
   H.   Water, Sewer System: All vacation vehicle spaces shall be served by an
approved water system. Sewage disposal system shall be approved by the planning
commission.
   I.   Vehicle Size Limitation: No vacation vehicle which exceeds eight feet
(8') in width shall be placed in a vacation vehicle park. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-
1981)
   J.   Code Compliance: In addition to meeting the above requirements, all
vacation vehicle parks shall conform to all applicable state requirements
relating to sanitation, fire, etc. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
   K.   Density: The maximum number of recreational vehicles per acre of land
shall not exceed twenty (20). (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10C-7: FINAL SITE PLAN:
Upon approval of the preliminary plan by the city council, the developer shall
submit to the planning commission a final site plan of either the entire
vacation vehicle park or the first stage of such development that is to be
constructed. Such plan shall be drawn to scale, and provide in detail the
information required under section
10-10C-4 of this article. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10C-8: STAGED CONSTRUCTION PERMITTED:
Development may be carried out in progressive stages, in which event each stage
shall be so planned that the requirements and intent of this article shall be
fully complied with at the completion of each stage. No final plan for the
initial stage shall cover less than one acre. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-10C-9: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Same as required for mobile home parks. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
ARTICLE D. SUBDIVISIONS GENERALLY
SECTION:
10-10D-1: Conformance Required
10-10D-1: CONFORMANCE REQUIRED:
All subdivisions created within the boundaries of the city shall be in
conformance with the city subdivision ordinance (title 11 of this code). (Ord.
6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
ARTICLE E. MOTELS, HOTELS AND OTHER LODGING
SECTION:
10-10E-1: Scope
10-10E-2: Intent
10-10E-3: Approval Of Plans And Documents Necessary
10-10E-4: Preliminary Plans And Documents
10-10E-5: Standards And Requirements
10-10E-6: Review And Approvals
10-10E-7: Final Site Plan
10-10E-8: Staged Construction Permitted
10-10E-9: License Required
10-10E-1: SCOPE:
All such motels, hotels and other lodging shall be permitted subject to
restrictions and conditions within the zone requirements and also as herein set
forth. (Ord. 2017-05, 10-10-2017)
10-10E-2: INTENT:
It is the intent of these provisions to provide safe, sanitary and attractive
facilities for the tourist and traveling public while visiting the area. It is
also the intent of these provisions to prevent the use of a motel, hotel or
other lodging as a substandard apartment complex and to protect the integrity
and characteristics of the zone or zones in which they are located. (Ord. 2017-
05, 10-10-2017)
10-10E-3: APPROVAL OF PLANS AND DOCUMENTS NECESSARY:
Any person wishing to construct a motel, hotel or other lodging shall obtain
from the Planning and Zoning Administrator information pertaining to the City's
plan of land use, streets, public facilities and other requirements affecting
the land within the development. Before a permit can be issued for any
construction, the preliminary plans, required documents pertaining to the
development, and the final plans shall have been approved as hereinafter set
forth. (Ord. 2017-05, 10-10-2017)
10-10E-4: PRELIMINARY PLANS AND DOCUMENTS:
The preliminary plans and documents shall be prepared and submitted as follows:
Three (3) copies of the preliminary plan must be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Administrator at least two (2) weeks prior to the meeting of the
Planning Commission at which time the plan will be considered. The preliminary
plan shall be drawn to a scale not smaller than one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100'), or as recommended by the Planning and Zoning Administrator,
and shall show the following information:
   A.   Proposed building and parking space layout.
   B.   Proposed layout of swimming pools, playgrounds and other open spaces.
   C.   Proposed provisions for service facilities.
   D.   A generalized landscape plan.
   E.   Location of existing and proposed utility lines and easements, water
and sewer lines, fire hydrants, storm drains and facilities, curbs and other
improvements.
   F.   Any other data that the Planning Commission may require, including but
not limited to, soil studies, feasibility studies, seismic studies, flood zone
requirements, disaster mitigation and operation plan, etc.
   G.   Any other copies of proposed documents, including statements of
covenants, restrictions and maintenance agreements. (Ord. 2017-05, 10-10-2017)
10-10E-5: STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Zone Requirements: The proposed motel, hotel or other lodging shall
meet all restrictions, requirements and conditions of the zone in which it is
located.
   B.   Code Compliance: In addition to meeting the above requirements, all
motels, hotels and other lodging shall conform to all applicable State
requirements relating to sanitation, fire, etc. (Ord. 2017-05, 10-10-2017)
10-10E-6: REVIEW AND APPROVALS:
   A.   Planning Commission Review: The Planning Commission shall review the
plan to determine its compliance with any portion of the plan that shall have
been adopted by the Planning Commission. In considering approval of the
development, the Planning Commission shall, among other things, make sure that
such development will mesh harmoniously with the surrounding area; that it will
not produce a volume of traffic beyond the capacity of the surrounding street
system; that requirements for utilities, off street parking, traffic
circulation and other public requirements will be adequately met; and that the
standards and intent of this article shall be adequately complied with.
   B.   Changes: The Planning Commission may require changes to be made in the
plan. They may also require additional yards, buffers or other improvements to
be installed along with greater amounts of landscaping or parking spaces. Said
changes may be imposed as conditions of approval where it is determined by the
Planning Commission that such changes are necessary to ensure that the
development will mix harmoniously with adjoining or nearby uses.
   C.   Compliance With Zoning Requirements; Approval Or Denial: The Planning
Commission shall review the plans and proposed documents to determine
compliance with all zoning requirements. The Planning Commission shall grant
approval or denial of the application in writing.
   D.   Appeal: An application denied by the Planning Commission may be
appealed to the Appeal Authority within ten (10) days after the denial is made.
   E.   Term Of Approval: Approval of the preliminary plan shall be valid for a
period of one year. Extensions may be granted for one additional year with a
written request to the Planning Commission. (Ord. 2017-05, 10-10-2017)
10-10E-7: FINAL SITE PLAN:
   A.   Upon approval of the preliminary plan by the Planning Commission, the
developer shall submit to the Planning Commission a final site plan of either
the entire motel, hotel or other lodging or the first stage of such development
that is to be constructed. Such plan shall be drawn to scale and provide in
detail the information required under section
10-10E-4 of this article.
   B.   Copies of the final approved documents shall also be recorded in the
Office of the County Recorder. No building permit shall be issued until final
plans have been approved by the Planning Commission. (Ord. 2017-05, 10-10-2017)
10-10E-8: STAGED CONSTRUCTION PERMITTED:
Development may be carried out in progressive stages, in which event each stage
shall be so planned that the requirements and intent of this article shall be
fully complied with at the completion of each stage. (Ord. 2017-05, 10-10-2017)
10-10E-9: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Prerequisite to the operation of any motel, hotel or other lodging shall be the
obtaining of an annual license, which shall be issued only after inspection by
the City building inspector. It shall be unlawful to operate a motel, hotel or
other lodging without first obtaining a license, and said license shall be
refused or revoked upon failure of the owner and/or operator to maintain the
motel, hotel or other lodging in accordance with the standards and requirements
as herein set forth. (Ord. 2017-05, 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Intent
10-11-2: Nonconforming Buildings And Uses
10-11-3: Small Lots
10-11-4: Dwelling Sites To Have Frontage On Public Street
10-11-5: Uses Prohibited In Zones Unless Expressly Permitted
10-11-6: Moved Buildings
10-11-7: Annexations
10-11-7-1: Annexation Procedures
10-11-8: Amendments To Title And Map
10-11-9: Transitional Uses
10-11-10: Conflicting Provisions; Higher Standards
10-11-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to accumulate provisions applying to all land and
buildings within the incorporated area of the city into one section rather than
to repeat them several times. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-11-2: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES:
   A.   Nonconforming Buildings:
      1.   Continuance, Repairs And Upkeep:
         a.   Use of a nonconforming building or structure may be continued.
         b.   Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a nonconforming
building.
         c.   A nonconforming building or structure which is damaged or
partially destroyed by fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other calamity or act
of God, or the public enemy, to the extent of not more than two and one-half
(21/2) times its assessed value at the time, may be restored and/or part
thereof, which existed at the time of such partial destruction, may be
continued or resumed; provided, that such restoration is started within a
period of one year and is diligently prosecuted to completion. In the event
such damage or destruction exceeds two and one-half (21/2) times the assessed
valuation of such nonconforming building or structure, no repairs or
reconstruction, except in the case of dwelling structures, shall be made unless
every portion of such building or structure shall be made to conform to all
regulations for new buildings in the zone in which it is located.
      2.   Additions, Enlargements And Moving:
         a.   A building or structure nonconforming as to height, area or yard
regulations shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless such
addition or enlargement conforms to all the regulations of the zone in which it
is located.
         b.   No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved in whole or
in part to any other location on the lot, except by permit of the board of
adjustment as herein provided, unless every portion of such building or
structure is made to conform to all the regulations of the zone in which it is
located.
         c.   If a nonconforming building or structure is removed from a lot,
no building or structure may be constructed, erected or moved onto the lot
unless said building or structure conforms to all the regulations of the zone
in which the lot is located.
      3.   Abandonment Or Discontinuance: A nonconforming building or structure
or portion thereof, which is or hereafter becomes abandoned or discontinued for
a continuous period of one year, shall not thereafter be used or occupied
unless said building is made to conform to all the regulations of the zone in
which it is located.
   B.   Nonconforming Use Of Buildings:
      1.   Continuous: The nonconforming use of a building or structure,
existing at the time the applicable zoning regulations became or become
effective, may be continued.
      2.   Additions And Enlargements:
         a.   A building or structure nonconforming as to use regulations shall
not be added to or enlarged in any manner, except as permitted by the board of
adjustment.
         b.   A nonconforming use may be extended to include the entire floor
area of the existing building in which it is conducted at the time the use
became nonconforming, as permitted by the board of adjustment.
      3.   Abandonment Or Discontinuance: A nonconforming building or structure
or portion thereof occupied by a nonconforming use, which is or hereafter
becomes abandoned or discontinued for a continuous period of one year, shall
not thereafter be occupied or used, except for a use which conforms to all the
regulations of the zone in which said building or structure is located.
   C.   Nonconforming Use Of Land:
      1.   Continuance: A nonconforming use of a tract of land or portion
thereof, existing at the time the applicable zoning regulations became or
become effective, may be continued.
      2.   Expansion: No nonconforming use of a tract of land or portion
thereof shall not in any way be expanded or extended on either the same or any
adjoining tract of land.
      3.   Abandonment: A nonconforming use of land shall be deemed abandoned
by nonuser if discontinued for a continuous period of one year. If a
nonconforming use of land has been or shall be abandoned, such land shall not
thereafter be used or occupied, except for a use which conforms to the use
regulations of the zone in which the use is located.
   D.   Effect Of Change Of Use: The nonconforming use of a building or
structure or parcel of land may not be changed except to conforming use; but
where such change is made, the use shall not thereafter be changed back to a
nonconforming use.
   E.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record: Notwithstanding any other provision of
this title, a one-family dwelling may be permitted on any lot of record in any
zone in which dwellings are permitted, even though such lot fails to meet the
area or width requirements for one-family dwellings within the zone; provided,
that where two (2) or more continuous lots of record having continuous frontage
are owned by the same person at the time of the passage of the controlling
ordinance, the land included in the lots shall be considered to be an undivided
parcel and no portion of said parcel shall be used as a dwelling site or sold
which does not meet the area and width requirements of the zone in which the
lot is located. Yard dimensions and other requirements not involving area or
width shall conform to the regulations of the zone in which the lot is located,
except when granted a variance by the board of adjustment. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-
18-1981)
10-11-3: SMALL LOTS:
Where a parcel of land, at the time of the adoption of this title, is at least
one and eight-tenths (1.8) times as wide and one and eight-tenths (1.8) times
as large in area as required for a lot in the zone, the board of adjustment may
permit the division of a parcel into two (2) lots, provided:
   A.   Such division will not cause undue concentration of buildings.
   B.   The characteristics of the zone in which the lot is located will be
maintained.
   C.   In the opinion of the board of adjustment, values in the area will be
safeguarded. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-11-4: DWELLING SITES TO HAVE FRONTAGE ON A PUBLIC STREET:
Except as otherwise provided for in this title, at least one side of each lot
used as a dwelling site shall abut upon a street which has been designated or
dedicated to the public for street purposes, and the length of such abutting
side measured at the setback line shall be at least as great as the width
required for dwelling sites in the zone on which such building site is located.
(Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-11-5: USES PROHIBITED IN ZONES UNLESS EXPRESSLY PERMITTED:
Uses of land which are not expressly permitted within a zone are expressly
prohibited therein, except as may be permitted by action of the board of
adjustment pursuant to express authority under the terms of this title. The
board of adjustment shall not permit a use within a zone which is not expressly
permitted by the terms of this title unless it can be shown that the use is
similar to other uses permitted in the area. Where the board of adjustment
determines a use to be similar, such use shall therefore be deemed to be a
permitted use as if it were listed therein on the effective date hereof. (Ord.
6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-11-6: MOVED BUILDINGS:
   A.   Application; Information Required: No permit for the moving of a
residential, commercial or industrial building within the city which has had
prior use shall be issued as required under chapter 15 of this title without
first filing an application with the planning and zoning administrator. Said
application shall contain the following information:
      1.   Location and address of the old and new site.
      2.   Plot plan of the new location, also showing adjacent lots on all
sides of the property and indicating all structures and improvements on said
lots.
      3.   Plans and specifications for the proposed improvements at the new
location, including plans for landscaping treatment, when required by the
planning and zoning administrator. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
      4.   Certification by the planning and zoning administrator that the
structure is sound enough to be moved and meets HUD standards and that the
condition, location, and use of the building will comply with this title and
all other applicable codes and ordinances. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981; amd. per
minutes dated 5-8-2001)
   B.   Approval; Findings: The application must then be approved by the board
of adjustment. Before approving said application and authorizing the issuance
of a permit, the board must find that:
      1.   The building will have no appreciable detrimental effect on the
environment and property values in the area into which the structure is to be
moved.
      2.   The building is in conformity with the quality of buildings existing
in the area into which it is proposed to be moved.
      3.   Said building and the lot on which the building is to be located
will conform to the requirements of this title and other applicable codes,
ordinances and regulations.
      4.   Its location on the lot does not in any substantial way adversely
affect buildings or uses in abutting properties.
      5.   All required dedications and improvements for streets and facilities
and buildings shall be provided in conformity with the standards of the city.
      6.   Adequate provision has been made through the posting of a bond or
assurance that the building and grounds shall be brought up to the standard of
a new building before it is occupied and that the vacated site shall be
restored to a safe and sightly condition. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
   C.   Applicability To Other Structures 1 : The requirements of this section
shall also apply to the moving of mobile homes, demountable homes, manufactured
homes or a similar movable structure. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981; amd. per
minutes dated 5-8-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 10-12-17B of this title.
10-11-7: ANNEXATIONS:
All land hereafter annexed to the city shall be classified in the R-
1 residential zone until the planning commission shall submit its
recommendations for the zoning of the land to the city council, who shall hold
a public hearing thereon as required for amendments to this title and map.
(Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-11-7-1: ANNEXATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to adopt certain criteria for
annexation of adjacent unincorporated area in accordance with the provisions of
Utah Code Annotated section 10-2-401.5.
   B.   General Provisions:
      1.   Pursuant to the receipt of a valid petition, certification by the
city recorder of the city of Green River, review of the planning commission,
acceptance by the city council, and the completion of all statutory
requirements of Utah law, property may be annexed if the following criteria are
met:
         a.   The area that is proposed for future annexation borders, is
adjacent and contiguous to the city boundaries of the city of Green River,
Utah.
         b.   Areas proposed for annexation fall within the areas designated
for future annexation as defined in the general plan and the annexation map of
the city.
         c.   The areas proposed for annexation should be compatible with the
vision and character of the community as outlined in the general plan and
should not have a tendency to contribute to economic blight of properties in
the city.
         d.   Areas proposed for annexation shall not be located within the
corporate limits of another incorporated city, or be a part of a previously
filed annexation petition that has not been either denied, accepted, or
approved.
      2.   The city favors the following conditions:
         a.   Elimination and/or prevention of islands and peninsulas of
unincorporated territory.
         b.   Consolidation of overlapping functions of governments.
         c.   Promotion of efficient delivery of services.
         d.   Encouragement of the equitable distribution of community
resources and obligations.
         e.   Consideration of the taxable consequences to property owners
within the area proposed for annexation, as well as the property owners within
the municipality in order to prevent double taxation and to ascertain that the
annexation will not be a tax liability to the taxpayers already within the
municipality.
         f.   Protection of the existing economic tax base of the city from
economic blight caused by development of the annexed areas.
      3.   The city does not favor annexation of areas for which it does not
have the capability to provide municipal services.
      4.   The annexation petition must comply with the requirements of Utah
Code Annotated sections 10-2-402 and 10-2-403, or such other provisions of Utah
law applicable to annexation petitions.
   C.   Procedures For Submission: A petition for annexation must be filed with
the city recorder in compliance with Utah law.
   D.   Fees, Considerations And Notices:
      1.   Upon receipt of a properly prepared annexation petition and plat,
the city recorder shall impose such fees as required to recover the costs of
processing such petition, as have been established by the city council and
shall follow the requirements of Utah law for processing petitions for
annexation.
      2.   The city recorder shall forward the annexation petition to the
planning commission of the city, and the commission shall review the annexation
petition at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
   E.   Procedure And Notices: The petition shall be filed and processed as
required by Utah law.
   F.   Extension Of Services And Payment:
      1.   In areas where municipal services are not presently extended,
services will be extended on an as needed basis at the cost of the developer.
All extensions of municipal services must comply with all ordinances and policy
criteria, not cause or contribute to economic blight in other areas of the
city, and will be paid for by the individual developer or property owner.
      2.   An annexation agreement will be prepared between the city, annexing
landowners and future developers, if applicable, outlining specific
circumstances relating to water and sewer, streets and other specific
improvements prior to annexation approval.
      3.   Water rights of the type and quantity acceptable to the city for
culinary and secondary use shall be conveyed to the city as a condition of
development on property proposed for annexation. It is the intent of the city
that land annexed be accompanied by water rights sufficient to accommodate the
needs of the existing and potential occupants of such land when development
occurs. The water rights conveyance requirement of development shall be in
addition to any requirement that may be imposed upon development of the land
after annexation, and in addition to appropriate city water impact fees.
      4.   Water requirements, as referenced by subsection F3 of this section,
will be established on a case by case basis, utilizing the division of drinking
water standards, city use experience standards for the proposed land use, and
other established criteria, and will be contained in the annexation agreement
with the annexing landowner.
      5.   The annexation will allow developers of the annexed property access
to culinary water and sewer services when the area is accessible to the city's
present systems, provided that all developments meet city specifications, all
required fees are paid and the proposed development complies with all
applicable development ordinances and all improvements are installed pursuant
to city of Green River standards and policies.
      6.   The manner in which these amenities are developed will have a
bearing on how they will be financed. Taxes generated by increased valuation of
property and population will contribute to the general fund to help defray the
added expense the city may incur. However, the newly annexed developing areas
shall finance the extension of needed municipal services such as new water and
sewer lines, streets, curbs and gutters, sidewalks and other capital
improvements as development occurs.
      7.   Upon annexation, the newly annexed areas shall receive fire
protection, planning and zoning, garbage collection and street maintenance on
dedicated streets. (Ord. 2005-03, 3-14-2006)
10-11-8: AMENDMENTS TO TITLE AND MAP:
This title, including the map, may be amended as hereinafter provided:
   A.   Intent With Respect To Amendments: It is hereby declared to be public
policy that this title shall not be changed except to correct manifest errors
or to more fully carry out the intent and purpose of the master plan of the
city and of this title. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
   B.   Procedure: Any person seeking an amendment to this title or map shall
submit to the planning commission a written petition designating the change
desired and the reasons therefor and shall pay a filing fee, as set by
resolution of the city council, to the city recorder. Upon receipt of the
petition and the payment of the filing fee, the planning commission shall
consider the request and shall certify its recommendations to the city council
with respect to the request within thirty (30) days from receipt of the
request. Failure on the part of the planning commission to certify its
recommendations to the city council within thirty (30) days shall be deemed to
constitute approval unless a longer period is granted by the city council. The
fee required herein shall not be returned to the applicant. The planning
commission or city council may also initiate amendments to this title. (Ord. 6-
18-81A, 6-18-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Public Hearing Required; Notice: Amendments to this title may be
adopted only after a public hearing in relation thereto before the city
council, at which time parties and interested citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard. A notice of the time and place of such hearing shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the area at least
fifteen (15) days before the date of the hearing. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-11-9: TRANSITIONAL USES:
Uses which are permitted on either portion of a lot, which lot is divided by a
zone boundary line, or which is coterminous with a zone boundary line, may be
permitted to extend to the boundary line of such zone in which such use is
permitted. Before a permit for such a use may be granted, however, the board of
adjustment must find that the comprehensive plan of zoning will be maintained
and that harmonious mixing of uses will be achieved thereby. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-
18-1981)
10-11-10: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS; HIGHER STANDARDS:
Whenever regulations in this title require higher standards than are required
in other ordinances or laws, the provisions of this title shall govern.
Whenever regulations of other ordinances or laws require higher standards than
the provisions of this title, then said other ordinances or laws shall govern.
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with any of the provisions of
this ordinance are hereby repealed. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
CHAPTER 12
SUPPLEMENTARY PROCEDURES APPLICABLE WITHIN ZONES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Intent
10-12-2: Zoning Lot; One Dwelling Allowed
10-12-3: Required Space; Sale Or Lease Prohibited
10-12-4: Yard Space For One Building Only
10-12-5: Accessory Dwelling Units
10-12-6: Buildings; Additional Height Allowed
10-12-7: Fences, Walls Or Hedges
10-12-8: Overhangs And Projections
10-12-9: Drainage
10-12-10: Setbacks From Proposed Streets
10-12-11: Concessions In Public Parks And Playgrounds
10-12-12: Sewage Disposal
10-12-13: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-12-14: Motor Vehicle Access
10-12-15: Curb, Gutter And Sidewalk Policy
10-12-16: Pollution Prevention
10-12-17: Vacation Vehicles And Mobile Homes Prohibited; Exceptions
10-12-18: Keeping Of Farm Animals
10-12-19: Flag Lots
10-12-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to accumulate under one heading regulations which
apply to two (2) or more zones, rather than to repeat them several times. (Ord.
2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-2: ZONING LOT; ONE DWELLING ALLOWED:
Only one building which contains a dwelling shall be located and maintained on
a "zoning lot", as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title, except for dwellings within a planned unit development,
manufactured home park or other large scale development as provided for in this
title. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-3: REQUIRED SPACE; SALE OR LEASE PROHIBITED:
No space needed to meet the width, yard area, coverage, parking or other
requirements of this title for a lot or building may be sold or leased apart
from such lot or building unless other space so complying is provided. (Ord.
2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-4: YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY:
No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is
hereafter provided around any building, which is needed to comply with the
provisions of this title shall be considered as providing a yard or open space
for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space on an
adjoining lot be considered as providing the yard or open space on the lot
whereon a building is to be erected or established. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-5: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:
   A.   Accessory Dwelling Units:
      1.   Definition: An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is an independent
habitable living unit, with a kitchen, bath facilities, and its own entryway,
which is: (1) within or attached to an owner-occupied single family residential
dwelling, or (2) within a separate detached accessory structure, or above a
detached garage, on a single-family lot. This does not include motor homes,
fifth-wheels, travel trailers, campers, or other housing units on wheels.
      2.   Accessory Dwelling Unit Standards:
         a.   Number of Accessory Dwelling Units. A maximum of one accessory
dwelling unit is allowed on a residential lot, whether it is in an owner-
occupied single-family dwelling, or in a detached accessory structure.
         b.   Occupancy and Owner Occupation. The owner(s) of the residence (or
immediate family) shall live either in the primary unit or in the ADU.
            (1)   An accessory dwelling unit shall not be sold separately or
subdivided from the primary dwelling.
         c.   Code Compliance. The accessory dwelling units shall conform to
all applicable standards in the International Fire Code and International
Residential Code.
            (1)   All ADUs must meet minimum building code requirements.
         d.   Location and Type. Accessory dwelling units may be allowed within
or attached to the main single-family residential dwelling (basement or
addition), over the garage (attached or detached), or in a detached accessory
structure.
            (1)   ADU-Basement. An accessory dwelling unit in a basement shall
comply with Utah Code 10-9a-530 for Internal accessory dwelling units.
            (2)   ADU-Attached. Accessory dwelling units attached to the
primary dwelling as an addition shall meet the minimum setback standards
required for the primary dwelling. Attached ADUs must have a separate entrance.
            (3)   ADU-Detached.
               i.   Size.
                  (a)   Entire ADU size cannot exceed the minimum primary
resident ground floor area of the zoning district.
                  (b)   The maximum height of a detached ADU shall not exceed
the applicable zoning height requirements.
               ii.   Setbacks.
                  (a)   Setbacks shall comply with the applicable zone
requirements.
               (b)   Residential homes in Commercial zones shall comply with R3
setback requirements.
      5.   Utilities. Detached accessory dwelling units may have separate
utility meters.
      6.   Parking. Parking shall comply with Green River City ordinance
10-12-13.
      7.   Address. The principal dwelling and the accessory dwelling unit
shall have the same address number but shall refer to the accessory dwelling
unit as unit "B". The address must be in a visible location on the street
frontage side of the home.
   B.   Residential Rental License.
      1.   Definitions:
         a.   "Nightly rental," also called "short-term rental," means:
            (1)   The use, occupancy, rent, or lease, for direct or indirect
compensation, of a structure or any portion thereof, constructed for single
household or multihousehold occupancy, or of any other residential property, or
residential property within a commercial building, less than thirty (30)
consecutive days.
            (2)   The commercial use, by any person, of residential property,
or residential property within a commercial building, for hostel, hotel, inn,
lodging, motel, resort, or other transient lodging uses, where the term of
occupancy, possession, or tenancy of the property is less than thirty (30)
consecutive days.
      2.   Licenses.
         a.   No person shall operate or engage in any nightly rental activity
within the City of Green River without first obtaining and maintaining a valid
nightly rental license.
         b.   An individual owner who owns multiple nightly rental properties
must obtain a separate license for each nightly rental property. A nightly
rental license fee will be assessed on each property location. All applicable
City sales tax for each location must be reported and remitted to the Utah
State Tax Commission as per current state regulations and requirements.
         c.   If an owner of a nightly rental is using a D.B.A, that D.B.A.
must be registered with the Utah Department of Commerce.
         d.   The owner shall be the licensee, but the property manager or
local representative, if applicable, shall be deemed the responsible party for
the purposes of operating standards and management standards.
      3.   Application.
         a.   The applicant must show that the facility meets minimum
performance standards as specified below in "General Operating Standards."
         b.   An inspection by the Building Inspector and Fire Inspector shall
be required prior to issuance of a license and as often as necessary for the
enforcement of this chapter. The applicant is responsible for all fees.
         c.   If the owner is not a permanent resident of Green River, a local
property manager shall be listed on the application for the purpose of promptly
dealing with complaints, violations, or any other safety and nuisance issues.
      4.   Renewal. The license for nightly rental property shall be renewed
annually on or before July 1.
      5.   Grounds for Denial. An application for a nightly rental license may
be denied for failure to fulfill any of the application requirements.
      6.   Appeal of Denial. Shall be the same as outlined in Green River City
Code
3-1-6.
      7.   Application Transfer.
         a.   No license issued under this chapter may be assigned or
transferred to any person or entity not named therein; nor shall any license be
assigned or transferred to another nightly rental property, whether owned by
the named licensee or by another person or business entity.
         b.   Upon the sale, conveyance, or transfer of a nightly rental
property, the new owner or the transferee shall, within ten (10) business days
of completion of the conveyance or sale, apply for a new nightly rental license
if he/she continues to operate a nightly rental on the premises.
      8.   License Revocation. A nightly rental license may be revoked for a
violation of any of the operating standards or management standards set forth
below, and where there is impact on adjacent properties and neighborhoods.
      9.   Penalties.
         a.   Any owner of any dwelling, in any zone within Green River City
who allows or permits occupation of said dwelling as a short term rental, as
defined herein, without first having first obtained a business license in
accordance with the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a fine of up to one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) and imprisonment for up to six (6) months, or any combination
thereof for each violation.
         b.   Any owner of any dwelling, who, having first obtained a business
license for use or occupation of said dwelling as a short term rental,
thereafter, operates or permits operation of said short term rental in
violation of the terms and provisions of this section shall be guilty of an
Infraction, and shall be punished by a fine of not less than to seven hundred
and fifty dollars ($750.00) for each such violation.
         c.   Any person who occupies a short term rental as a guest and who
violates any local ordinance or state law shall be subject to arrest, issuance
of a citation, or other criminal process in accordance with all state, federal
or local statutes, rules or ordinances.
         d.   Violation of any provision of this section regulating short term
rentals shall constitute a separate offense for each day said violation occurs
or continues.
         e.   In the event of three (3) or more violations of this section
committed by an owner or guest, or any combination of the two, within any 12
month period, the City Council may, depending on the nature or extent of the
violations, proceed with revocation of the business license for any short term
rental property in accordance with the provisions of the general business
license ordinance.
      10.   General Operating Standards. Nightly rentals may be allowed where
the applicant can show evidence of compliance with the standards and procedures
outlined below:
         a.   The nightly rental must meet all applicable building, health, and
fire codes for the intended use.
         b.   A maximum stay at a nightly rental by an individual or particular
group shall not exceed thirty (29) consecutive days.
         c.   Each sleeping room must meet current International Residential
Code for egress and be equipped with smoke and CO ( carbon monoxide) detectors.
         d.   All nightly rental owners or property managers must collect and
pay the applicable taxes and pay the City business license fee.
         e.   Water, sewer, and garbage fees for nightly rentals will be
calculated at the commercial rate.
         f.   The owner or property manager shall respond to complaints and
concerns within one hour of any phone call or other notification. Failure of
the owner or property manager to respond in a timely manner may result in a
violation and possible revocation of the nightly rental license.
         g.   The Licensee and/or property owner will be responsible to provide
contact information of the responsible individual to all property owners/
residents within 300 ft. radius of the nightly rental property so they will be
able to make direct contact with the responsible individual in the case of a
complaint, violation, or any other safety or nuisance issues.
      11.   Parking Requirements. The owner of any property licensed as a
nightly rental shall provide off street parking for guests in accordance with
the following:
         a.   Off-street parking shall be provided on the same lot as the
dwelling which is licensed as a nightly rental. Shall be the same as outlined
in Green River City Code
10-12-13.
      12.   Prevention of Noise, Nuisance, or Trespass. The owner of any
dwelling licensed as a nightly rental shall be responsible to ensure that
guests or occupants do not:
         a.   Create noise that be reason of time, nature, intensity, or
duration are out of character with noises customarily heard in the surrounding
residential neighborhood.
         b.   Interfere with the privacy of surrounding residents or trespass
onto surrounding residential properties.
         c.   Allow pets or animals to create noise, roam the off the property,
or trespass on neighboring properties.
      13.   Required Posting. The following information must be posted in a
clear, concise, and unambiguous manner inside any dwelling licenses as a
nightly rental.
         a.   A copy of the nightly rental license.
         b.   The name and phone number of the owner and/or property manager.
         c.   The location of all fire extinguishers.
         d.   A list of all rules applicable for nightly rentals.
         e.   The maximum occupancy of the nightly rental. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-
2010; amd. Ord. 2022-04, 11-8-2022)
10-12-6: BUILDINGS; ADDITIONAL HEIGHT ALLOWED:
Buildings and churches may be erected to any height, provided the building is
in accord with current firefighting capabilities, and is set back from required
building setback lines a distance of at least one foot (1') for each additional
foot of building height above the maximum height otherwise permitted in the
zone in which the building is located. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-7: FENCES, WALLS OR HEDGES:
   A.   No fence, wall or hedge shall be constructed higher than three feet
(3') above the ground in any required front or side yard that fronts on a
street, except in compliance with one or more of the following conditions:
      1.   The fence is not sight obscuring, such as chainlink or similar type
material, and does not exceed four feet (4') in height.
      2.   The fence, wall or hedge is enclosing a side yard and/or back yard,
and is located forty feet (40') from the street easement line, and does not
exceed six feet (6') in height.
      3.   On side and back yards, where a fence, wall or hedge is constructed
parallel to a road on a corner lot, the fence shall be set back five feet (5')
from the back of the curb or side street.
   B.   Fences, walls or hedges that front on a corner lot must maintain a
sight triangle minimum depth of at least six feet (6') and within said six feet
(6'):
      1.   Obscuring fences, walls and hedges will not exceed three feet (3')
in height.
      2.   Nonobscuring fences, walls and hedges will not exceed four feet (4')
in height.
   C.   Fences, walls and hedges that are located behind front setbacks and
that are in excess of six feet (6') shall be engineered and require a building
permit.
   D.   Where a fence, wall or hedge is located along a property line
separating two (2) lots and there is a difference in the grade of the
properties on the two (2) sides of the property line, the fence, wall or hedge
may be erected or allowed to the maximum height permitted on either side of the
property line.
   E.   There shall be no fence, wall or hedge within three feet (3') of any
fire hydrant. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-8: OVERHANGS AND PROJECTIONS:
Architectural features shall meet the following setback requirements:
   A.   Cornices, eave overhangs, bay windows, chimneys, solar collectors,
planting boxes, cantilevered decks and similar architectural features may
extend into any required front or rear yards not exceeding five feet (5'), and
into any required side yard not exceeding two feet (2').
   B.   Unenclosed porches, landings, stairways or fire escapes not covered by
a roof may extend into any required front or rear yards not exceeding five feet
(5'), and into any required side yard to within three feet (3') of the property
line. Street corner side yard setbacks shall be the same as subsection A of
this section.
   C.   Decks, patios, sidewalks, driveways, and similar architectural features
less than eight inches (8") above grade shall not be regulated as to setbacks.
(Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-9: DRAINAGE:
Surface water from rooftops, lots or irrigation ditches shall not be allowed to
drain onto adjacent lots or streets. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-10: SETBACKS FROM PROPOSED STREETS:
Whenever a front or side yard is required for a building, which building abuts
on a proposed street which has not been designated by the planning commission
as a future street, the depth of such front or side yard shall be measured from
such proposed street line. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-11: CONCESSIONS IN PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS:
Concessions, including, but not limited to, amusement devices, recreational
buildings and refreshment stands, shall be permitted on a public park or
playground when approved by city council. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-12: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
Where domestic sewage disposal facilities are used which are not connected to a
public sewer, approval of such facilities shall be obtained from the health
department before a building permit shall be issued therefor. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-
10-2010)
10-12-13: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
   A.   Off street loading and unloading space shall be provided on the same
lot for every building used for manufacturing, storage, warehousing, goods
display, department stores, granary, hotel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry
cleaning or other use similarly involving the receipt or distribution by
vehicle of materials or merchandise. Such space, unless otherwise adequately
provided, shall include a minimum of ten feet by twenty five feet (10' x 25'),
with a minimum of fourteen feet (14') height clearance loading space for every
ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor space in the building, or fraction
thereof.
   B.   Not less than two (2) off street parking spaces shall be provided on
the same lot for any single-family dwelling, plus one space for each additional
dwelling unit. All off street parking spaces shall be graded and graveled.
   C.   The planning commission may approve substitute parking locations and
may reduce the amount of off street parking required where sufficient off
street parking is not readily available within the vicinity, and/or where
acquisition of land for such use is unnecessary in order to carry out the
spirit of this title.
   D.   All required off street parking spaces shall be a minimum of nine feet
by eighteen feet (9' x 18').
   E.   Off street parking for nonresidential uses shall be required as
follows:
                                         5 spaces for each alley, plus 2 spaces
Bowling alleys and billiard halls       for each billiard table contained
                                         therein
                                         1 space for each 250 square feet of
Business and professional offices       gross floor area (footside building
                                         measurements)
                                         1 space for each 31/2 fixed seats of
                                         maximum seating capacity or 1 space
Churches, sports arenas, auditoriums,    for each 35 square feet of seating
theaters, assembly halls, lodge halls,  area within the main auditorium where
or other meeting rooms                   there are no fixed seats. 18 linear
                                         inches of bench shall be considered a
                                         fixed seat
Day nurseries, including preschools     1 space for each 5 children for which
and nursery schools                      said establishment is licensed
Furniture stores, appliance stores,     1 space for each 600 square feet of
and lumberyards                          floor area
Golf courses                            6 spaces per hole
Golf driving ranges                     1 space per tee
                                         1 space for each 250 square feet of
Health studios and spas                 gross floor area or 10 spaces minimum,
                                         whichever is greater
Hospitals                               2 parking spaces for each bed
                                         1 space for each living or sleeping
Hotels, motels, motor hotels            unit, plus 2 spaces for resident
                                         manager or owner
Libraries                               1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                         gross floor area
Mortuaries and funeral homes            5 spaces, plus 1 space for each 35
                                         square feet of gross floor area
Motor vehicle sales and automotive      1 space for each 400 square feet of
repair                                   gross floor area
Nursing homes                           1 parking space for each 5 beds
Restaurants, taverns, lounges, drive-    10 spaces minimum or 1 space for each
ins, drive-throughs, takeout            100 square feet of gross floor area,
restaurants and other establishments     whichever is greater
where food or beverages are consumed
Retail stores and shops, commercial      1 space for each 250 square feet of
banks, savings and loan offices, other   gross floor area. For commercial
financial institutions, general retail  centers containing 500 or more spaces,
stores, food stores, supermarkets,       spaces in excess of 500 shall be
drugstores and other similar             calculated on the basis of 1 space for
commercial businesses                    each 500 square feet of floor area
Skating rinks, ice or roller            1 space for each 150 square feet of
                                         gross floor area
                                         1 space for each 100 square feet of
Swimming pools, commercial              water surface or 10 stalls, whichever
                                         is greater
Tennis, handball and racquetball        6 spaces minimum or 3 spaces per
courts, commercial                       court, whichever is greater
 
   F.   Parking for educational uses shall be required as follows:
 
Elementary schools                     2 spaces per classroom
                                        1 space for each member of the faculty
Senior and junior high schools         and 1 space for each 6 regularly
                                        enrolled students
College, universities, trade schools,  1 space for each faculty member, plus 1
etc.                                    space for each 3 students
                                        Shall meet the requirements of
                                        churches, sports arenas, auditoriums,
Schools having an arena or auditorium  theaters, assembly halls, lodge halls,
                                        or other meeting rooms in subsection E
                                        of this section, whichever is greater
 
   G.   Parking for veterinary hospitals shall be five (5) spaces for each
doctor.
   H.   Parking for manufacturing plants, warehouses, storage buildings for
structures especially for storage purposes shall be one space for each two
thousand (2,000) square feet of gross floor area and one space for each two
hundred fifty (250) square feet of office or sales area.
   I.   Parking for service-commercial businesses such as electrical shops,
plumbing shops, contractor's storage yards, cabinet shops and other similar
businesses of a service-commercial nature shall be one space for each four
hundred (400) square feet of gross floor area.
   J.   All other parking uses shall be considered conditional uses. (Ord.
2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-14: MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS:
Access to all lots and parcels of land having frontage on a public street shall
be controlled as follows:
   A.   Access shall be not more than two (2) driveways from any one street
unless it can be shown that additional driveways will promote traffic safety.
   B.   Driveways shall be not closer to each other than twenty feet (20') on
any one lot.
   C.   Each driveway shall be not more than thirty six feet (36') in width in
any commercial or industrial zone measured at right angles to centerline of
driveway. In residential zones, the driveways shall not be more than twenty
four feet (24') in width, except when approved for large scale development.
   D.   On corner lots, no driveway shall be closer than twenty five feet (25')
to the point of intersection of the front property line with the side property
line which abuts upon a street.
   E.   Where there is no existing curb, gutter or sidewalk, all access points
shall be defined. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-15: CURB, GUTTER AND SIDEWALK POLICY:
   A.   Definition: An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is an independent
habitable living unit, with a kitchen, bath facilities, and its own entryway,
which is: (1) within or attached to an owner-occupied single family residential
dwelling, or (2) within a separate detached accessory structure, or above a
detached garage, on a single-family lot. This does not include motor homes,
fifth-wheels, travel trailers, campers, or other housing units on wheels.
   B.   Accessory Dwelling Unit Standards:
      1.   Number of Accessory Dwelling Units. A maximum of one accessory
dwelling unit is allowed on a residential lot, whether it is in an owner-
occupied single-family dwelling, or in a detached accessory structure.
      2.   Occupancy and Owner Occupation. The owner(s) of the residence (or
immediate family) shall live either in the primary unit or in the ADU.
         a.   An accessory dwelling unit shall not be sold separately or
subdivided from the primary dwelling.
      3.   Code Compliance. The accessory dwelling units shall conform to all
applicable standards in the International Fire Code and International
Residential Code.
         a.   All ADUs must meet minimum building code requirements.
      4.   Location and Type. Accessory dwelling units may be allowed within or
attached to the main single-family residential dwelling (basement or addition),
over the garage (attached or detached), or in a detached accessory structure.
         a.   ADU-Basement. An accessory dwelling unit in a basement shall
comply with Utah Code 10-9a-530 for Internal accessory dwelling units.
         b.   ADU-Attached. Accessory dwelling units attached to the primary
dwelling as an addition shall meet the minimum setback standards required for
the primary dwelling. Attached ADUs must have a separate entrance.
         c.   ADU-Detached.
         (1)   Size.
            i.   Entire ADU size cannot exceed the minimum primary resident
ground floor area of the zoning district.
            ii.   The maximum height of a detached ADU shall not exceed the
applicable zoning height requirements.
         (2)   Setbacks.
            i.   Setbacks shall comply with the applicable zone requirements.
            ii.   Residential homes in Commercial zones shall comply with R3
setback requirements.
   C.   Utilities. Detached accessory dwelling units may have separate utility
meters.
   D.   Parking. Parking shall comply with Green River City ordinance 10-12-13.
   E.   Address. The principal dwelling and the accessory dwelling unit shall
have the same address number but shall refer to the accessory dwelling unit as
unit "B". The address must be in a visible location on the street frontage side
of the home. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-2010; amd. Ord. 2022-04, 11-8-2022)
10-12-16: POLLUTION PREVENTION:
Any use which emits or discharges liquids, gases, fumes, dust, glare, noise or
other pollutants into the atmosphere in amounts which exceed the standards as
prescribed by the Utah air quality board or the Utah state board of health, and
any use which emits or discharges liquids or solid material onto the soil or
water in amounts which result in pollutants entering groundwater in amounts
exceeding the standards prescribed by the Utah water quality board or the Utah
state board of health, shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-17: VACATION VEHICLES AND MOBILE HOMES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Vacation Vehicles: It shall be unlawful to place any vacation vehicle
on any lot or parcel of land in the area covered by the zoning map and to use
the same for human habitation, except when located in a vacation vehicle park.
   B.   Manufactured Homes: It shall be unlawful to place a manufactured home
on any lot or parcel of land in an area covered by the zoning map and to use
the same for human habitation, except in compliance with one or more of the
following conditions:
      1.   When placed in a licensed manufactured home park.
      2.   When placed on a zoning lot that complies with the regulations of
the zone in which the manufactured home is located.
      3.   When temporarily located on a lot on which a residence is being
constructed, a mobile or manufactured home may be located on a lot when it is
connected to approved water and sewer facilities, provided the mobile or
manufactured home and the lot on which it is placed is under the same
ownership. The period of habitation of such mobile or manufactured home shall
not exceed one year. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-18: KEEPING OF FARM ANIMALS:
For the keeping of farm animals within residential zones of the city, the
following requirements are provided:
   A.   No farm animals shall be kept on any lot smaller than thirty thousand
(30,000) square feet.
      1.   Small animals of one animal unit, similar, but not limited to,
chickens and rabbits, may be kept on lots of seven thousand five hundred
(7,500) square feet or larger.
   B.   The number of farm animals kept on any lot or parcel in the residential
zones, except for small animals as defined in subsection A of this section,
shall not exceed one farm "animal unit", as defined herein, for each ten
thousand (10,000) square feet of lot or parcel size.
   C.   No farm animals shall be kept on any lot or parcel where less than
twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of the lot or parcel is used as livestock
management, nor shall fractional animal units be permitted for horses, mules,
donkeys, bovine cows, llamas or alpacas.
      1.   Livestock Management Areas: Shall include all portions of the lot or
parcel used as sheds, barns, coops, corrals, pastures, stables, gardens, or
cultivated grounds, where animal waste can be spread, but shall not include any
area of the lot or parcel devoted to dwellings, sidewalks, driveways or lawns.
      2.   Pasture Requirements: Lots or parcels where farm animals are kept
must be maintained with at least seventy five percent (75%) pastured area.
Pasture will not be required for fowl, except ratite fowl.
      3.   Pasture Defined: An area of a lot or parcel which is used
intermittently for animals to browse, but which is not used for long term
continual confinement. Pasture area shall be maintained such that the ground
surface remains predominantly vegetated at all times.
   D.   One "animal unit" shall be any one of the following:
      1.   One each of cow, horse, mule, donkey, bovine cow.
      2.   Two (2) each of llama or alpaca.
      3.   Four (4) each of adult sheep, goats, ratite fowl.
      4.   Eight (8) each of feeder lambs.
      5.   Twelve (12) each of any other fowl than ratite, and rabbits together
with the suckling offspring thereof.
      6.   No pigs or porcine shall be kept in any zone within the city limits.
Any farm animal not specifically permitted is prohibited.
   E.   Structures shall be provided and maintained for all animals. Such
structures shall be enclosed (fully or partially), roofed and shall comply with
all other setbacks and yard requirements for the zone.
   F.   The following additional requirements shall apply to the location of
all pens, corrals, barns, stables, coops, and other structures for the
confinement and keeping of farm animals:
      1.   All such structures and buildings shall be located a minimum fifty
feet (50') from all dwellings located on surrounding lots or parcels.
      2.   All feed storage shall be set back the same as accessory buildings
in the underlying zone.
      3.   Any structure or enclosure for the confinement of farm animals
within the city limits must be cleaned and maintained so as not to become a
health hazard or nuisance.
   G.   Every lot or parcel used for the keeping of farm animals must have a
year round water supply. (Ord. 2010-04, 8-10-2010)
10-12-19: FLAG LOTS:
   A.   Purpose. To provide standards for the review and approval of flag lots
as an alternative when conventional zoning standards prevent the effective
utilization of property.
   B.   Definition. Lots that have less than the minimum required frontage on a
public or private street, have access to a public or private street by a narrow
strip of land, and the largest portion of the lot is situated behind adjoining
lots which front on a public or private street.
   C.   Standards:
      1.   The flag lot is located in an R-1, R-3 or A-1 zone.
      2.   The applicant provides written and illustrated evidence showing
property development with and without the proposed flag lot which demonstrates:
         a.   The flag lot will result in more efficient use of land;
         b.   The design of the flag lot is appropriate to and compatible with
the configuration of the overall adjacent property;
         c.   No other viable designing alternatives exist that will allow for
a conventional lot including consideration of:
            (1)   The current, proposed, or alternative zoning;
            (2)   The possibility of incorporating the subject property with
adjacent property to achieve a more unified development of the area and
eliminate the need for a flag lot;
            (3)   Alternative street designs and improvements; and
            (4)   Any other reasonable means that would render a flag lot
unnecessary;
         d.   The flag lot is infill to the development of the general area;
and
         e.   Access to the flag lot is provided through the pole portion of
the lot.
      3.   Each flag lot meets the following minimum design standards:
         a.   The lot has at least twenty (20') feet of frontage on a dedicated
public street which frontage serves as access only to the subject lot.
Easements across adjoining properties may be used to provide the required
access width. Narrower existing easements may be considered administratively;
         b.   The flag pole and easement portion of the lot is at least twenty
(20') feet wide and not more than two hundred (200') feet long;
         c.   The flag portion or body of the lot meets the lot area, and width
requirements of the applicable zone. The applicant must demonstrate that on-
site turnaround, on-site guest parking and increased yards needed to address
unusual lot configurations can be met, lot sizes may be required to be
increased up to 20% over the minimum lot size;
         d.   The minimum square footage of the flag portion or body of the lot
is the same as required in the applicable zone;
         e.   Front, rear, and side setback requirements of the flag portion or
body of the lot is the same as required in the applicable zone;
         f.   All accessory buildings located on the flag pole portion of the
lot is the same as required in the applicable zone;
         g.   Each flag lot has a hard surfaced, gravel, or road base driveway
at least twelve (12') feet wide from the street to the required parking area.
When the flag pole portions of two (2) flag lots are side by side, a common
curb cut and a driveway at least twenty (20') feet wide shall be required from
the street to the required parking area.
         h.   Fire department standards shall be observed in the provision of
access, turnarounds, clearance, road grades, distance to the fire hydrants,
etc.
         i.   An address must be clearly posted on the public street.
         j.   Flag lots that are subdivided shall meet all of Title 11,
Subdivision regulations.
   D.    Below is an example of a flag lot and is included herein to illustrate
the concept of a flag lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ccfd49548ddd7283953d948193b12e6cd7f0c005/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1262.png]
 
(Ord. 2022-01, 3-9-2022)
CHAPTER 13
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose
10-13-2: Conditional Use Standards Of Review
10-13-3: Preview Procedure
10-13-4: General Review Criteria
10-13-5: Specific Review Criteria For Certain Conditional Uses
10-13-6: Appeal To And Review By City Council
10-13-7: Building Permit
10-13-8: Expiration
10-13-9: Notice Provisions
10-13-10: Permit Revocation
10-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose and intent of conditional uses is to allow, in certain areas,
compatible integration of uses which are related to the permitted uses of the
zone, but which may be suitable and desirable only in certain locations in the
zone due to conditions and circumstances peculiar to that location and/or upon
certain conditions which make the uses suitable and/or only if such uses are
designed, laid out and constructed on the proposed site in a particular manner.
(Ord. 2012-01, 3-13-2012)
10-13-2: CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS OF REVIEW:
The city shall not issue a conditional use permit unless the planning
commission concludes that the application fully mitigates all identified
adverse impacts and complies with the following general standards applicable to
all conditional uses, as well as the specific standards for the use.
If the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of a proposed conditional use
cannot be mitigated by the proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions
to achieve compliance with applicable standards, the conditional use may be
denied. (Ord. 2012-01, 3-13-2012)
10-13-3: PREVIEW PROCEDURE:
   A.   Application for a conditional use permit shall be made to the planning
commission.
   B.   Detailed location, site and building plan shall accompany the complete
application forms provided by the city. For structures in existence, only a
location plan need be provided.
   C.   The application, together with all pertinent information, shall be
considered by the planning commission at its next regularly scheduled meeting
not to exceed sixty (60) days.
   D.   The planning commission may call a specific public hearing on any
application after adequate notice if it is deemed in the public interest.
      1.   The planning commission shall take action on the application by the
second meeting of the planning commission after the application filing date not
to exceed sixty (60) days.
      2.   A record of the hearing, together with the denial or issuance of the
conditional use permit, with the conditions of approval or reasons for denial,
shall be forwarded to the city council. (Ord. 2012-01, 3-13-2012)
10-13-4: GENERAL REVIEW CRITERIA:
An application for a conditional use in the zone must demonstrate:
   A.   The application complies with all applicable provisions of this
chapter, state and federal law.
   B.   The structures associated with the use are compatible and complementary
with surrounding structures in terms of use, scale, mass and circulation.
   C.   The use is not detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare.
   D.   The use is consistent with the city of Green River general plan.
   E.   Traffic conditions are not adversely affected by the proposed use
including the existence or need for dedicated turn lanes, pedestrian access,
and capacity of the existing streets.
   F.   That in no way will the use impede the sight triangle of any
intersecting street.
   G.   There is sufficient utility capacity.
   H.   There is sufficient emergency vehicle access.
   I.   The location and design of off street parking as well as compliance
with off street parking standards.
   J.   A plan for fencing, screening, and landscaping to separate the use from
adjoining uses and mitigates the potential for conflict in uses.
   K.   That exterior lighting complies with the lighting standards of the
zone.
   L.   That within and adjoining the site, impacts on the aquifer, slope
retention, and flood potential have been fully mitigated and is appropriate to
the topography of the site.
   M.   No noise, dust, smoke, fumes, trespassing light and any other
deleterious or adverse effects shall be allowed to permeate from the property.
(Ord. 2012-01, 3-13-2012)
10-13-5: SPECIFIC REVIEW CRITERIA FOR CERTAIN CONDITIONAL USES:
In addition to the foregoing, the planning commission must evaluate the
applicant's compliance with each of the following criteria when considering
whether to approve, deny or conditionally approve an application for each of
the following conditional uses:
   A.   Childcare Center/Home Daycare:
      1.   Proof of application for state childcare license;
      2.   Compliance with state, federal and local law;
      3.   A design that does not include a front yard playground unless it is
properly mitigated;
      4.   A parking and traffic plan that adequately mitigates the adverse
impacts of increased traffic in the neighborhood (if a childcare center).
   B.   Preschool Facilities In Residential Zones: Each application for a
preschool facility must include and comply with the following standards:
      1.   There shall be one instructor for every eight (8) children within
the mixed age range of three (3), four (4) and five (5) years old, a maximum of
sixteen (16) children;
      2.   The play yard shall not be located in the front yard and shall only
be used between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.;
      3.   The lot shall contain one available on site parking space not
required for use of the dwelling and one additional parking space for each
employee that does not reside in the home. The spaces shall be located in such
a way as to ensure the parking is functional and does not change the
residential character of the lot;
      4.   No signs shall be allowed on the dwelling or lot except a nameplate
sign;
      5.   The preschool operator shall comply with all applicable licensing
regulations adopted in the city of Green River business licensing code and
shall comply with all local, state and federal regulations; and
      6.   Upon complaint that any of the requirements of this section or any
other city ordinance are being violated by a preschool caregiver, the city
shall review the complaint and if substantiated a hearing may be set before the
planning commission to revoke the use permit.
   C.   Intermittent Commercial Uses: The occasional use of dwellings,
community buildings, private clubs, lodges, social or recreational
establishments and/or their accessory buildings for commercial purposes may be
allowed upon receiving a conditional use permit and provided the provisions of
this subsection are complied with. The following standards shall apply to all
intermittent commercial uses in addition to any conditions the city council
deems necessary and desirable to protect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
      1.   The display and sales of merchandise should be contained primarily
within a building.
      2.   The building proposed for the intermittent commercial use must
comply with setback and clear vision area requirements of this title and with
applicable building and fire codes.
      3.   A business license from the city is required to conduct an
intermittent commercial use, not to exceed thirty (30) consecutive days.
      4.   Adequate parking is provided to serve the commercial use that does
not create a parking shortage for other existing uses on site.
      5.   The use does not cause noise, light, or glare which adversely
impacts surrounding uses.
   D.   Home Occupation: Each application for a business license for a home
occupation shall include the applicant's agreement that the proposed home
occupation use:
      1.   Is a conditional use in all zoning districts;
      2.   Shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling, accessory building or
garage and shall be carried on in the building only by members of the residing
family;
      3.   Does not involve the use of yard space for storage or activities;
      4.   No commercial vehicles are used except one delivery truck with a
single rear axle;
      5.   The home occupation is clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the character of the
building from that of a dwelling;
      6.   Signs are limited to one nonilluminated accessory sign not larger in
area than three (3) square feet;
      7.   The owner of the home occupation shall purchase a business license
to operate within the city limits;
      8.   Shall not cause a demand for municipal services in excess of that
associated with normal residential use;
      9.   Shall be enclosed within a structure in complete conformity with
international building codes as adopted by the city;
      10.   The physical appearance, traffic, and other activities in
connection with the home occupation shall not be contrary to the intent of the
zone in which the home occupation is located and will not depreciate
surrounding values or decrease the quality of life within the area;
      11.   All parking associated with the business or residence shall be
contained on the property.
   E.   Small Neighborhood Commercial Occupations: An application for such use
may be approved in specific zones upon finding that the proposed use complies
with all the following standards:
      1.   Shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling, accessory building or
garage;
      2.   All on site materials used in the conduct of the small neighborhood
commercial occupation shall be stored within said dwelling, accessory building
or garage;
      3.   The on site activities of said small neighborhood commercial
occupation shall be conducted only by members of the residing family and a
maximum of two (2) employees;
      4.   The small neighborhood commercial occupation shall contain no
facilities for the display of goods or services. Any sale of goods and services
shall constitute a clearly incidental part of the operation of the small
neighborhood commercial occupation;
      5.   No commercial vehicles shall be used except one delivery truck with
a single rear axle;
      6.   The small neighborhood commercial occupation and the activities
conducted as a part thereof shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
use of the property for dwelling purposes and will not have the effect of
altering the character of the area from that of a residential neighborhood;
      7.   The activities of the small neighborhood commercial occupation shall
not involve the use of combustible or toxic material which would pose an
increased hazard to the area, nor shall the activities produce noise, smoke,
glare, odor, dust, flashing light and similar conditions which would decrease
the residential quality of the neighborhood;
      8.   Signs shall be limited to one attached, nonilluminated
identification sign, not larger than three (3) square feet in surface area,
which does not specify the goods or services provided by the occupation;
      9.   The owner of the small neighborhood commercial occupation shall
purchase a business license to operate within the city limits;
      10.   The physical appearance, traffic, and other activities in
connection with the small neighborhood commercial occupation shall not be
contrary to the intent of the zone in which the small neighborhood commercial
occupation is located and will not depreciate surrounding property values or
decrease the quality of life within the area;
      11.   A site plan drawn to scale showing the location of the structure,
its relationship to dwellings on the same and adjacent properties, and
provisions for safe vehicular access and adequate off street parking shall be
submitted with the application; and
      12.   All parking associated with the use or residence shall be contained
on the property.
   F.   Adult Oriented Businesses: The purpose and objective of this subsection
is to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the concentration
of adult oriented businesses or their location in areas deleterious to the
health, safety and welfare of the city, and to prevent inappropriate exposure
of such businesses to the community. This subsection regulates the time, place,
and manner of the operation of sexually oriented businesses, consistent with
the United States and Utah state constitutions.
      1.   No adult oriented business may be located within one thousand feet
(1,000') of any:
         a.   School, daycare facility, cemetery, public park, library, or
religious institution;
         b.   Residential zoning boundary;
         c.   Liquor store, bar or tavern;
         d.   Other adult oriented business.
      2.   For the purposes of this subsection, distance is measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
closest exterior wall of the structure in which the adult oriented business is
located and:
         a.   The closest exterior wall of another adult oriented business;
         b.   The closest property line of any school, daycare facility, public
park, library, cemetery or religious institution;
         c.   The nearest property line of any residential zone; and
         d.   The closest exterior wall of a liquor store, bar or tavern.
   G.   Private And Quasi-Public Utility Buildings And Structures: Private and
quasi-public utility buildings or structures incidental to the provision of
water, sewer, electric power, or other utilities may be constructed in all
residential zones as conditional uses.
   H.   Moving Buildings: Since moved buildings have often been constructed in
a time period prior to the adoption of a building code, and are frequently left
in an unsafe and unattractive condition, extra precautions shall be taken to
ensure that the buildings meet current building standards and that the
appearance of the premises is in keeping with buildings in the surrounding
area.
No conventional dwelling, modular or manufactured home or other structure
intended for human occupancy, which has had prior use, shall be moved from one
site within the city to another site within the city or from a site outside of
the city to a site within the city without a preinspection being made by the
building official and a permit issued therefor.
The moving of any residential, commercial, or industrial building within the
city, which has had prior use, shall be subject to approval of a moved building
permit application by both the building inspector and the zoning administrator.
In addition to conventionally constructed buildings, the requirements of this
provision shall apply to the moving of demountable homes, manufactured homes,
and similar movable structures.
Before granting approval of the application, the zoning administrator shall
apply the following standards of review and findings:
      1.   That the building will have no appreciable detrimental effect on the
living environment and property values in the area into which the structure is
to be moved.
      2.   That the building is in conformity with the quality of buildings
existing in the area into which it is proposed to be moved.
      3.   That said building and the lot on which the building is to be
located will conform to the requirements of the zoning ordinance, the building
code, and other applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations.
      4.   That its location on the lot does not in any substantial way
adversely affect buildings or uses in abutting properties.
      5.   That all required dedications and improvements for streets and
facilities and buildings shall be provided in conformity with the standards of
the city.
      6.   That adequate provision has been made through the posting of a
performance bond or other assurance acceptable to the city that the building
and grounds shall be brought up to the standard of a new building before it is
occupied and that the vacated site shall be restored to a safe and visually
appealing condition.
      7.   That all applicable permit fees have been paid.
      8.   That the building and grounds shall be brought up to the standards
required of a new building before it is occupied.
      9.   That before a permit to move a building may be granted, the
applicant shall post a minimum five thousand dollar ($5,000.00) bond or actual
cost to move the building whichever is greater.
      10.   That the cash deposit or bond shall also be applied to cover the
costs of cleaning up the vacated site in the city, and restoring it to a safe
and sightly condition, in compliance with this code and the current nuisance
ordinance.
   I.   Minor Telecommunications Facility And Amateur Radio Antennas: This
subsection applies to both commercial and private low power radio services and
facilities, such as "cellular" or "PCS" (personal communications systems)
communications and paging systems. Each application for a telecommunications
facility shall comply with the following:
      1.   Wall Mounted Antenna: Wall mounted antennas may not extend above the
wall line of the building or extend more than four feet (4') horizontally from
the face of the building.
      2.   Stealth Wall Mounted Antenna: Stealth wall mounted antennas are
encouraged and may be allowed to vary from the provisions of this subsection
upon demonstrated mitigation of impact.
      3.   Roof Mounted Antenna: Roof mounted antennas are allowed only on a
flat roof and shall be screened and designed to match the structure to which
they are attached. The planning commission may grant approval to place roof
mounted stealth antennas on a pitched roof if the antenna does not extend above
the peak of the roof.
      4.   Height: Antennas shall be mounted at least five feet (5') behind any
parapet wall. The maximum height of an antenna mounted between five feet (5')
and ten feet (10') behind a parapet wall shall be directly proportional to the
setback distance, and may not exceed a height of ten feet (10') above the top
of the parapet wall. An antenna may not extend more than fifteen feet (15')
above the roofline of the building unless the adverse impacts of the additional
height are fully mitigated.
      5.   Power Lines: All power lines on the lot leading to the accessory
building and antenna structure of the telecommunications facility shall be
installed underground.
      6.   Area Limitations: Combinations of both roof and wall mounted
antennas are allowed on a building. The total area for all wall and roof
mounted antennas and supporting structures combined shall not exceed forty (40)
square feet for each exterior wall of the building or a total of one hundred
sixty (160) square feet per building. Cellular antennas may occupy a maximum of
four (4) walls.
      7.   Review Criteria: Each applicant for a telecommunications facility
must address the following:
         a.   Compatibility of the proposed structure with the height and mass
of existing adjacent buildings and utility structures;
         b.   Whether collocation of the antenna on other existing structures
in the same vicinity such as other towers, buildings, utility poles and similar
structures is possible without significantly affecting antenna transmission or
reception;
         c.   The location of the antenna in relation to existing vegetation,
topography and buildings to optimize visual screening;
         d.   Whether the spacing between monopoles creates detrimental impact
upon adjacent properties;
         e.   The location of the pole in relation to noteworthy structures,
landmarks and pedestrian or automotive transportation view corridors;
         f.   Location and zoning compliance of accessory buildings associated
with the telecommunications facility;
         g.   The maximum height of any tower or antenna in connection with a
telecommunications facility or amateur radio antenna shall not be greater than
the total distance from the nearest property line to said tower or antenna.
      8.   Monopole: A conditional use permit for a commercial monopole may be
granted in any zone district only if the planning commission finds that:
         a.   The monopole antenna does not exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height;
         b.   For all other zones the height of the tower shall not exceed the
setback measured from the base of the structure to the property line;
         c.   Monopole with antenna and antenna support structure does not
exceed two feet (2') in width;
         d.   The antenna tower will be placed on a parcel, which is not
occupied by a residential use, such as a school, church, or other
nonresidential use, which is otherwise legally located in that residential
zone;
         e.   The antenna tower will be located no closer than two hundred feet
(200') from the nearest residential structure;
         f.   The monopole will be disguised as, or otherwise integrated with,
a light pole or similar utility structure located on the parcel to minimize and
mitigate the visual impact of the antenna. Monopoles shall be fenced with a six
foot (6') chainlink fence and the climbing pegs removed from the lower twenty
feet (20') of the monopole. In circumstances where the accessory building and
fence may be viewable from any public road or public space. The planning
commission may require alternative building and fencing materials such as
masonry, wrought iron or chainlink with colored vinyl coating depending on the
location; and
         g.   No monopole or lattice tower may be located within one thousand
feet (1,000') of another monopole or lattice tower unless it is for the bona
fide public services of a public transit district as defined in section 17B-2a-
801 et seq., of the Utah Code Annotated and as certified by said public transit
district.
      9.   Collocation: Collocation is both permitted and encouraged if all
setbacks, design and landscape requirements are met for each telecommunications
facility. The application shall include any existing or approved, but unbuilt,
telecommunications facility within the telecommunications area that may meet
the needs of the applicant. The documentation supplied shall evaluate the
following factors:
         a.   Structural capacity of the antenna towers;
         b.   Geographic telecommunications area requirements;
         c.   Mechanical or electrical incompatibilities;
         d.   Inability or ability to locate equipment on existing antenna
towers; and
         e.   Any restriction or limitation of the federal communication
commission that would preclude the shared use of the antenna tower.
      10.   Classification/Installation: Low power radio services facilities
are characterized by the type of location of the antenna structure.
      11.   Temporary Antenna For Use During Drive Tests: Telecommunications
companies wishing to perform drive tests shall submit notice to the planning
commission stating the location and the date of the proposed test. Antennas in
use for a drive test shall not be left standing for a period of greater than
two (2) days. Drive tests shall be limited to testing functions only and shall
not be used for telecommunications services to customers. Drive tests on city
property require planning and zoning official approval and execution of the
city's test drive agreement.
      12.   Amateur Radio Antenna Height: Amateur radio antennas must not
exceed seventy five feet (75') in height. Any antenna or antenna structure over
eight feet (8') in height must be an engineered structure.
   J.   Small Wind Energy Systems, Solar Panels And Other Energy Creation
Devices: Small wind energy systems, designed solar collectors, or other energy
devices based on renewable resources may be reasonably sited on lots or parcels
within applicable zoning districts provided conditions can be imposed to
mitigate their detrimental effects. For the purpose of granting a conditional
use permit the following criteria shall apply, protect and ensure access to
sunlight for solar energy devices:
      1.   Solar Collectors And Other Renewable Resource Energy Devices:
         a.   Requirements: A conditional use permit may be granted for solar
collectors and other renewable resource energy devices provided that:
            (1)   Applicants for solar collectors and other renewable resource
energy devices shall take adequate measures to keep such devices from public
view;
            (2)   The solar easement or solar sky space of any adjacent lot or
parcel shall not be imposed upon;
            (3)   No solar energy system or other renewable resource energy
device shall impose any kind of threat to the public health, safety and general
welfare;
            (4)   Nor shall any system or device produce any noise, dust,
smoke, fumes, trespassing light and any other deleterious or adverse effects be
allowed to permeate from the property.
         b.   Definitions:
SOLAR EASEMENT: A right, whether or not stated in the form of restriction,
easement, covenant, or conditions in any deed, will, or other instrument
executed by or on behalf of any owner of land or solar sky space for the
purpose of ensuring adequate exposure of a "solar energy system" as defined
herein.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A system of apparatus and equipment capable of collecting
and converting incident solar radiation into heat, or mechanical or electrical
energy, and transferring these forms of energy by a separate apparatus to
storage or to point of use, including, but not limited to, water heating, space
heating or cooling, electric energy generation or mechanical energy generation.
SOLAR SKY SPACE: The space between a solar energy collector and the sun which
must remain unobstructed such that on any given clear day of the year, not more
than ten percent (10%) of the collectible insulation shall be blocked.
      2.   Small Wind Energy System: A conditional use permit may be granted
for a small wind energy system provided that reasonable conditions can be met
based on the following criteria:
         a.   No more than one small wind energy system shall be permitted per
lot and shall only generate energy for use of a main building and/or accessory
buildings located on the same lot. This standard however is not intended to
prohibit the transfer of excess energy to the power grid.
         b.   The small wind energy system shall be designed with a monopole
and without guywires or support structures.
         c.   The small wind energy system shall not create sound pressure
measuring greater than sixty five (65) dBA as measured from any property line.
         d.   The small wind energy system shall have a nonreflective, neutral
color surface.
         e.   Setbacks for small wind energy systems shall be one and one- half
(11/2) times the height of the wind structure with the blades being a part of
the structure as measured from the blade at the highest point. In all cases the
minimum setback should be thirty feet (30').
         f.   Maximum height shall be one hundred feet (100'). Additional
height restrictions may be imposed if the small wind energy system is in any
airport's fly zone.
         g.   "Small wind energy system" means a structure or structures that
may include a wind turbine, a tower, footings, electrical infrastructure, and
associated equipment and structures intended to utilize wind power for the
pumping of water for agricultural use on the parcel or property on which the
system is located, or for electrical power generation for on site consumption
of a main building and/or accessory buildings or the electrical grid and that
has a rated capacity of not more than twenty (20) kilowatts.
   K.   Zero Lot Line Development: Zero lot line development may be permitted
in order to promote efficient land use, permit a more energy efficient
arrangement of structures, protect environmentally sensitive areas, provide
more usable private or community open space, to more easily accommodate
affordable housing needs and to better use narrowly divided lots.
      1.   Review Required: At a site plan meeting the requirements of this
chapter as applicable, shall be prepared for all zero lot line development. The
Planning Commission shall review the site plan and verify that all applicable
requirements have been met.
      2.   Development Standards: All zero lot line developments shall comply
with the development standards of the underlying zoning district, the
provisions of this title and the following requirements; provided, that where
the standards included herein conflict with the standards established in other
sections of this title, the standards herein shall apply:
         a.   Dwelling Unit And Accessory Building Setbacks:
            (1)   Interior Side Yard Setback: The dwelling unit may be placed
on one interior side property line (a zero setback). The minimum setback from
the other side property line shall be ten feet (10'), this may be reduced to
zero feet (0') if the side setbacks are zero feet (0') within that zone and the
building is constructed of noncombustible materials or the walls have a two (2)
hour fire rating. No structures except for patios, decks, pools, fences, walls
and other similar elements are permitted within the required setback area.
            (2)   Rear Yard Setback: The rear yard setback minimum shall be the
same as that is required in the zoning district in which the lot or parcel is
located.
            (3)   Front And Street Side Setback: Front and street side setbacks
shall be the same as that is required in the zoning district in which the lot
or parcel is located.
         b.   Platting Requirements: Each dwelling shall be located on its own
individually platted lot. The plat shall show the zero lot lines and the
related easements.
         c.   Openings Prohibited On The Zero Lot Line Side: In order to
maintain privacy, there shall be no windows, doors, air conditioning units, or
any other type of openings in the wall along the zero lot line, except when
such a wall abuts permanent open spaces or a public or private right-of-way.
         d.   Fire Wall: Building walls on the zero lot line side must carry a
two (2) hour firewall rating.
         e.   Maintenance And Drainage Easements: A perpetual maintenance, eave
overhang, and drainage easement at least five feet (5') wide shall be provided
on the lot adjacent to the zero lot line property line, which, with the
exception of structures referenced in subsection K2a(1) of this section, shall
be kept clear of structures. This easement shall be shown on the plat and
incorporated into each deed transferring title on the property. The wall shall
be maintained in its original color and treatment unless otherwise agreed to in
writing by the two (2) affected lot owners. Eaves, but no other part of any
structure, may protrude across a side lot line, and such protrusion shall not
exceed eighteen inches (18"). Water runoff from the dwelling placed on the lot
is limited to the easement area. Roofs pitched in the direction of the zero lot
line shall be guttered.
      3.   Damage: All damage to private property in utility or governmental
easement areas shall be the responsibility of the property owner to repair or
replace. (Ord. 2012-01, 3-13-2012)
   L.   Petroleum Refining, Processing, Storage, Loading, Extraction And
Related Facilities: Petroleum refining, processing, storage, loading,
extraction and related facilities may be reasonably sited on lots or parcels
within applicable zoning districts provided that conditions can be imposed to
mitigate their detrimental effects. For the purpose of granting a conditional
use permit for such a facility, the following conditions shall apply:
      1.   All uses must be consistent with applicable Federal, State, County
and City laws and regulations and this title and information about such
compliance shall be submitted as part of each permit application. As a
condition of operation, all uses must remain in compliance with all Federal,
State, County, and City laws and regulations and this title. If the City
becomes aware of a failure to comply or if the applicant reports a compliance
issue, the applicant has ninety (90) days to remedy the condition. Failure to
remedy the compliance issue may result in a determination that the conditions
of operation have been breached and the conditional use permit can be
invalidated by the City.
      2.   A current copy of all permits, licenses and regulatory
correspondence relating to Federal, State, County, and City approvals shall be
included in the application for a conditional use permit. As a condition of
operation, copies of future modifications, renewals, and related correspondence
shall be provided to the City. Failure to remedy the compliance issue may
result in a determination that the conditions of operation have been breached
and the conditional use permit can be revoked by the City.
      3.   In order to insure compliance with Utah Code section 10-9a-522, the
City may, as a condition of any permit issued under this title, require that
the owner/developer of refinery facilities agree in writing that permitted and
conditional uses allowed in the I-3 Heavy Industrial Zone, as well as existing
uses, are compatible with and suitable for location adjacent to the refinery
facilities and within five hundred feet (500') of the refinery facilities. The
City shall require all residential development to be a minimum of one thousand
feet (1,000') from any industrial development.
      4.   In order to insure the development will be constructed to completion
in an acceptable manner, the City may require the owner/developer to enter into
an agreement and/or provide a letter of credit or escrow deposit. The agreement
and letter of credit or escrow deposit shall assure timely installation of all
required landscaping, flood control facilities, parking, street improvements,
fire and safety facilities both on and off site, and any other improvements
required pursuant to the approved site plan or conditional use permit. Failure
to maintain the letter of credit, escrow deposit or bonding may result in a
determination that the conditions of operation have been breached and the
conditional use permit can be invalidated by the City.
      5.   The owner/developer of a project that necessitates the City
obtaining assistance from outside personnel or contractors in order to
effectively review or monitor the project shall be responsible for additional
costs incurred by the City for such outside personnel or contractors.
      6.   The applicant recognizes and accepts the responsibility to mitigate
public nuisances using the best available technologies. Nuisances such as odor,
dust, sound, light pollution and garbage shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to mitigate at the applicant's expense. Failure to mitigate a public
nuisance shall result in the application being remanded back to the zoning
authority for the purposes of establishing an acceptable mitigation strategy
for the nuisance.
      7.   In addition to the information required herein for all conditional
use permit applications, the applicant shall provide the following:
         a.   A description of all activities to be performed on the property.
         b.   The location of existing and proposed structures and their
intended uses.
         c.   The location of all driveways, parking areas, fences, walls and
any proposed landscaped areas.
         d.   Provisions for culinary water and sewage disposal.
         e.   Provisions for addressing the potential for discharge of
pollutants or hazardous materials, including information addressing compliance
with applicable local, State and Federal requirements.
         f.   Provisions for fire and emergency response, including required
equipment, facilities, training, and vehicular access to the property.
         g.   The location of all natural drainage channels and other
significant natural features.
         h.   A description of permits obtained and other permits required from
local, State and Federal regulatory agencies.
The City may require additional information or compliance with additional
conditions in order to insure that the development complies with the
requirements of this title. The City may grant a conditional use permit upon
compliance by the applicant with all applicable sections of this title. (Ord.
2017-04, 10-10-2017)
10-13-6: APPEAL TO AND REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   The decision of the Planning Commission shall not become final and
effective until fifteen (15) days after notice of their decision being mailed
or delivered to the applicant and delivered to the City Recorder for
presentation to the City Council. It shall not then become final if, prior to
the expiration of that fifteen (15) days any interested party has appealed the
same to the City Council by filing a written notice of appeal with the City
Recorder, or the City Council, on its own notion, has elected to review that
decision.
   B.   The decision of the Planning Commission may be appealed by any
interested party to the City Council by filing such appeal with the City
Recorder within fifteen (15) days after the notice of decision is sent to the
applicant. The City Council may review that decision on its own motion made
within that fifteen (15) day period.
   C.   The City Council may uphold or reverse the decision of the Planning
Commission and impose any additional or different conditions that it may deem
necessary in granting an appeal or review. The decision of the City Council
shall be final. (Ord. 2012-01, 3-13-2012)
10-13-7: BUILDING PERMIT:
Upon receipt of a conditional use permit, the developer shall take such permit
to the building inspector, who will review the permit and conditions attached.
Based on this review and compliance with any other items that might develop in
the pursuance of his duties, the building inspector may approve an application
for a building permit and shall ensure that development is undertaken and
completed in compliance with said permit and conditions pertaining thereto.
(Ord. 2012-01, 3-13-2012)
10-13-8: EXPIRATION:
Action authorized by a conditional use permit must commence within one year of
the time the permit is issued. If the permit holder has not commenced action
under the permit within this time, the permit shall expire and the holder must
apply for a new permit. The Planning Commission may grant an extension for good
cause shown. Only one extension may be granted and the maximum extension shall
be six (6) months. In order to obtain an extension, the permit holder must
apply for an extension in writing before the expiration of the original permit.
The application must be submitted to the City Recorder and the application must
describe the cause for requesting the extension. (Ord. 2012-01, 3-13-2012)
10-13-9: NOTICE PROVISIONS:
If a hearing is deemed necessary by the Planning Commission all property owners
within a two hundred fifty foot (250') radius of the conditional use
applicant's property shall be mailed a notice at the applicant's expense of any
hearing to grant or deny the conditional use permit a minimum of ten (10) days
prior to the date of the hearing. Completed signature review forms are to be
supplied to the City by the applicant. (Ord. 2012-01, 3-13-2012)
10-13-10: PERMIT REVOCATION:
The City Council may revoke the conditional use permit of any person upon
finding that the holder of the permit has failed to comply with any of the
conditions imposed at the time the permit was issued. The City Council shall
send notice of the revocation to the holder of the permit and the holder of the
permit shall immediately cease any use of the property which was based on the
conditional use permit.
If the City Council revokes any permit under this section, the holder of the
permit shall have a right to appeal the revocation of the permit. The holder
must file the appeal with the City Recorder within fifteen (15) days of the
date of the notice that the City has revoked the conditional use permit.
Upon the receipt of the appeal, the City Council shall set a hearing on the
appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting which is more than fifteen (15)
days after the time the City Recorder received the appeal. The City shall
notify the permit holder of the time, date and place of the hearing at least
fifteen (15) days before the hearing. At the hearing, the permit holder shall
have the right to be heard on the revocation. (Ord. 2012-01, 3-13-2012)
CHAPTER 14
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-14-1: Purpose, Scope And Interpretation
10-14-2: Definitions
10-14-3: Enforcement
10-14-4: Penalty
10-14-5: Permit Exempt Signs
10-14-6: Signs That Require A Permit
10-14-7: Structural Safety
10-14-8: Prohibited Signs And Signage Illumination
10-14-9: Outdoor Lighting Standards
10-14-1: PURPOSE, SCOPE AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the sign regulation set forth in this chapter
shall be to minimize potential hazards to motorists and pedestrians; to
encourage signs which, by their good design, are integrated with and harmonious
to buildings and sites which they occupy; to encourage sign legibility through
the elimination of excessive and confusing sign displays; to reduce driver
inattention; to preserve and improve the appearance of the city as a place in
which to live and work and as an attraction to nonresidents who come to visit
or trade; to safeguard and enhance property values; to protect public and
private investment in buildings and open spaces; to supplement and be a part of
the regulations imposed and the plan set forth under the zoning ordinances of
the city.
   B.   Scope: The intent of this chapter is to regulate the design and
placement of residential, commercial and governmental identification/
communication devices and structures that are built specifically to identify,
inform, and direct patrons to a particular merchant, store, establishment, or
service. It is not the intent of this chapter to regulate the content of public
speech. The requirements of this chapter are intended to apply to both on
premises and off premises signs, but do not apply to handheld placards and
other similar devices traditionally used for public protest and the exercise of
free speech. Any noncommercial message may be substituted for any commercial
message permitted under this chapter. Any sign not expressly allowed by this
chapter is prohibited.
   C.   Interpretation: In interpreting and applying the provisions of this
chapter, the sign regulations contained herein are declared to be the maximum
allowable for the purposes set forth. If the zoning administrator determines
that an application needs further interpretation, he may request planning
commission review of the proposal.
   If the applicant wishes to propose or retain a sign that exceeds ordinance
standards, he may apply to the planning commission for a variance or special
exception as outlined in section 11-15-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2020-01, 7-14-
2020)
10-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Working Definitions: Unless it is apparent from the context that
another meaning is intended, the following words or phrases shall have the
meaning assigned to them by this section:
                      The area measured by enclosing a single continuous
                      perimeter of not more than eight (8) straight lines
                      around the extreme limits of writing, representation,
AREA OF SIGN:         emblem, logo, or any figure of similar character,
                      together with any material or color forming an integral
                      part of the sign display or used to differentiate such
                      sign from the background against which it is placed.
                      A fixed shelter projecting from and supported by an
AWNING:               exterior wall of a building. Usually constructed of
                      fabric on a supporting framework (compare with definition
                      of Canopy).
BUILDING CODE:        The adopted building code, including additions and
                      amendments effective in Beaver City.
                      A multi-sided structure covered with metal or other
CANOPY:               material and usually, but not exclusively, supported by a
                      building at one or more points and/or supported by
                      columns or posts embedded in the ground.
                      The area of a corner lot nearest to the intersection
                      which is kept free of visual impairment to allow full
                      view of both pedestrians and automobile traffic. This
                      area is established by making the point at which the two
CLEAR VIEW ZONE:      (2) curb lines intersect, measuring back twenty feet
                      (20') on each street frontage, and drawing a line across
                      the back points to form a triangulated area. No sign in
                      excess of three feet (3') above the top of the curb may
                      be installed in this area.
                      A site with a dedicated right of way on at least two (2)
CORNER SITE:          sides, excluding parking lots, alleyways and pedestrian
                      access.
                      The outer surface of any main exterior wall or foundation
FACE OF A BUILDING:   of a building, including windows and storefronts along
                      the principal public thoroughfare in relation to the
                      building in question.
                      Any facility or group of facilities which as their
                      primary purpose cater to the nonresident, traveling
FREEWAY ORIENTED USE: public from Interstate 70. Such uses shall be located on
                      a parcel which has frontage on the interstate right of
                      way.
FRONTAGE, BUILDING:   The length of the building along a public right of way on
                      which it borders, but not including an alley.
                      The length of the site along the public right of way or
FRONTAGE, SITE:       other principal public thoroughfare, but not including an
                      alley or railroad.
                      The greatest vertical distance measured from the ground
                      level directly beneath the sign to the top of the sign.
                      When the grade at the edge of the right of way is higher
HEIGHT OF SIGN:       than the site on which the sign is placed, that portion
                      of the sign below the grade at the edge of the right of
                      way shall not be included in determining the sign's
                      overall height.
                      The cleaning, painting, repairing or replacement of
MAINTENANCE:          defective parts of a sign in a manner that does not alter
                      the copy, design or structure of the sign.
MANSARD:              A sloped roof or roof-like facade protruding from the
                      building wall.
                      The person recorded as the owner on official records. For
                      the purpose of this Title, the owner of the property on
OWNER:                which a sign is located is the owner of the sign unless
                      facts to the contrary are officially recorded or
                      otherwise brought to the attention of the Building
                      Official.
PARAPET:              The extension of a false front or wall above the roof
                      line of a structure.
PLANNER:              The Building Official or his delegate who is in charge of
                      administration and enforcement of these regulations.
                      An imaginary line drawn between points where the vertical
PLATELINE:            wall surface intersects the gable end. Sometimes, the
                      bottom edge of the building parapet.
                      A parcel of land with its appurtenances and buildings
PREMISES:             which because of its unity of use, may be regarded as the
                      smallest conveyable unit of land.
PYLON:                A rectangular, vertical structure, sometimes monumental,
                      flanking each end of a long span.
ROOF LINE:            The top edge of a roof or building parapet.
SETBACK:              The distance from the property line to the nearest part
                      of a building, structure or sign.
                      Any device, structure, fixture or placard using writing
                      (including letter, word or numeral), pictorial
                      presentation (including illustration or decoration),
                      emblem (including device, symbol or trademark), or flag
                      (including banner, balloon or pennant) for the primary
                      purpose of identifying, providing directions or
SIGN, ATTACHED:       advertising any establishment, product, good or service
                      and is considered:
                      1. Attached to, painted on or in any other manner
                      represented on a building or other structure or device;
                      and is
                      2. Visible from outside the building or structure,
                      including any and all supporting structures and utility
                      structures.
                      Any device, structure, fixture or placard using writing
                      (including letter, word or numeral), pictorial
                      presentation (including illustration or decoration),
                      emblem (including device, symbol or trademark), or flag
                      (including banner, balloon or pennant) for the primary
SIGN, FREESTANDING:   purpose of identifying, providing directions or
                      advertising any establishment, product, good or service
                      and is considered to be located on-premises, but which is
                      not attached to, painted on or in any other manner
                      represented on a building or any other structure or
                      device.
 
   B.   Sign Definitions: For the purpose of this Title, the City recognizes
the definitions herein as applicable definitions to every form of visual
communication, providing direction, advertising or identifying any
establishment, product, good or service:
                              A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a
ABANDONED SIGN:               legal business, service, owner, product or
                              activity, and/or for which no legal owner can be
                              found.
                              A sign display manifesting either or both kinetic
ANIMATED SIGN:                or illusionary motion to depict action or create
                              a special effect or scene.
ATTACHED SIGN:                Any sign which is supported by a building or non-
                              independent structure.
AWNING SIGN:                  Any sign which is painted on, printed on or
                              attached flat against the surface of an awning.
                              A temporary sign, attached to a string, rope,
BALLOONS, ANCHORED:           wire or part of a structure and extending
                              vertically from or hovering above a structure.
                              A temporary sign of lightweight fabric or similar
BANNER:                       material, attached to, appended on or extending
                              from any structure.
                              A structure of any kind or character erected or
                              maintained for advertising of any business
BILLBOARD:                    activity, use, service or product not sold or
                              produced on the premises upon which the sign is
                              placed.
                              A sign of permanent character but, with moveable
                              letters, words or numerals, indicating the names
BULLETIN BOARD:               of persons associated with, or events conducted
                              upon, or products or services offered upon the
                              premises which the sign is maintained.
                              A sign displaying information pertaining to a
BUSINESS SIGN:                service offered by a single business located on a
                              particular premises.
                              Any sign attached to, hung below or part of the
CANOPY SIGN:                  canopy, roof or marquee of a structure, not
                              including pedestrian convenience signs.
                              Any sign whose informational content, including
CHANGEABLE SIGN:              alphabet, or any portion thereof, can be changed
                              or altered by manual, electric, electromechanical
                              or electronic means.
                              A temporary sign stating the names of those
CONSTRUCTION SIGN:            individuals or firms directly connected with the
                              construction of a project, their addresses and
                              telephone numbers.
                              A sign listing the planner, architect, landscape
                              architect, engineer, contractor, financier or
DEVELOPMENT SIGN:             other person or firm participating in the
                              development, construction or financing of the
                              project on the premises on which the sign is
                              located.
                              An advertisement attached to, painted on or
DOOR SIGN:                    carved into a door which faces a public street,
                              walkway or parking lot, pedestrian plaza or
                              walkway accessible to the public circulation.
                              An on-site, internally illuminated sign
DRIVE-THROUGH MENU BOARD:     displaying a list of products for sale, oriented
                              for vehicular convenience generally associated
                              with fast-food businesses.
                              An indirectly illuminated sign attached to a
                              fixed, space-frame structure with translucent,
ELECTRIC AWNING SIGN:         flexible reinforced covering designed with or
                              without graphics or copy applied to the visible
                              surface of an awning.
                              A temporary sign with one end attached to a rope,
FLAG:                         pole or any other structure, designed to move in
                              the wind, including flags of a state, nation or
                              municipality.
                              An animated sign that intermittently reflects
                              lights from either the sun or an artificial
FLASHING SIGN:                source; or has any illumination which is not
                              constant in intensity, color or pattern during
                              all times in which the sign is illuminated.
FREEWAY ORIENTED SIGN:        A sign which is limited to "freeway oriented
                              uses", as defined herein.
                              Any temporary or permanent sign erected and
                              maintained by the City, County, District, State
GOVERNMENT SIGN:              or Federal government for traffic direction or
                              for designation of or direction to any public
                              service property, facility or point of interest.
                              A sign, other than a bulletin board, which serves
IDENTIFICATIO N SIGN:         to tell only the name and/or address of the
                              premises upon which the sign is located. Usually
                              located at an access point.
ILLEGAL SIGN:                 A sign which does not meet the requirements of
                              this Title.
                              A sign whose source of light is not emanating
ILLUMINATED SIGN, INDIRECTLY: from the sign structure and which illuminates a
                              particular sign.
ILLUMINATED SIGN, INTERNAL:   A sign from which light emanates.
                              A small sign, emblem, logo or decal informing the
INCIDENTAL SIGN:              public of goods, facilities or services available
                              on the premises, e.g., credit card emblem or
                              security decal.
                              A sign program providing for uniform, off-site
KIOSK, DIRECTIONAL SIGN:      directional signage, for new projects and
                              existing public facilities.
                              Any sign which was erected legally, but which
LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGN:     does not comply with subsequently-enacted sign
                              restrictions and regulations.
                              A sign, the location and size of which is
MODEL HOME TOUR SIGN:         determined by the City, to direct persons to new
                              housing tracts within the City.
MONUMENT SIGN:                A sign which is freestanding, has a solid base
                              and is mounted directly upon the ground.
                              A noncommercial, graphic illustration or
                              presentation, other than a sign of any type, that
                              is painted or otherwise applied to an outside
MURAL:                        wall, facade or surface of a building or
                              structure, the primary purpose of which
                              illustration or presentation is of artistic,
                              ideological, historical or ethnic expression.
                              A nonelectric, on-premises, identification sign
NAMEPLATE:                    not exceeding one square foot and signifying only
                              the name of the occupant and his or her
                              occupation or specialty.
                              A structure of any kind erected or maintained for
                              advertising of any business activity, use,
                              service or product not sold or produced on the
OFF-PREMISES SIGN:            premises upon which the sign is placed, and
                              directing the reader to the location of a
                              facility or group of facilities for which the
                              sign is erected.
                              Any sign which is applied by a professional with
PAINTED WALL SIGN:            paint or similar substance on the surface of a
                              wall.
                              Any sign suspended under a marquee, canopy,
PEDESTRIAN CONVENIENCE SIGN:  porch, walkway covering or similarly-covered
                              structure and placed approximately perpendicular
                              to the building face.
                              A lightweight plastic fabric or other material,
PENNANT:                      whether or not containing a message of any kind,
                              suspended from a rope, wire or string.
POINT OF PURCHASE DISPLAY:    An advertisement of a retail item accompanying
                              part or all of its display.
POLITICAL SIGN:               A temporary sign used in conjunction with a
                              local, state or national election or referendum.
                              A sign mounted on a freestanding pole or similar
POLE SIGN:                    support, as opposed to on a solid base, with a
                              height greater than six feet (6').
PORTABLE SIGN:                Any sign not permanently attached, designed to be
                              moved easily.
                              Any sign which is supported by a building wall or
PROJECTING SIGN:              building post and which projects twelve inches
                              (12") or more therefrom.
                              A temporary sign advertising the sale, lease or
REAL ESTATE SIGN:             rent of the property on which it is located, and
                              the identification of the person or firm handling
                              such sale, lease or rent.
                              Any sign of any nature, together with its parts
ROOF SIGN:                    and supports, erected, constructed or maintained
                              on or above the roof or parapet, or on or above
                              the plateline of any structure.
                              A temporary sign poster or flyer affixed to a
SNIPE SIGN:                   tree, fence or light post advertising the sale of
                              a good, service or event.
                              A freestanding or wall sign identifying a
SUBDIVISION SIGN:             recognized single-family or multi-family
                              residential subdivision.
                              Any sign, banner, pennant, sandwich board,
TEMPORARY SIGN:               valance or advertising display constructed of
                              cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard
                              or other like materials.
                              An on-site, temporary sign, advertising the
                              original sale of structures or property within a
TRACT SIGN:                   subdivision. A "tract" shall be defined as any
                              City parcel with a City-approved plat map,
                              whether preliminary or final.
                              An on-site or off-site sign painted or mounted
                              on, extending from, resting against, displayed on
VEHICLE SIGN:                 top or inside of any vehicle. Vehicles primarily
                              and customarily used to transport persons or
                              property for the business are exempt, as
                              determined by the Planning Commission.
                              Any sign, including painted signs, which are in
                              any manner affixed to a wall, building or
                              structure, the exposed base of which is situated
WALL SIGN:                    parallel to the wall and projects less than
                              twelve inches (12") from the building or wall,
                              and covers less than a total of twenty five
                              percent (25%) of the area of a specific parapet
                              or wall to which it is affixed.
                              A temporary or permanent sign, logo or
                              advertisement attached to, painted on, displayed
                              in, or displayed within thirty six inches (36")
WINDOW SIGN:                  of a window and facing a public street, walkway
                              or parking lot, pedestrian plaza or walkway
                              accessible to the public. (Ord. 2020-01, 7-14-
                              2020)
 
10-14-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Permit Issued In Conflict: Any such permit, certificate or license
issued in conflict with this Title, intentionally or otherwise, shall be null
and void.
   B.   Department Officials: All department officials and public employees of
the City vested with the duty or authority to issue permits shall conform to
the provisions of this Title and shall issue no permit, certificate or license
for uses in conflict with the provisions of this Title. It shall be the duty of
the Building Official to enforce the provisions of this Title.
   C.   Abating And Removing Unsafe Or Dangerous Sign: If an unsafe or
dangerous sign is not repaired or made safe within five (5) working days, after
giving said notice, the city may at once abate and remove said sign and the
person having charge, control, or benefit of any such sign shall pay to the
City, within thirty (30) calendar days, after written notice is mailed to such
person, the costs incurred in such removal.
      1.   Abating And Removing Illegal Signs:
         a.   Permanent signs installed on private property in violation of
this chapter shall be brought into conformance within thirty (30) calendar days
of written notice by the city, either through removal of the sign or by
obtaining a sign permit. Any sign not brought into compliance within the time
period given in the notice may at once be abated and removed by the planning
and zoning administrator or designee. The person responsible for any such
illegal sign shall be liable for the cost incurred in the removal thereof, and
the city is authorized to effect the collection of said cost.
         b.   Temporary signs installed on private property in violation of
this chapter shall be brought into conformance within twenty four (24) hours of
written notice by the city, either through removal of the temporary sign or by
obtaining a temporary sign permit. Any sign not brought into compliance within
the time period given in the notice may at once be abated and removed by the
planning and zoning administrator or designee. The person responsible for any
such illegal sign shall be liable for the cost incurred in the removal thereof,
and the city is authorized to effect the collection of said cost.
         c.   Any sign posted upon public property may be removed by the city
without notice. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the sign, though removed, shall
not be destroyed in a period less than thirty (30) calendar days, unless said
sign is of the nature that it will have no value after the date of removal.
      2.   Abating And Removing Non-maintained, Abandoned, Or Sign Identifying
Discontinued Use: The public employee vested with the duty or authority shall
require each non-maintained, abandoned, or sign identifying a discontinued use
to be removed from the building or premises when such sign has not been
repaired or put into use by the owner, person having control or person
receiving benefit of such sign within forty five (45) calendar days after
written notice has been given to the owner, person having control, or person
receiving benefit of such structure.
   D.   Failure To Remove Or Abate Any Illegal Sign: In no case shall failure
to remove or abate any illegal sign constitute approval by the city of such
sign. (Ord. 2020-01, 7-14-2020)
10-14-4: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation, whether its principal, agent or otherwise,
violating or causing the violation of any of the provisions of this Title shall
be guilty of an infraction, and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2020-01, 7-14-2020)
10-14-5: PERMIT EXEMPT SIGNS:
The following signs, if not illuminated or restricted herein, shall be allowed
on commercial, industrial or residential zoned property without a sign permit
being required:
   A.   Bulletin Board Signs: No more than two (2) bulletin board signs, each
sign not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in area for public, philanthropic or
religious institutions when located on the premises thereof.
   B.   Contractor Or Construction Signs: Contractor or construction signs are
limited to one directory sign on the construction site for all contractors
names, not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet, unless legally required by
government contracts to be larger. No sign shall exceed eight feet (8') in
height and shall be located no less than ten feet (10') from the property line
and must be removed upon completion of construction of the project.
   C.   Changing Copy: The changing of the message on a permitted sign that has
an approved marquee, reader board, electronic message center, or other
replaceable copy area.
   D.   Development Signs: Development signs may be placed on vacant property
which will be developed. Such sign may advertise the future use of the property
where information pertaining only to the development can be obtained. Two (2)
conditions may arise:
      1.   For parcels less than ten (10) acres, such sign shall be limited to
one per street frontage, a maximum of thirty two (32) square feet in area and
eight feet (8') in overall height.
      2.   For parcels ten (10) acres or greater, one sign is permitted for
every six hundred sixty feet (660') of lineal street frontage, and is limited
to thirty two (32) square feet in area and eight feet (8') in height.
   E.   Home Occupations On Premise Sign: Home occupations with a valid
business license from the City shall be permitted to display one non-
illuminated, flat wall sign no greater than three (3) square feet in area that
identifies the name of the business.
   F.   Identification Signs: One identification sign not exceeding two (2)
square feet in area, and displaying only the name and/or the address of the
owner/occupant.
   G.   Interior Signs: Interior signs within a structure not visible by
pedestrian traffic outside the structure.
   H.   Memorial Signs: Signs, plaques or directional signs for community
historical resources, installed by the City.
   I.   Official Flags: Flags of the United States of America, State of Utah,
and other states of the United States, counties, municipalities and other
official flags for nations, and flags for internationally- and nationally-
recognized organizations are exempt from the permit process.
   J.   On-Site Directional Signs: On-site directional and safety signs are
exempt from permit requirements; provided, that each sign does not exceed three
(3) square feet per sign face and the sign has first been approved by the
Building Official. Such signs include, but are not limited to, "drive-thru
signs" and "tow away zone" signs.
   K.   Point Of Purchase Displays: Point of purchase displays are exempt from
the permit procedure if the sign area does not exceed three (3) square feet per
display, and is located twenty feet (20') from the property line.
   L.   Political Signs: Political signs having to do with any issue, ballot,
measure or candidate in any Municipal, State or Federal election or political
statements and expressions, are exempt from the sign permit procedure and shall
be permitted in any zone, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   All political signs shall be placed no earlier than seventy five
(75) days prior to the election and shall be removed no later than ten (10)
days following the day of the election;
      2.   A political sign shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in total
area;
      3.   All political signs shall not exceed an overall height of eight feet
(8') from grade;
      4.   Signs used for the identification of political headquarters or
substations shall comply with the provisions of this Title;
      5.   Political signs shall be placed on private property only, and shall
not cause public safety or health hazards. No sign shall be placed in a manner
that would obstruct visibility of pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
      6.   No political sign shall be posted on any public property or in the
public right of way;
      7.   The City may require a cash bond to be posted to guarantee removal
of political signs.
   M.   Public Utility Signs: Public utility signs indicating danger or which
serve as an aid to public safety and which show location for underground
utilities.
   N.   Real Estate, Residential: One real estate sign for residential sales
not exceeding four (4) square feet in area and four feet (4') in height;
provided, that it is placed ten feet (10') from the property line and is
removed within fifteen (15) days after the close of escrow or the rental or
lease has been accomplished.
   O.   Real Estate, Commercial: One real estate sign for the sale of each
individual high density residential, commercial and industrial zoned property.
One per street frontage, not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area.
Such sign is strictly for the advertisement of sale, lease or rent of such
property. No sign shall exceed eight feet (8') in height and shall not be
located less than ten feet (10') from the property line. Where a property line
shall exceed more than six hundred sixty (660) lineal feet of frontage, an
additional sign is allowed.
   P.   Tablet Nameplate: Tablet nameplate of a building with name and date the
building was erected. When cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of
any noncombustible material, not to exceed one square foot.
   Q.   Temporary Window Signs: Temporary window signs shall be permitted for
any business in a commercial zone, and for commercial-type uses in an
industrial zone when the sign coincides with the provisions set forth in this
Title.
   R.   Time And Temperature Signs: Time and temperature signs that convey time
and temperature only, not to exceed twelve (12) square feet nor eight feet (8')
in height.
   S.   Window Signs: Window signs shall be allowed, provided that no more than
thirty percent (30%) of any window or group of windows is occupied by a sign or
combination of signs. (Ord. 2020-01, 7-14-2020)
10-14-6: SIGNS THAT REQUIRE A PERMIT:
APPLICATION:
Application for a sign permit shall be made upon a form provided by the City,
and such information as may be required to assure compliance with this Title.
FEE FOR PERMIT:
The application fee for sign permits shall be fixed from time to time by City
Council resolution. The fee may be doubled when the installation of a sign is
commenced before obtaining a sign permit therefor.
METHOD OF REVIEW:
After receipt of a sign application, the Building Official shall render a
decision to approve, approve with modifications or deny the sign request. Such
review will ensure that any sign proposal is in conformance with this Title and
is consistent with the City's objectives. The Building Official may grant
slight deviations from the designated sign area or location, or distance
between signs, not to exceed ten percent (10%), plus or minus, when he or she
determines no other reasonable method of signing is functional after reviewing
the sign permit request.
ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
The City delegate shall issue permits for the placing, erecting, moving or
reconstruction of signs within the City when:
      1.   Application therefor has been properly made;
      2.   The sign complies with all ordinances of the City; and
      3.   The fees for such permit have been paid.
   A.   Awning Signs: Awning signs shall be allowed as follows:
      1.   The planning and zoning administrator shall approve any application
for an awning sign that fully complies with these standards.
      2.   Awning signs shall be limited to single-story buildings or to the
first level only of multi-story buildings.
      3.   Awning signs shall function as true awnings by being placed over a
doorway, window, or walkway to protect such from the elements.
      4.   Awning signs shall not be allowed on or above sloping or mansard
roofs.
      5.   The area of awning signs shall be a maximum of fifteen percent (15%)
of the primary wall upon which the sign is mounted. Awning signs for secondary
walls are limited to five percent (5%) of the wall area.
      6.   Area of copy/logo on awnings shall be limited to forty percent (40%)
of the awning. Illuminated signs on other sides shall be permitted.
      7.   Awning signs shall conform to all provisions of the currently
adopted building code governing such structures.
      8.   Illuminated (backlit), translucent, vinyl awnings shall not be
permitted. Translucent letters or accents sewn into opaque canvas or acrylic
awnings shall be permitted.
      9.   Awning signs shall not project out from the wall more than eight
feet (8') or less than two feet (2'). In the case of entrance canopies the
awning may project out from the building over a walkway and shall lead to a
bona fide business entrance. Such canopies shall be permitted if they are
compatible with the architecture of the building.
      10.   Awning signs shall not project above the "roofline", defined as the
highest part of the vertical wall.
      11.   Awning signs shall maintain a minimum clearance of seven feet (7')
to the bottom of the valance and eight feet (8') to the frame above the
sidewalk and comply with all other clearance requirements.
      12.   Awning signs shall be maintained in a clean, safe and attractive
condition. Failure to do so shall result in revocation of the sign permit.
   B.   Billboards: Billboards shall comply with the following regulations:
      1.   Location: Billboards shall be allowed on commercial parcels adjacent
to Interstate I-70 right of way. Billboards shall be oriented for freeway
viewing and shall be located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the
nearest freeway lane.
      2.   Size, Height And Spacing: Billboards shall be regulated as follows:
         a.   Size: Maximum area of one face of a sign (whether single or
double faced) shall be six hundred seventy five (675) square feet.
         b.   Height: Maximum height of billboards shall be forty five feet
(45') above the grade of the traveled way of the interstate.
         c.   Spacing: No billboard shall be erected within five hundred feet
(500') of another billboard on the same side of the street.
      3.   Sign Construction: All billboards shall be of a monopole
construction.
      4.   No off-site billboard sign located on private property shall have an
area greater than one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
   C.   Gas Station Canopy Signs: Signs for canopies over gas islands are
regulated as follows:
      1.   Sign copy, corporate logos, etc., may be a maximum of fifteen
percent (15%) of one face of the canopy.
      2.   Up to three (3) sides of the canopy may be used for signs.
      3.   The height to the top of the canopy shall not exceed twenty feet
(20') from grade and no canopy fascia shall exceed four feet (4') in height.
      4.   Individual letters, logos, or symbols shall not exceed four feet
(4') in height or project out from the surface of the canopy more than eighteen
inches (18") or project above or below the canopy face.
      5.   Gas price signs shall be allowed on a monument sign or below the
canopy over the pumps. One double faced sign for each type of fuel sold is
allowed per gas island with a maximum of four (4) sets per station. Area of
said sign shall not exceed four (4) square feet each.
   D.   Murals: Murals may be allowed by permit approved by the Building
Official. Such application shall be submitted on the same form provided for
permanent signs. Special conditions shall be stipulated upon receipt of this
form. The Building Official will review the request and may issue a sign permit
consistent with the following regulations:
      1.   Application has been properly made.
      2.   Sign permit fee has been paid.
      3.   Placement of the mural shall not cause a traffic safety hazard.
      4.   Placement of the mural shall not cause a public safety hazard.
      5.   Mural does not exceed two hundred (200) square feet in area, or does
not exceed forty percent (40%) of the wall area of the building face on which
it is attached.
      6.   The entire mural shall be attached to a building.
   E.   One pole sign per street frontage not to exceed one square foot in sign
area for each lineal foot of building frontage, not to exceed thirty two (32)
square feet. Such signs in the outside corridor of the C-1 zone may not exceed
a height of eighty feet (80') above grade and all signs in the inside corridor
of the C-1 zone may not exceed the height of fifty feet (50') and all signs
shall be set back ten feet (10') from all property lines.
   F.   Reader boards, changeable copy areas and electronic message centers: No
such device shall exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total copy area of the
freestanding sign.
   G.   Signs for special events sponsored by community groups or civic clubs
for nonpolitical public events or public celebration may be permitted. Such
signs shall be approved on an individual basis by the Building Official as to
size, height, color, location, safety and period of display. Such signs may be
permitted over the public right of way, provided they are approved by the
Public Services Department as to materials, method of attachment and safety to
the public. Tethered hot air balloons and other inflatable objects, larger than
twenty feet (20') in height and banners larger than twenty (20) square feet are
not permitted under the provisions of this Title.
   H.   Wall Signs: Wall signs shall be allowed as follows:
      1.   One wall sign shall be permitted per business. Businesses with
multiple exposures (such as a single tenant in a freestanding building or a
tenant occupying a corner space in a multi-tenant building) shall be allowed
one wall sign per front and side building elevations. Each wall sign shall be
limited in size to fifteen percent (15%) or six hundred (600) square feet,
whichever is less, of the flat wall area.
      2.   No part of any wall sign or of the sign structure shall project
above or below the highest or lowest part of the wall upon which the sign is
mounted or painted.
      3.   No wall sign, including any light box or structural part thereof,
shall project more than eighteen inches (18") from the face of the building to
which it is attached.
   I.   Vehicular Signs: It is unlawful for any person or business to maintain
a vehicle on private or public property, which as its primary purpose is to
serve as a nonmoving sign display in all zones except it may be conditionally
permitted in the Industrial Zone. Commercial and business vehicles used to
transport goods or persons to and from a place of work or business, including
buses, taxis, and trucks and moving autos shall be exempt.
   J.   Vending Machine Signs: Vending machines and kiosks incorporating
signage for advertising purposes shall be visible on-site only. Height is
limited to eight feet (8'), and copy shall be legible to persons on-site only.
(Ord. 2020-01, 7-14-2020)
10-14-7: STRUCTURAL SAFETY:
   A.   Prevention Codes: Every sign and all parts, portions, units and
material comprising the same, together with the frame, background, supports or
anchorage therefor, shall be manufactured, fabricated, assembled, constructed
and erected in compliance with the building, electrical and fire prevention
codes of the City as they now exist or may hereafter be amended, or they may
hereafter exist. Failure to maintain shall cause the sign to be abated per a
City Code nuisance abatement procedure.
   B.   Maintenance: Every sign and all parts, portions, units and material
composing the same, together with the frame, background, supports or anchorage
therefor, shall be maintained in proper repair and state of preservation. The
display surface of all signs shall be kept neatly painted and/or posted. Any
sign victimized by graffiti shall be removed, repaired or repainted within ten
(10) days or be subject to removal by the City at the owner's cost.
   C.   Identification: Every sign erected, altered or relocated shall have
recorded thereon in a conspicuous place in order to be readily visible, the
date of erection, alteration of relocation, the permit number and the voltage
of any electrical apparatus or equipment within shall have posted as
Underwriter's Laboratory approval stamp in a conspicuous place.
   D.   Illumination: Externally illuminated signs shall be placed so that no
light passes into adjacent properties, public right of way or night sky.
   E.   Engineer: If the desired freestanding sign is more than twelve feet
(12') from the grade to the bottom of the sign, or in more than one hundred
(100) square feet in one single face, it shall be engineered by a licensed
engineer and require his seal. (Ord. 2020-01, 7-14-2020)
10-14-8: PROHIBITED SIGNS AND SIGNAGE ILLUMINATION:
Flashing Signs or Lights. Any sign which contains an intermittent or flashing
light source, or which includes the illusion of intermittent or flashing light
by means of animation, or an externally mounted intermittent light source.
Flashing light sources are prohibited. (Ord. 2020-01, 7-14-2020)
10-14-9: OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS:
Illuminated Signs. Any light with the intention to illuminate a sign must be
oriented from the top and shine down. (Ord. 2020-01, 7-14-2020)
CHAPTER 15
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-15-1: Building Permits Required
10-15-2: Plans Required
10-15-3: Permits To Comply
10-15-4: License To Comply
10-15-5: Planning And Zoning Administrator
10-15-1: BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Buildings And Structures: The construction, alteration, repair,
movement, removal or occupancy of any building or structure or any part
thereof, as provided or as restricted in this title, shall not be commenced or
proceeded without first submitting an application and obtaining a permit
therefor from the planning and zoning administrator or other authorized
officer. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
   B.   Moving Structures And Buildings: Permits for the moving of structures
and buildings shall be granted only in compliance with provisions as set forth
in section
10-11-6 of this title. Said permits shall be required for the moving of mobile
homes, demountable homes, manufactured homes and similar movable structures.
(Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981; amd. minutes of 5-8-2001)
   C.   Electrical Or Plumbing Systems: The alteration, repair, removal or
conversion of any part of a structure or building's electrical and/or plumbing
system shall not be commenced or proceeded with without first submitting an
application and obtaining a permit therefor from the planning and zoning
administrator or other authorized officer.
   D.   Permits In Violation Void: Permits issued in violation of any provision
of this title, whether intentional or otherwise, shall be null and void.
   E.   Fees May Be Established: The city council may, by resolution, prescribe
a schedule of reasonable fees to cover the expense of examining plans, issuing
building permits and inspections; provided, that no fee shall be necessary
where the erection, construction, reconstruction, removal alteration is minor
in character, as determined by the planning and zoning administrator. (Ord. 6-
18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-15-2: PLANS REQUIRED:
All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by plans which have
been drawn to scale, showing the actual dimension of the lot to be built upon,
the size and location of existing buildings and, as required, the location and
layout of off street parking and a planting plan showing how the premises will
be landscaped. A careful record of said application and plans shall be kept in
the office of the planning and zoning administrator for a period of five (5)
years from the date of receipt thereof. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-15-3: PERMITS TO COMPLY:
From the time of the effective date hereof, permits shall not be granted for
the construction or alteration of any building or structure, for the moving of
a building or structure onto a lot, or for the change in use of any land,
building or structure, if such construction, alteration, moving or change in
use would be a violation of any of the provisions of this title, nor shall any
sewer or water service line or electric utilities be installed to serve the
premises if such use would be in violation of this title. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-
1981)
10-15-4: LICENSE TO COMPLY:
No license shall be issued by an official or employee vested with the duty and
authority to issue licenses which would not be in conformance with the
provisions of this title, and such licenses issued shall be null and void.
(Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-15-5: PLANNING AND ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor shall appoint a planning and zoning
administrator to exercise the powers and duties of the planning and zoning
administrator as set forth in subsection B of this section. The appointment of
a planning and zoning administrator shall be subject to the concurrence of the
city council. (Ord. 5-26-94B, 5-26-1994)
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the planning and zoning administrator to
inspect, or cause to be inspected, all buildings in the course of construction
or repair. He shall enforce all the provisions of this title, entering actions
in the court when necessary, and his failure to do so shall not legalize any
act in violation of such provisions.
      2.   Upon appeal to the board of adjustment of any matters on which said
board is required to pass, the planning and zoning administrator shall
forthwith transmit all papers, records and other pertinent data pertaining to
the appeal to said board of adjustment as required by the terms of this title.
The planning and zoning administrator shall also refer matters to the planning
commission and city council as set forth in this title. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-
1981)
CHAPTER 16
VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
10-16-1: Responsibility For Violations
10-16-2: Penalty
10-16-1: RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS:
It shall be the duty of all architects, contractors, subcontractors, builders
or other persons having to do with the establishment of any use of land or the
erection, altering, changing or remodeling of any building or structure to see
that a proper permit has been granted before such work is begun. Any such
architect, builder, contractor or other person doing or performing any such
work without a permit having been issued is in conflict with the requirements
of this title, and shall be deemed guilty of violation of this title, in the
same manner and to the same extent that the owner of the premises or the
persons for whom the use is established, or for when such buildings are erected
or altered, and shall be subject to the penalties herein prescribed for
violation. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
10-16-2: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person, firm or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee
or otherwise, who shall erect, construct or reconstruct any building which
involves structural alterations or which involves an increase in floor space in
the city, without first obtaining a permit therefor from the planning and
zoning administrator (building inspector) shall be guilty of a class C
misdemeanor, and any person, firm or corporation, whether as principal, agent
or employee or otherwise, who shall change the use of any building or other
structures or use of any land within the city, in violation of the provisions
of this title, shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Such person, firm or corporation violating this title or any part
thereof shall be deemed to be guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day during which such violation is committed, continued or permitted by such
person, firm or corporation and shall be punishable as provided by law as a
separate offense. (Ord. 6-18-81A, 6-18-1981)
CHAPTER 17
OVERLAY ZONES
ARTICLE A. SP-1 SPECIAL OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-17A-1: Guidelines And Characteristics Of Zone
10-17A-1: GUIDELINES AND CHARACTERISTICS OF ZONE:
There are areas within the City of Green River that contain differing amounts
of expansive soil. The primary area is generally, west of the irrigation canal.
If your structure is located in one of these areas there are a few basic
precautions you should take to minimize the detrimental effect of the expansive
soil on your structure. If you rent your structure it would be in your best
interest to share these guidelines with your tenant.
Expansive soil includes mancos shale (which is common in the outlined Sp-
1 Overlay Zone) and fine-grained clay. It occurs naturally and is generally
found in areas that historically were a seabed or river bottom. Expansive soil
is subject to swelling and shrinkage of the soil, varying in proportion to the
amount of moisture present in the soil. As water is initially introduced onto
the soil (by rainfall or watering), an expansion takes place. When dried out,
the soil will contract, often leaving small fissures or cracks. Excessive
drying and wetting of the soil will progressively deteriorate structures over
the years. This excessive wetting and drying causes damage due to differential
settlement within buildings and other improvements.
If your structure is located on expansive soil it is likely that your structure
will experience more hairline cracks and movement in the walls and slabs than a
structure built on sandy soil. This is due to the native soil in the area, but
includes imported material.
   A.   The following suggested guidelines are intended to assist you in
planning:
      1.   A written report should be prepared showing location, boundaries and
depth of test holes, moisture conditions, recommended soil bearing pressures,
potential for expansion and relative density obtained from all tests, prepared
by a civil engineer or soils engineer licensed by the State of Utah. Floating
adjustable piers are suggested and normally do not require site-specific
engineering.
      2.   The Zoning Administrator or building inspector may require tests or
additional information if, in their opinion, the conditions or materials are
such that special design of the foundations is necessary. Additional
information shall be obtained from the Zoning Administrator.
      3.   Rain and irrigation water is strongly recommended to be directed
away from the foundations and special landscaping considerations employed.
(Ord. 2011-02, 5-10-2011)
CHAPTER 18
ACCESSORY STORAGE CONTAINERS
SECTION:
10-18-1: Purpose
10-18-2: Definitions
10-18-3: Regulations Within Residential Zones
10-18-4: Additional Permitted Uses And Regulations
10-18-5: Location Requirements
10-18-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the use of accessory storage
containers in the City, which regulations are adopted to protect the public
health, safety, welfare and promote public aesthetics in the City. (Ord. 2021-
02, 2-9-2021)
10-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
ACCESSORY   An accessory storage building and, in limited circumstances as set out in
STORAGE     the definition of “cargo containers” below, a cargo container.
CONTAINER:
            An "accessory storage building" is:
            A. A building originally constructed for use as an accessory building for
            the storage of material and equipment accessory to a primary use located
ACCESSORY   on the property.
STORAGE     B. For purposes of this chapter, Railroad cars, truck vans, converted
BUILDING:   mobile homes, trailers, recreational vehicles, bus bodies, vehicles,
            semi-trailers and similar prefabricated items and structures originally
            built for purposes other than the storage of goods and materials are not
            accessory storage buildings.
            "Cargo Containers" include standardized reusable vessels that were:
            A. Originally designed for or used in the parking, shipping, movement or
            transportation of freight, articles, goods or commodities; and/or
CARGO       B. Originally designed for or capable of being mounted or moved by rail,
CONTAINERS: truck or ship by means of being mounted on a chassis or similar transport
            device. This definition includes the terms "transport containers" and
            "portable site storage containers", also known as "shipping containers",
            or "Conex container", having a similar appearance to and similar
            characteristics of cargo containers. (Ord. 2021-02, 2-9-2021)
 
10-18-3: REGULATIONS WITHIN RESIDENTIAL ZONES:
   A.   A zoning permit is required prior to construction of an accessory
storage building or the placement of a cargo container. The application shall
show that the construction of an accessory storage building or the placement of
a proposed cargo container is accessory to the permitted use of the property
and meets the placement criteria for the zone, setbacks, including;
      1.   No Cargo Containers on City lots less than seven thousand five
hundred (7,500) square feet.
      2.   One (1) Cargo Container per City lot under one (1) acre.
      3.   One (1) Cargo Container per acre up to five (5) acres, but no more
than five (5) Cargo Containers total on a residential lot.
      4.   Cargo containers shall not be stacked above the height of a single
container.
      5.   Cargo containers shall not be used for any advertising purpose and
shall be kept clean of all alpha-numeric signage and writing.
      6.   Cargo Container shall not be used for camping, cooking or
recreational purposes for any period of time.
      7.   The outside of Cargo Containers shall be painted in one (1) solid
color.
   B.   Only accessory storage buildings defined in Section
10-18-2 above shall be permitted as accessory storage containers on property in
any residential zone of the city, or on any property within the city the
primary use of which is residential. Railroad cars, truck vans, converted
mobile homes, no unlicensed recreational vehicles, bus bodies, vehicles,
including semi-trailers and similar prefabricated items and structures
originally built for purposes other than the storage of goods and materials are
not permitted to be used as accessory storage building on property zoned
residential or on property the primary use of which is residential.
   C.   Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in subsection B of this
section, the temporary placement of cargo containers on residentially zoned
properties, or on properties the primary use of which are residential, for the
limited purpose of loading and unloading household contents shall be permitted
for a period of time not exceeding fifteen (15) days in any one calendar year
without approval for a limited extension from the City's Code Enforcement
Officer. Original permit holder is allowed two (2) placements of the container
within the fifteen (15) day period when listed on the original permit. Denial
of any extension from code enforcement office can be appealed to the Planning
and Zoning Board for an extension.
   D.   Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in subsection B of this
section, all contractors may use cargo containers for the temporary location of
an office, equipment and/or materials storage structure during construction
which is taking place on the property where the cargo container is located, if
the use of the cargo container is authorized pursuant to a city zoning permit.
Cargo Containers shall be permitted while actively engaged in construction.
   E.   Cargo containers shall not occupy required off-street parking or City
right-of ways.
   F.   As a condition of placement, cargo container sites shall be required to
meet all zoning regulations. (Ord. 2021-02, 2-9-2021)
10-18-4: ADDITIONAL PERMITTED USES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The use of a cargo container as an accessory storage container is also
limited to the following zoning districts:
      1.    Commercial (C-1) and (C-2) Main Street businesses are allowed one
(1) Cargo Container per acre and shall be placed out of site from the frontage
Streets.
      2.   Light Industrial (I-1).
      3.   Medium Industrial (I-2).
      4.   Heavy Industrial (3).
      5.   Agricultural (A-1).
   B.   A zoning permit is required prior to placement of an accessory storage
cargo container. The application shall show the proposed cargo container is
accessory to the permitted use of the property and meets the placement criteria
for the zone.
   C.   The use of a cargo container as an accessory storage container is
further limited to properties in the above-identified zones only if the
property upon which the cargo container is proposed to be located is not
primarily for residential purposes.
   D.   Cargo containers shall not be stacked above the height of a single
container device, except for placement with in the Industrial and Agriculture
zones.
   E.   Cargo Containers shall not be used for off-site advertising and
properly maintained, (Exception: owner/rental company advertising allowed).
   F.   As a condition of placement, cargo container sites shall be required to
meet all zoning regulations.
   G.   Cargo containers shall meet the setback requirements of the underlying
zone. (Exception: For temporary placement in setback on construction sites with
an approved Building Permit).
   H.   Cargo containers shall be in an approved designated area and on the
same property as the principal use and be included in the calculation of
overall lot coverage. (Exception: With written approval from adjacent lot owner
at the time of building permit application container may be placed on adjacent
property during construction). (Ord. 2021-02, 2-9-2021)
10-18-5: LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
(These setback requirements are for the residential zones):
   A.   Distance Between Main Building And Accessory Buildings: The minimum
distance between main building and accessory buildings shall be ten feet (10').
   B.   Front Setback:
      1.   All dwelling and other main buildings and structures shall be set
back at least twenty feet (20') from the nearest street easement line. The
front setback is encouraged to match neighboring structures so as to maintain a
consistent residential street frontage; where the twenty foot (20') front
setback is not consistent with the neighboring dwellings the setback may be
reduced to match the neighboring dwellings.
   C.   Side Setback:
      1.   All dwellings shall be set back from the side property line a
distance of at least six feet (6'), and the minimum distance between two (2)
main dwellings on adjacent lots shall be a minimum of sixteen feet (16').
      2.   The minimum side setback for accessory buildings shall be the same
as for main buildings.
      3.   On corner lots, the side setback from the street easement line for
any dwelling, main building, or accessory building shall be not less than
twenty five feet (25').
   D.   Rear Setback:
      1.   For interior lots, all dwellings and other main buildings shall be
set back from the rear property line a distance of at least twenty feet (20').
      2.   Accessory buildings on interior lots shall be set back not less than
six feet (6') from the rear property line.
      3.   Alley rights of way measured from the centerline may be used for
setback requirements. (Ord. 2021-02, 2-9-2021)
CHAPTER 19
REDEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE
SECTION:
10-19-1: Purpose
10-19-2: Permitted Uses
10-19-3: Conditional Uses
10-19-4: Special Provisions
10-19-5: Area, Width, Frontage, Yard, Coverage and Height Regulations
10-19-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this zone is to provide for flexible utilization of land in
redevelopment areas, as established by the city, where some of the established
land patterns and uses are nonconforming with respect to basic community
standards adopted in this title. When it is determined to be in the interest of
the community to foster appropriate utilization of existing facilities,
undersized lots, or redevelopment of blighted areas, a conditional use permit
may be used to reduce parking requirements and/or otherwise modify requirements
for uses that will be beneficial to the area and harmonious with the
surroundings. (Ord. 2023-01, 2-15-2023)
10-19-2: PERMITTED USES:
None. (Ord. 2023-01, 2-15-2023)
10-19-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
All uses located within the limits of the redevelopment overlay zone are
conditional uses and require issuance of a conditional use permit. (Ord. 2023-
01, 2-15-2023)
10-19-4: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Uses may be continued or changed.
   B.   Buildings may be altered to accommodate new uses.
   C.   Uses and buildings may be limited as to scope or length of time.
   D.   Every conditional use permit and each approval shall be based primarily
on how the development, as proposed in the application, will contribute to
economic activity, compatibility, mutual private and public benefit from
existing, proposed or potential buildings and uses in the area; the efficient,
effective, economic and aesthetic use of land, buildings, landscaping and
amenities; and the improvements to be made in land utilization, building
construction and appearance, traffic safety and control; landscaping and
drainage.
   E.   The conditional use permit approval process requires timely
notification of the municipal redevelopment agency to allow for analysis and
input in the process. (Ord. 2023-01, 2-15-2023)
10-19-5: AREA, WIDTH, FRONTAGE, YARD, COVERAGE AND HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
The same as in the underlying zone, except as may be modified by conditional
use permit after public hearing by the planning commission. (Ord. 2023-01, 2-
15-2023)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
SUBDIVISION PROCESSES AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purposes
11-1-2: Process
11-1-3: Exemptions From Plat Necessity
11-1-4: Simple Lot Subdivisions (3 And Less)
11-1-5: Minor Subdivisions (4 To 9 Lots)
11-1-6: Major Subdivisions (10 Or More Lots)
11-1-7: Condominiums
11-1-8: Lot Line Adjustments
11-1-9: Vacating Or Amendment Of A Subdivision Plat
11-1-10: Vacating A Street, Right Of Way, Or Easement
11-1-11: Notice Of Hearing For Plat Change
11-1-12: Land Use Authority Approval Of Vacation Or Amendment Of A Plat
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 1, chapter 12 of this code for provisions relative to
  master plan and official street map.
11-1-1: PURPOSES:
The purposes of this title are to:
   A.   Protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general welfare
of Green River City.
   B.   Guide the future growth and development of Green River City, in
accordance with the general plan.
   C.   Encourage the orderly and beneficial development of land within the
municipality.
   D.   Protect the integrity of buildings, land and improvements, and to
minimize the conflicts among the uses of land and buildings.
   E.   Provide a beneficial relationship between the uses of land, buildings,
traffic circulation and the proper location and width of streets and building
setbacks.
   F.   Establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions, condominium plats, plat amendments, and lot line adjustments, in
order to further the orderly layout and use of land; and to ensure proper legal
descriptions and recordation of subdivided land.
   G.   Ensure that public facilities are available and will have a sufficient
capacity to serve the proposed subdivision.
   H.   Encourage the wise use and management of natural resources in order to
preserve the integrity, stability and aesthetics of the community.
   I.   Continue the rural development and variety of structural design within
residential zones.
   J.   Provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and layout of
the land, while preserving the density of land as established in the Green
River City land use code. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-1-2: PROCESS:
This title adopts and incorporates the definitions of terms found in chapter 3
of this title and distinguishes between several processes of subdivision and
land division including all subdivisions, condominium plats, plat amendments,
plat vacations, and lot line adjustments. This process involves:
   A.   Costs: All costs incurred by the city in reviewing, approving and
monitoring the subdivision process, including legal costs and engineering costs
for reviewing and testing compliance, shall be assessed against the subdivider,
and approval may be conditioned upon deposit of sufficient sums to cover such
costs.
   B.   Initial Contact: An applicant for a subdivision, condominium plat, plat
amendment, lot line adjustment or plat vacation shall contact the zoning
administrator to discuss the scope and purpose of the application and the
requirements of this title.
   C.   Preliminary Review: The applicant shall provide the zoning
administrator drawings in sufficient detail to allow review of the proposal for
compliance with this section and to direct the applicant to the appropriate
process.
   D.   Administrative Review: The zoning administrator shall review each
complete proposal and may seek the advice and input of other city staff,
municipal departments, and/or utility providers, and the city engineer. The
review shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Does the application meet the requirements of this code?
      2.   Are all the lots suitable for building?
      3.   Are hazardous areas or conditions present, and if so, have the
conditions been abated?
      4.   Do all lots border public streets?
      5.   Is the subdivision consistent with the general plan?
      6.   Will the development enhance the character and aesthetics of the
community?
      7.   Are soil samples, percolation tests, etc., necessary on this
property?
   E.   Planning Commission Public Hearing: The planning commission shall hold
a public hearing on the application to determine compliance with this code and
recommend its approval, denial, or modification to the city council. A
subdivision that does not require a mylar plat may be exempt from a public
hearing.
   F.   City Council Public Meeting: The city council shall hold a public
meeting based on the planning commission recommendation on the application, and
shall approve, deny or approve with conditions. The city may impose an exaction
or exactions on proposed land use development if:
      1.   An essential nexus exists between a legitimate governmental interest
and each exaction; and
      2.   Each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent,
to the impact of the proposed development.
   G.   Definition Of Property Lines For Utility Requirements: For the purposes
of this title only, the following definitions shall apply:
    SIMPLE AND MINOR SUBDIVISIONS: For purposes of water connections, the
"property line" is defined as that property line of a lot or parcel of land
that fronts on a dedicated street where water is existing in the street. Water
will be considered at the property line in a simple and minor subdivision if it
is within one hundred twenty feet (120'), either perpendicular or parallel to a
property line. Connection fees will be collected when a building permit is
issued to the property owner. Electricity is required to be brought to the
deeded property line of each lot or parcel by the applicant. More than one lot
or parcel may be serviced from one pole based on recommendations and
specifications from the utility provider. A drop line must be at each lot, but
a single line can feed more than one lot.
SUBDIVISIONS (10 OR MORE LOTS): All city required utilities, to include
electric, water and sewer, shall be required to be stubbed to each lot where
meter placement would occur by the property owner. Connection fees will be
collected at building permit issuance.
   H.   Engineering Studies: The city may require engineering studies
including, but not limited to: soil samples, percolation tests, etc.
   I.   Developer's Costs: The developer will pay for all improvements in minor
and major subdivisions, except that the city may negotiate with the developer,
at the developer's request, to pay some or all of the improvements, if the
subdivision falls within the city's capital improvements plan or if the city
deems it is in the best interest of the general public's interests to do so.
(Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-1-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM PLAT NECESSITY:
   A.   An applicant may submit to the county recorder's office for recording a
document that subdivides property by metes and bounds into less than ten (10)
lots if:
      1.   The planning commission has given the city council its
recommendation, whether favorable or not; and
      2.   The document contains a certificate or written approval from the
city council. A record of survey is still required under this process by Utah
state law.
   B.   By indicating its approval on the document subdividing the property
into less than ten (10) lots, the city council certifies that:
      1.   The planning commission has given its recommendation to the city
council;
      2.   The subdivision is not traversed by the mapped lines of a proposed
street as shown in the general plan and does not require the dedication of any
land for street or other public purposes; and
      3.   If the subdivision is located in a zoned area, each lot in the
subdivision meets the frontage, width and area requirements of the zoning
ordinance or has been granted a variance from those requirements by the appeal
authority.
   C.   Documents recorded in the county recorder's office that divide property
by metes and bounds description do not create a subdivision allowed hereunder
unless the certificate of written approval required by subsection A of this
section, is attached to the document.
   D.   The absence of the certificate or written approval from the city
council does not affect the validity of the recorded document.
   E.   A document which does not meet the requirements of this section may be
corrected to comply with this section by recording an affidavit to which the
required certificate or written approval is attached.
   F.   For purposes of this section:
      1.   "Document" includes, but is not limited to, a deed or other written
conveyance that transfers the property creating a simple lot or minor
subdivision;
      2.   "Certificate" or "written approval" means a document signed by the
mayor and city recorder, verifying that the subdivision has been approved by
the city council at a regular or special meeting of the city council during
which the subdivision was presented, discussed and approved.
The form of certificate or written approval required herein is located at the
city offices entitled: "Green River City Subdivision Recordation Certificate".
(Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-1-4: SIMPLE LOT SUBDIVISIONS (3 AND LESS):
An applicant may subdivide property by metes and bounds into three (3) or less
lots or parcels provided that all proposed lots or parcels front an improved or
dedicated public street and comply with the applicable zone standards. This
process should be completed in the following manner:
   A.   An applicant shall submit an application to the zoning administrator
for a simple lot subdivision that includes, at a minimum:
      1.   The name of applicant or authorized agent and contact information;
      2.   A property address and parcel number;
      3.   The address for the subdivision;
      4.   The metes and bounds description of the property proposed to be
divided (a surveyed plat is required by law);
      5.   Any other information relating to the subdivision that may be
requested by the zoning administrator; and
      6.   The subdivision name, if applicable.
   B.   Simple lot subdivisions shall not be approved until such time as the
applicant provides verification that utility hookups to each proposed lot or
parcel are available.
   C.   The applicant must secure written approval from the public health
department on simple lot subdivisions if it is determined that the property is
not serviced by the public sewer system.
   D.   Upon a determination that the proposed survey plat is consistent with
the general plan and upon receipt of the owners' tax clearance, and approval
from the culinary water authority and irrigation authority, the zoning
administrator may approve a final simple lot subdivision, the planning
commission a minor subdivision and the city council a major subdivision as
provided above. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-1-5: MINOR SUBDIVISIONS (4 TO 9 LOTS):
An applicant may subdivide property into four (4) to nine (9) lots or parcels
provided that any proposed lots or parcels front an improved or dedicated
public street and comply with the applicable zone standards.
The applicant for a minor subdivision shall submit an application form to the
zoning administrator. After administrative review, the applicant shall submit a
concept plat to the planning commission for its consideration. The applicant
must comply with chapter 2 of this title for design standards and
infrastructure requirements of a subdivision.
   A.   Concept Plat Review: The applicant shall prepare and submit five (5)
copies of a concept plat of the proposed subdivision. The concept plat shall
include:
      1.   A minimum scale of one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50');
      2.   The proposed streets, alleys, parks, open spaces and other offers of
public dedications showing widths and pertinent dimensions of each;
      3.   Existing rights of way and easement grants of record for streets,
underground utilities and other public purposes;
      4.   A north arrow facing the top of right margin;
      5.   A date on each sheet;
      6.   The boundary dimensions and legal description of the subdivision;
      7.   The location, width, and other dimensions of all existing or platted
streets and other important features such as utility lines, drainage, fire
hydrants, curb, gutter and sidewalks and exceptional topography and structures
within the proposed subdivision and within a two hundred foot (200') perimeter
of the proposed subdivision;
      8.   The proposed subdivision name;
      9.   The name and address of the applicant, engineer or surveyor for the
subdivision and of the owners of the land to be subdivided.
   B.   Notice: The applicant shall provide the city with two (2) sets of
typewritten address labels, together with sufficient funds to cover related
postage costs, to all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the
proposed subdivision. Such notice shall be mailed at least seven (7) days prior
to the planning commission's formal consideration of the concept plat. Notice
of subdivisions for multiresidential, commercial, or industrial development
shall be provided to affected entities as required under this section.
   C.   Planning Commission Public Hearing: The planning commission shall hold
a public hearing on the concept plat by providing reasonable notice of the
public hearing at least fourteen (14) days before the date of the public
hearing. After holding a public hearing the planning commission shall determine
if the application meets the requirements of this code.
   D.   Planning Commission Consideration: Upon review and consideration of the
concept plat for compliance with this code, at a meeting called for such
purpose, the planning commission shall approve, deny, or approve with
conditions to the plat. Such decision shall be made within forty five (45) days
of said meeting.
   E.   City Council Public Meeting: The planning commission may elect for the
city council recommendation, approval, denial or conditional approval of the
concept plat for a minor subdivision. The council may call for a public hearing
at their discretion.
   F.   Failure To Record: Failure to record a final plat within one year of
approval of the concept plat by the Green River city council shall render the
concept plat null and void. In such case, the applicant must commence the
subdivision process anew.
   G.   Final Subdivision Plat Review: Upon zoning administrator recommendation
and planning commission approval of the concept plat, the applicant shall
prepare and submit to the planning commission a final mylar plat together with
four (4) paper copies with dimensions of twenty four inches by thirty six
inches (24" x 36"), and one 81/2-inch by 11-inch copy. The final plat shall
include:
      1.   A minimum scale of one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50');
      2.   The proposed streets, alleys, parks, open spaces and other offers of
public dedications, showing widths and pertinent dimensions as well as points
of intersection of each;
      3.   Existing rights of way and easement grants of record for streets,
underground utilities and other public purposes;
      4.   A north arrow facing the top of right margin;
      5.   A date on each sheet;
      6.   The boundary dimensions and legal description of the subdivision and
each lot therein, with the point of beginning clearly labeled;
      7.   The acreage or square footage for all parcels or lots and the length
and width of the blocks and lots intended for sale;
      8.   A legend of symbols;
      9.   All survey monuments and proposed fire hydrant locations;
      10.   The streets indicating numbers and/or names and lots numbered
consecutively;
      11.   The location, width, centerline bearings and curve data (including
delta angle, radius, length, tangent and the long chord on curves) and other
dimensions of all existing, proposed or platted streets and easements;
      12.   A similar description of important features such as utility lines,
drainage, curb, gutter and sidewalks and exceptional topography and structures
within the proposed subdivision and within a two hundred foot (200') perimeter
of the subdivision. Utility features must appear on the plat;
      13.   The streets, lots, and properties within two hundred feet (200')
surrounding the subdivision shown in ghost lines;
      14.   A proposed subdivision name;
      15.   Approvals, acceptance and certificates:
         a.   Owner's dedication and acknowledgment;
         b.   Surveyor's stamped certificate with subdivision boundary legal
description;
         c.   City engineer's (or designee's) approval;
         d.   Southeastern Utah health district sanitation approval;
         e.   Certificate of approval from the culinary water authority;
         f.   Planning commission acceptance;
         g.   City council's approval as to form;
         h.   County recorder's certificate.
      16.   The name and address of the applicant, engineer, or surveyor for
the proposed subdivision and owners of the land to be subdivided.
   H.   Approval Of Final Subdivision Plat: Upon a determination that the
proposed plat is consistent with the general plan and upon receipt of the
owners' tax clearance, and written approval from the culinary water authority
and irrigation authority, the city council may approve a final subdivision plat
as provided above.
   I.   Improvements: Subdivision improvements must be completed within one
year of recordation of the final subdivision plat, unless such time as extended
by the Green River city council. Development of an approved minor subdivision
may be carried out in progressive stages, in which event each stage shall be
planned and implemented in full compliance with the requirements and intent of
this title at the completion of each stage. Improvement requirements need not
be installed beyond the approved boundary of the stage to be developed. The
initial stage of a minor subdivision being developed in stages shall not cover
less than one acre.
   J.   Public Improvements Security: A security arrangement shall be one of
the following types as dictated by the city:
      1.   A bond with a surety company licensed to do business in the state of
Utah; or
      2.   An irrevocable letter of credit with a federally insured financial
institution; or
      3.   A cashier's check made payable only to the city; or
      4.   A trust or escrow account with a federally insured financial
institution designating the city as beneficiary.
Any interest accruing on escrowed funds shall, unless expended for completion
of site improvements required, inure to the benefit of the developer and not to
the city. The city shall not be required to pay interest to the developer on
any noninterest bearing escrow account established for this purpose.
   K.   Inspections: The zoning administrator shall inspect the subdivision
development during construction through its completion.
   L.   Owner's Duty To Record Plat: The owner(s) of an acknowledged, certified
and approved plat shall record the plat in the county recorder's office. An
applicant's failure to record a final plat within one year of city council
approval shall render the plat null and void. In such case, the applicant must
commence the subdivision process anew. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-1-6: MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS (10 OR MORE LOTS):
The applicant for a major subdivision shall submit an application to the zoning
administrator. After administrative review, the applicant shall submit a
preliminary plat to the planning commission for its consideration. The
applicant must comply with chapter 2 of this title for design standards and
infrastructure requirements of a subdivision.
   A.   Preliminary Plat Review: The applicant shall prepare and submit five
(5) copies of a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision. The preliminary
plat shall include:
      1.   A minimum scale of one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50');
      2.   The proposed streets, alleys, parks, open spaces and other offers of
public dedications showing widths and pertinent dimensions of each;
      3.   Existing rights of way and easement grants of record for streets,
underground utilities and other public purposes;
      4.   A north arrow facing the top of right margin;
      5.   A date on each sheet;
      6.   The boundary dimensions and legal description of the subdivision;
      7.   The location, width, and other dimensions of all existing or platted
streets and other important features such as utility lines, and exceptional
topography and structures within the proposed subdivision and within a two
hundred foot (200') perimeter of the proposed subdivision;
      8.   The proposed subdivision name;
      9.   The name and address of the applicant, engineer or surveyor for the
proposed subdivision and of the owners of the land to be subdivided.
   B.   Notice: The applicant shall provide the city with two (2) sets of
typewritten address labels, together with sufficient funds to cover related
postage costs, to all property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the
proposed subdivision. Such notice shall be mailed at least seven (7) days prior
to the planning commission's formal consideration of the preliminary plat.
Notice of subdivisions for multiresidential, commercial, or industrial
development shall be provided to affected entities as required by Utah state
law.
   C.   Planning Commission Public Hearing: The planning commission shall hold
a public hearing on the preliminary plat by providing reasonable notice of the
public hearing at least fourteen (14) days before the date of the public
hearing. After holding a public hearing the planning commission shall determine
if the application meets the requirements of this code.
   D.   Planning Commission Consideration: Upon review and consideration of the
preliminary plat for compliance with this code, at a meeting called for such
purpose, the planning commission shall approve, deny, or approve with
conditions to the city council. Such decision shall be made within forty five
(45) days of said meeting.
   E.   City Council Public Meeting: The city council shall hold a public
meeting within forty five (45) days of the planning commission's recommendation
and shall approve, deny or conditionally approve the preliminary plat. The
council may call for a public hearing at their discretion.
   F.   Failure To Record: Failure to record a final plat within one year of
approval of the preliminary plat by the Green River city council shall render
the preliminary plat null and void. In such case, the applicant must commence
the subdivision process anew.
   G.   Final Subdivision Plat Review: Upon planning commission recommendation
and city council approval of the preliminary plat, the applicant shall prepare
and submit to the planning commission a final mylar plat together with four (4)
paper copies with dimensions of twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36"), and one 81/2-inch by 11-inch copy. The final plat shall include:
      1.   A minimum scale of one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50');
      2.   The proposed streets, alleys, parks, open spaces and other offers of
public dedications, showing widths and pertinent dimensions as well as points
of intersection of each;
      3.   Existing rights of way and easement grants of record for streets,
underground utilities and other public purposes;
      4.   A north arrow facing the top of right margin;
      5.   A date on each sheet;
      6.   The boundary dimensions and legal description of the subdivision and
each lot therein, with the point of beginning clearly labeled;
      7.   The acreage or square footage for all parcels or lots and the length
and width of the blocks and lots intended for sale;
      8.   A legend of symbols;
      9.   All survey monuments and proposed fire hydrant locations;
      10.   The streets indicating numbers and/or names and lots numbered
consecutively;
      11.   The location, width, centerline bearings and curve data (including
delta angle, radius, length, tangent and the long chord on curves) and other
dimensions of all existing, proposed or platted streets and easements;
      12.   A similar description of important features such as utility lines,
drainage, curb, gutter and sidewalks and exceptional topography and structures
within the proposed subdivision and within a two hundred foot (200') perimeter
of the subdivision. Utility features must appear on the plat;
      13.   The streets, lots, and properties within two hundred feet (200')
surrounding the subdivision shown in ghost lines;
      14.   A proposed subdivision name with:
         a.   Owner's dedication and acknowledgment;
         b.   Surveyor's stamped certificate with subdivision boundary;
         c.   Legal description;
         d.   City engineer's (or designee's) approval;
         e.   Southeastern Utah health district sanitation approval;
         f.   Certificate of approval from the culinary water authority;
         g.   Planning commission acceptance;
         h.   City council's approval as to form; and
         i.   A county recorder's certificate.
      15.   The name and address of the applicant, engineer, or surveyor for
the proposed subdivision and owners of the land to be subdivided.
   H.   Approval Of Final Subdivision Plat: Upon a determination that the
proposed plat is consistent with the general plan and upon receipt of the
owners' tax clearance, and written approval from the culinary water authority
and irrigation authority, the city council may approve a final subdivision plat
as provided above.
   I.   Improvements: Subdivision improvements must be completed within one
year of recordation of the final subdivision plat, unless such time as extended
by the Green River city council. Development of an approved major subdivision
may be carried out in progressive stages, in which event each stage shall be
planned and implemented in full compliance with the requirements and intent of
this title at the completion of each stage. Improvement requirements need not
be installed beyond the approved boundary of the stage to be developed. The
initial stage of a major subdivision being developed in stages shall not cover
less than one acre.
   J.   Public Improvements Security: A security arrangement shall be one of
the following types as dictated by the city:
      1.   A bond with a surety company licensed to do business in the state of
Utah; or
      2.   An irrevocable letter of credit with a federally insured financial
institution; or
      3.   A cashier's check made payable only to the city; or
      4.   A trust or escrow account with a federally insured financial
institution designating the city as beneficiary.
      5.   Performance guarantee (or bond) must be held for one year following
construction completion.
Any interest accruing on escrowed funds shall, unless expended for completion
of site improvements required, inure to the benefit of the developer and not to
the city. The city shall not be required to pay interest to the developer on
any noninterest bearing escrow account established for this purpose.
   K.   Inspections: The zoning administrator shall inspect the subdivision
development during construction through its completion.
   L.   Owner's Duty To Record Plat: The owner(s) of an acknowledged, certified
and approved plat shall record the plat in the county recorder's office. An
applicant's failure to record a final plat within one year of city council
approval shall render the plat null and void. In such case, the applicant must
commence the subdivision process anew. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-1-7: CONDOMINIUMS:
Each application for condominium shall comply with the provisions of the
condominium ownership act as set forth in section 57-8-1 et seq., Utah Code
Annotated, 1953, as amended. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-1-8: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
Applicants, as the owners of record of adjacent parcels that are described by
either a metes and bounds description or on a recorded plat, may exchange title
to portions of the parcels.
   A.   The planning commission may approve an exchange of title if the
following conditions are met:
      1.   No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the exchange of
title;
      2.   The adjustment does not result in violations of applicable zoning
requirements.
   B.   If an exchange of title is approved, a notice of approval shall be
recorded in the office of the county recorder by the zoning administrator. This
notice must:
      1.   Be executed by each owner included in the exchange and the planning
commission;
      2.   Contain an acknowledgment for each party executing the notice;
      3.   Recite the descriptions of both the original parcels and the parcels
created by the exchange of title.
   C.   A notice of approval does not act as a conveyance of title to real
property and is not required for the recording of a document purporting to
convey title to real property. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-1-9: VACATING OR AMENDMENT OF A SUBDIVISION PLAT:
The city council by ordinance may, with or without a petition, consider any
proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion
of a subdivision plat, or any street, lot, or alley contained in a subdivision
at a public hearing.
   A.   If a petition is filed, the city council shall hold the public hearing
within forty five (45) days after the day on which the petition is filed if:
      1.   Any owner within the plat notifies the municipality of their
objection in writing within ten (10) days of mailed notification; or
      2.   A public hearing is required because all of the owners in the
subdivision have not signed the revised plat.
   B.   The land use authority may consider at a public meeting an owner's
petition to vacate or amend a subdivision plat if the petition seeks to:
      1.   Join two (2) or more of the petitioner fee owner's contiguous lots;
      2.   Subdivide one or more of the petitioning fee owner's lots, if the
subdivision will not result in a violation of a land use ordinance or a
development condition;
      3.   Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or parcels if the fee owners
of each of the adjoining lots or parcels join in the petition, regardless of
whether the lots or parcels are located in the same subdivision;
      4.   On a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an internal lot
restriction imposed by the city;
      5.   Alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing boundaries
or other attributes of lots within the subdivision that are not:
         a.   Owned by the petitioner; or
         b.   Designated as a common area; and
            (1)   Notice has been given to adjacent property owners in
accordance with any applicable zoning ordinance notice requirements.
   C.   Before the city council may consider a proposed vacation, alteration,
or amendment the city council shall refer the proposal to the planning
commission for its recommendation. The planning commission shall give its
recommendation within thirty (30) days following its receipt of the application
for the proposed vacation, alteration, or amendment.
   D.   Any fee owner, as shown on the last county assessment rolls, of land
within the subdivision that has been laid out and platted as provided in this
chapter may, in writing, petition the legislative body to have the plat, any
portion of it, or any street or lot contained in it, vacated, altered, or
amended as provided in this section.
   E.   A petition that lacks the consent of all owners referred to in
subsection D of this section may not be scheduled for consideration at a public
hearing before the city council until the notice required by subsection 11-1-
10B of this chapter, is given. The petitioner shall pay the cost of the notice.
   F.   If the city council proposes to vacate, alter, or amend a subdivision
plat, or any street or lot contained in a subdivision plat, they shall consider
the issue at a public hearing after giving the notice required by section
11-1-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-1-10: VACATING A STREET, RIGHT OF WAY, OR EASEMENT:
   A.   Each petition to vacate, alter, or amend a street, right of way or
easement shall include:
      1.   The name and address of each owner of record of land that is:
         a.   Adjacent to the public street, right of way, or easement; or
         b.   Accessed exclusively by or within three hundred feet (300') of
the public street, right of way or easement; and
      2.   The signature of each of these owners who consents to the vacation.
   B.   If a petition is submitted containing a request to vacate some or all
of a street, right of way, or easement, the city council shall hold a public
hearing in accordance with noticing requirements set forth in the zoning
ordinance and determine whether:
      1.   Good cause exists for the vacation; and
      2.   The public interest or any person will be materially injured by the
proposed vacation.
   C.   The city council may adopt an ordinance granting a petition to vacate
some or all of a public street, right of way, or easement if the city council
finds that:
      1.   Good cause exists for the vacation; and
      2.   Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially
injured by the vacation.
   D.   If the city council adopts an ordinance vacating some or all of a
public street, right of way, or easement, the city council shall ensure that
one or both of the following is recorded in the Emery County recorder's office:
      1.   A plat reflecting the vacation; or
      2.   An ordinance described in subsection C of this section.
   E.   The action of the city council vacating some or all of a street, right
of way, or easement that has been dedicated to public use:
      1.   Operates to the extent to which it is vacated, upon the effective
date of the recorded plat, as a revocation of the acceptance of and the
relinquishment of the city's fee in the vacated street, right of way, or
easement; and
      2.   May not be construed to impair:
         a.   Any right of way or easement of any lot owner; or
         b.   The franchise rights of any public utility. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-
2014)
11-1-11: NOTICE OF HEARING FOR PLAT CHANGE:
   A.   The city council shall give notice of the proposed plat change by
mailing the notice to each owner of property located within three hundred feet
(300') of the property that is the subject of the proposed plat change,
addressed to the owner's mailing address appearing on the rolls of the Emery
County assessor.
   B.   The city council shall ensure that the notice includes:
      1.   A statement that anyone objecting to the proposed plat change must
file a written objection to the change within ten (10) days of the date of the
notice;
      2.   A statement that if no written objections are received by the Green
River city council within the time limit, no public hearing will be held; and
      3.   The date, place and time when a hearing will be held, if one is
required, to consider a vacation, alteration, or amendment without a petition
when written objections are received or to consider any petition that does not
include the consent of all landowners as required by section
11-1-10 of this chapter.
   C.   If the proposed change involves the vacation, alteration, or amendment
of a street, the Green River city council shall give notice of the date, place,
and time of the hearing by:
      1.   Mailing notice as required in subsection A of this section; and
      2.   Publish notice according to the Green River City zoning ordinance
notice requirements. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-1-12: LAND USE AUTHORITY APPROVAL OF VACATION OR AMENDMENT OF A PLAT:
   A.   The land use authority may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat
by signing an amended plat showing the vacation or amendment if the land use
authority finds:
      1.   No public street, right of way, or easement has been vacated or
amended; and
      2.   There is good cause for the vacation, alteration or amendment.
   B.   The land use authority shall ensure that the amended plat showing the
vacation or amendment is recorded in the office of the Emery County recorder.
   C.   The city council may vacate a subdivision or a portion of a subdivision
by recording in the Emery County recorder's office an ordinance describing the
subdivision or the portion being vacated.
   D.   An amended plat may not be submitted to the Emery County recorder's
office for recording unless it is signed, acknowledged, and dedicated by each
owner of record of the portion of the plat that is amended.
   E.   A management committee may sign and dedicate an amended plat as
provided in Utah state code, title 57, chapter 8, condominium ownership act.
   F.   A plat may be corrected as provided in Utah state code, section 57-3-
106. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
CHAPTER 2
DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Minimum Area Of Subdivision
11-2-2: Streets, Alley Widths, Cul-De-Sacs And Easements
11-2-3: Blocks
11-2-4: Lots
11-2-5: Landscaping
11-2-6: Development
11-2-1: MINIMUM AREA OF SUBDIVISION:
There shall be no minimum area for a subdivision, except as required to meet
the minimum lot size and requirements as provided in the zoning ordinance for
the area in which the subdivision is located. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-2-2: STREETS, ALLEY WIDTHS, CUL-DE-SACS AND EASEMENTS:
   A.   Street Widths: Major and collector streets shall conform to the width
assigned on the master street plan wherever a subdivision falls in an area for
which a master street plan has been adopted. Where a master street plan has not
been completed at the time a preliminary plan is submitted to the planning
commission, streets shall be provided as follows:
      1.   Residential streets shall have a minimum width of forty eight feet
(48'). Width is determined as the combined dimensions of the pavement, curb and
gutter on both sides, and four foot (4') paved sidewalk on both sides.
      2.   Collector streets shall have a minimum width of fifty five feet
(55'), or conform to the master street plan, whichever is greater.
      3.   Minimum width of roadway wherever curb and gutters are installed
(face to face of curb) shall be as follows:
         a.   For residential streets, thirty six feet (36').
         b.   For collector streets, forty four feet (44').
   B.   Alleys: Alleys shall have a minimum width of twenty feet (20'). Alleys
may be required in the rear of business lots or residential blocks, under
conditions where such alleys are considered necessary by the planning
commission.
   C.   Reverse Curves: Reverse curves shall have a tangent of at least one
hundred feet (100'), unless in the opinion of the planning commission such is
not necessary.
   D.   Street Intersection: Streets shall intersect each other as nearly as
possible at right angles. Minor streets shall approach the major or collector
streets at an angle of not less than eighty degrees (80°). Offsets in street
alignment of more than ten feet (10') or less than one hundred twenty feet
(120') shall be prohibited.
   E.   Street Grades: Minimum street grades of six-tenths percent (0.6%) will
be required with the maximum grade being seven percent (7%) for collector
streets and ten percent (10%) for minor streets. Where the observance of this
standard is unfeasible, the planning commission shall have the power to grant
an exception when special pavement surfaces and adequate leveling areas are
installed or, in the opinion of the planning commission, the best subdivision
of the land has thereby occurred.
   F.   Street Curves: Where the street lines within a block deflect from each
other at any one point more than ten degrees (10°), there should be a
connecting curve. The radius of the curve for the inner street line should not
be less than three hundred fifty feet (350') for major streets, two hundred
fifty feet (250') for an important neighborhood street, and one hundred feet
(100') for minor streets.
   G.   Curbs: Curbs at all intersections shall be rounded with curves having a
minimum radius of fifteen feet (15') for minor streets and twenty five feet
(25') for collector and major streets. Property lines at street intersections
should be rounded with a curve where necessary to fit the curb radius, except
where a curb will connect to existing city street.
   H.   Street Names: New street names should not duplicate or approximately
duplicate those already existing. A street obviously a continuation of another
already in existence should bear the same name. Before the street is named, the
proposed name must be submitted to and approved by the planning commission.
   I.   Street Dedications: All streets shall be dedicated for public use. The
dedication of half streets in any subdivision is prohibited, except on the
borders.
   J.   Relations To Adjoining Street System: The arrangement of the streets in
new subdivisions shall make provision for the continuation of the existing
streets in adjoining areas (or their proper projection where adjoining land is
not subdivided) at the same or greater width (but in no case less than the
required minimum width), unless variations are deemed necessary by the planning
commission, insofar as such may be deemed necessary for public requirements.
The street arrangement must be such as to cause no unnecessary hardship to
owners of adjoining property when they plat their own land and seek to provide
for convenient access to it. Where, in the opinion of the planning commission,
it is desirable to provide for street access to adjoining property, proposed
streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such property.
   K.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs (dead end streets) shall be used only where
unusual conditions exist which make other designs undesirable. Each cul-de-sac
shall be terminated by a turnaround of minimum diameter of eighty feet (80'),
except that where surface water cannot be drained away from the turnaround
along the street due to grade, necessary catch basins and drainage shall be
provided.
   L.   Easements: Where alleys are not provided, easements of not less than
eight feet (8') on each side of all rear lot lines and side lines will be
required where necessary for poles, wires, conduits, storm or sanitary sewers,
gas and water mains, and other public utilities. Easements of greater width may
be required along property lines where necessary for surface overflow or for
the extension of sewer mains or similar utilities.
   M.   Private Streets: A means of perpetual maintenance must be demonstrated
to and approved by the planning commission before a private road may be
approved. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-2-3: BLOCKS:
   A.   Length; When Walkway Provided: The maximum length of blocks, generally,
shall be eight hundred ten feet (810'). The minimum length of blocks shall be
four hundred feet (400'). In blocks over eight hundred feet (800') in length,
the subdivider may be required to dedicate a walkway through the block at
approximately the center of the block. Such walkways shall not be less than ten
feet (10') in width.
   B.   Width: The width of blocks, generally, shall be sufficient to allow two
(2) tiers of lots.
   C.   Use: Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be designed
especially for such purposes with adequate space set aside for off street
parking and delivery facilities. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-2-4: LOTS:
   A.   Building Sites: The lot arrangement, design and shape shall be such
that lots will provide satisfactory and desirable sites for buildings and be
properly related to topography, location of watercourses, problems of sewage or
driveway grades, or other physical conditions and conform to requirements set
forth herein. Lots shall not contain peculiarly shaped elongations solely to
provide necessary square footage which would be unusable for normal purposes.
   B.   Lot Size: All lots shown on the subdivision plat must conform to the
minimum requirements for the zoning ordinance for the zone in which the
subdivision is located.
   C.   Lot Must Abut On Public Streets: Each lot shall abut on a street
dedicated by the subdivision plat or on an existing publicly dedicated street,
or on a street which has become public by right of use and is more than sixty
feet (60') wide, except when approved by the planning commission as a planned
unit development. Interior lots having frontage on two (2) streets shall be
prohibited, except where topographic conditions make such design desirable.
   D.   Corner Lots: Corner lots shall have extra width sufficient for
maintenance of required building lines on both streets.
   E.   Angle Of Lots: Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles, or radial to the street line, except where topographic conditions make
it advisable to have side lot lines deflect at sharper angles.
   F.   Parts Of Lots: All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
subdividing of a larger tract must be attached to adjacent lots rather than
allowed to remain as an unusable parcel.
   G.   Divided Lots: Where the land covered by the subdivision includes two
(2) or more parcels in separate ownership, and the lot arrangement is such that
a property ownership line divides one or more lots, the land in each lot so
divided shall be transferred by deed to single ownership before approval of the
final plat, and such transfer recorded in the county recorder's office before
being certified to the planning commission by the subdivider.
   H.   Boundary Lines: A city limits boundary line shall not divide a lot.
Each such boundary line shall be made on a lot line. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-2-5: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Existing Conditions: The design of developments and placement of
buildings should preserve the natural terrain, drainage, existing topsoil, tree
groupings, large individual trees and large rocks.
   B.   Xeriscaping: Drought resistant/low water plants and landscapes are
encouraged. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
11-2-6: DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Construction Debris Removal: Any building construction on sites shall
provide debris removal sufficient to facilitate the regular cleanup and removal
of construction debris from the site. Each site shall be cleaned and all
construction debris removed on a weekly basis.
   B.   Utilities: All utilities shall be placed within public road rights of
way or specific rights of way of easements free of legal encumbrances. Multiple
use on given easements is encouraged. The final recorded plat shall note all
easements. As a condition for single home or subdivision approval, the builder
or subdivider shall install or cause to be installed the following
improvements:
      1.   A water main in front of each parcel in size, location and with
appropriate valves, etc., as approved by the city after review and
recommendation of the planning commission.
      2.   Fire hydrants at intervals of not greater than five hundred feet
(500') with each parcel not more than two hundred fifty feet (250') from the
nearest hydrant. In the event it is necessary to extend a water main so that
the same fronts each parcel or to access fire hydrants within two hundred fifty
feet (250') of each parcel, then the cost of the water mains and hydrants shall
be borne by the landowner who effectuates the subdivision of his/her property.
      3.   All trenches and disturbed areas under streets or proposed streets
must be filled and compacted to the standards employed by the Utah department
of transportation. (Ord. 2014-02, 4-8-2014)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Words Defined
11-3-1: WORDS DEFINED:
For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply:
EASEMENT: The quantity of land set aside or over which a liberty, privilege or
advantage in land, without profit, existing distinct from the ownership of the
land, is granted to the public or some particular person or part of the public.
ESCROWED FUNDS: The state of a deed, etc., put in the care of a third party
until certain conditions are fulfilled.
FINAL PLAT: A map or chart of the land division which has been accurately
surveyed and such survey marked on the ground so that streets, alleys, blocks,
lots and other divisions thereof can be identified.
FRANCHISE RIGHTS: Any special right or privilege granted by a government.
INTERVENING PROPERTY: Property located between the service utility and the
property under development.
MAJOR STREETS: A street existing or proposed, which serves or is intended to
serve as a major trafficway and is designated as a collector or arterial street
on the city master plan.
METES AND BOUNDS: The description of a lot or parcel of land by courses and
distances.
MINOR STREETS: A street, existing or proposed, which is supplementary to a
collector street and of limited continuity which serves, or is intended to
serve, the local needs of the neighborhood.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person laying out or making a land division for the purpose of
first sale, or first selling for himself or others, a subdivision or any part
thereof.
SUBDIVISION: A. Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be
divided into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other
division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale,
lease, or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other
plans, terms, and conditions.
   B.   "Subdivision" includes:
1. The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds
description, devise and testacy, lease, map, plat, or other recorded
instruments; and
2. Except as provided in subsection C of this definition, divisions of land for
all residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for
commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes.
   C.   "Subdivision" does not include:
1. A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purpose of
joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of
unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable
zoning ordinance;
2. A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties adjusting their
mutual boundary if: a) no new lot is created; and b) the adjustment does not
result in a violation of applicable zoning ordinances; or
3. A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising the legal
description of more than one contiguous parcel of property into one legal
description encompassing all such parcels of property.
   D.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a "subdivision" under
this definition as to the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the
unsubdivided parcel to this title.
TOPOGRAPHY: The science of representing surface features on maps. (Ord. 2014-
02, 4-8-2014)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE, METHODS AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statement Of Purpose
12-1-2: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-1-3: Definitions
12-1-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to protect human life and
health; to minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects; to minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public; to
minimize prolonged business interruptions; to minimize damage to public
facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric, telephone and
sewer lines, streets and bridges located in areas of special flood hazard; to
help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development
of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood blight areas;
to ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and to ensure that those who occupy the areas of special
flood hazard assume responsibility for their actions. (1995 Code § 27-1-1)
12-1-2: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purpose, this title includes methods and provisions
for restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or in flood heights or velocities; requiring that uses vulnerable to
floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected against flood
damage at the time of initial construction; controlling the alteration of
natural floodplains, stream channels and natural protective barriers, which
help accommodate or channel floodwaters; controlling filling, grading, dredging
and other development which may increase flood damage; and preventing or
regulating the construction of flood barriers which may increase flood hazards
in other areas. (1995 Code § 27-1-2)
12-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage, and to
give this title its most reasonable application:
ADVERSELY AFFECTS: Damage to adjacent properties because of rises in flood
stages attributed to physical changes of the channel and the adjacent overbank
areas.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year.
CITY: The city of Green River, Utah.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FIRM: Flood insurance rate map, put out by the federal emergency management
agency.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: The official map issued by the federal emergency
management agency where the areas of special flood hazard have been designated
zone A.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal
waters and/or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure that is transportable in one or more sections,
built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not
include recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either before the improvement or repair is
started, or, if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial
improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term
does not, however, include any project for improvement of a structure to comply
with existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or any alteration
of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the State
Inventory of Historic Places. (1995 Code § 27-1-3)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Lands Applicable
12-2-2: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
12-2-3: Compliance With Other Regulations
12-2-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-2-5: Interpretation
12-2-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
12-2-1: LANDS APPLICABLE:
This title shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the city. (1995 Code § 27-2-1)
12-2-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in its flood insurance rate map dated March 18, 1986, is
adopted by reference and declared to be part of this title. The FIRM is on file
at the city office. (1995 Code § 27-2-2)
12-2-3: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended or
altered without full compliance with the terms of this title, and other
applicable regulations. (1995 Code § 27-2-3)
12-2-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this title and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict and overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (1995 Code §
27-2-4)
12-2-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title, all provisions shall be
considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of the
governing body, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes. (1995 Code § 27-2-5)
12-2-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas of special flood hazard will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This title shall not create liability on the part of the city, any
officer or employee thereof, or the federal emergency management agency, for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this title or an administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder. (1995 Code § 27-2-6)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
12-3-1: Establishment Of Development Permit
12-3-2: Designation Of Building Inspector
12-3-3: Duties And Responsibilities Of Building Inspector
12-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard established in section
12-2-2 of this title. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the building inspector and may include, but not be limited
to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, locations,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures; fill; storage of materials; drainage facilities; and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
   A.   Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
   B.   Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
   C.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection 12-4-6B of this title; and
   D.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development. (1995 Code § 27-3-1)
12-3-2: DESIGNATION OF BUILDING INSPECTOR:
The building inspector is hereby appointed to administrate and implement this
title by granting or denying development permit applications in accordance with
its provisions. (1995 Code § 27-3-2)
12-3-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR:
Duties of the building inspector shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Review of all development permits to determine:
      1.   That the permit requirements of this title have been satisfied;
      2.   That all necessary permits have been obtained from those federal,
state or local government agencies from which prior approval is required;
      3.   Whether the proposed development adversely affects the flood
carrying capacity of the area of special flood hazard:
         a.   If it is determined that there is no adverse affect, and the
development is not a building, then the permit shall be granted without further
consideration.
         b.   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then
technical justification (i.e., a registered professional engineer) for the
proposed development shall be required.
         c.   If the proposed development is a building, then the provisions of
this title shall apply.
   B.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with
section
12-2-2 of this title, the building inspector shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data available from a federal,
state or other source, in order to administer section
12-4-6 of this title.
   C.   1. Obtain and record the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea
level, of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement.
      2.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures,
verify and record the actual elevations, in relation to mean sea level, to
which the structure has been floodproofed, and maintain the floodproofing
certifications required in subsection 12-3-1C of this chapter.
   D.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions
of this title.
   E.   Notify adjacent communities and the army corps of engineers and
division of water resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to FEMA.
   F.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   G.   Make interpretations where needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions). (1995 Code § 27-3-3)
CHAPTER 4
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
12-4-1: Anchoring Of Mobile Homes
12-4-2: Construction Materials And Methods
12-4-3: Utilities
12-4-4: Subdivision Proposals
12-4-5: Encroachments
12-4-6: Specific Standards
12-4-1: ANCHORING OF MOBILE HOMES:
All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement by providing over the top and frame
ties to ground anchors. Specific requirements shall be that:
   A.   Over the top ties be provided at each of the four (4) corners of the
mobile home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate locations,
with mobile homes less than fifty feet (50') long requiring one additional tie
per side;
   B.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five (5)
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with mobile homes less than
fifty feet (50') long requiring four (4) additional ties per side;
   C.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a force
of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds; and
   D.   Any additions to the mobile home be similarly anchored. (1995 Code §
27-4-1)
12-4-2: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS:
All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with
materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage, and all new
constructions and substantial improvements shall be constructed using methods
and practices that minimize flood damage. (1995 Code § 27-4-2)
12-4-3: UTILITIES:
All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system; new and replacement
sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration
of floodwaters into the systems and discharge from the systems into
floodwaters; and on site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding. (1995 Code § 27-
4-3)
12-4-4: SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage; shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals and other
proposed developments which contain at least fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres,
whichever is less. (1995 Code § 27-4-4)
12-4-5: ENCROACHMENTS:
Any proposed development shall be analyzed to determine effects on the flood
carrying capacity of the area of special flood hazard as set forth in
subsection 12-3-3A of this title. (1995 Code § 27-4-5)
12-4-6: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in subsection 12-3-3B of this title, the following
standards are required:
   A.   Residential: New construction and substantial improvement of any
residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
to or above base flood elevation.
   B.   Nonresidential: New construction and substantial improvement of any
commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure shall either have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level of the base flood
elevation, or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall
be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water; have structural
components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects
of buoyancy; and be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such
certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in subsection 12-
3-3C of this title. (1995 Code § 27-4-6)
TITLE 13
FRANCHISES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Application Required
13-1-2: Construction Without Permit Unlawful
13-1-3: Issuance Of Permit
13-1-4: Adherence To Building Codes
13-1-1: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
It shall be required of every franchise grantee to make application to the city
for a building permit prior to beginning any construction on city streets,
alleys or rights of way in accordance with title 9 of this code; however, the
fee required will be waived. (1995 Code § 28-1-1)
13-1-2: CONSTRUCTION WITHOUT PERMIT UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any franchise grantee to install, construct or
otherwise utilize the streets, alleys or rights of way of the city without
first obtaining approval from the city. (1995 Code § 28-1-2)
13-1-3: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Upon approval of the application for building permit by the building inspector,
a building permit shall be issued in duplicate by the city recorder on a form
prescribed by the city. (1995 Code § 28-1-3)
13-1-4: ADHERENCE TO BUILDING CODES:
The franchise grantee will abide by and adhere to all building code
requirements as provided in title 9 of this code. (1995 Code § 28-1-4)
CHAPTER 2
UTAH POWER AND LIGHT COMPANY
SECTION:
13-2-1: Definitions
13-2-2: Right Of Franchise Granted
13-2-3: Traffic Interference
13-2-4: Established Practices
13-2-5: Liability Of City
13-2-6: Franchise Tax
13-2-7: Acceptance To Be Filed
13-2-8: Effective Date
13-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
terms and their derivatives shall have the meaning herein given:
CITY: The city of Green River, Utah.
GRANTEE: Utah Power and Light Company, its successors and assigns. (1995 Code §
28-2-1)
13-2-2: RIGHT OF FRANCHISE GRANTED:
There is hereby granted to Utah Power and Light Company, its successors and
assigns, the right, privilege or franchise, until December 9, 2002, to
construct, maintain and operate in the present and future streets, alleys and
public places in the city of Green River, Utah, and its successors, electric
light and power lines, together with all the necessary or desirable
appurtenances (including underground conduits, poles, towers, wires,
transmission lines, and telegraph and telephone lines for its own use), for the
purpose of supplying electricity to said city, the inhabitants thereof, and
persons and corporations beyond the limits thereof for lights, heat, power and
other purposes. (1995 Code § 28-2-2)
13-2-3: TRAFFIC INTERFERENCE:
Poles and towers shall be so erected as to interfere as little as possible with
traffic over said streets and alleys. (1995 Code § 28-2-3)
13-2-4: ESTABLISHED PRACTICES:
All lines constructed under this grant shall be constructed in accordance with
established building code ordinances. (1995 Code § 28-2-4)
13-2-5: LIABILITY OF CITY:
The city shall in no way be liable or responsible for any accident or damage
that may occur in the construction, operation or maintenance by the grantee of
its lines and appurtenances hereunder, and the acceptance of this franchise
shall be deemed an agreement on the part of said grantee, its successors and
assigns, to indemnify said city and to hold it harmless against any and all
liability, loss, cost, damage or expense which may occur to said city by reason
of the neglect, default or misconduct of the grantee in the construction,
operation or maintenance of its lines and appurtenances hereunder. (1995 Code §
28-2-5)
13-2-6: FRANCHISE TAX:
The city may assess a franchise tax upon sixty (60) days' written notice to
Utah Power and Light Company, Southern Division, 51 East Main, American Fork,
Utah, 84003, subject to existing federal, state and local laws, rules and
regulations. (1995 Code § 28-2-6)
13-2-7: ACCEPTANCE TO BE FILED:
The grantee shall file its written acceptance of this franchise with the clerk
of the city council within thirty (30) days after its passage. (1995 Code § 28-
2-7)
13-2-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall take effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as
required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the clerk, and
accepted as required herein. (1995 Code § 28-2-8)
CHAPTER 3
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM
SECTION:
13-3-1: Definitions
13-3-2: Grant Of Authority
13-3-3: Nonexclusive Grant
13-3-4: Term Of Franchise
13-3-5: Conditions Of Street Occupancy
13-3-6: Safety Requirements
13-3-7: System Construction And Extension
13-3-8: Operational Standards; Force Majeure
13-3-9: Office; Complaints
13-3-10: Franchise Payments
13-3-11: Indemnification Of City
13-3-12: Procedures
13-3-13: Procedure Upon Termination
13-3-14: Approval Of Transfer
13-3-15: Miscellaneous Provisions
13-3-16: Compliance With Applicable Laws And Ordinances
13-3-17: Violations; Penalties
13-3-18: Line Severing
13-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
terms and their derivatives shall have the meanings herein given (and when not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular, and words in the
singular number include the plural):
BASIC CATV SERVICE: The distribution of broadcast television signals by the
grantee.
CATV: A cable television or similar or like system.
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM: A system composed of, without limitation, antenna,
cables, wires, lines, towers, waveguides, or any other conductors, converters,
equipment or facilities, designed, constructed or wired for the purpose of
producing, receiving, amplifying and distributing by coaxial cable radio,
television or other electronic or electrical signals to and from persons,
subscribers and locations in the franchise area.
CITY: The city of Green River.
COUNCIL: The governing body of the city.
FRANCHISE AREA: That area within the corporate limits of the city as now or
hereafter constituted.
GRANTEE: Emery Telcom Video, LLC, its successors and assigns, the grantee of
rights under this chapter.
GROSS SUBSCRIBER REVENUES: All remuneration received directly by the company
from subscribers in payment for regularly furnished CATV service as described
in subsection 13-3-10B of this chapter, but shall not include any taxes on
services furnished by the grantee imposed on any subscriber or user by any
government, governmental unit, political subdivision, agency or
instrumentality, and collected by the grantee.
Further, it shall not include monies received by the company for other services
besides video services such as equipment rental or fees, ad insertion,
advertising, data services, telephony, etc.
PERSON: Any natural person, company or entity of any kind.
PROPERTY OF GRANTEE: All property owned, installed or used by the grantee in
the conduct of a CATV business in the city.
STREET: The surface of and the space above and below any public street, way,
place, right of way, road, highway, freeway, bridge, tunnel, lane, path, bike
path, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, drive, communications or utility
easement, by whatever name called, now or hereafter existing as such within the
franchise area.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person or entity receiving and paying for basic CATV service.
(Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
13-3-2: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
There is hereby granted by the city to the grantee the right and privilege to
engage in the business of operating and providing a CATV system in the city,
and for that purpose to erect, install, construct, repair, replace,
reconstruct, maintain and retain in, on, over, under, upon, across and along
any street or streets laid out or dedicated and all extensions thereof and
additions thereto in the franchise area, such poles, wires, cable, conductors,
ducts, conduit, vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers, appliances,
attachments, and other property as may be necessary and appurtenant to the CATV
system; and in addition, so to use, operate, and provide similar facilities or
properties rented or leased from other persons, including, but not limited to,
any public utility or other grantee franchised or permitted to do business in
the city.
This franchise will cover grantee's CATV system and IPTV system. However, the
IPTV system may operate on the telephone network, which is already covered by a
franchise. In such case the telephone franchise will be applicable, and this
franchise will just govern the franchise payment as stated herein. (Ord. 2008-
04, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
13-3-3: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT:
The right to use and occupy said streets for the purposes herein set forth,
shall not be exclusive to the grantee. (Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-
2008)
13-3-4: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
The franchise and rights herein granted shall commence on the date of the final
passage hereof and shall continue in force and effect for thirty (30) years
after said effective date, subject to such modifications as to which the city
and the grantee may hereafter agree. Thereafter, the franchise and rights
granted herein shall automatically renew for successive fifteen (15) year
periods unless the city revokes such franchise and rights by ordinance on or
before the expiration of the initial term or any renewal period hereof. (Ord.
2008-04, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
13-3-5: CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY:
   A.   All transmission and distribution structures, poles, lines, and
equipment installed or erected by the grantee within the franchise area shall
be so located as to cause minimum interference with the proper use of streets
and with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin
any of said streets. The CATV system shall be constructed and operated in
compliance with applicable governmental construction and electrical codes.
   B.   In case of disturbance of any street or paved area, the grantee shall,
at its expense and in accordance with generally accepted construction
practices, replace and restore such street or paved area in as good condition
as theretofore.
   C.   The grantee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in the same street or other public place, or remove from
the street or other public place, any property of the grantee when lawfully
required by the city by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street
vacation, freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street
grade, installation of sewers, drains, gas or water pipes, or any other type of
structures or improvements by the city; but, the grantee shall in all cases
have the right of abandonment of its property, subject to city ordinances, and
if public funds are available to any utility company for the purpose of
defraying the cost of any of the foregoing, such funds shall also be made
available to the grantee.
   D.   The grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit issued by the city, temporarily raise or lower its wires to
permit the moving of buildings, provided:
      1.   The expense of such temporary raising or lowering of wires is paid
by said person, including, if required by the grantee, making such payment in
advance; and
      2.   The grantee is given not less than three (3) business days' advance
notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   E.   The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees overhanging any
streets in the franchise area so as to prevent branches from coming in contact
with the grantee's wires and cables, except that at the option of the city,
such trimming may be done by it or under its supervision and direction at the
grantee's expense.
   F.   Subject to any applicable state or federal regulations or tariffs, the
city shall have the right to make additional use, for any public purpose, of
any poles or conduits controlled or maintained exclusively by or for the
grantee in any street, provided: 1) such use by the city does not interfere
with the use by the grantee; and 2) the city holds the grantee harmless against
and from all claims, demands, causes of actions, suits, actions, proceedings,
damages, costs or liabilities of every kind and nature whatsoever arising out
of such use of said poles or conduits. (Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-
2008)
13-3-6: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The grantee shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install
and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing
failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries or nuisances
to the public.
   B.   All structures and all lines, equipment and connections in, over, under
and upon all streets of the franchise area shall be kept and maintained in a
safe and suitable condition and in good order and repair. (Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-
2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
13-3-7: SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION AND EXTENSION:
   A.   The grantee is hereby authorized to extend the system within the
franchise area to the extent that such extension is or may become technically
and economically feasible.
   B.   No person in the grantee's service area shall be arbitrarily refused
service; but in recognition of the capital costs involved in unusual
circumstances, service may be made available on the basis of costs of
materials, labor and easements, in order to prevent inequitable burdens on
cable subscribers in more densely populated areas. Further, some persons may be
outside the extent of the network. (Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
13-3-8: OPERATIONAL STANDARDS; FORCE MAJEURE:
   A.   The grantee shall operate and maintain its cable television system in
full compliance with the standards set forth by the federal communications
commission.
   B.   The grantee shall have no obligation to construct or extend the system,
nor to provide, repair, replace, maintain or operate CATV service, for any
cause beyond grantee's control, including, without limitation, acts of God,
fire, flood, earthquakes, hurricane, unavoidable casualty, extraordinary delays
in transportation, strikes, lockouts, picketing, boycotts, embargoes,
government orders or other requirements, acts of civil or military authorities,
governmental restrictions, regulations or controls, enemy or hostile
governmental action, civil commotion, energy shortages, acts or omissions of
carriers, or activities or other emergency conditions including weather
conditions incompatible with good quality workmanship. (Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-
2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
13-3-9: OFFICE; COMPLAINTS:
The grantee shall maintain a business office or agent which subscribers may
telephone during regular business hours without incurring added message or toll
charges, so that complaints regarding cable television operations may be
promptly reported to the grantee. (Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
13-3-10: FRANCHISE PAYMENTS:
   A.   The grantee shall pay the city a sum equal to three percent (3%) of the
gross subscriber revenues per annum derived by the grantee from all subscribers
located within the city.
   B.   "Gross subscriber revenues" for purposes of this chapter are defined as
all revenues received by grantee from "basic", "tier", "premium" and "pay"
television supplied to subscribers within the city, including connection and
service charges.
   C.   The payments described in this section shall be in lieu of any and all
other franchise, occupation, privilege, pole, wire, instrument, excise or other
taxes except general ad valorem property taxes, sales taxes, city license tax
and other special improvement taxes lawfully levied by the city or any other
subdivision of the state of Utah pursuant to law.
   D.   The business of cable television is hereby classified as a "retail
business" for licensing purposes and the franchise shall pay the annual license
fee for such business at the rate in effect each year for such businesses, but
it will not be singled out for tax treatment different from other members of
that general class of business. The grantee is authorized to charge and collect
this franchise fee from the subscribers in addition to the charges for services
heretofore or hereafter approved by the city in the same manner as such billing
and collection is authorized under the utility franchises issued by the city.
(Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
13-3-11: INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY:
   A.   The grantee shall at all times protect and hold the city harmless from
all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, expense or damages of every kind
and description, including investigation costs, court costs, and reasonable
attorney fees, which may accrue to or be suffered or claimed by any person or
persons arising out of the negligence of the grantee in the ownership,
construction, repair, replacement, maintenance and operation of said cable
television system and by reason of any license, copyright, property right or
patent of any article or system used in the construction or use of said system,
provided the city gives the grantee prompt notice of any such claims, actions,
and suits, without limitation, in writing. The grantee shall maintain in full
force and effect during the life of any franchise, public liability and
property damage insurance for an amount of at least one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) single limit liability from the time of commencement of
construction of the CATV system. (Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
13-3-12: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Any inquiry, proceeding, investigation or other action to be taken or
proposed to be taken by the city in regard to the operations of the grantee's
cable television system, shall be taken only after thirty (30) days' written
notice to the grantee of such action or proposed action, and the grantee has
been given an opportunity to respond in writing and at any hearing which may be
specified by the city.
   B.   The notice required by this section shall state clearly the action or
proposed action to be taken, the time provided for response and the person or
persons in authority to whom such responses should be addressed, and such other
procedures as may be specified by the city. If a hearing is to be held, the
notice shall give the date and the time of such hearing, whether public
participation will be allowed and the procedures by which such participation
may be obtained. The company shall be a necessary party to any hearing
conducted in regard to its operations. (Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-
2008)
13-3-13: PROCEDURE UPON TERMINATION:
Upon expiration of the franchise, if the grantee shall not have acquired an
extension renewal thereof and accepted the same, it may have and it is hereby
granted, the right to enter upon the streets or other property of the city, for
the purposes of removing therefrom any or all of its property or otherwise. In
so removing said property, the grantee shall refill, at its expense, any
excavation that it shall make and shall leave said streets in as good condition
as that prevailing prior to the grantee's removal of its property. (Ord. 2008-
04, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
13-3-14: APPROVAL OF TRANSFER:
The grantee shall not sell or transfer its plant or system to another, other
than a person controlling, controlled by or under common control with the
grantee, nor transfer any rights under this franchise to another without prior
written notification to the city. No sale or transfer of the grantee's assets
used in the performance of this franchise shall be effective until the vendee,
assignee or lessee has filed in the office of the city clerk an instrument duly
executed reciting the fact of such sale, assignment or lease, accepting the
terms of the franchise and agreeing to perform all the conditions thereof.
Neither this section or other sections of this franchise shall preclude the
mortgaging, hypothecating, or assigning of rights in the system, or the pledge
of stock by the grantee for the purpose of financing. (Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-
2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
13-3-15: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   When not otherwise prescribed herein, all matters herein required to be
filed with the city shall be filed with the city clerk.
   B.   The grantee shall assume the cost of publication of the franchise
ordinance when such publication is required by law. A bill for publication
costs shall be presented to the grantee by the city clerk.
   C.   In the case of any emergency or disaster, the grantee shall, upon
request of the city make available its facilities to the city for emergency use
during the emergency or disaster period. (Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-
2008)
13-3-16: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The grantee shall at all times during the life of this franchise be subject to
all lawful exercise of the police power by the city. The city reserves the
right to adopt from time to time in addition to the provisions herein contained
such ordinances as may be necessary to the exercise of police power. Such
regulation shall be reasonable and not in derogation of the rights herein
granted, nor in conflict with the laws of the state or other local or federal
laws or regulations. (Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
13-3-17: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   From and after the effective date of this title, it shall be unlawful
for any person to construct, install or maintain within any public street in
the city, or within any other public property of the city, or within any
privately owned area within the city which has not yet become a public street
but is designated or delineated as a proposed public street on any tentative
subdivision map approved by the city, any equipment or facilities for
distributing any television signals or radio signals through a CATV system,
unless a franchise authorizing such use of such street or property or area has
first been obtained, and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any unauthorized
connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or
otherwise, with any part of the franchised CATV system within this city for the
purpose of enabling anyone to receive any television signal, radio signal,
picture, sound, or other transmission, without payment to the grantee.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner,
wilfully to tamper with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used
for distribution of television signals, radio signals, pictures, sound or other
transmission.
   D.   Any person violating or failing to comply with any of the provisions of
this section shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-
2008, eff. 10-14-2008)
13-3-18: LINE SEVERING:
If at any time the grantee's cable and/or other equipment is disturbed,
damaged, or severed the cost of repair shall be paid by the party responsible
for said damage. The grantee may charge the responsible party for the time and
materials expended for repair of said damage. The city will cooperate with the
grantee to assist in enforcing any charge or penalty arising from cable
severing or other damage to grantee's property. (Ord. 2008-04, 10-14-2008, eff.
10-14-2008)
CHAPTER 4
EMERY COUNTY FARMER'S UNION TELEPHONE ASSOCIATION, INC.
SECTION:
13-4-1: Definitions
13-4-2: Grant Of Authority
13-4-3: Grant Of Easements
13-4-4: Operational Time Limit
13-4-5: Effective Date
13-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
terms and their derivatives shall have the meaning herein given:
CITY: The city of Green River, Utah
GRANTEE: Emery County Farmer's Union Telephone Association, Inc., its
successors or assigns. (1995 Code § 28-4-1)
13-4-2: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
The grantee is hereby granted a franchise to construct, reconstruct, operate
and maintain its telephone system within the corporate limits of the city for a
period of fifty (50) years from date hereof, that being March 12, 1992. (1995
Code § 28-4-2)
13-4-3: GRANT OF EASEMENTS:
The grantee is hereby granted all necessary, desirable and convenient easements
to construct, reconstruct, operate and maintain its telephone facilities,
including, but not by way of limitation, its poles, wire and conduits over,
across and under all public roads, streets and other city-owned lands within
this city; provided, nevertheless, that the location of all such facilities
shall be approved by the building inspector or such other officer or inspector
as the city may designate for that purpose. (1995 Code § 28-4-3)
13-4-4: OPERATIONAL TIME LIMIT:
In the event said telephone system is not operational within this city within
three (3) years from the date this ordinance becomes effective, that being
March 12, 1992, then the franchise and easements herein granted and provided
for shall be of no further force of effect. (1995 Code § 28-4-4)
13-4-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
In the opinion of the city council, it is necessary to the peace, health and
safety of the inhabitants of this city that this ordinance become effective
immediately. Therefore, this ordinance shall take effect upon its passage,
approval and first posting. (1995 Code § 28-4-5)
