TOWN CODE
of
HATCH, UTAH
2001
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-10, passed October 16, 2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Town of Hatch, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 2024-10, passed October 16, 2024. Ordinances of the Town
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Incorporation Of Statutes
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the town council, this town code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official town code of the town of Hatch.
This town code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the HATCH TOWN CODE
and is hereby published by authority of the town council and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as provided
in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this town code by title in any legal documents. (1976 Code § 1-001; amd. 2001
Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The town code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2001 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the town code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this town code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this town code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the town code. (2001 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this town code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
town council. The town clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the town clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the town code shall make every effort to
maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinance passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the town
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the town and shall be
returned to the office of the town clerk when directed so to do by order of the
town council. (2001 Code)
1-1-5: INCORPORATION OF STATUTES:
Any reference or citation to any statute shall not be interpreted or construed
to include, incorporate or make the citation or statute part of this code
unless the provisions of this code specifically include, incorporate or make
the citation or statute part of this code by reference or incorporation, and
any such reference or citation not specifically included or incorporated may be
changed, amended or deleted without publication on an order of the town
council. (1976 Code § 1-009)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the town passed prior
to the adoption of this town code are hereby repealed, except such as are
included in this town code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the town; and all special ordinances. (1976 Code § 1-
002; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (1976 Code § 1-003)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this town code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the town code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this town code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2001 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this town code. (2001 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this town code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The town council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1976 Code § 1-007; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this town code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this town code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
town code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto. The use of any
verb in the present tense shall include the future and past tense when
applicable.
   B.   All words and phrases shall be constructed and understood according to
the common use and understanding of the language; the technical words and
phrases and such other words and phrases as may have acquired a particular
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such particular
meaning.
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town has been
changed in the content of this town code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the town's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1976 Code § 1-005;
amd. 2001 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BUSINESS: Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation or
enterprise for which a license or permit is required by any ordinance of the
town.
CODE: The town code of the town of Hatch, Utah.
COUNTY: Garfield County, Utah.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a town employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the town of
Hatch".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the town for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
HIGHWAY; ROAD: Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the words
"county way", "county road", "common road" and "state road".
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation. The term "license" includes any certificate, permit or license
issued by the town.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT OR TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or
with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS OR OFFICIALS: Any elected or appointed person employed by the town,
unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Whenever reference is made in
this code to a town officer or official by title only, this shall be construed
as though followed by the words "of the town of Hatch".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PROPERTY: Includes both real and personal property.
REASONABLE TIME: In all cases where any ordinance requires that an act be done
in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such reasonable time
for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such notice.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks and
intersections.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
TIME COMPUTED: The time within which an act is to be done as provided in any
ordinance or in any resolution or order of the town, when expressed in days,
shall be determined by excluding the first day and including the last day,
except if the last day be a Sunday or a legal holiday, then the last day shall
be the day next following such Sunday or legal holiday which is not a Sunday or
legal holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sunday and all legal holidays
shall be excluded.
TOWN: The town of Hatch, Garfield County, Utah.
TOWN CLERK: The individual appointed to act as the town clerk of the town.
TOWN COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the town council of the town of
Hatch, Utah.
WEEK: Shall be construed to mean any seven (7) day period.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer", as used in this
code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1976 Code § 1-005; amd. 2001 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the town code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1976 Code § 1-006; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-3: Administrative Hearings
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Specified: The town council may impose a minimum criminal penalty
for the violation of any municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the
maximum class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or
by a term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
      2.   Exceptions:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection A2b of this section, the town
council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any
municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   The municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a municipal moving traffic ordinance, except as authorized
in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-703.5. (2001 Code)
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days. (1976 Code § 1-322; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor. (1976 Code §
1-323; amd. 2001 Code)
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction. (1976 Code § 1-331; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the town, or for an offense
defined outside of this code over which this town has jurisdiction, for which
no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount fixed by the
court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (1976 Code § 3-332; amd. 2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 10-3-703.
2 2. U.C.A. § 76-3-204.
3 3. U.C.A. § 76-3-205.
4 1. U.C.A. § 76-3-301.
5 2. U.C.A. § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this town shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided. (1976 Code § 1-311)
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions. (1976 Code § 1-312)
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this town when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor. (1976 Code § 1-313)
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this town, or which is expressly designated an infraction, and
any offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this town which is
not designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified, is an
infraction. (1976 Code § 1-314)
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (1976 Code § 1-315)
 
Notes
1 1. U.C.A. § 76-3-104.
1-4-3: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   A.   Request: Unless otherwise specifically provided in any ordinance of the
town or any code adopted by reference, a hearing before the town council may be
requested by any person:
      1.   Who is denied or refused a permit or license by any officer, agent
or employee of this town.
      2.   Whose permit or license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited
from that for which it was first issued. (1976 Code § 1-411)
   B.   Form Of Request: The request for hearing must be made in writing to the
mayor or town clerk and made within thirty (30) days following the date notice
denying, refusing, revoking, qualifying or restricting the license or permit is
mailed by the town to the applicant or license holder at his address as it
appears on the application or license. (1976 Code § 4-412)
   C.   Procedure:
      1.   Time And Place: Following receipt of a request for hearing, the town
council shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and place the
hearing is to be held.
      2.   Witnesses; Evidence: At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall have
the right to hear and examine any witnesses the town may produce to support its
decision and to present his own evidence in support of his contention.
      3.   Decision Of Town Council: The town council shall, within ten (10)
days following the conclusion of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who
requested the hearing of the decision of the town council. (1976 Code § 1-413)
   D.   Not Additional Remedy: This section shall not be construed so as to
afford any aggrieved party more than one hearing before the town council nor
shall the hearing provided in this section apply to any criminal complaint or
proceeding. (1976 Code § 1-414)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Eligibility And Residency Requirements
1-5-2: Membership; Terms
1-5-3: Mayor As Member Of Town Council
1-5-4: Meetings; Procedure And Conduct
1-5-5: Ordinances And Resolutions; Procedures
1-5-6: Electronic Meetings
1-5-1: ELIGIBILITY AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Declaration Of Candidacy: A person filing a declaration of candidacy
for a town office shall:
      1.   Have been a resident of the town for at least three hundred sixty
five (365) days immediately before the date of the election; and
      2.   Meet the other requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 20A-9-
203.
   B.   Annexed Areas: A person living in an area annexed to the town meets the
residency requirement of this section if that person resided within the area
annexed to the town for at least three hundred sixty five (365) days before the
date of the election.
   C.   Residency Requirements:
      1.   Each elected officer of the town shall maintain residency within the
boundaries of the town during the officer's term of office.
      2.   If an elected officer of the town establishes a principal place of
residence, as provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-2-105, outside the
town during the officer's term of office, the office is automatically vacant.
   D.   Registered Voter: Any person elected to town office shall be a
registered voter in the town.
   E.   Continuous Absence From Town: If an elected town officer is absent from
the town any time during his term of office for a continuous period of more
than sixty (60) days without the consent of the town council, the town office
is automatically vacant. (1976 Code § 3-301; amd. 2001 Code)
1-5-2: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
   A.   Composition: The governing body shall be a council of five (5) persons,
one of whom shall be the mayor and the remaining four (4) shall be council
members.
   B.   Election; Terms: The election and terms of office of the officers shall
be as follows:
      1.   The offices of mayor and two (2) council members shall be filled in
municipal elections held in 1977. The terms shall be for four (4) years. These
offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
      2.   The offices of the other two (2) council members shall be filled in
municipal elections held in 1979. The terms shall be for four (4) years. These
offices shall be filled every four (4) years in municipal elections.
      3.   The offices shall be filled in at-large elections which shall be
held at the time and the manner provided for electing municipal officers. (2001
Code)
   C.   Vacancy In Office: Mayor or town council vacancies shall be filled as
provided in Utah Code Annotated section 20A-1-510. (1976 Code §§ 3-221, 3-222;
amd. 2001 Code)
1-5-3: MAYOR AS MEMBER OF TOWN COUNCIL:
   A.   Administration Vested In Mayor: The administrative powers, authority
and duties are vested in the mayor.
   B.   Presiding Officer; Mayor Pro Tempore: The mayor shall be the
chairperson and preside at the meetings of the town council. In the absence of
the Mayor or because of his inability or refusal to act, the Town Council may
elect a member of the Town Council to preside over the meeting as Mayor Pro
Tempore, who shall have all the powers and duties of the Mayor during his
absence or disability. The election of a Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entered in
the minutes of the meeting. (1976 Code § 3-512; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Voting: The Mayor shall vote as a member of the Town Council. Any
member of the Town Council appointed to act as Mayor Pro Tempore shall cast
only one vote. (2001 Code)
   D.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The Mayor is the Chief Executive Officer to whom all employees of
the Town shall report.
      2.   The Mayor shall:
         a.   Keep the peace and enforce the laws of the Town;
         b.   Remit fines and forfeitures;
         c.   Report remittances under subsection D2b of this section to the
Town Council at its next regular session;
         d.   Perform all duties prescribed by law, resolution or ordinance;
         e.   Ensure that all the laws, ordinances and resolutions are
faithfully executed and observed;
         f.   Report to the Town Council the condition of the Town and
recommend for Town Council consideration any measures that the Mayor considers
to be in the best interests of the Town;
         g.   When necessary, call on the residents of the Town over the age of
twenty one (21) years to assist in enforcing the laws of the State and
ordinances of the Town;
         h.   Appoint, with the advice and consent of the Town Council, persons
to fill Town offices or vacancies on commissions or committees of the Town; and
         i.   Report to the Town Council any release granted under subsection
D3b of this section.
      3.   The Mayor may:
         a.   At any reasonable time, examine and inspect the official books,
papers, records or documents of the Town or of any officer, employee or agent
of the Town; and
         b.   Release any person imprisoned for violation of any Town
ordinance. (1976 Code § 3-511; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   No Veto: The Mayor shall have no power to veto any act of the Town
Council, unless otherwise specifically authorized by statute. (2001 Code)
1-5-4: MEETINGS; PROCEDURE AND CONDUCT:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The governing body shall conduct one regular meeting
which shall be held on the 3rd Wednesday of each month at the Community Center
49 W Center Street which meeting shall begin promptly at seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M., unless otherwise posted. (Ord. 2019-01, 1-17-2019; amd. 2020-01, 1-15-
2020; Ord. 2021-01, 1-20-2021; Ord. 2022-01, 1-27-2022; Ord. 2024-01, 1-17-
2024)
      1.   The Governing Body may by ordinance provide for a different time and
place for holding regular meetings of the Governing Body. (1976 Code § 3-311;
amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 2015-01, 1-21-2015; Ord. 2019-01, 1-17-2019)
   B.   Special Meetings:
      1.   If at any time the business of the Town requires a special meeting
of the Town Council, such meeting may be ordered by the Mayor or any two (2)
members of the Town Council. The order shall be entered in the minutes of the
Town Council. The order shall provide at least three (3) hours' notice of the
special meeting and notice thereof shall be served by the Town Clerk on each
member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice personally or by
leaving it at the member's usual place of abode. The personal appearance by a
Council member at any specially called meeting constitutes a waiver of the
notice required in this subsection.
      2.   The written notice required in subsection B1 of this section shall
state the time and place the special meeting is to be held and the purpose for
which the special meeting is being called. (1976 Code § 3-320; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Open Meetings; Exceptions: Every meeting is open to the public, unless
closed pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 52-4-4 and 52-4-5. (1976 Code
§§ 3-340 through 3-343; amd. 2001 Code)
   D.   Quorum:
      1.   Defined: The number of members of the town council necessary to
constitute a quorum is three (3) or more.
      2.   Necessary: No action of the town council shall be official or of any
effect, except when a quorum of the members are present. Fewer than a quorum
may adjourn from time to time. (1976 Code § 3-231; amd. 2001 Code)
      3.   Compelling Attendance: A quorum or fewer than a quorum of the town
council may, at any regularly held meeting, compel the attendance of absent
members and direct the Garfield county sheriff's department to bring the absent
member to the meeting on an order signed by a majority of the members present;
provided, that the Garfield county sheriff's department shall not use force to
compel the attendance of such absent member. (1976 Code § 3-232; amd. 2001
Code)
   E.   Voting:
      1.   How Vote Taken: A roll call vote shall be taken and recorded for all
ordinances, resolutions and any action which would create a liability against
the town and in any other case at the request of any member of the town council
by a "yes" or a "no" vote and shall be recorded. The town clerk shall call the
roll in alphabetical order. Every resolution or ordinance shall be in writing
before the vote is taken.
      2.   Minimum Vote Required: The minimum number of votes required to pass
any ordinance, resolution or to take any action by the town council, unless
otherwise prescribed by law, shall be a majority of the members of the quorum,
but shall never be less than three (3).
         a.   Any ordinance, resolution or motion of the town council having
fewer favorable votes than required herein shall be deemed defeated and
invalid, except a meeting may be adjourned to a specific time by a majority
vote of the town council even though such majority vote is less than that
required herein.
         b.   A majority of the members of the town council, regardless of
number, may fill any vacancy in the town council.
      3.   Reconsideration: Any action taken by the town council shall not be
reconsidered or rescinded at any special meeting unless the number of members
of the town council present at the special meeting is equal to or greater than
the number of members present at the meeting when the action was approved.
(1976 Code § 3-330; amd. 2001 Code)
   F.   Record Of Proceedings: The town clerk shall keep a record of the
proceedings of the meetings of the town council, except that minutes of a
closed meeting shall not be available to the public until such time as the town
council shall make them public or by an order of court. (1976 Code §
   G.   Conduct; Order Of Business:
      1.   Rules Of Procedure: Except as otherwise specifically required or
provided by law, this code or by resolution of the town council, the most
current edition of Robert's rules of order shall govern the procedure and
conduct of the meetings of the town council. (1976 Code § 3-351)
      2.   Agenda: All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions,
contract documents or other matters to be submitted to the town council shall
be delivered to the town clerk at least twenty four (24) hours prior to each
town council meeting, whereon the town clerk shall immediately arrange a list
of such matters according to the order of business and furnish each member of
the town council with a copy of the same prior to the town council meeting and
as far in advance of the meeting as time for preparation will permit. Only the
foregoing matters shall be presented to the town council by administrative
officials, except those of an urgent nature; provided, that the town council
may, by motion, waive the requirements of this subsection. (1976 Code § 3-352;
amd. 2001 Code)
      3.   Order Of Business:
         a.   At the time and place set for each meeting of the members of the
town council, the business of the town shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the following order, unless otherwise provided by motion of the
town council:
         (1)   Roll call.
         (2)   Reading of minutes of previous meeting.
         (3)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting.
         (4)   Petitions, remonstrances and communications.
         (5)   Introduction and adoption of resolutions and ordinances.
         (6)   Report of officers, boards and committees.
         (7)   Unfinished business.
         (8)   New business.
         (9)   Miscellaneous.
         (10)   Appropriations.
   (11) Adjournment.
         b.   The town council may by motion change, amend or delete any agenda
item provided for in this subsection. (1976 Code § 3-353)
      4.   Action On Committee Reports: Final action on any report of any
committee appointed by the town council shall be deferred to the next regular
meeting of the town council on the request of any two (2) members, except that
the town council may call a special meeting to consider final action. (1976
Code § 3-354; amd. 2001 Code)
      5.   Discipline Of Members: The town council may fine or expel any member
for disorderly conduct on a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members of the town
council. (1976 Code § 3-355; amd. 2001 Code)
1-5-5: ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; PROCEDURES:
   A.   Power Exercised By Ordinance: The town council may pass any ordinance
to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activity,
business, conduct or condition authorized by statute or any other provision of
law. An officer of the town shall not be convicted of a criminal offense where
he relied on or enforced an ordinance he reasonably believed to be a valid
ordinance. It shall be a defense to any action for punitive damages that the
official acted in good faith in enforcing an ordinance or that he enforced an
ordinance on advice of legal counsel.
   B.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance:
      1.   Specified: The town council may impose a minimum criminal penalty
for the violation of any municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the
maximum class B misdemeanor fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301 or
by a term of imprisonment up to six (6) months, or by both the fine and term of
imprisonment.
      2.   Exceptions:
         a.   Except as provided in subsection B2b of this section, the town
council may prescribe a minimum civil penalty for the violation of any
municipal ordinance by a fine not to exceed the maximum class B misdemeanor
fine under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301.
         b.   The municipality may not impose a civil penalty and adjudication
for the violation of a municipal moving traffic ordinance, except as authorized
in Utah Code Annotated section 10-3-703.5.
   C.   Form Of Ordinance: Any ordinance passed by the town council shall
contain and be in substantially the following order and form:
      1.   A number;
      2.   A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
      3.   A preamble which states the need or reason for the ordinance;
      4.   An ordaining clause which states "Be it ordained by the town of
Hatch:";
      5.   The body or subject of the ordinance;
      6.   When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of
the ordinance or a reference that the punishment is covered by an ordinance
which prescribes the fines and terms of imprisonment for the violation of the
town ordinance; or, the penalty may establish a classification of penalties and
refer to such ordinance in which the penalty for such violation is established;
      7.   A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance or the
date when the ordinance shall become effective after publication or posting as
required by this section;
      8.   A line for the signature of the mayor or mayor pro tem to sign the
ordinance; and
      9.   A place for the town clerk to attest the ordinance and affix the
seal of the town.
   D.   Requirements As To Form; Effective Date:
      1.   Ordinances passed or enacted by the town council shall be signed by
the mayor, or if he is absent, by the mayor pro tempore, or by a quorum of the
town council, and shall be recorded before taking effect. No ordinance shall be
void or unlawful by reason of its failure to conform to the provisions of
subsections C1 through C4 of this section.
      2.   Ordinances shall become effective twenty (20) days after publication
or posting or thirty (30) days after final passage by the town council,
whichever is closer to the date of final passage, but ordinances may become
effective at an earlier or later date after publication or posting if so
provided in the ordinance.
      3.   Ordinances which do not have an effective date shall become
effective twenty (20) days after publication or posting, or thirty (30) days
after final passage by the town council, whichever is sooner.
   E.   Publication And Posting Of Ordinances: All ordinances, except those
enacted pursuant to Utah Code Annotated sections 10-3-706 to 10-3-710, before
taking effect shall be deposited in the office of the town clerk and a short
summary of the ordinance published at least once in a newspaper published
within the town, or if there is no newspaper published therein, then by posting
complete copies in three (3) public places within the town. Any ordinance, code
or book, other than the state code, relating to building or safety standards,
town functions, administration, control or regulations, may be adopted and
shall take effect without further publication or posting, if reference is made
to the code or book and at least one copy has been filed for use and
examination by the public in the office of the town clerk prior to the adoption
of the ordinance by the town council. Any state law relating to building or
safety standards, town functions, administration, control or regulations, may
be adopted and shall take effect without further publication or posting if
reference is made to the state code. The ordinance adopting the code or book
shall be published in the manner provided in this section.
   F.   Recording; Numbering; Certification Of Passage:
      1.   The town clerk shall record, in a book used exclusively for that
purpose, all ordinances passed by the town council. The town clerk shall give
each ordinance a number, if the town council has not already so done.
Immediately following each ordinance, or codification of ordinances, the town
clerk shall make or cause to be made a certificate stating the date of passage
and of the date of publication or posting, as required. The record and
memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
contents, passage and publication or posting of the ordinance or codification.
(1976 Code § 3-400; amd. 2001 Code)
      2.   The town clerk, insofar as possible, shall assign all ordinances of
a general nature a number, which shall conform to the numbering system used in
this code and shall indicate upon the face of the ordinance the date adopted.
(1976 Code § 1-008)
      3.   The town clerk shall keep all ordinances of a local, private or
temporary nature, including franchises, grants, dedications, bond issues and
tax levies, in a separate book of "special ordinances" properly indexed and
organized according to date adopted. The first number of such an ordinance
shall be the four (4) digits of the year the ordinance is adopted, followed by
a dash which is followed by a number indicating the order in which such special
ordinance was adopted during the year.
      4.   Failure to comply with this subsection shall not affect or render
invalid any ordinance of the town. (1976 Code § 1-008; amd. 2001 Code)
   G.   Resolutions:
      1.   Purpose; Restrictions: Unless otherwise required by law, the town
council may exercise all administrative powers by resolution, including, but
not limited to: a) establishing water and sewer rates; b) charges for garbage
collection and fees charged for town services; c) establishing personnel
policies and guidelines; and d) regulating the use and operation of the town
property. Punishment, fines or forfeitures may not be imposed by resolution.
      2.   Form: Any resolution passed by the town council shall be in a form
and contain sections substantially similar to that prescribed for ordinances.
      3.   Publication; Effective Date: Resolutions may become effective
without publication or posting and may take effect upon passage or at a later
date as the town council may determine, but resolutions may not become
effective more than three (3) months from the date of passage. (2001 Code)
1-5-6: ELECTRONIC MEETINGS:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms are defined as follows for the purpose
of this section:
 
ANCHOR LOCATION:       The Hatch Community Center or such other location
                       designated in the Agenda for the meeting.
                       A public meeting of the Council convened and conducted
                       by means of a telephonic conference device or other
ELECTRONIC MEETING:    electronic means, allowing each member of the Council to
                       call, videoconference, or otherwise participate
                       concurrently with all other members of the Council in
                       the conduct of the meeting.
                       The City Recorder, or another employee of the City
                       specifically assigned and designated to operate the
                       telephonic or electronic conference equipment at the
MEETING ADMINISTRATOR: anchor location to assure that all members of the
                       Council are continuously able to participate in the
                       meeting and to advise the party conducting the meeting
                       of the initiation, recess, if appropriate, or
                       adjournment of the meeting.
 
   B.   Notice Of Electronic Meetings: The Council may convene electronic
meetings when necessary. Unless otherwise indicated on the meeting agenda,
Council members may participate in all meetings electronically. It shall be the
responsibility of each Council member to contact the meeting administrator
prior to the meeting to assure that facilities are set up for the meeting to
participate electronically.
   C.   Quorum Verification: No electronic meeting shall be convened unless a
quorum of the Council is able to participate either in person or electronically
in the meeting.
   D.   Public Attendance: Each electronic meeting shall be convened by the
meeting administrator by announcing the parties present at the meeting and by
making available to members of the public at the anchor location an amplified
speaker or video monitor enabling members of the public to hear the comments of
Council members and the conduct of the meeting.
   E.   Conduct Of The Meeting: All meeting shall be conducted by a Council
member who is physically at the meeting unless all Council members are
appearing electronically or telephonically. Upon determining that a sufficient
number of the Council are present for the meeting to be convened and members of
the public can adequately hear the comments of all members of the Council, the
Mayor or council member conducting the meeting shall formally convene the
meeting and take a roll call of those participating. If a Council member is
disconnected during the meeting, it shall be within the discretion of the Mayor
or other council member conducting the meeting to determine whether to continue
the meeting without the person or wait until they can be reconnected. The Mayor
or other council member conducting the meeting may also move agenda items to
provide time to try to reconnect.
   F.   Compliance With Law: In all other respects, electronic or telephonic
meetings shall be conducted, recorded, and minutes shall be kept as required by
law for all other open and public meetings, or for all other record keeping
purposes of the Town. (Res. 2020-02, 3- -20)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Creating Offices; Filling Vacancies
1-6-2: Town Clerk And Town Treasurer
1-6-3: Bonds Of Officers
1-6-4: Oath Of Office
1-6-5: Duties Of All Officers
1-6-6: Compensation
1-6-7: Supervision By Mayor
1-6-1: CREATING OFFICES; FILLING VACANCIES:
   A.   Offices Created By Council: The town council may create any office
deemed necessary for the government of the town and provide for filling
vacancies in elective and appointive offices.
   B.   Mayor To Appoint And Fill Vacancies: The mayor, with the advice and
consent of the town council, may appoint and fill vacancies in all offices
provided for by law or ordinance.
   C.   Continuation In Office: All appointed officers shall continue in office
until their successors are appointed and qualified. (2001 Code)
1-6-2: TOWN CLERK AND TOWN TREASURER:
   A.   Appointment: On or before the first Monday in February following a town
election, the mayor, with the advice and consent of the town council, shall
appoint a qualified person to each of the offices of town clerk and town
treasurer.
   B.   Ex Officio Auditor: The town clerk is ex officio town auditor and shall
perform the duties of that office. (1976 Code § 3-611; amd. 2001 Code)
1-6-3: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Approval Of Bonds: The bonds of the council members shall be approved
by the mayor and the bond of the mayor shall be approved by the town council at
the first meeting of the town council in January following a town election.
(2001 Code)
   B.   Premium Paid By Town: The premium charged by a corporate surety for any
bond required by the town shall be paid by the town. (1976 Code § 3-521)
   C.   Additional Bonds; Filing: The town council may at any time require
further and additional bonds of any or all officers elected or appointed. All
bonds given by the officers, except as otherwise provided by law, shall be
filed with the town clerk, except that the bond of the town clerk shall be
filed with the town treasurer. (2001 Code)
   D.   Bond Amounts: Before taking the oath of office and entering on the
duties of their respective office, the following named town officials shall
each give a bond with good and sufficient securities, payable to the town,
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of their office and the
payment of all monies received by such officers according to law and the
ordinances of the town, in the following amounts:
 
Mayor                $ 1,000.00
Council member       1,000.00
Town treasurer       5,000.00
Town clerk           5,000.00
Justice of the peace 1,000.00
 
   E.   Treasurer's Bond: The town treasurer's bond shall be superseded by any
rule, regulation or directive of the state money management council when such
rule, regulation or directive is binding upon the town.
   F.   Blanket Bond: The bond required in this section may be a blanket bond.
(1976 Code § 3-521; amd. 2001 Code)
1-6-4: OATH OF OFFICE:
   A.   Constitutional Oath Of Office: All officers, whether elected or
appointed, before entering on the duties of their respective offices shall
take, subscribe and file the constitutional oath of office. The form of oath
shall be as provided in the Utah constitution article IV, section 10. (1976
Code §§ 3-531, 3-532; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Filing: The oath of office required under this section shall be
administered by any judge, notary public or by the town clerk. Elected
officials shall take their oath of office at twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the
first Monday in January following their election or as soon thereafter as is
practical. Appointed officers shall take their oath at any time before entering
on their duties. All oaths of office shall be filed with the town clerk.
   C.   Acts Of Officials Not Voided: No official act of any town officer shall
be invalid for the reason that he failed to take the oath of office. (2001
Code)
1-6-5: DUTIES OF ALL OFFICERS:
It shall be the duty of all officers of the town to:
   A.   Records To Successor: Deliver to their successor within one week after
the change of office all records, documents and property which belong to the
town.
   B.   Deliver Funds To Treasurer: Deliver to the town treasurer within one
week after receipt of such funds all funds of the town which the officer
receives.
   C.   Sign Required Records: Sign within a reasonable time all papers,
documents and records received by him which require his signature.
   D.   Perform Duties Imposed: Perform all duties imposed on him by virtue of
the office held.
   E.   Issue Receipts: Give receipts on forms provided by the town clerk for
all sums of money received, collected or paid them or their assistants. (1976
Code § 3-631)
1-6-6: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Specified:
      1.   The salary of the officers and employees of the town shall be paid
monthly.
      2.   The monthly salary of the officers and employees of the town shall
be as determined by ordinance.
   B.   Benefits: In addition to the salary paid the officers and employees of
the town, they shall receive the following benefits:
      1.   Health and accident insurance for themselves and their families on
such basis and cost to the employee or officer as the town council may from
time to time establish by resolution.
      2.   Vacation and sick leave on such basis as the town council may from
time to time establish by resolution.
      3.   Participation in the Utah state retirement program on such basis and
cost as the town council may from time to time establish by resolution. (1976
Code § 3-551; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Serving Two Or More Positions: Whenever any person serves in two (2) or
more positions either as officers or employees of this town, unless otherwise
specifically provided in the employment agreement, by ordinance or by
resolution, that person shall receive the salary or compensation of the office
or employment paying the greater amount. (1976 Code § 3-553)
   D.   Expenses: In addition to all other compensation or salaries, any
officer or employee of the town may receive, following the submission to the
town clerk of a claim, travel expenses and per diem to be reimbursed in an
amount not to exceed the rates and per diem established by the Utah state
department of finance for expenses actually incurred by the person for
attending any meeting, conference, seminar or training session, provided
attendance shall have been approved by the town council. (1976 Code § 3-554)
1-6-7: SUPERVISION BY MAYOR:
The mayor shall supervise the official conduct of all officers of the town and
investigate or cause to be investigated and present any complaint to the town
council, together with the results of the investigation, at the next regular
meeting of the town council after the complaint is received by him. (1976 Code
§ 3-623)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Adoption Of State Code
1-7-1: ADOPTION OF STATE CODE:
All elections of town officers and other elections conducted within the town
shall be in accordance with the Utah election code, as set out in Utah Code
Annotated title 20A. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 8
RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-8-1: State Statute Adopted
1-8-2: Public Records
1-8-1: STATE STATUTE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah government records access and management act (Utah Code
Annotated section 63-2-101 et seq.), as amended, are hereby adopted by the
town. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this
section and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this section if proceeded hereunder. (2001 Code)
1-8-2: PUBLIC RECORDS:
   A.   Inspection By Public: The records of the town shall be open to
inspection by the public during regular business hours, except as is herein
provided.
   B.   Cost For Copies: Any public record of the town may be copied or
electronically reproduced for any member of the public on payment to the town
clerk of the sum of two dollars ($2.00) for the first page copied and ten cents
($0.10) for each page copied thereafter, whether the copy is of the same or
another document or page.
   C.   Elected Officials; Right Of Inspection: Any elected official of the
town shall at all times have the right to inspect the books, records and papers
of the town. (1976 Code § 3-344)
CHAPTER 9
PURCHASING POLICY
SECTION:
1-9-1: General Provisions
1-9-2: Office Of The Purchasing Agent
1-9-3: Source Selection And Contract Formation; General Provisions
1-9-4: Specifications
1-9-5: Appeals
1-9-6: Ethics In Public Contracting
1-9-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The underlying purposes of this policy are:
      1.   To ensure fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to,
or do conduct business with the town of Hatch.
      2.   To provide for the greatest possible economy in town procurement
activities.
      3.   To foster effective broad based competition within the enterprise
system to ensure that the town will receive the best possible service or
product at the lowest possible price.
   B.   Compliance; Exemptions From This Policy:
      1.   This policy shall not prevent the town from complying with the terms
and conditions of any grant, gift, or bequest that is otherwise consistent with
law.
      2.   When a procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance
funds, the town shall comply with applicable federal law and regulations.
   C.   Definitions:
   BUSINESS: Any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship,
joint stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.
   CHANGE ORDER: A written order signed by the purchasing agent, directing the
contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses of
the contract authorize the purchasing agent to order without the consent of the
contractor or any written alteration in specifications, delivery point, rate of
delivery, period of performance, price, quantity, or other provisions of any
contract accomplished by mutual action of the parties to the contract.
   CONTRACT: Any town agreement for the procurement or disposal of supplies,
services, or construction.
   INVITATION FOR BIDS: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting bids.
   PERSON: Any business, individual, union, committee, club, other
organization, or group of individuals.
   PROCUREMENT: Buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with an option to
purchase, or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services, or construction.
   PURCHASE DESCRIPTION: The words used in a solicitation to describe the
supplies, services, or construction to be purchased, and includes
specifications attached to or made a part of the solicitation.
   PURCHASING AGENT: The person duly authorized by the town council of the town
to enter into and administer contracts and make written determinations with
respect thereto.
   REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS: All documents, whether attached or incorporated by
reference, used for soliciting proposals. (Ord. 2003-02, 1-9-2003)
1-9-2: OFFICE OF THE PURCHASING AGENT:
The purchasing agent shall be responsible to make procurements, solicit bids
and proposals, enter into and administer contracts, and make written
determinations for the town. The mayor and/or the town council of the town
shall act as the purchasing agent. (Ord. 2003-02, 1-9-2003)
1-9-3: SOURCE SELECTION AND CONTRACT FORMATION; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purchases Not Requiring Sealed Bids:
      1.   Purchases costing less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in
total shall not require bids of any type. (Purchases shall not be artificially
divided so as to constitute a small purchase under this section.)
      2.   Purchases costing more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) but
less than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) in total shall require two
(2) to three (3) telephone bids.
      3.   Purchases made through the cooperative purchasing contracts
administered by the state division of purchasing.
      4.   Purchases made from a single source provider.
      5.   Purchases required during an emergency, i.e., an imminent threat to
the public's health, welfare, or safety. However, as much competition as
practical should be obtained; and, such purchases should be limited to amounts
necessary to the resolution of the emergency.
      6.   Purchases in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00) require town
council approval.
   B.   Purchases Requiring Sealed Bids:
      1.   Contracts shall be awarded by competitive sealed bidding except as
otherwise provided by this policy.
      2.   An invitation for bids shall be issued when a contract is to be
awarded by competitive sealed bidding. The invitation shall include a purchase
description and all contractual terms and conditions applicable to the
procurement. Public notice of the invitation for bids shall be given at least
twenty one (21) days prior to the date set forth therein for the opening of
bids. The notice may include publication in a newspaper of general circulation.
      3.   Any procurement in excess of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) shall require a legal notice in a local newspaper of general
circulation.
      4.   Bids shall be opened publicly in the presence of one or more
witnesses at the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. The
amount of each bid and any other relevant information, together with the name
of each bidder, shall be recorded. The record and each bid shall be open to
public inspection.
      5.   Bids shall be unconditionally accepted without alteration or
correction, except as authorized in this policy. Bids shall be evaluated based
on the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids.
      6.   Correction or withdrawal of inadvertently erroneous bids before and
after award, or cancellation of awards or contracts based on such bid mistakes,
shall be permitted. After bid opening no changes in bid prices or other
provisions of bids prejudicial to the interest of the town or fair competition
shall be permitted. All decisions to permit the correction or withdrawal of
bids or to cancel awards or contracts based on bid mistakes shall be supported
by a written determination made by the purchasing agent.
      7.   The contract shall be awarded with reasonable promptness, by written
notice, to the lowest bidder whose bid meets the requirements and criteria set
forth in the invitation for bids.
   C.   Cancellation And Rejection Of Bids: An invitation for bids, a request
for proposals, or other solicitation may be cancelled, or any or all bids or
proposals may be rejected, in whole or in part, as may be specified in the
solicitation, when it is in the best interests of the town. The reasons shall
be made part of the contract file.
   D.   Use Of Competitive Sealed Proposals In Lieu Of Bids: When the
purchasing agent determines in writing that the use of competitive sealed
bidding is either not practicable or not advantageous to the town, a contract
may be entered into by competitive sealed proposals. Competitive sealed
proposals are most appropriately used for professional service type contracts.
      1.   Proposals shall be solicited through a request for proposals. Public
notice of the request for proposals shall be given at least twenty one (21)
days prior to the advertised date of the opening of the proposals.
      2.   Proposals shall be opened so as to avoid disclosure of contents to
competing offerors during the process of negotiation. A register of proposals
shall be prepared and shall be open for public inspection after contract award.
      3.   The request for proposals shall state the relative importance of
price and other evaluating factors.
      4.   Offerors shall be accorded fair and equal treatment with respect to
any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals, and revisions may be
permitted after submissions and prior to award for the purpose of obtaining
best and final offers. In conducting discussions, there shall be no disclosure
of any information derived from proposals submitted by competing offerors.
      5.   Award shall be made to the person whose proposal is determined, in
writing, to be the most advantageous to the town, taking into consideration
price and the evaluation factors set forth in the request for proposals. No
other factors or criteria shall be used in the evaluation. The contract file
shall contain the basis on which the award is made.
   E.   Architect-Engineer Services: Architect-engineer services are
qualification based procurements. Requests for such services should be publicly
announced. Contracts should be negotiated by the town based on demonstrated
competence at fair and reasonable prices. See sections 63-56-42 through 44 of
the Utah code.
   F.   Determination Of Nonresponsibility Of Bidder: Determination of
nonresponsibility of a bidder or offeror shall be made in writing. The
unreasonable failure of a bidder or offeror to promptly supply information in
connection with an inquiry with respect to responsibility may be grounds for a
determination of nonresponsibility with respect to the bidder or offeror.
Information furnished by a bidder or offeror pursuant to this section shall not
be disclosed outside of the purchasing division without prior written consent
by the bidder or offeror.
   G.   Prohibited Contracts: "Cost plus a percentage of cost" contracts
prohibited.
   H.   Required Contract Clauses:
      1.   The unilateral right of the town to order, in writing, changes in
the work within the scope of the contract and changes in the time of
performance of the contract that do not alter the scope of the contract work.
      2.   Variations occurring between estimated quantities of work in a
contract and actual quantities.
      3.   Suspension of work ordered by the town. (Ord. 2003-02, 1-9-2003)
1-9-4: SPECIFICATIONS:
All specifications shall seek to promote overall economy and best use for the
purposes intended and encourage competition in satisfying the town's needs, and
shall not be unduly restrictive. Where practical and reasonable, and within the
scope of this chapter, Utah products shall be given preference. (Ord. 2003-02,
1-9-2003)
1-9-5: APPEALS:
   A.   Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror, or contractor who is
aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a contract may appeal
to the purchasing agent. An appeal shall be submitted in writing within five
(5) working days after the aggrieved person knows or should have known of the
facts.
   B.   The purchasing agent shall promptly issue a written decision, regarding
any appeal, if it is not settled by a mutual agreement. The decision shall
state the reasons for the action taken and inform the protestor, contractor, or
prospective contractor of the right to appeal to the town council.
   C.   The town council shall be the final appeal on the town level.
   D.   All further appeals shall be handled as provided in sections 63-56-58
through 64 of the Utah code. (Ord. 2003-02, 1-9-2003)
1-9-6: ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING:
   A.   No person involved in making procurement decisions may have personal
investments in any business entity which will create a substantial conflict
between their private interests and their public duties.
   B.   Any person involved in making procurement decisions is guilty of a
felony if the person asks, receives, or offers to receive any emolument,
gratuity, contribution, loan, or reward, or any promise thereof, either for the
person's own use or benefit of any other person or organization from any person
or organization interested in selling to the town. (Ord. 2003-02, 1-9-2003)
CHAPTER 10
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Purpose
1-10-2: Definition
1-10-3: Guidelines
1-10-4: Analysis
1-10-5: Appeals
1-10-6: Limitations
1-10-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide advisory guidelines for the town to
assist the town in identifying actions that involve physical taking or exaction
of private real property that may have constitutional taking issues. (Ord.
2003-03, 5-21-2003)
1-10-2: DEFINITION:
As used herein:
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING ISSUES: Actions involving the physical or regulatory
taking of private real property by the town that might require compensation to
a private real property owner under:
   A.   The fifth or fourteenth amendment of the constitution of the United
States;
   B.   Article I, section 22 of the Utah constitution; or
   C.   Any recent court rulings governing the physical or regulatory taking of
private real property by a governmental entity. (Ord. 2003-03, 5-21-2003)
1-10-3: GUIDELINES:
The following guidelines shall be considered by the town when taking any action
that might result in the physical or regulatory taking of private real
property:
   A.   Identification: The town should review the following to determine and
identify whether a proposed governmental action raises constitutional taking
issues.
      1.   Does the action result in a permanent physical occupation of private
property?
      2.   Does the action require a property owner to dedicate property or
grant an easement to the town?
      3.   Does the action deprive the property owner of all economically
viable uses of the property?
      4.   Does the action have a severe impact on the property owner's
economic interest?
      5.   Does the action deny a fundamental attribute of ownership? (Ord.
2003-03, 5-21-2003)
1-10-4: ANALYSIS:
If the town determines that a governmental action involves constitutional
taking issues, the proposed action should be reviewed by the town to analyze
the possible taking and to determine the action to be taken. In reviewing the
proposed action, the following factors may be analyzed:
   A.   The effect the potential taking would have on the use or value of the
private property;
   B.   The likelihood that the action may result in a constitutional taking;
   C.   Any alternatives to the proposed action that would fulfill the town's
lawful objectives and reduce the risk of a constitutional taking;
   D.   The cost to the town for payment of compensation if a taking is
determined;
   E.   The governmental interest involved and its nexus to the potential
taking; and
   F.   If the action is roughly proportionate or reasonably related to the
impact of any proposed development. (Ord. 2003-03, 5-21-2003)
1-10-5: APPEALS:
Any owner of private property whose interest in the property is subject to a
physical or regulatory taking by the town, pursuant to a final and
authoritative decision or action of the town, may appeal the town's decision or
action by filing a written notice of appeal and statement of the grounds for
the appeal in the town clerk's office within thirty (30) days from the date of
the town's decision or action. The town council or its designee shall hear all
evidence regarding the appeal and render its decision and findings in writing
within fourteen (14) days from the date the appeal was filed. If the town fails
to hear and decide the appeal within fourteen (14) days, the town's decision or
action is presumed to be approved. (Ord. 2003-03, 5-21-2003)
1-10-6: LIMITATIONS:
The guidelines set forth herein are advisory only and shall not be construed to
expand nor limit the scope of the town's liability for a constitutional taking.
The town shall have no legal liability to any person, firm or entity of any
nature whatsoever and a court may not impose liability upon the town for
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-03, 5-21-
2003)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Established
2-1-2: Terms Of Office
2-1-3: Organization
2-1-4: Duties And Powers
2-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
   A.   Membership: There is hereby created a planning commission to be
composed of five (5) members. Members of the town council may not be appointed
to the planning commission. (1976 Code § 12-111; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Appointment: Planning Commission board members will be appointed by the
mayor with the advice and consent of the town council. (2001 Code)
   C.   Compensation: Members of the planning commission shall serve without
compensation, except for reasonable expenses incurred in performing their
duties as members of the planning commission. (1976 Code § 12-111)
2-1-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The terms of the planning commission shall be staggered. Each member of the
planning commission shall serve for a term of two (2) years and until his
successor is appointed; provided, that the term of the first members shall be
such that the terms of two (2) members shall expire each year. Terms of members
of the planning commission shall begin on or before the first Monday in
February of each year. The town council may remove any member of the planning
commission for cause and after a public hearing, if one is required. Vacancies
shall be promptly filled in the same manner as the original appointment for the
remainder of the unexpired term. (1976 Code § 12-112)
2-1-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Chairman; Adoption Of Rules: The members of the planning commission
shall select from their own members a chairperson and such other officers as
deemed necessary and shall adopt rules and regulations for their organization
and for the transaction of business and the conduct of their proceedings.
   B.   Reports To Town Council: Reports of official acts and recommendations
of the planning commission shall be public and made by the chairperson in
writing to the town council and shall indicate how each member of the planning
commission voted with respect to such act or recommendation. Any member of the
planning commission may also make a concurring or dissenting report or
recommendation to the town council.
   C.   Meetings: The planning commission shall meet every six (6) months and
at such other times as the planning commission may determine. (1976 Code § 12-
113)
   D.   Quorum: Three (3) members of the planning commission shall constitute a
quorum. (1976 Code § 12-113; amd. 2001 Code)
2-1-4: DUTIES AND POWERS:
The planning commission shall have all of the powers and duties explicitly or
impliedly given planning commissions by the laws of the state. (1976 Code § 12-
114)
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
2-2-1: Established
2-2-2: State Statutes Applicable
2-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the provisions of Utah law relating to planning and
zoning, there is hereby created a board of adjustment, which shall consist of
five (5) members, one member of which shall be a member of the planning
commission. The chief executive officer shall appoint the members and alternate
members with the advice and consent of the legislative body for a term of five
(5) years. The town council may fix per diem compensation for the members of
the board of adjustment by resolution, based on necessary and reasonable
expenses for meetings actually attended. (1976 Code § 12-121; amd. 2001 Code)
2-2-2: STATE STATUTES APPLICABLE:
The town hereby adopts by reference the provisions of Utah Code Annotated
section 10-9-701 et seq. (2001 Code)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: License Assessor And Collector
3-1-3: Business License Required; Penalty
3-1-4: Application For License
3-1-5: Fee For License
3-1-6: Payment Dates
3-1-7: Certificate Of License
3-1-8: Transfer Of License Prohibited
3-1-9: Branch Establishments
3-1-10: Joint Business Licenses
3-1-11: Reciprocal Recognition; Delivery Of Goods
3-1-12: Exemptions To License
3-1-13: Revocation Or Denial Of License
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title:
BUSINESS: Includes all activities engaged in within the town carried on for the
purpose of gain or economic profit, except that the acts of employees rendering
service to employers shall not be included in the term "business", unless
otherwise specifically provided.
EACH SEPARATE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate establishment or place of
operation, whether or not operating under the same name, within the town,
including a home or other place of lodging if the same is held out by
advertisements, listings or otherwise as the establishment or place of
operation of a person engaging in the business of selling tangible, personal
property at either retail or wholesale, or both, in the town.
EMPLOYEE: The operator or manager of a place of business and any persons
employed in the operation of said place of business in any capacity and also
any salesperson, agent or independent contractor engaged in the operation of
the place of business in any capacity.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Includes, but is not limited to, the sale of tangible
personal property at retail or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or
property and the rendering of personal services for others for a consideration
by persons engaged in any profession, trade, craft, business, occupation or
other calling, except the rendering of personal services by an employee to his
employer under any contract of personal employment.
PLACE OF BUSINESS: Each separate location maintained or operated by the
licensee within the town from which business activity is conducted or
transacted.
WHOLESALE: A sale of tangible personal property by wholesalers to retail
merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers for resale, and does not
include a sale by wholesalers or retailers to users or consumers not for
resale, except as otherwise specified.
WHOLESALER: A person doing a regularly organized wholesale or jobbing business
and selling to retail merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers, for the
purpose of resale. (1976 Code § 9-111; amd. 2001 Code)
3-1-2: LICENSE ASSESSOR AND COLLECTOR:
The town clerk is designated and appointed as ex officio assessor of license
fees for the town. Upon receipt of any application for a license, the town
clerk shall assess the amount due thereon and shall collect all license fees
based upon the rate established by resolution. He shall enforce all provisions
of this title, and shall cause to be filed complaints against all persons
violating any of the provisions of this title. (1976 Code § 9-113; amd. 2001
Code)
3-1-3: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED; PENALTY:
It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to transact, engage in or carry on any
business, trade, profession, calling or to operate a vending, pinball or coin
operated machine without first receiving the class or type of license required
by the town. (1976 Code § 9-112; amd. 2001 Code)
3-1-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: All applications for license shall include:
      1.   The name of the person desiring a license.
      2.   The kind of license desired, stating the business, calling, trade or
profession to be performed, practiced or carried on.
      3.   The class of license desired, if such licenses are divided into
classes.
      4.   The place where such business, calling, trade or profession is to be
carried on, giving the street number if the business, calling, trade or
profession is to be carried on in any building or enclosure having such number.
      5.   The period of time for which such license is desired to be issued.
   B.   Coin Operated Machine Or Device: In the event that the license
application relates to a coin operated machine or device, the application shall
identify the machine or device to which it applies and the location thereof.
(1976 Code § 9-116)
3-1-5: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Fee Schedule: There is hereby imposed and levied a business license fee
in such amount as established by resolution of the town council on the
business, location, trade, calling or profession on every person engaged in a
business within the town. (1976 Code § 9-211; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Interstate Commerce: None of the license fees provided for by this
section shall be applied as to occasion an undue burden on interstate commerce.
In any case, where a license fee is believed by a licensee or applicant for
license to place an undue burden upon such commerce, he may apply to the
license assessor and collector for an adjustment of the fee so that it shall
not be discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair as to such commerce. Such
application may be made before, at, or within six (6) months after payment of
the prescribed license fee. The applicant shall, by affidavit and supporting
testimony, show his method of business and the gross volume or estimated gross
volume of business and such other information as the license assessor and
collector may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of such
undue burden on such commerce. The license assessor and collector shall then
conduct an investigation, comparing applicant's business with other businesses
of like nature and shall make findings of fact from which he shall determine
whether the fee fixed by this section is discriminatory, unreasonable or unfair
as to applicant's business and shall recommend to the town council a license
fee for the applicant in an amount that is nondiscriminatory, reasonable and
fair, and if the town council is satisfied that such license fee is the amount
that the applicant should pay, it shall fix the license fee in such amount. If
the regular license fee has already been paid, the town council shall order a
refund of the amount over and above the fee fixed by the town council. In
fixing the fee to be charged, the license assessor and collector shall have the
power to base the fee upon a percentage of gross sales, or employees, or may
use any other method which will assure that the fee assessed shall be uniform
with that assessed on businesses of like nature. (1976 Code § 9-125; amd. 2001
Code)
3-1-6: PAYMENT DATES:
All license fees shall be due and payable as follows, except as may be
otherwise provided. (1976 Code § 9-114; amd. 2001 Code)
   A.   Payable: Annual fees shall be payable before each calendar year, in
advance. The annual license shall date from June 1 of each year and shall
expire on May 31 of the following year.
   B.   Due: Annual fees shall be due on June 1 of each calendar year and shall
become delinquent if not paid by July 1 of each year.
   C.   Issued After November 1: One-half (1/2) of the annual fee shall be
payable for all licenses issued by the town pursuant to applications made after
November 1 of each year, and licenses issued after November 1 shall expire on
June 1 of the year following. Payment shall be due upon the date of application
approval. (1976 Code § 9-114; amd. Res. 2008-07, 8-20-2008)
   D.   Penalty For Late Payment: If any license fee is not paid within thirty
(30) days of the due date, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of such
license fee shall be added to the original amount thereof. No license shall be
issued until all penalties legally assessed have been paid in full. (1976 Code
§ 9-115)
3-1-7: CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: All certificates of license shall be signed by the mayor,
attested by the town clerk, and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name: The name of the person to whom such certificate has been
issued.
      2.   Amount: The amount paid.
      3.   Type: The type of license and the class of such license, if licenses
are divided into classes.
      4.   Term: The term of the license with the commencing date and the date
of its expiration.
      5.   Location: The place where such business, calling, trade or
profession is to be conducted. (1976 Code § 9-117)
   B.   Display:
      1.   Required: Every certificate of license issued under this chapter
shall be posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place upon the wall of the
building, room or office of the place of business so that the same may be
easily seen. When such certificate of license has expired, it shall be removed
by the licensee from such place in which it has been posted, and no certificate
of license which is not in force and effect shall be permitted to remain posted
upon the wall or any part of any room within the place of business. If the
licensee's business is such that a license cannot be displayed due to the
transient or mobile nature of the business, then the licensee shall carry the
license on his person, ready to be shown upon request by an authorized officer
during all such time or times while the licensee is engaged in or pursuing the
business for which a license is granted.
      2.   Coin-Operated Machine: In the event the license is for a coin-
operated machine or device, the certificate shall be attached or displayed in
the immediate vicinity of the machine for which it has been issued. (1976 Code
§ 9-118)
3-1-8: TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED:
No license granted or issued under any ordinance of the town shall be assigned
or transferred to any other person. It shall not be deemed to authorize any
person other than therein named to do business or to authorize any other
business, calling, trade or profession than is therein named, unless by
permission of the town council. (1976 Code § 9-119)
3-1-9: BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS:
A separate license must be obtained for each separate place of business in the
town and each license shall authorize the licensee to engage only in the
business licensed thereby at the location or in the manner designated in such
license; provided, that warehouses and distributing places used in connection
with or incident to a business licensed under this chapter shall not be deemed
to be separate places of business or branch establishments. (1976 Code § 9-121)
3-1-10: JOINT BUSINESS LICENSES:
Whenever any person is engaged in two (2) or more businesses at the same
location within the town, such person shall not be required to obtain separate
licenses for conducting each of such businesses, but shall be issued one
license which shall specify on its face all such businesses. The license fee to
be paid shall be computed at the highest license fee applicable to any of the
businesses being conducted at such location. The sale of beer or any other
product or service requiring an additional license shall be subject to such
additional licensing requirement. Where two (2) or more persons conduct
separate businesses at the same location, each such person shall obtain a
license for such business and pay the required license fee for such business.
(1976 Code § 9-122; amd. 2001 Code)
3-1-11: RECIPROCAL RECOGNITION; DELIVERY OF GOODS:
   A.   Exceptions: No license shall be required for operation of any vehicle
or equipment in the town when:
      1.   Such vehicle is merely passing through the town.
      2.   Such vehicle is used exclusively in intertown or interstate
commerce.
   B.   Delivery Of Property: No license shall be required by this chapter of
any person whose only business activity in the town is the mere delivery in the
town of property sold by him at a regular place of business maintained by him
outside the town where:
      1.   Such person's business is at the time of such delivery licensed by
the Utah municipality or county in which such place of business is situated;
and
      2.   The authority licensing such business grants to licensees of the
town making deliveries within its jurisdiction the same privileges, upon
substantially the same terms, as are granted by this section; and
      3.   Neither the property delivered nor any of the facilities by which it
was manufactured, produced or processed are subject to inspection by authority
of the town for compliance with health or sanitary standards prescribed by the
town; and
      4.   The truck or other conveyance by which such delivery is made
prominently displays at all times a license plate or symbol issued by the said
licensing authority to evidence such business license. Such plate or symbol
shall identify the licensing authority by which it is issued, shall indicate
that it evidences a license issued thereby, and shall specify the year or term
for which it is effective.
   C.   Certification Of Section: The town clerk shall, at the request of any
person, certify a copy of this section to any municipality or county of the
state to which a copy has not previously been certified. (1976 Code § 9-123)
3-1-12: EXEMPTIONS TO LICENSE:
   A.   Tax Exempt Businesses: No license fee shall be imposed under section
3-1-5 of this chapter on any person engaged in business for solely religious,
charitable, eleemosynary or other type of strictly nonprofit purpose which is
tax exempt in such activities under the laws of the United States and the
state, nor shall any license fee be imposed on any person engaged in a business
specifically exempted from municipal taxation and fees by the laws of the
United States or the state; nor shall any license fee be imposed upon any
person not maintaining a place of business within the town who has paid a like
or similar license tax or fee to some other taxing unit within the state and
which taxing unit exempts from its license tax or fee, by reciprocal agreement
or otherwise, businesses domiciled in the town and doing business in such
taxing unit.
   B.   Reciprocal Agreements With Other Agencies: The license assessor and
collector may, with approval of the town council, enter into reciprocal
agreements with the proper officials of other taxing units, as may be deemed
equitable and proper in effecting the exemption provided for in subsection A of
this section. (1976 Code § 9-124)
3-1-13: REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Failure To Comply; Unlawful Activities: Any license issued pursuant to
the provisions of this code or of any ordinance of the town may be revoked and
any application denied by the town council because of:
      1.   The failure of the licensee or applicant to comply with the
conditions and requirements of this code or any ordinance of the town.
      2.   Unlawful activities conducted or permitted on the premises where the
business is conducted.
   B.   Notice To Licensee: Prior to the revocation of a license or denial of
an application to renew a business license, the licensee or applicant shall be
given a notice which shall state in substance that the town council intends to
revoke the business license or deny the application to renew, together with the
reason or reasons therefor, at a regular or special meeting of the town council
(which shall be at least 10 days and not more than 30 days from the date notice
is sent), and that the licensee or applicant has a right to appear, to be
represented by counsel, to hear the evidence against him, to cross-examine
witnesses and to present evidence as to why the license should not be revoked
or the application denied.
   C.   Not Applicable To Businesses Not Previously Licensed: The preceding
subsection shall not apply to applications for licenses for businesses which
have not previously been licensed by the town, and such applicants need only be
informed that their application has been denied. (1976 Code § 9-120)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
ARTICLE A. DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Definitions
3-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:    Beer and liquor as the terms are defined in the Utah
                        Code.
                        A license entailing the licensee to sell beer on the
CLASS A LIQUOR SALES:   licensed premises in original containers for
                        consumption off the premises.
                        A business license for a full service restaurant that
                        entitles the licensee to sell alcoholic beverages in
                        original containers of a size not to exceed one quart
                        capacity or in individual portions for consumption on
CLASS B LIQUOR SALES:   the licensed premises of the restaurant in which food
                        sales must constitute no less than seventy percent
                        (70%) of the gross monetary receipts of the licensee's
                        business and in connection with the restaurant liquor
                        license issued by the state of Utah.
LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: The agency enforcing federal, state and Town laws and
                        ordinances on behalf of Hatch Town.
                        Any property, building, enclosure, room or equipment
LICENSED PREMISES:      used in connection with the sale, storage, distribution
                        or consumption of alcoholic beverages or products.
                        Any person issued a Class A license by the Town to sell
LICENSEE:               beer at retail, or a Class B business license for a
                        restaurant selling liquor on the premises.
MINOR:                  Any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years of
                        age.
                        Any person operating a bona fide regularly established
                        retail store selling beer, together with other
OFF SITE RETAILER:      commodities, and engaged in the sale of beer only in
                        the original package, to be taken away from the
                        premises of the retailer and to be consumed off the
                        premises.
                        Any person operating a restaurant or other
ON SITE RETAILER:       establishment where beer is sold in the original
                        container for consumption on the premises and in
                        individual portions for consumption on the premises.
                        A retail liquor location operated under a contractual
PACKAGE AGENCY:         agreement with the State, by a person other than the
                        State.
PERSON:                 Includes partnership, association, company or
                        corporation, as well as a natural person.
                        The area from which the licensee is authorized to sell,
PREMISES:               dispense or serve alcoholic beverages under the
                        provision of the license.
                        Any building or permanent structure owned or leased by
                        the State, a county or local government entity that is
                        used for public education, transacting public business
PUBLIC BUILDING:        or regularly conducting government activities. "Public
                        Building" does not mean or refer to any building owned
                        by the State or a county or local government entity
                        when the building is used by anyone in whole or in part
                        for proprietary functions.
                        A place of business where a variety of food is prepared
                        and complete meals are served to the general public,
RESTAURANT:             located on a premises having adequate culinary fixtures
                        for food preparation and dining accommodations, and
                        whose primary purpose is the service of meals to the
                        public.
                        Includes soliciting or receiving an order for, keeping
SALE:                   or exposing for sale, delivering for value, peddling,
                        keeping with intent to sell, and trafficking in.
                        A short period of on-site consumption event not to
                        exceed five (5) days, which is sponsored by a bona fide
                        partnership, corporation, limited liability company,
                        church, political organization, or incorporated
SINGLE EVENT:           association, subordinate lodge, chapter, or other local
                        unit thereof that is conducting a civic or community
                        enterprise or convention. The organization shall have
                        been in existence as a bona fide organization for at
                        least one (1) year prior to the date of application.
                        (Ord. 2024-07, 6-19-2024)
 
ARTICLE B. LIQUOR SALE CLASSES AND LICENSES
SECTION:
3-2B-1: Generally
3-2B-2: License Required
3-2B-3: Application For License
3-2B-4: Qualification Of Licensee
3-2B-5: Fees
3-2B-6: Proximity; Investigation; Inspection
3-2B-7: Bond Required
3-2B-8: Issuance; Conditions
3-2B-9: Transfer Of License
3-2B-1: GENERALLY:
   A.   Liquor Sale Classes Allowed: Retail alcoholic beverage sales permitted
in the Town shall be Class A or B.
   B.   Town Council shall hear all requests for new Class A and B alcoholic
beverage sales before any license is granted with the Town.
   C.   All Class A beer sale or Class B restaurant business licenses shall
expire on December 31 of each year. (Ord. 2024-07, 6-19-2024)
3-2B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, licensee, permittee, or their officers,
managers, employees or agents to keep for sale, or to directly or indirectly or
upon any pretense or devise, offer to sell, sell, or otherwise furnish or
supply to another any alcoholic beverage or product, within the Town without
first having procured a license therefore from the Town Council as hereinafter
provided. A separate license shall be required for each place of sale, and the
license shall at all times be conspicuously displayed on the premises. All
licenses shall comply with the alcoholic beverage control act of Utah, the
regulations of the alcoholic beverage control commission, and the applicable
ordinances of the Town. (Ord. 2024-07, 6-19-2024)
3-2B-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application: An application for a license to engage in the business of
a retailer of beer within the Town of for a business license for a restaurant
which will sell liquor shall be made in writing on forms provided by the Town
Clerk/Recorder, and such application must state the applicant's name in full,
social security number, date of birth, citizenship, and residence address; the
location of the proposed license premises, the class of license desired, and
any convictions of crimes which could disqualify the applicant as a licensee as
outlined in this chapter. The application shall include a space for the
applicant to sign under penalty of law, certifying that the applicant has
complied with all requirements and possesses the qualifications for issuance of
a license, and that all information in the application is true. If the
applicant is a partnership, corporation, limited liability company or other
entity, the applicant shall set forth the names and addresses of all managers,
officers, trustees or directors. The applicant shall also set forth any
interest greater than twenty percent (20%) in the application. Application by a
partnership, limited liability company or joint venture must be subscribed and
sworn to by all partners or members. Application by a corporation must be
subscribed and sworn to by the president and secretary or trustees.
   B.   Accompanying Materials:
      1.   The application shall include evidence of the distance to the
nearest church, public playground or park.
      2.   The application shall include a non-refundable license fee.
      3.   The application for a Class B business license shall include a
certified report from the bureau of criminal identification, dated within
thirty (30) days of the application, showing any criminal history of the
applicant. (Ord. 2024-07, 6-19-2024)
3-2B-4: QUALIFICATION OF LICENSEE:
   A.   Citizenship: Every licensee shall be a bona fide citizen of the United
States or a legal resident alien. If a partnership, each partner shall be a
bona fide citizen or a legal resident alien of the United States. If a
corporation, it shall be a domestic corporation or a foreign corporation which
is qualified to do business in the State, and the corporation shall hold its
license through an agent. All employees who will either supervise or personally
handle sales of alcohol to the public shall be bona fide citizens of the U.S.
or legal resident aliens.
   B.   Corporations: Agent: A corporation which conforms to the qualifications
prescribed by subsection A of this section shall own the entire equitable
interest in its license through an agent, provided the agent is otherwise
qualified to hold a license under the provisions hereof. The agent shall be
subject to the penalties prescribed for any violation of the law relating to
alcoholic beverages. Upon the death or resignation or discharge of an agent of
a corporation holding a license, the license shall be assigned to another
qualified agent selected by the corporation.
   C.   Prior Violations: No Class A beer retail license or Class B restaurant
business license shall be issued to any person who, within one year prior to
application, has violated any provision of a license to sell alcoholic
beverages issued by the Town or any other governmental agency, or has had such
license revoked. No license shall be issued to any person or corporation in
which a partner, a managing agent, a manager, an officer, a director, or an
employee who will either supervise or personally handle sales of alcohol to the
public who, within five (5) years prior to application has been convicted of a
felony under any federal or state law; has violated any federal of state law or
local ordinance concerning the sale, manufacture, distribution, warehousing,
adulteration, or transportation of alcoholic beverages; been convicted of
crimes involving moral turpitude; on two or more occasions within five (5)
years before the license is granted, been convicted of driving under the
influence of alcohol, any drug, or a combined influence of alcohol or drugs;
had a revocation or nonrenewal of any alcoholic beverage license of said
person.
   D.   Criminal History: The Town Clerk/Recorder shall request and receive
criminal history record information from the applicant for all partners,
officers, directors, managing agents, members, joint ventures, and shareholders
holding any interest greater than twenty percent (20%) and all employees who
will either supervise or personally handle sales of alcohol to the public,
within thirty (30) days after receiving such application, and the law
enforcement agency shall add thereto its recommendation as to the granting or
denying of said application.
   E.   List Of Officers On File: Each corporation shall provide a list of
officers, directors, managing agents, members, partners, stockholders of twenty
percent (20%) or more, and all employees who will either supervise or
personally handle sales of alcohol to the public, to the Town upon application
and with annual license renewal, and at all other times when there is a change
in said list.
   F.   All applicants and any partner, officer, director, managing agent,
member or stockholder who holds at least twenty percent (20%) of the stock of
the applicant corporation, and all employees who will either supervise or
personally handle sales of alcoholic beverages to the public, shall be over the
age of twenty one (21) years. (Ord. 2024-07, 6-19-2024)
3-2B-5: FEES:
   A.   License Fees: Applications provided for in this chapter shall be
accompanied by business license fees set forth in this Title.
   B.   Class A License Fee: In addition to any other business license fee
which any person or place of business may be required to pay, there is hereby
imposed upon the business location of every person engaged in the sale or
dispensing of beer for consumption off premises an annual license fee to be
established by resolution which may change from time to time.
   C.   Issuance After July 1: If a license is issued on or after July 1 in any
year, one-half (1/2) of all annual license fees shall be charged. (Ord. 2024-
07, 6-19-2024)
3-2B-6: PROXIMITY; INVESTIGATION; INSPECTION:
The right to a license hereunder shall be conditioned upon compliance with the
following:
   A.   Proximity Specified: No licensee's premises or establishment vending
alcoholic beverages may be established within six hundred feet (600') of any
public or private school, church, public library, public playground or park, as
measured from the nearest entrance of the outlet by following the shortest
route of ordinary pedestrian traffic to the boundary of the public or private
school, church, public library, public playground or park, nor may any
licensee's premises or establishment vending alcoholic beverages be established
within two hundred feet (200') of any public or private school, church, public
library, public playground or park, as measured in a straight line from the
nearest entrance of the proposed outlet to the nearest property boundary of the
public or private school, church, public library, public playground or park.
   B.   Investigation: All applications filed in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter shall be referred to law enforcement for inspection and report.
The law enforcement agency shall within thirty (30) days after receiving such
application, sign the application as notice of approval or deny said signature
within a written statement of denial. The law enforcement agency shall include
in any report to Town Council, recommendation as to whether or not the
application should be granted.
   C.   Inspection: All licensed premises shall be subject to inspection by any
officer, agent and/or law enforcement officer of the Town, the alcoholic
beverage control commission, and/or the state board of health, and every
licensee shall, at the request of the board of health, furnish to it samples of
alcoholic beverages which he shall have for sale or consumption. Any license
granted pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the Town Council on a
finding that the licensee has had ten (10) days or more notice from the board
of health that the licensee is violating one or more health ordinances, rules
or regulations of the Town, or of the Utah division of health and has failed to
comply with such health ordinance, rule or regulation. The Town Council may
direct the law enforcement agency to close down any business licensed under
this chapter where the board of health has determined that continued operation
of the business presents an eminent danger to the health of the community or
persons who may eat or drink at the business. (Ord. 2024-07, 6-19-2024)
3-2B-7: BOND REQUIRED:
No Class A beer retail license or Class B restaurant business license shall be
granted by the Town Council until the applicant has posted a cash or corporate
surety bond in an amount set by resolution and payable to the Town. Each
licensee must procure and maintain said bond for so long as the license is in
effect. The bond shall be in a form approved by the Town Clerk/Recorder,
conditioned upon the licensee's faithful compliance with this chapter, the Utah
alcoholic beverage control act and the rules and regulations promulgated by the
Utah alcoholic beverage control commission. No part of any cash or corporate
bond so posted may be withdrawn during the period the license is in effect, or
while revocation proceedings are pending against the licensee. A bond filed by
a licensee may be forfeited if the license is finally revoked. (Ord. 2024-07,
6-19-2024)
3-2B-8: ISSUANCE; CONDITIONS:
   A.   Scope Of Class A Beer Retail License Or Class B Restaurant Business
License: A Class A beer retail license or Class B restaurant business license
shall be to sell separate license shall be issued for each specific business,
each license specifying the exact location thereof.
   B.   Applicant Reliability: The Town Council shall approve the retailing of
alcoholic beverages only after satisfactory showing of the capability,
qualifications and reliability of the applicant, and that the public
convenience requires and that the best interests of the community will be
substantially served by the issuance.
   C.   Current Status Of Other Charges: No license herein provided shall be
issued to any applicant who is in arrears in the payment to the Town for any
other Town license, or who is otherwise indebted to the Town. Failure to pay
business license fees or other charges assessed by the Town for any reason
promptly when due shall be the basis for revocation of a license issued
hereunder.
   D.   Department Of Health Permit: No license under this chapter shall be
issued until the applicant therefore shall have first procured from the
department of health a permit which shall show that the premises to be licensed
are in a sanitary condition and that the equipment used in the storage,
distribution or sale of beer or alcoholic beverages complies with all of the
regulations of the state.
   E.   Unused License: A license which is not used by the licensee for a
period of six (6) months shall revert to the Town and shall no longer have any
validity.
   F.   State Law Applicability: A license for the sale of any alcoholic
beverage shall be required as provided in Utah State Code Annotated Title 32A,
the provisions of which are hereby adopted insofar as applicable to this
chapter. All licensees must notify the Town Clerk immediately if their state-
issued license is denied, suspended or revoked for any reason.
   G.   A licensee may not purchase, acquire, possess for the purpose of
resale, or sell any alcoholic beverage except that which has been lawfully
purchased from a wholesaler or small business brewer properly licensed by the
state. (Ord. 2024-07, 6-19-2024)
3-2B-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
No Class A beer retail license or Class B restaurant business license shall be
assigned, transferred or sold, except that in the sole discretion of the Town
Council a transfer may be permitted upon a change of location where the owner
remains the same. In either case, the same qualifications are to location of
premises or character of licensee shall apply, and the same fees will be
required as in the case of an original issuance of license. No Class A beer
retail license or Class B restaurant business license shall be leased or
subleased. (Ord. 2024-07, 6-19-2024)
ARTICLE C. ALCOHOL EDUCATION; TRAINING
SECTION:
3-2C-1: Generally
3-2C-2: Badges Required
3-2C-1: GENERALLY:
   A.   All employees of licensees who will either supervise the sales of
alcoholic beverages or shall handle the sales of alcoholic beverages to a
customer shall have a valid certificate showing completion of an alcohol
training and education seminar outlined by Utah State Code Annotated Sections
32A-10-103 and 62A-15-401 as updated. Any individual who directly supervises
the sale of alcoholic beverages or sells alcoholic beverages to a customer
shall complete required alcohol training and education seminar within thirty
(30) days of the day on which the individual is employed if on the date of
employment, the employee does not have a valid certificate that the individual
has completed an alcohol training and education seminar for purposes of this
section.
   B.   A local authority may immediately suspend the license of an alcohol
beverage retailer that allows an employee to directly supervise the sale of
beer or to sell beer to a customer without having a valid certificate showing
that the individual has completed an alcohol training and education seminar.
(Ord. 2024-07, 6-19-2024)
3-2C-2: BADGES REQUIRED:
   A.   Badge Requirements: Each employee of a licensed retailer who directly
supervises the sale of beer or who sells beer to a customer shall wear a unique
identification bade on the front of the employee's clothing, visible above the
waist, bearing the employee's first or last name, initials or unique
identification in letters or numbers. The number of letters on the unique
identification badge shall be sufficiently large to be clearly visible and
identifiable while engaging in or directly supervising the retail sale of
alcohol beverages.
   B.   Records: The licensed retailer shall maintain a record of all current
employee unique identification badges as assigned. The record required to be
maintained shall be available for immediate inspection by:
      1.   Any peace officer or representative of the local licensing
authority; and
      2.   Shall include the employee's full name, address and driver license
number or similar identification number.
   C.   Fines And Penalties: A local authority may impose a fine of up to two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) against any retailer that does not comply or
require its employees to comply with the requirements of this Subsection. In
addition to any criminal penalties that may be imposed, an individual is
subject to other administrative penalties as allowed by Utah State Code 32A-10-
103, as amended.
   D.   Expunging Records: Hatch Town shall expunge from the records any
administrative penalty imposed against a licensee for purposes of determining
future administrative penalties, if the licensee or any employee of that
licensee has not been found in violation of any law involving the sale of an
alcoholic beverage to a minor for a period of thirty-six (36) consecutive
months from the day on which the licensee or its employee is last adjudicated
as violating a law involving the sale of an alcoholic beverage to a minor.
(Ord. 2024-07, 6-19-2024)
ARTICLE D. RENEWALS
SECTION:
3-2D-1: Renewals
3-2D-1: RENEWALS:
All Class A beer retail licenses and Class B restaurant business licenses
expire on December 31 of each year. All applications for renewal licenses filed
by the holders of existing licenses shall be filed with the Town Clerk/Recorder
at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of the then-issued
license. All renewal applications must attach a copy of a valid state license.
Any person who fails to file such application within the time limit shall close
his licensed premises on the expiration date of the then-issued license and
shall keep the premises closed for the sale, dispensing or consumption of beer
or alcoholic beverages until the date his new license is issued. If the
application is filed with the licensing official sixty (60) days of expiration
and there are no other violations against the license, the licensing official
shall prepare the new license. If application for a Class A beer retail license
or Class B restaurant business license is not filed for renewal by March 1 or
violations other than late applications have occurred, the license shall be
considered suspended, and the licensee must reapply to sell beer or alcohol. A
renewal application may be denied if the Town finds any of the following:
   A.   The licensee has attempted to transfer or assign the license to others
in violation of this title;
   B.   The licensee or any partner, officer, director, managing agent, member,
shareholder who holds at least twenty percent (20%) of the stock, or employee
who supervises or personally handles sales of alcohol to the public does not
meet the qualifications in the previous chapters, or is otherwise not in
compliance with any requirements of this title or state law;
   C.   The premises have been remodeled or changed in a manner that eliminates
required exits or creates closed booths or stalls where alcohol is sold and
consumed;
   D.   The licensee or his employees or agents have been convicted of or plead
guilty to more than five (5) violations of this title or state liquor control
statutes relative to the conduct of the licensed premises in a single calendar
year preceding the renewal, not including violations by patrons; and
   E.   In the case of Class A beer retailer licenses, the licensee does not
hold a current Hatch Town business license. (Ord. 2024-07, 6-19-2024)
ARTICLE E. UNLAWFUL ACTS AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-2E-1: Unlawful Acts And Regulations
3-2E-2: Revocation Or Suspension
 
3-2E-3: Penalty
3-2E-1: UNLAWFUL ACTS AND REGULATIONS:
It is unlawful:
   A.   License Required: For a person to buy for resale, sell or deal in
alcoholic beverages without first having procured a Class A beer retailer
license Class B restaurant business license duly issued by the Town Councilor
otherwise complying with the provisions of this chapter and the alcoholic
beverage control act. Said license must be publicly displayed at all times.
   B.   Purchasing:
      1.   For any retail licensee to purchase alcoholic beverages from any
person other than a properly licensed business, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      2.   For any licensee to purchase or acquire to have or possess for the
purpose of sale or distribution or consumption any beer or alcoholic beverage,
except that which shall have been lawfully purchased from a brewer or
wholesaler licensed under the provisions of the Utah alcoholic beverages
control act.
   C.   Minors:
      1.   For a licensee or any employee or agent of a licensee to sell,
furnish, dispose of, give or cause to be sold, furnished, disposed of or given
to a person under the age of twenty-one (21) years, or for a person under the
age of twenty-one (21) years to buy, receive, have in possession or consume,
beer or any alcoholic beverage.
      Whenever a licensee or its employee has a question regarding the age of a
customer seeking to purchase beer or other alcoholic beverages, before making
the sale may request presentation of proof of age of the customer, and shall
require the purchaser to sign a form provided by the licensee regarding their
age, including the date of signature, and the number assigned to the person's
proof of age by the issuing authority. Such form shall be filed alphabetically
and maintained for three (3) years, subject to review by a peace officer or
representative of the State Bureau of Investigations or Department of Public
Safety.
      2.   For any person to furnish, provide or offer beer or other alcoholic
beverages to a person under the age of twenty-one (21) years, or to knowingly
aid, induce, permit or otherwise assist in anyway the consumption of beer or
other alcoholic beverage by a person under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   D.   Age Of Employees: For a Class A licensee to employ a minor to sell or
dispose of beer or any alcoholic beverage except under the supervision of a
person twenty-one (21) years of age or older who is on the premises. It shall
be illegal for a Class B licensee to employ a person under the age of twenty-
one (21) to sell or dispose of beer or any alcoholic beverage.
   E.   Consumption By Licensee: For a licensee, when engaged in waiting on or
serving customers, to consume beer or other alcoholic beverages, or to remain
on or about the premises while in an intoxicated or disorderly condition.
   F.   Employee Purchase: For an employee of a licensee, during that
employee's working hours or in connection with such employment, to give to or
purchase for any other person, accept a gift of, purchase for himself or
consume beer or any other alcoholic beverage.
   G.   Intoxicated And Disorderly Persons: For a licensee or other person to
serve, sell or furnish beer or alcoholic beverage to an intoxicated or
disorderly person, or for a licensee or employee of a licensee to allow or
permit an intoxicated or disorderly person to come into or remain on or about
the premises. It is the responsibility of the licensee to maintain proper order
and decorum within his establishment by taking appropriate action to prohibit
disorderly or prohibited conduct on the premises by a patron or employee.
   H.   Hours Regulated: For a Class A licensee or an employee of such licensee
to sell, deliver or give beer to a person between the hours of one o'clock (1:
00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. For a Class B licensee or any employee
of such to sell, deliver or give away, or allow a person to consume beer or
other alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises after twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and before twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on any day. Class B licensees
shall not sell, deliver, give away or allow to consume any alcoholic beverages
on any day of any regular general, primary or special election or municipal,
special district or school election until after the polls close. Failure to
pick up and dispose of all drinks and beverages containing alcohol which have
not been fully consumed at closing hours shall be a violation of this
subsection.
   I.   Class A Consumption On Premises: For a Class A retailer to sell beer
except in original container or to permit beer or other alcoholic beverages to
be consumed on the premises.
   J.   Class B Consumption On Site: For any person to bring any beer onto the
premises of any Class B licensee, or to possess or consume any beer not
purchased from the licensee on said premises. It shall be unlawful for the
licensee to allow or permit any person to bring, possess, or consume on the
premises any beer or other alcoholic beverage not purchased from the licensee
on said premises.
   K.   Advertising: For a person to advertise the sale of beer or alcoholic
beverages, except as may be expressly permitted by the Utah alcoholic beverage
control commission. Display of the license issued under the chapter shall be
visible to the public and shall not be considered advertisement for alcohol
consumption.
   L.   Lawful Purchasing: For any licensee to purchase or acquire to have or
possess for the purpose of sale or distribution or consumption any beer or
alcoholic beverage, except that which shall have been lawfully purchased from a
brewer or wholesaler licensed under the provision of the Utah alcoholic
beverages control act.
   M.   Strict Liability: It shall constitute an offense of strict liability
for any licensee to permit or allow any of the violations in this section to
occur in or upon the licensed premises, and such licensee may be liable, in
addition to an agent or employee.
   N.   Consumption In Specific Places: For a person to consume alcoholic
beverages, including beer, in any place which is open to unrestricted use and
access by the public, including, but not limited to, any building or permanent
structure owned or leased by the state, county or Town, Town streets, roads and
alleyways, state or county highways or roads, buildings and grounds used for
school purposes, churches, parks or playgrounds.
   O.   Minor Consumption: For any person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years to purchase, possess or consume any beer or alcoholic beverage or
product, or for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to have any
detectable amount of alcohol in the blood or system as a result of having
consumed any beer or alcoholic beverage or product, as determined from a
totality of the circumstances, including any breath or blood test or the
administration of field sobriety tests.
   P.   Removal From Site Of Purchase: No person shall remove any beer or
alcoholic beverage from the premises as which it was purchased except in the
original container. It is a violation for a person to carry from the premises
an open container that is used for drinking purposes and contains an alcoholic
beverage.
   Q.   If malt beverage coolers or malt liquor is sold by the beer retailer
for off-premises consumption; the beer retailer shall display a sign at the
location on the premise where the malt beverages or malt liquor is sold
stating: "Many malt beverages contain alcohol. Please read the label."
   R.   Package Agency: No package agency shall be permitted or licensed.
   S.   Single Events: No single events shall be permitted or licensed.
   T.   Taverns: No taverns shall be permitted or licensed.
   U.   Illumination: Licensed premises shall be kept illuminated at all times
while occupied or open for business, and no booth or kind of stall where
alcoholic beverages are sold or consumed may be maintained unless all tables,
chairs and occupants are kept open to full view from the main floor of the
premises.
   V.   Prohibited Conduct: Acts or conduct on the licensee's premises which
are contrary to the public welfare and morals, as defined by Utah Code
Annotated Sections 32A-10-206(12) and (14), as amended, are prohibited. (Ord.
2024-07, 6-19-2024)
3-2E-2: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
   A.   Grounds; Authority: The Town Council may suspend, revoke, refuse to
renew and the Town Clerk/Recorder may suspend after a hearing, any Class A beer
retailer license or Class B restaurant business license issued pursuant to this
chapter for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Violence On Premises: There occurs on the licensed premises repeated
acts of violence.
      2.   Failure To Maintain Qualifications: The licensee fails to
satisfactorily maintain the capability, qualifications and reliability
requirements of an applicant for a license prescribed in previous chapters.
      3.   False or Fraudulent Information: The licensee knowingly submits
false or fraudulent material information on any application or document filed
with the Town.
      4.   Licensee Under Influence: The licensee or employees or agents of the
licensee on the premises are habitually drunk or under the influence of drugs.
      5.   Delinquent Fees Or Charges: The licensed business is delinquent for
more than sixty (60) days in the payment of any fee or charge due to the Town.
      6.   Sale Or Transfer Of License: The licensee attempts to assign,
transfer or sell a license in violation of this chapter.
      7.   Failure To Maintain Records: The licensee fails to keep for a period
of two (2) years or as specified and make available to the Town upon reasonable
request all invoices, records, bills or other papers and documents relating to
the purchase, sale and delivery of beer.
      8.   Felony Conviction: The licensee is convicted of a felony or any
violation of law or ordinance relating to alcoholic beverages or drugs, driving
under the influence of alcohol or drugs, or alcohol/drug related reckless
driving, keeping a gambling or disorderly house, or any law or ordinance
involving moral turpitude.
      9.   Failure To Comply: The licensee violates or fails to comply with
this chapter, the Utah alcoholic beverage control act, or ceases to possess all
of the qualifications required by the chapter and the alcoholic beverage
control act.
      10.   The premises have been remodeled or changed in a manner that
eliminates required exits or creates closed booths or stalls where alcohol is
sold and consumed.
      11.   The licensee fails to maintain proper order and decorum with his
establishment by taking appropriate action to prohibit disorderly or prohibited
conduct on the premises by any patron or employee.
   B.   Hearing: A hearing may be requested by a person:
      1.   That is denied or refused a Class A beer retail license or Class B
restaurant business license by any officer, agent or employee of the Town.
      2.   Whose Class A beer retail license or Class B restaurant business
license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited from that for which it was
first issued.
   C.   Request; Time Limit: The request for hearing must be made in writing to
the mayor or Town Clerk/Recorder and made within thirty (30) days following the
date of notice denying, refusing, revoking, qualifying or restricting the
license is mailed or otherwise delivered by the Town to the applicant or
licensee at his address as it appears on the application or license.
   D.   Examination Of Witnesses; Decision: Following receipt of a request for
a hearing, the Town Council shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the
time and place the hearing is to be held. At the hearing, the aggrieved party
shall have the right to hear and examine any witness the Town may produce in
support of his contention. The Town Council shall, within ten (10) days
following the conclusion of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who
requested the hearing of the decision of the Town Council. Such a decision
shall then be final for purposes of appeal.
   E.   Hearing Procedures; Record Of Hearing: Hearing before the Town Council
shall be promptly scheduled upon request and shall be open to the public and
informal, with technical rules of evidence not applying to the proceeding. The
Town shall prepare an official record of the hearing, including all testimony
recorded mechanically or stenographically and all exhibits introduced. The Town
is not required to transcribe such record, except that, upon written request
with proper notice prior to the hearing desired to the transcribed and receipt
of a reasonable fee for transcribing such record, the Town may transcribe the
record or allow for its transcription by the person requesting it.
   F.   Limitations; Criminal Complaints: This section shall not be construed
so as to afford any aggrieved party more than one hearing before the Town
Council, nor shall the hearing provided for in this section apply to criminal
complaints or proceedings. (Ord. 2024-07, 6-19-2024)
3-2E-3: PENALTY:
In addition to the suspension or revocation of a license authorized by this
chapter, the licensee or any other person who shall violate the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and shall be subject to
penalty. (Ord. 2024-07, 6-19-2024)
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: State Statutes Adopted
3-3A-1: STATE STATUTES ADOPTED:
The town hereby adopts by reference all applicable sections of the local sales
and use tax act, Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-201 et seq. (2001 Code)
ARTICLE B. MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Definitions
3-3B-2: Tax Levied
3-3B-3: Remittance
3-3B-4: Electronic Database; Enhanced Zip Code Listing
3-3B-5: Place Of Primary Use
3-3B-6: Tax Against Customer
3-3B-7: Nonapplication
3-3B-8: Implementation Date
3-3B-9: Severability
3-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following terms are defined as follows:
CUSTOMER:
   A.   Includes:
      1.   The person or entity, having a place of primary use within the town,
that contracts with the home service provider for mobile telecommunications
services; or
      2.   If the end user of mobile telecommunications services is not the
contracting party, the end user of the mobile telecommunications services; but
this clause applies only for the purpose of determining the place of primary
use.
   B.   "Customer" does not include:
      1.   A reseller of mobile telecommunications service; or
      2.   A serving carrier under an arrangement to serve the customer outside
the home service provider's licensed service area.
DESIGNATED DATABASE PROVIDER: A corporation, association or other entity
representing all the political subdivisions of a state that is:
   A.   Responsible for providing an electronic database prescribed in
subsection 119(a) of chapter 4, title 4 of the United States Code if the state
has not provided such electronic database; and
   B.   Approved by municipal and county associations or leagues of the state
whose responsibility it would otherwise be to provide such database prescribed
by sections 116 through 126 of chapter 4, title 4 of the United States Code.
ENHANCED ZIP CODE: A United States postal zip code of nine (9) or more digits.
HOME SERVICE PROVIDER: The facilities-based carrier or reseller with which the
customer contracts for the provision of mobile telecommunications services.
LICENSED SERVICE AREA: The geographic area in which the home service provider
is authorized by law or contract to provide commercial mobile radio service to
the customer.
MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Commercial mobile radio service, as defined
in section 20.3 of title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations as in effect on
June 1, 1999. For purposes of this article, mobile telecommunications services
shall not include:
   A.   Pager services using mobile devices that do not allow for two (2) way
voice communication;
   B.   Narrow band personal communications services; and
   C.   Short message services (SMS).
PLACE OF PRIMARY USE: The street address representative of where the customer's
use of the mobile telecommunications service primarily occurs, which must be:
   A.   The residential street address or the primary business street address
of the customer; and
   B.   Within the licensed service area of the home service provider.
PREPAID TELEPHONE CALLING SERVICES: The right to purchase exclusively
telecommunications services that must be paid for in advance, that enables the
origination of calls using an access number, authorization code, or both,
whether manually or electronically dialed, if the remaining amount of units of
service that have been prepaid is known by the provider of the prepaid service
on a continuous basis.
RESELLER:
   A.   A provider who purchases telecommunications services from another
telecommunications service provider and then resells, uses as a component part
of, or integrates the purchased services into a mobile telecommunications
service; and
   B.   Does not include a serving carrier with which a home service provider
arranges for the service to its customers outside the home service provider's
licensed service area.
SERVING CARRIER: A facilities-based carrier providing mobile telecommunications
service to a customer outside a home service provider or reseller's licensed
service area. (Ord. 2000-03, 11-9-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-3B-2: TAX LEVIED:
There is levied upon every home service provider a tax of one dollar ($1.00)
per month for each telephone number assigned to any customer whose place of
primary use is within the town. The home service provider may or may not pass
this tax onto its customers. If the home service provider passes the tax on to
the customer, and the tax is reflected on the customer's bill, the tax shall be
shown on the bill as a flat rate municipal tax charge. (Ord. 2000-03, 11-9-
2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-3B-3: REMITTANCE:
   A.   Date Specified: Within thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar
month, the home service provider taxed hereunder shall file with the town
treasurer a report computing the tax. Coincidental with the filing of such
report, the business shall pay to the town treasurer the amount of the tax due
for the calendar month subject to the report. If the thirtieth day after the
end of each calendar month falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or state or federal
holiday, the deadline for filing the monthly report and remitting payment for
that month is extended to the next subsequent business day.
   B.   Delinquent Payment: Any payment not paid when due shall be subject to a
delinquency penalty charge of ten percent (10%) of the unpaid amount. Failure
to make full payment and penalty charges within sixty (60) days of the
applicable payment date shall constitute a violation of this article. All
overdue amounts, including penalty charges, shall bear interest until paid at
the rate of an additional ten percent (10%) per annum.
   C.   Reconciliation: Within three (3) years after the filing of any report
or the making of any payment, the town treasurer may examine such report or
payment, determine the accuracy thereof, and, if the town treasurer finds any
errors, report such errors to the home service provider for correction. If any
tax, as paid, shall be found deficient, the home service provider shall within
sixty (60) days remit the difference, and if the tax as paid be found
excessive, the town shall within sixty (60) days refund the difference, plus
interest at the same rate as if such amount was deficient. In the event of a
disagreement, the home services provider shall file under protest pending the
resolution of the dispute between the parties or through the courts.
   D.   Record Inspection: The records of the home service provider pertaining
to the reports and payment of the tax, including, but not limited to, any
records deemed necessary by the town to calculate or confirm proper payment by
the home service provider, shall be open for inspection by the town and its
duly authorized representatives upon reasonable notice at all reasonable
business hours of the home services provider within the statute of limitation
period defined in subsection C of this section.
   E.   Home Service Provider Duty To Cooperate On Record Inspection:
      1.   In order to facilitate any record inspection, the home service
provider shall, upon thirty (30) days' prior written request:
         a.   Grant the town or its duly authorized representatives reasonable
access to those portions of the books and records of the home service provider
necessary to calculate and confirm proper payment of the tax; or
         b.   Provide the town or its duly authorized representatives with
reports containing or based on information necessary to calculate and confirm
proper payment of the tax.
      2.   Any requests for such books, records, reports or portions thereof
shall specify in writing the purpose for such request. Any books, records,
reports or portions thereof provided by the home service provider to the town
under a claim that such documents are confidential business records are hereby
designated as "protected records" and shall not be copied or disclosed by the
town to third parties without the written permission of the home service
provider, unless such documents are determined by a court of law to constitute
"public records" within the meaning of the Utah government records access and
management act. (Ord. 2000-03, 11-9-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-3B-4: ELECTRONIC DATABASE; ENHANCED ZIP CODE LISTING:
   A.   Electronic Database:
      1.   Provision Of Database: The state may provide an electronic database
to a home service provider; or, if the state does not provide such an
electronic database, the designated database provider may choose to provide an
electronic database to a home service provider.
      2.   Format:
         a.   Such electronic database, whether provided by the state or the
designated database provider, shall be provided in a format approved by the
American national standards institute's accredited standards committee X12,
which, allowing for de minimis deviations, designates for each street address
in the town, including, to the extent practicable, any multiple postal street
addresses applicable to one street location, the appropriate taxing
jurisdictions, and the appropriate code identified by one nationwide standard
numeric code.
         b.   Such electronic database shall also provide the appropriate code
for each street address with respect to political subdivisions that are not
taxing jurisdictions when reasonably needed to determine the proper taxing
jurisdiction.
         c.   The nationwide standard numeric codes shall contain the same
number of numeric digits, with each digit or combination of digits referring to
the same level of taxing jurisdiction throughout the United States, using a
format similar to FIPS 55-3 or other appropriate standard approved by the
federation of tax administrators and the multistate tax commission or their
successors. Each address shall be provided in standard postal format.
   B.   Notice; Updates: The state or designated database provider that
provides or maintains an electronic database described above shall provide
notice of the availability of the then current electronic database and any
subsequent revisions thereof, by publication in the manner normally employed
for the publication of informational tax, charge or fee notices to taxpayers in
such state.
   C.   User Held Harmless: A home service provider using the data contained in
an electronic database described above shall be held harmless from any tax,
charge or fee liability that otherwise would be due solely as a result of any
error or omission in such database provided by the town or designated database
provider. The home service provider shall reflect changes made to such database
during a calendar quarter, not later than thirty (30) days after the end of
such calendar quarter the state has issued notice of the availability of an
electronic database reflecting such changes under subsection B of this section.
   D.   Procedure If No Electronic Database Provided:
      1.   Safe Harbor: If neither the state nor the designated database
provider provides an electronic database, a home service provider shall be held
harmless from any tax, charge or fee liability in the town that otherwise would
be due solely as a result of an assignment of a street address to an incorrect
taxing jurisdiction, if the home service provider employs an enhanced zip code
to assign each street address to a specific taxing jurisdiction and exercises
due diligence to ensure that each such street address is assigned to the
correct taxing jurisdiction. If an enhanced zip code overlaps boundaries of
taxing jurisdictions of the same level, the home service provider must
designate one specific jurisdiction within such enhanced zip code for use in
taxing the activity for such enhanced zip code. Any enhanced zip code
assignment changed is deemed to be in compliance with this section. For
purposes of this section, there is a rebuttable presumption that a home service
provider has exercised due diligence if the home service provider demonstrates
that it has:
         a.   Expended reasonable resources to implement and maintain an
appropriately detailed electronic database of street address assignments to
taxing jurisdictions;
         b.   Implemented and maintained reasonable internal controls to
promptly correct misassignments of street addresses to taxing jurisdictions;
and
         c.   Used all reasonably obtainable and usable data pertaining to
municipal annexations, incorporations, reorganizations, and any other changes
in jurisdictional boundaries that materially affect the accuracy of such
database.
      2.   Termination Of Safe Harbor: The "safe harbor" subsection, subsection
D1 of this section, applies to a home service provider that is in compliance
with the requirements of the "safe harbor" subsection with respect to a state
for which an electronic database is not provided, until the later of:
         a.   Eighteen (18) months after the nationwide standard numeric code
has been approved by the federation of tax administrators and the multistate
tax commission; or
         b.   Six (6) months after the state or a designated database provider
in the state provides such database. (Ord. 2000-03, 11-9-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-3B-5: PLACE OF PRIMARY USE:
   A.   A home service provider is responsible for obtaining and maintaining
the customer's place of primary use. Subject to section
3-3B-4 of this article, and if the home service provider's reliance on
information by its customer is in good faith, a home service provider:
      1.   May rely upon the applicable residential or business street address
supplied by the home service provider's customer.
      2.   Is not liable for any additional taxes, charges or fees based on a
different determination of the place of primary use for taxes, charges or fees
that are customarily passed on to the customer as a separate address under
existing agreements.
   B.   A home service provider may treat the address used by the home service
provider for tax purposes for any customer under a service contract or
agreement in effect two (2) years after the date of this amendment to this
article as that customer's place of primary use for the remaining term of such
service contract or agreement, excluding any extension or renewal of such
service contract or agreement, for purposes of determining the taxing
jurisdiction to which taxes, charges or fees on charges for mobile
telecommunications services are remitted. (Ord. 2000-03, 11-9-2000, eff. 1-1-
2001)
3-3B-6: TAX AGAINST CUSTOMER:
Each customer shall accurately report the customer's place of primary use. The
customer shall be liable for any taxes not paid by the home service provider as
a result of the customer's failure to accurately report the customer's place of
primary use. (Ord. 2000-03, 11-9-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-3B-7: NONAPPLICATION:
This article does not apply to the determination of the taxing situs of:
   A.   Prepaid telephone calling services; or
   B.   Air-ground radio telephone service, as defined in section 22.99 of
title 47 of the code of federal regulations as in effect on June 1, 1999. (Ord.
2000-03, 11-9-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-3B-8: IMPLEMENTATION DATE:
If this article is adopted before January 1, 2001, a home service provider
shall have a minimum of thirty (30) days' notice before being obligated to
collect the tax described in the ordinance. After January 1, 2001, a home
service provider shall have a minimum of sixty (60) days' notice before being
obligated to collect the tax described in this article. After January 1, 2001,
a home service provider shall receive a minimum of sixty (60) days' notice
regarding any changes to this article. (Ord. 2000-03, 11-9-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
3-3B-9: SEVERABILITY:
If the provisions of section
3-3B-2 of this article are for any reason determined to be, or are rendered,
illegal, invalid or superseded by other lawful authority, including any state
or federal, legislative, regulatory or administrative authority having
jurisdiction thereof, or determined to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such section shall be deemed a
separate, distinct, and independent provision, and such determination shall
have no effect on the validity of any other section of this article; provided,
however, upon such event and in lieu of such tax, there is levied upon every
home service provider a tax equal to six percent (6%) of the annual gross
revenue of the home service provider generated from services and products to
customers. (Ord. 2000-03, 11-9-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
ARTICLE C. TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Definitions
3-3C-2: Transient Room Tax Levied
3-3C-3: Payment
3-3C-4: Records
3-3C-5: Addition To Other License Fees
3-3C-6: Use Of Proceeds
3-3C-7: Contract With State Tax Commission
3-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply in this article:
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or organization
of any kind.
PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION: A place providing temporary sleeping accommodations to
the public and includes:
   A.   A tourist home;
   B.   A motel;
   C.   A hotel;
   D.   A motor trailer court accommodation;
   E.   An inn;
   F.   A bed and breakfast establishment;
   G.   A condominium; and
   H.   A resort home.
RENTS: Include: a) rents; and b) timeshare fees or dues.
TRANSIENT: A person who occupies a public accommodation for thirty (30)
consecutive days or less. (Ord. 2019-02, 5-15-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
3-3C-2: TRANSIENT ROOM TAX LEVIED:
Under authority of section 59-12-352, Utah Code Annotated 1953, as amended,
Hatch Town levies a Transient Room Tax on the rents charged to transients
occupying public accommodations in an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the
rents charged, including and after January 1, 2020 at one minute after twelve
o'clock (12:01) A.M. (Ord. 2019-02, 5-15-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
3-3C-3: PAYMENT:
The Transient Room Tax shall be paid to the State Tax Commission quarterly on
January 31, April 30, July 31, October 31, and of each year for the three (3)
month periods ending respectively on December 31, March 31, June 30, September
30, and next preceding. (Ord. 2019-02, 5-15-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
3-3C-4: RECORDS:
Each person or entity subject to this article shall maintain records kept in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles for the purpose of
disclosing and verifying the gross revenues derived from providing the services
subject to this article. Such records shall be maintained for a minimum of
three (3) years from date the services are provided and shall be open to
inspection by the Town from time to time. (Ord. 2019-02, 5-15-2019, eff. 1-1-
2020)
3-3C-5: ADDITION TO OTHER LICENSE FEES:
The Transient Room Tax imposed by this article shall be in addition to any and
all other taxes, whether called a fee or tax or otherwise, imposed by any other
provision of the ordinances of the Town. (Ord. 2019-02, 5-15-2019, eff. 1-1-
2020)
3-3C-6: USE OF PROCEEDS:
Revenues generated by the Transient Room Tax under this article will be used in
the General Fund for General Fund purposes. (Ord. 2019-02, 5-15-2019, eff. 1-1-
2020)
3-3C-7: CONTRACT WITH STATE TAX COMMISSION:
On or before the effective date hereof, the Town shall contract with the State
Tax Commission to perform all functions incident to the administration and
collection of the Transient Room Tax in accordance with this article. This
contract may be a supplement to any existing contract with the commission to
administer and collect the local taxes, as provided in this Code. The Mayor,
with the approval of the Town Attorney is hereby authorized to enter agreements
with the State Tax Commission that may be necessary to the continued
administration and operation of the Transient Room Tax enacted by this article.
(Ord. 2019-02, 5-15-2019, eff. 1-1-2020)
CHAPTER 4
SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Application For License
3-4-4: Investigation And Issuance Of License
3-4-5: Fees
3-4-6: Licenses And Badges
3-4-7: Notice Of Revocation
3-4-8: Revocation After Hearing
3-4-9: Appeal
3-4-10: Additional Requirements
3-4-11: Exceptions
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CANVASSER OR SOLICITOR: Any individual whether or not a resident of the town,
traveling either by foot, wagon, motor vehicle or other type of conveyance from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares and merchandise,
personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services
to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has,
carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale, or whether
he is collecting advance payments on such sales; provided, that such definition
shall include any person who, for himself, or for another person, firm or
corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, tent,
railroad boxcar, hotel or motel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any
other place within the town for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and
taking orders for future delivery.
PEDDLER: Shall include any person, whether or not a resident of the town,
traveling by foot, wagon, motor vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying,
conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables,
fruits, garden truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the
same for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who,
without traveling from place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale
from a wagon, motor vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance; and
further provided, that one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction
makes deliveries to purchasers as part of a scheme or design to evade the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a peddler subject to the provisions
of this chapter. The word "peddler" shall include the words "hawker" and
"huckster".
TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT OR ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person, firm or
corporation, whether as owner, agent, cosignee or employee, whether or not a
resident of the town, who engages in a temporary business of selling and
delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the town, and who in furtherance
of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar, public room in any hotel, motel, lodging house,
apartment, shop or any street, alley, or other place within the town, for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
at public auction. The person, firm or corporation so engaged shall not be
relieved from complying with the provisions of this chapter merely by reason of
associating temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer,
or by conducting such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or
in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer. (1976 Code §
9-452; amd. 2001 Code)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for:
   A.   Transient Merchant, Itinerant Merchant Or Vendor: A transient merchant,
itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor to engage in such business without first
obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Peddler: Any person to engage in the business of peddler without first
obtaining a license therefor as provided in this chapter.
   C.   Solicitor Or Canvasser: Any solicitor or canvasser to engage in such
business without first obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-451; amd. 2001 Code)
3-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Required; Contents: Applicants for licenses under this chapter shall
file a sworn application in writing signed by the applicant if an individual,
by all partners if a partnership, and by the president if a corporation, or by
an agent, including a state or regional agent, with the town clerk, which shall
give the following information: (1976 Code § 9-453; amd. 2001 Code)
      1.   The name of the applicant and if the applicant is an employee or
agent of a corporation, the name of the corporation.
      2.   The address of the applicant and if the applicant is an agent or
employee of a corporation, the address of the corporation.
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold and from whom or where the applicant obtains the goods to be sold.
      4.   If the applicant is employed by or an agent of another person, the
name and permanent address of such other person.
      5.   The length of time for which the applicant desires to engage in
business within the town.
      6.   The places within the town where the applicant proposes to carry on
his or her business.
      7.   A list of the other municipalities in which the applicant has
engaged in business within the six (6) month period preceding the date of the
application.
      8.   A photograph of the applicant, taken within six (6) months
immediately prior to the date of filing the application, which photograph shall
be two inches by two inches (2" x 2"), showing the head and shoulders of the
applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner.
      9.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant, or any of his
employers, have been convicted of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any
municipal ordinance, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty
assessed therefor.
      10.   If the applicant desires to sell fresh vegetables, fruits, meats or
other foodstuffs, a statement by a reputable physician of the state, dated not
more than ten (10) days prior to submission of the application, certifying the
applicant to be free of infectious, contagious or communicable diseases.
      11.   If the applicant is employed by another person, documents showing
that the person for whom the applicant proposes to do business is authorized to
do business within the state. (1976 Code § 9-453)
   B.   Application Fee: At the time of filing the application, an application
fee in such amount as established by resolution of the town council, which
shall be deposited with the town clerk, is required. (1976 Code § 9-453; amd.
2001 Code)
3-4-4: INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Referral To Garfield County Sheriff: On receiving the application, the
town clerk shall refer it to the Garfield county sheriff, who shall cause such
investigation of the applicant's business and moral character to be made as it
deems reasonable and necessary for the protection of the public good.
   B.   Unsatisfactory Result Of Investigation: If, as a result of the
investigation, the applicant's character or business responsibility is found to
be unsatisfactory, the Garfield county sheriff shall endorse such upon the
application, together with a statement of its reasons therefor, and return the
application to the town clerk who shall notify the applicant that his
application has been disapproved and that no license will be issued.
   C.   Satisfactory Result Of Investigation: If, as a result of such
investigation, the character and business responsibility of the applicant is
found to be satisfactory, the Garfield county sheriff shall endorse such upon
the application and return it to the town clerk who shall, upon payment of the
prescribed license fee, issue a license. Such license shall contain the
signature of the issuing officer and shall show the name, address and
photograph of the licensee and the kind of goods to be sold pursuant to the
application, together with an expiration date. (1976 Code § 9-454; amd. 2001
Code)
3-4-5: FEES:
The license fee which shall be charged by the town clerk for any license issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be in such amount as established by resolution
of the town council. (1976 Code § 9-455; amd. 2001 Code)
3-4-6: LICENSES AND BADGES:
   A.   Issuance: The town clerk shall issue to each licensee at the time of
delivery of his license, a badge which shall contain the words "licensed
solicitor", "licensed transient merchant", or "licensed peddler", as the case
may be, for which the application was made and the license issued, and the
number of the license, in letters and figures easily discernible from a
distance of five feet (5'). Such badge shall, during the time peddlers or
solicitors are engaged in the business for which they are licensed, be worn
constantly by them on the front of their outer garment in such a way as to be
conspicuous.
   B.   Exhibit License: Any person licensed pursuant to this chapter shall
exhibit such license at the request of any citizen of the town. (1976 Code § 9-
456)
   C.   Produce License Upon Request: It shall be the duty of the Garfield
county sheriff to require any person seen soliciting, canvassing or peddling,
and who is not known by such officer to be duly licensed, to produce his or her
license and to enforce the provisions of this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-456; amd.
2001 Code)
   D.   Expiration Of License: All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter
shall expire on the date specified on the license. (1976 Code § 9-456)
3-4-7: NOTICE OF REVOCATION:
Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license shall be given in writing,
setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and place of
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee at his
last known address or at the address shown on his application. The hearing and
notice shall in all other aspects substantially comply with section
1-4-3 of this code. (1976 Code § 9-456)
3-4-8: REVOCATION AFTER HEARING:
Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the Garfield county
sheriff or the town clerk, after notice and hearing, for any of the following
causes:
   A.   Fraud, misrepresentation or a false statement contained in the
application for the license.
   B.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his business as solicitor, canvasser, peddler or itinerant
merchant.
   C.   Any violation of this chapter.
   D.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
   E.   Conducting the business of a solicitor, canvasser, peddler or itinerant
merchant in an unlawful manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
(1976 Code § 9-456; amd. 2001 Code)
3-4-9: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the action of the Garfield county sheriff or the town
clerk in the denial of a license issued pursuant to this chapter, or by the
action of the town council, may file an appeal. Such appeal shall be taken by
filing with the town council within fourteen (14) days after notice of the
action complained of has been mailed to such person's last known address or
address on the business application, a written statement setting forth fully
the grounds for the appeal. A time and place for the hearing on such appeal and
notice of such hearing shall be set and given to the applicant in the same
manner as provided in section
3-4-7 of this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-456; amd. 2001 Code)
3-4-10: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
This chapter shall not be construed so as to waive the provisions and
requirements of any other ordinance of the town and the requirements and fees
required herein shall be in addition to any other requirements and fees of any
other ordinance of the town. (1976 Code § 9-457)
3-4-11: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any individual who is, at the
time he is engaged in any activity which would otherwise require licensing by
this chapter, engaged in an activity which is authorized by any church or
charity which has a permanent structure located within the state, provided such
church or charity has had such permanent structure for at least six (6) months
prior to the date when the individual engaged in the activity would otherwise
require licensing by this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-458)
CHAPTER 5
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Purpose
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: Requirements
3-5-4: Registration To Engage In Business
3-5-5: Job License For Each Contract
3-5-6: Regulations
3-5-7: Records Maintained; Inspection
3-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a system of imposing license fees
upon persons engaging in business within the limits of the town as contractors.
The licenses are designed to be determined upon the basis of each contract or
job being performed. It is the opinion of the town council that this method of
determining the amount of fee will result in fair taxation and will not
discriminate against the contractor who performs only a few jobs within the
town limits as distinguished from the contractor who performs many. (1976 Code
§ 9-431)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CONTRACTOR: Any person, firm, copartnership, corporation, association or other
organization, or any combination thereof, who for a fixed sum, price, fee,
percentage or other compensation other than wages, undertakes any building,
highway, road, railroad, excavation or other structure, project, development,
or improvement, other than to personalty, or any part thereof; provided, that
the term "contractor", as used in this chapter, shall include anyone who builds
more than one structure on his own property during any one year for the purpose
of sale and shall include subcontractors, but shall not include anyone who
merely furnishes materials or supplies without fabricating the same into, or
consuming the same in the performance of the work of the "contractors", as
herein defined.
TYPES OF CONTRACTORS: As an illustrative list of contractors subject to the
provisions of this chapter, but not in limitation thereof, the following
occupations are subject to this chapter: general contractors, specialty
contractors of all kinds, such as, but not limited to, those engaged in the
business of installing, repairing or otherwise performing services in
connection with: acoustical tile and roof decking; awnings, storm doors and
windows; air conditioning, dry heating, sheet metal; boilers, steam fitting;
carpentry; cement and concrete; ceramic tile; cabinet and millwork; composition
floors, countertops, tile; carpet; drywall; elevator installation; electrical;
excavating and grading; fencing; floor coverings; fire prevention (structural);
furnaces and burners; glazing; industrial piping; iron and bronze (ornamental);
insulation; landscaping; lathing; lawn sprinklers; masonry; mosaic tile and
terrazzo; overhead doors; painting and paper hanging; pest control
(structural); plastering; plumbing and wet heating; roofing and siding;
swimming pools; signs, stone masonry; sewer installation; steel reinforcing and
erection; tanks (structural); waterproofing; weatherstripping; welding;
wrecking and demolition; wood floor laying and finishing. (1976 Code § 9-432;
amd. 2001 Code)
3-5-3: REQUIREMENTS:
Any person desiring to engage in business as a contractor within the corporate
limits of the town must comply with the two (2) following requirements:
   A.   Registration: Prior to engaging in any subject business activity during
any calendar year, he must register for the calendar year as a contractor by
completing and filing a registration form in the office of the town clerk.
   B.   License: Prior to the performance of any services in connection with
any specific contract or job, the person shall secure a license to engage in
the performance of service connected with said specific job or contract from
the office of the town clerk. (1976 Code § 9-433)
3-5-4: REGISTRATION TO ENGAGE IN BUSINESS:
   A.   Form; Information Requested: Any person desiring to engage in business
as a contractor shall complete and file in the office of the town clerk a
registration form provided to him by the town which shall show:
      1.   The name of the contractor.
      2.   The address and telephone number of the contractor.
      3.   The type of organization, e.g., corporation, partnership or sole
proprietor.
      4.   If a partnership or a corporation or other artificial person, the
name, address and telephone number of the person responsible for the functions
of the organization:
         a.   Whether or not licensed under the contractor's license law of the
state; if so, the license number of the contractor.
         b.   Type of business in which registrant seeks to engage, e.g.,
general contractor or one of the specialty contractors.
         c.   Such other information as the town council may by regulation
require. (1976 Code § 9-434)
   B.   Annual Fee: Any person seeking to register for the privilege of doing
business as a contractor within the limits of the town for any calendar year,
or any part thereof, shall pay an annual registration fee in such amount as
established by resolution of the town council. (1976 Code § 9-434; amd. 2001
Code)
3-5-5: JOB LICENSE FOR EACH CONTRACT:
   A.   Required: Any person desiring to perform services as a contractor
shall, in addition to registering, as above required, secure a job license
granting to him the privilege of performing the services required of him for
each contract or job which he proposes to complete.
   B.   Form; Information Requested: Any person seeking said job license for a
contractor job shall complete an application therefor, on forms provided him by
the town. The application shall set forth:
      1.   The name and address of the contractor.
      2.   His town registration number.
      3.   The number of his state contractor's license.
      4.   The person by whom he is engaged to perform services as a
contractor.
      5.   The address of said person.
      6.   The location at which the said contractor's services are to be
performed.
      7.   The type of services that are to be performed, e.g., as a general
contractor or one of the specialty contractors.
      8.   The contract amount. (1976 Code § 9-435)
   C.   Fee: Every contractor, for the privilege of engaging in the business of
performing said services, shall pay the job license fee in such amount as
established by resolution of the town council. (1976 Code § 9-436; amd. 2001
Code)
3-5-6: REGULATIONS:
The town council may adopt such regulations as in its opinion are necessary to
implement this chapter and the objectives thereof. (1976 Code § 9-438)
3-5-7: RECORDS MAINTAINED; INSPECTION:
All persons registered pursuant to this chapter for the privilege of doing
business as contractors, and all persons who engage in doing business as
contractors, shall maintain records of all services performed by them as
contractors within the corporate limits of the town. The records shall disclose
the person for whom the services are performed and the contract price or charge
made for the services and such other information as the town council may, by
regulation, require. The persons shall maintain such records at their office or
principal place of business and shall permit officials or agents of the town to
inspect said records for the purpose of determining whether or not said persons
have complied with the requirements of this chapter. (1976 Code § 9-437)
CHAPTER 6
OFFENSIVE BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definition
3-6-2: Permit Required
3-6-3: Application For Permit
3-6-4: Issuance Of Permit
3-6-5: Control Of Animal And Fowl Facilities
3-6-6: Existing Businesses And Facilities
3-6-1: DEFINITION:
"Offensive businesses", within the meaning of this chapter, shall include, but
not be limited to, packing houses, dairies, tanneries, canneries, renderies,
junk or salvage yards, bone factories, slaughter houses, butcher shops, soap
factories, foundries, breweries, distilleries, livery stables, blacksmith
shops, or any other enterprise or establishment which creates excessive odors,
fumes, smoke, gases or noises. (1976 Code § 10-241B)
3-6-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall commence or change the location of an offensive business or
establishment in or within one mile of the limits of the town without first
filing an application for a permit to do so with the town clerk. (1976 Code §
10-241A)
3-6-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
The application for a permit shall specify the location at which the business
or establishment is to be operated and maintained or the new location to which
it is to be moved. The application shall describe the type of activity which
will be conducted and describe the manner in which the business or
establishment shall eliminate, control, or modify the emission by the business
of the undesirable odors, fumes, noises, and other noisome features and the
manner in which it shall be screened from public view, if its appearance is
offensive. (1976 Code § 10-241C)
3-6-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Report And Recommendation: The town clerk shall cause a study to be
made of the proposed business or relocation of any offensive business or
establishment by the southwest public health department and by personnel
engaged in the inspection of buildings and other facilities. A report and
recommendation shall be made to the town council. The town council, after
review, may grant to the applicant an opportunity to be heard and present
additional facts. Thereafter the town council may: (1976 Code § 10-242; amd.
2001 Code)
      1.   Deny the application.
      2.   Recommend a modification thereof.
      3.   Grant a limited permit to enter into the business or make the change
of location subject to the requirement that the business or facility conform to
standards established by the town council with reference to controlling the
offensive features of the business.
   B.   Revocation Of Permit: In the event a permit is granted, it shall be
subject to revocation either upon failure of the operator or owner to conduct
his business in the manner specified by the town council at the time of the
granting of the permit, or because a change of circumstances makes the
continued operation or maintenance of the business or facility a public
nuisance.
   C.   Revocation, Modification Of Permit: The town council shall have power
to revoke or modify the permission to operate and maintain the business in such
a manner as it deems necessary for the public good. (1976 Code § 10-242)
3-6-5: CONTROL OF ANIMAL AND FOWL FACILITIES:
   A.   Location And Management: The town council shall have the power to
prohibit or control the location and management of any offensive, unwholesome
business or establishment in or within one mile of the town and may compel the
owner of any pigsty, privy, barn, corral, fur-bearing animal farm, feed yard,
poultry farm, or other unwholesome or nauseous house or place to cleanse, abate
or remove the same.
   B.   Examination Of Operation: The town council may, on its own initiative,
and shall, on complaint of a member of the public, examine the operation,
control or location of any business or facility for the purpose of determining
whether or not the operation of such business or facility should be improved so
as to minimize the offensive and unwholesome characteristics or whether the
business or activity should be moved or abated.
   C.   Notification Of Abatement: In the event that the town council decides
that the business or facility should be abated, removed, or controlled, it
shall notify the owner or operator of the business or facility of such fact.
(1976 Code § 10-244)
   D.   Hearing; Limited Permit: After a hearing, the town council may issue a
limited permit wherein it may prescribe the specifications and standard which
must be followed by the business or facility in order to be permitted to
continue in operation. (1976 Code § 10-244; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   Abatement Or Removal: Upon a determination by the town council that the
business or facility is a nuisance, it shall have power to order the abatement
or removal of the facility or establishment. If the owner fails to conform to
such order, the town council shall have power to bring all necessary legal
proceedings to force removal, abatement or adherence to standards. (1976 Code §
10-244)
3-6-6: EXISTING BUSINESSES AND FACILITIES:
   A.   Investigation By Town Council: The town council may require an
investigation of any existing offensive business or facility to determine
whether or not it should be permitted to remain in existence in or within one
mile of the town limits. If the town council determines that the continuation
of the business or facility has become a nuisance to persons situated within
the town limits or that ample control is not being exercised to minimize the
creation of excessive odors, fumes, smoke, gases, and noise, it shall notify
the owner or operator thereof that the town council is considering revoking or
modifying the operator's permit.
   B.   Conform To Standards And Specifications: If the town council decides to
require a modification of the manner in which the business or facility is to be
maintained, it shall specify the standards or specifications to which the
enterprise must conform or otherwise lose its permit to engage thereafter in
the business or activity. (1976 Code § 10-243; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESSES AND VAPE CIGARETTES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: License Required; Location
3-7-3: License Revocation
3-7-4: Violation
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section:
COMMUNITY LOCATION: Means:
   A.   A public or private kindergarten, elementary, middle, junior high, or
high school;
   B.   A licensed child-care facility or preschool;
   C.   A trade or technical school;
   D.   A church;
   E.   A public library;
   F.   A public playground;
   G.   A public park;
   H.   A youth center, or other space used primarily for youth oriented
activities;
   I.   A public recreational facility.
RETAIL TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESS: Means a commercial establishment in which:
   A.   The sale of tobacco products accounts for more than thirty five percent
(35%) of the total annual gross receipts for the establishment;
   B.   Food and beverage products, excluding gasoline sales, is less than
forty five percent (45%) of the total annual gross receipts for the
establishment; and
   C.   The establishment is not licensed as a pharmacy under the Pharmacy
Practice Act.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Means:
   A.   Any cigar, cigarette, or electronic cigarette;
   B.   A tobacco product including: chewing tobacco or any substitute for a
tobacco product, including flavoring or additives to tobacco; and tobacco
paraphernalia. (Ord. 2017-07, 5-17-2017)
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; LOCATION:
   A.   An entity requesting to operate a tobacco specialty business shall be
licensed as a tobacco specialty business. To obtain such a license the entity
requesting such license may not be located within:
      1.   One thousand feet (1,000') of community location;
      2.   Six hundred feet (600') of another retail tobacco specialty
business; or
      3.   Six hundred feet (600') from property used or zoned for:
         a.   Agricultural use; or
         b.   Residential use.
   B.   For purposes of measurement requirements, the property shall be
measured in a straight line from the nearest entrance of the retail tobacco
specialty business to the nearest property boundary of the community location,
or agricultural use, without regard to intervening structures or zoning
districts. (Ord. 2017-07, 5-17-2017)
3-7-3: LICENSE REVOCATION:
Hatch Town reserves its right to revoke a business license issued under this
section if:
   A.   A licensee engages in a pattern of unlawful activity;
   B.   A licensee violates the regulations restricting the sale and
distribution of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco to protect children and
adolescents issued by the United States Food and Drug Administration; or
   C.   Under other provisions of State law or local ordinance. (Ord. 2017-07,
5-17-2017)
3-7-4: VIOLATION:
A violation of this chapter is a Class B misdemeanor, punishable by up to six
(6) months jail or a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord.
2017-07, 5-17-2017)
CHAPTER 8
SHORT-TERM-RENTALS
SECTION
3-8-1: Purpose
3-8-2: Definitions
3-8-3: Short-Term Rental Building Inspection Required
3-8-4: Conditional Use Permit And Business License Required
3-8-5: Fees
3-8-6: Authorized Manager Or Local Contact Person
3-8-7: Sale Or Transfer Of Property
3-8-8: Building Standards
3-8-9: Parking Regulations
3-8-10: Required Posting
3-8-11: Prevention Of Noise, Nuisance Or Trespass
3-8-12: Enforcement Provisions
3-8-13: Appeals
Appendix 1: Short-Term Rental Inspection Checklist
Appendix 2: Dwelling Unit Rental Comparison Table
Appendix 3: Short-Term Rental Classification Flowchart
3-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for the use of
privately-owned dwelling units as Short-Term Rentals to protect local
residents' quality of life, building safety and fire hazard mitigation, ensure
proper collection and remittance of Transient Room Taxes and appropriate Sales
and Use Taxes and to address negative impacts relating to noise, parking,
traffic, garbage and other common occurrences resulting from Short-Term
Rentals. (Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
3-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meaning respectively ascribed to them by this section:
APPLICANT:                 The Owner of the Short-Term Rental unit or the Owner's authorized agent or
                           representative.
BUILDING OFFICIAL:         Unless otherwise designated by the town, the Garfield County Building Official shall
                           serve as the Building Official for Hatch Town.
                           The person designated by the Owner or the Manager, for the purpose of:
LOCAL CONTACT PERSON:         1.   Responding to complaints regarding the condition, operation or conduct of
                           occupants of the Short-Term Rental; and
                              2.   Taking remedial action to resolve any such complaints.
MANAGER:                   The Owner or the designated agent or representative of the Owner who is responsible
                           for compliance with this chapter.
OWNER:                     The person(s) or entity(ies) that hold(s) legal and/or equitable title to a dwelling
                           unit being operated, legally or not, as a Short-Term Rental.
PROPERTY:                  A legal lot of record on which a Short-Term Rental is located.
                           A dwelling unit, or any portion thereof, being used for transient accommodation
                           purposes, including but not limited to, single-family dwellings, multiple family
                           dwellings, accessory dwelling units (ADU's), glamping units or any other dwelling
                           unit for a period typically less than thirty (30) consecutive days.
                           Additionally, any dwelling unit that:
                              1.   Is listed on any accommodation website including but not limited to Airbnb,
                           Vrbo, HomeAway, Trip Advisor, etc.;
SHORT-TERM RENTAL (STR):      2.   Has (or should have) an approved Hatch Town Business License and Conditional
                           Use Permit, if applicable, for a STR; or
                              3.   Pays (or should pay) applicable Sales and Use and Transient Room Taxes for
                           the STR, is hereby considered a Short-Term Rental and shall be subject to the
                           regulations set forth in this chapter, even if the STR is rented out for a period
                           longer than thirty (30) days. (See
                           Appendices 2 and
                           3).
   STR, OWNER OCCUPIED: A Short-Term Rental unit where the Owner or Manager resides on the same property.
   STR, ENTIRE DWELLING A Short-Term Rental unit where the entire main dwelling unit or the accessory
UNIT:                      dwelling unit is occupied by the STR occupants and the Owner or Manager does not
                           reside on the same property.
TRANSIENT:                 Occupancy of a dwelling unit for not more than thirty (30) days.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:      The person formally assigned by the Hatch Town Council to enforce the provisions of
                           this chapter. (Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
 
3-8-3: SHORT-TERM RENTAL BUILDING INSPECTION REQUIRED:
An inspection for compliance with the regulations set forth in Sections
3-8-10 of this chapter and the current International Building Code shall be
performed at all Short-Term Rental properties by the Building Official or, if
approved by the Building Official, a third-party inspector prior to approval of
the Conditional Use Permit and Business License. (Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-2021;
amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
3-8-4: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT AND BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   A Conditional Use Permit shall be required for any STR in Residential
and/or Agricultural zoning districts. STRs shall be permitted in Commercial
zoning districts.
      1.   Owner-Occupied STRs shall be eligible for all Town permits and
license without limitations.
      2.   Entire Dwelling Unit STRs shall be limited to not more than twenty
percent (20%) of all water connections in the Town. In the event that the
twenty percent (20%) water connection threshold is met, Entire Dwelling Unit
STR applications shall be placed on a waiting list in the order they were
received.
   B.   No dwelling in any zoning district shall be occupied or used as a
Short-Term Rental until the Owner has obtained an approved:
      1.   Short-Term Rental Inspection from the Town Building Official;
      2.   Conditional Use Permit from the Town Council, if applicable; and
      3.   Business License from the Town Council.
   C.   The Owner of any Short-Term Rental shall be required to collect and
remit all Transient Room Taxes and appropriate Sales and Use Taxes by the end
of the year. The Town shall suspend all permits and licenses for Short-Term
Rentals more than one (1) year past due on applicable taxes until the Owner has
paid all applicable taxes.
   D.   If a Manager or individual is managing more than one Short-Term Rental
property in Hatch Town, a separate Conditional Use Permit and Business License
shall be required for each Short-Term Rental property in Hatch Town, in
addition to the Business License required for the Manager themselves.
   E.   Once the Town has approved all applicable permits and licenses as
required by this Section, a commercial water rate shall be charged to the
Short- Term Rental Property. Said Commercial rates shall apply as long as the
STR business license is active. (Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-2021; amd. Ord. 2022-06,
4-20- 2022; Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
3-8-5: FEES:
Appropriate fees shall be charged for Short-Term Rental inspections,
Conditional Use Permit applications, Business License applications and renewals
and any other services required by this chapter. Such fees shall be established
by the Town Council and shall be referred to in the Hatch Town Planning and
Zoning Fee Resolution. (Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
3-8-6: AUTHORIZED MANAGER OR LOCAL CONTACT PERSON:
   A.   Designation. An Owner may designate a Manager or Local Contact Person
to be held responsible for compliance with the requirements of this chapter on
behalf of the Owner. Notwithstanding this subsection, the Owner shall not be
relieved from any responsibility or liability for noncompliance with any
applicable law, rule or regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy of the
subject Short-Term Rental, regardless of whether such noncompliance was
committed by the Owner, Manager, Local Contact Person or the occupants of the
Owner's Short-Term Rental.
   B.   Manager Availability. While a Short-Term Rental is occupied or open for
business, the Manager and/or Local Contact Person shall be readily available
for the purpose of responding to complaints regarding the condition, operation
or conduct of occupants of the Short-Term Rental.
   C.   Manager Responsibility for Guest's Conduct. The Manager and/or Local
Contact Person shall use reasonably prudent business practices to ensure that
the occupants of the Short-Term Rental do not create unreasonable noise or
disturbances, engage in disorderly conduct, or violate any applicable law, rule
or regulation pertaining to the use and occupancy of the Short-Term Rental.
   D.   Manager Response to Complaint. The Manager and/or Local Contact Person
shall, upon notification that any occupant of the Short-Term Rental has created
unreasonable noise or disturbances, engaged in disorderly conduct or committed
violations of any applicable law, rule or regulation pertaining to the use and
occupancy of the Short- Term Rental, respond within one (1) hour to halt or
prevent recurrence of such conduct.
   E.   Failure to Respond. Upon failure of the Manager or Local Contact Person
to respond to calls or complaints in one (1) hour regarding the condition,
operation or conduct of occupants of the Short-Term Rental, the Manager shall
receive written notice from the Town. In the event that the Owner, Manager or
Local Contact Person fail to respond to the complaints and or written
notification from the Town, the Town Council may consider revocation of the
Owner's Conditional Use Permit in a public meeting. (Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-2021;
amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
3-8-7: SALE OR TRANSFER OF PROPERTY:
In the event of a sale or other transfer of any property containing a dwelling
licensed as a Short-Term Rental, the purchaser or transferee of the property
shall be required to amend the Conditional Use Permit and Business License
within sixty (60) days of the date of purchase or transfer. In the event that
the purchaser or transferee fails to make necessary amendments within said
sixty (60) days, the license will be forfeited and the Owner shall be required
to re-apply for all appropriate inspections, permits and licenses. (Ord. 2021-
07, 11-17-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
3-8-8: BUILDING STANDARDS:
At a minimum, any dwelling unit permitted as a Short-Term Rental shall conform
to the standards listed in the Short-Term Rental Inspection Checklist (See
Appendix 1). (Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
3-8-9: PARKING REGULATIONS:
The Owner or Manager or any Short-Term Rental shall ensure appropriate off-
street parking is provided for its occupants of the Short-Term Rental in
accordance with the following:
   A.   Unless specifically approved by adjacent property owners, off street
parking shall be provided on the same Property as the Short-Term Rental; and
   B.   The number of vehicles allowed for the occupants of a Short-Term Rental
shall be restricted to the number of off-street parking spaces provided by the
Owner. (Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
3-8-10: REQUIRED POSTING:
The following information shall be posted in a conspicuous location inside any
dwelling unit licensed as a Short-Term Rental:
   A.   A copy of the Short-Term Rental Business License;
   B.   The name and phone number of the Owner, Local Contact Person or Manager
and local emergency contact information;
   C.   The location of all fire extinguishers and emergency exits;
   D.   A map showing property boundaries and parking spaces;
   E.   The maximum occupancy of the dwelling unit and number of vehicles
allowed;
   F.   Trash pick-up day, if applicable, and rules and regulations pertaining
to leaving or storing trash on the exterior of the property; and
   G.   A list of all rules for the specific Short-Term Rental, if applicable.
(Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
3-8-11: PREVENTION OF NOISE, NUISANCE OR TRESPASS:
The Owner or Manager of any Short-Term Rental shall ensure occupants of the
Short-Term Rental do not:
   A.   Create noises that by reason of time, nature, intensity or duration are
out of character with noises customarily heard in the surrounding areas;
   B.   Disturb the peace of surrounding properties by shouting, fighting,
playing of loud music, racing of cars or recreational vehicles on streets or
engaging in outside recreational or other activities after ten o’clock (10:00)
P.M and before nine o’clock (9:00) A.M.;
   C.   Interfere with the privacy or trespass onto surrounding properties; and
   D.   Allow pets or animals to create incessant noise, roam the streets
without an owner present, trespass on neighboring properties or create any type
of mess that is not cleaned up by the owner of the pet or animal. (Ord. 2021-
07, 11-17-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
3-8-12: ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Any Owner who allows occupation of a dwelling unit as a Short-Term
Rental in Hatch Town, as defined herein, without having first obtained the
required approvals of Sections
3-8-3 and
3-8-4 of this chapter shall:
      1.   Receive a request from the Town to come into compliance;
      2.   Upon failure to respond to the first request within thirty (30)
days, receive a formal incompliance notice from the Town Attorney; and
      3.   Upon failure to respond to the second notice within fourteen (14)
days, the Owner may be guilty of a Class C Misdemeanor, which shall be
punishable by a fine of up to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00),
imprisonment for up to ninety (90) days or any combination thereof for each
such violation.
   B.   Any Owner or Manager of a Short-Term Rental in Hatch Town who refuses
to cooperate with, or respond to the Building Department, Planning Department,
Clerk's Office or any other Town Office or staff member after a period of sixty
(60) days from the initial notification concerning the provisions of this
chapter may be guilty of a Class C Misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a
fine of up to seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00), imprisonment for up to
ninety (90) days or any combination thereof for each such violation.
   C.   Any Owner or Manager of a Short-Term Rental in Hatch Town who, having
first obtained the required approvals for use of said dwelling as a Short-Term
Rental, thereafter operates or permits operation of said Short-Term Rental in
violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter may be guilty of an
Infraction, and may be punished by a fine of up to seven hundred and fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each such violation.
   D.   In the event of any one (1) violation of this chapter committed by an
Owner, Manager, Local Contact Person or occupant of the Short-Term Rental, the
Town Council shall discuss said violation(s) in a public meeting and consider
action, including possible fines or revocation of the Conditional Use Permit
and/or Business License for the Short-Term Rental in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-
2023)
3-8-13: APPEALS:
Any person or entity aggrieved by a decision of the Building Official, Zoning
Administrator, Planning Commission or any other Town Office or staff member
regarding the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal such
decision to the Town Council if a written request for an appeal is filed with
the Town Clerk within fourteen (14) days of verification that the aggrieved
person or entity has been made aware of the decision. (Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-
2021; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
APPENDIX 1:
SHORT-TERM RENTAL INSPECTION CHECKLIST
The following list includes the most common violations of Short-Term Rentals
(STR's). Other life safety violations discovered by the Building Inspector will
be presented to the applicant in the Inspection Report.
        One operable smoke detector in each bedroom, in the major living areas,
and on each floor (the major living area can count for the detector on that
floor) IRC 314.
        An operable carbon monoxide detector on each floor installed per the
manufacture's specifications, when gas appliances are utilized in the structure
IRC 314.
        Gripable hand railing (1 % inches to 2 inches) on all staircases IRC
311.7.8.
        GFCI plugs are required within 6 feet of all sinks/baths/toilets and
all exterior outlets IRC E3902.
       Sleeping rooms must meet current International Residential Code (IRC)
requirements for egress IRC R3111.
       Each Short-Term Rental unit shall have at least one operable fire
extinguisher.
       Trash shall not be left stored within public view, except in proper
containers for the purpose of collection by an authorized waste hauler on
scheduled trash collection days.
       Short-Term Rental unit(s) with more than five (5) sleeping rooms, or the
ability to sleep more than ten (10) occupants, shall receive written approval
from the Garfield County Building Inspector prior to occupancy of the Short-
Term Rental unit.
       Required Posting in the Short-Term Rental Unit
      a.   A copy of the Short-Term Rental Business License.
      b.   The name and phone number of the Owner, Local Contact Person or
Manager and local emergency contact information.
      c.   The location of all fire extinguishers and emergency exits.
      d.   A list of all rules applicable for the specific Short-Term Rental.
      e.   The maximum occupancy of the dwelling unit and the maximum number of
vehicles allowed.
      f.   Trash pick-up day and applicable rules and regulations pertaining to
leaving or storing trash on the exterior of the property.
      g.   A map showing property boundaries and parking spaces.
 
STR INSPECTION CONTACT INFORMATION
GARFIELD COUNTY BUILDING INSPECTOR, JARED WOOLSEY
Office Address: 55 South Main, Panguitch, UT 84759 | Garfield County Courthouse
| Building Department Mailing Address: Jared Woolsey | Garfield County | P.O.
Box 77, Panguitch, UT 84759 Email Address: jared.woolsey@garfield.utah.gov
Office Phone: (435) 676-1111
HATCH TOWN
Office Address: Hatch Town Hall, 49 West Center Street, Hatch, UT 84735 Mailing
Address: Hatch Town, P.O. Box 625, Hatch, UT 84735 Email Address:
hatchut@scinternet.net
Office Phone: (435) 735-4364
(Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
APPENDIX 2:
DWELLING UNIT RENTAL COMPARISON TABLE
DWELLING UNIT RENTAL COMPARISON TABLE
 Short-Term Month-to-Month Long-Term
DWELLING UNIT RENTAL COMPARISON TABLE
                    Short-Term         Month-to-Month       Long-Term
Min. Length of Stay 30 days or less    At least 30 days     6 months to 1 year
Nightly Rental Fee  $$$                $$                   $
Management Needed   30-40 hours/month  <5 hours/month       <1 hour/month
Business License    Yes                Yes, for commercial  No
                                       use
Conditional Use     Yes, in most Zones Yes, for commercial  No
                                       use
Turnover            High               Medium               Low
Taxes               Income, Business   Income, Business for Income only
                                       commercial use
                    Hospitality for    Residential,
Primary Purpose     commercial use     Hospitality for      Residential only
                                       commercial use
 
(Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
APPENDIX 3:
SHORT-TERM RENTAL CLASSIFICATION FLOWCHART
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7e6ef87e29f332a3435bbf04fdbe269351a0b2c4/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1078.png]
(Ord. 2021-07, 11-17-2021; amd. Ord. 2023-3, 1-18-2023)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Established
4-1-2: Fire Chief Position Created
4-1-3: Powers And Duties Of Fire Chief
4-1-4: Designation Of Emergency Vehicles
4-1-5: Responsibilities, Rights And Restrictions
4-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created a fire department to be known as the Hatch voluntary
fire department. (1976 Code § 10-111)
4-1-2: FIRE CHIEF POSITION CREATED:
There is hereby created the position of chief of the fire department. (1976
Code § 10-121)
4-1-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Supervision Of Department: The chief shall have responsibility for the
general supervision of the department.
   B.   Control And Extinguish Fire: During a fire, the chief shall have full
authority to take all measures as he shall deem necessary, subject to state
law, to control and extinguish the fire and for that purpose he is hereby made
a special peace officer.
   C.   Report Information To Town Council: The chief shall, at least
quarterly, report to the town council the condition of the fire equipment, the
number of fires and their causes and the estimated loss therefrom, together
with such other information as the town council may request or as he shall deem
appropriate.
   D.   Enforce Fire Protection And Prevention: The chief shall strictly
enforce all of the provisions of the ordinances of the town relating to the
protection against and prevention of fire.
   E.   Maintain Equipment: The chief shall maintain the equipment of the
department in good repair and order and ready for use.
   F.   Establish Rules And Regulations: The chief, subject to the approval of
the mayor and town council, shall establish rules and regulations for the
operation of the department.
   G.   Delegate Duties: The chief may delegate his duties to any person
employed by the department, but such delegation shall not relieve the chief of
his responsibility for the performance thereof.
   H.   Investigation Of Fires: The chief shall cause all fires to be promptly
investigated to determine the cause of the fire and report the cause of the
fire, the time originated and such other information as may be relevant to
prevent other fires. (1976 Code § 10-122)
   I.   Employ Firefighters And Personnel: The chief may make recommendations
to the mayor relating to the employment of firefighters and such other
personnel as may be necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
chief may employ such additional personnel as the mayor and town council may
direct or authorize. (1976 Code § 10-123)
4-1-4: DESIGNATION OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
Fire trucks and other motor vehicles used to transport fire equipment or fire
personnel are hereby designated authorized emergency vehicles. (1976 Code § 10-
131; amd. 2001 Code)
4-1-5: RESPONSIBILITIES, RIGHTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Removal Of Obstructions At Fire: The officer in charge at any fire may
order the removal or destruction of any fence, building or structure, or that
any utility be closed, cut or removed when deemed necessary to control,
extinguish or prevent the spread of fire. (1976 Code § 10-132)
   B.   Control Of Persons: All persons present at a fire shall obey the lawful
orders of any firefighter. (1976 Code § 10-133)
   C.   Interference With Firefighters In Discharge Of Duties: Every person at
the scene of any fire who wilfully disobeys the lawful orders of any public
officer or firefighter, or offers any resistance to or interference with the
efforts of any firefighter, or company of firefighters to extinguish the same,
or engages in any disorderly conduct calculated to prevent the same from being
extinguished, or who forbids, prevents or dissuades others from assisting to
extinguish the same, is guilty of an infraction and subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 10-134; amd. 2001 Code)
   D.   Unlawful Interference: Any person who shall wilfully hinder any officer
or firefighter in the discharge of his duty at a fire, or in any manner injure,
deface or destroy any engine, hose or other fire apparatus belonging to the
town or who shall interfere with any fire company or person, or who shall
wilfully break or injure any water pipe, or interfere with the water or its
source of supply, shall be deemed guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 10-135; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   Investigation After Fire Report: The chief, or such other persons as he
shall designate, shall, after extinguishing a fire, make a prompt and thorough
investigation of the cause of the fire, the time the fire began, the amount of
loss and insurance, a description of the affected buildings and premises, and
shall secure all other useful information available, and record the same in a
record book kept for that purpose in the office of the department and shall
report the same to the town council at such time as it may direct. (1976 Code §
10-136)
   F.   Right To Enter And Inspect: The fire chief or his deputies, upon
presentation of proper credentials, shall have the right to enter upon any
premises at all reasonable hours for the purpose of making inspections. (1976
Code § 10-137)
   G.   Persons Present Subject To Orders: Every capable person eighteen (18)
years or older present at a fire shall be subject to the orders of the officer
in command and shall render assistance in the manner directed by the officer in
command. (1976 Code § 10-138; amd. 2001 Code)
   H.   False Alarm: It shall be unlawful for any person to turn in or report
to the fire department a false alarm or report of a fire or to tamper or remove
any part of the fire alarm system. (1976 Code § 10-139)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Declaration Of Nuisance
4-2-3: Toilet Or Sewer Facilities
4-2-4: Restrictions On Blocking Water
4-2-5: Nuisances On Property
4-2-6: Abatement Procedure
4-2-7: Penalty For Failure To Comply
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
AUTHOR: Where a nuisance exists upon property and is the outgrowth of the
usual, natural or necessary use of the property, the landlord or his agent, the
tenant or his agent, and all other persons having control of the property on
which such nuisance exists, shall be deemed to be the authors thereof and shall
be equally liable and responsible. Where any such nuisance shall arise from the
unusual or unnecessary use of such property or from the business thereon
conducted, then the occupants and all other persons contributing to the
continuance of such nuisance shall be deemed the authors.
NUISANCE: Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and whatever renders
soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome is declared to be a nuisance and
unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person either as an owner, agent or
occupant to create or aid in creating or contributing to or maintaining a
nuisance. (1976 Code §§ 10-311, 10-312; amd. 2001 Code)
4-2-2: DECLARATION OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Statement: Every act or condition made, permitted, allowed or continued
in violation of section
4-2-1 of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and may be abated
and punished as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Specified: Nuisances include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Befouling Water: Befouling water in any spring, stream, well or
water source supplying water for culinary purposes. (1976 Code § 10-313)
      2.   Privies, Cesspools: Allowing any privy vault or cesspool, or other
individual wastewater disposal system, to become a menace to health or a source
of odors or contamination to air or water. (1976 Code § 10-313; amd. 2001 Code)
      3.   Garbage Containers, Offensive: Permitting any garbage container to
remain on premises when it has become unclean and offensive.
      4.   Garbage Accumulation: Allowing vegetable waste, garbage, litter,
filth or refuse of any nature to accumulate within or upon any private alley,
yard or area, except when it is temporarily deposited for immediate removal.
      5.   Manure Accumulation: Permitting the accumulation of manure in any
stable, stall, corral, feed yard, yard or in any other building or area in
which any animals are kept.
      6.   Slaughterhouses, Feed Yards: Permitting any slaughterhouse, market,
meat shop, stable, feed yard or other place or building wherein any animals are
slaughtered, kept, fed or sold to remain unclean or in any state or condition
detrimental to health, or creating a nuisance because of odors, or in which
flies or rodents breed. (1976 Code § 10-313)
      7.   Discharging Offensive Water Or Liquid Waste: Discharging or placing
any offensive water, chemical spray, liquid waste or refuse of any kind into
any street, alley, sidewalk, gutter, stream, wash, natural watercourse, ditch,
canal or any vacant lot or which, as the result of continued discharge, will
render the place of discharge offensive or likely to become so. (1976 Code §
10-313; amd. 2001 Code)
      8.   Collecting Grease, Offensive Matter: Keeping or collecting any stale
or putrid grease or other offensive matter.
      9.   Flies And Mosquitos: Having or permitting upon any premises any fly-
or mosquito-producing condition.
      10.   Public Drinking Vessels: Keeping any drinking vessel for public use
without providing a method of decontamination between uses.
      11.   Ablutions Near Drinking Fountain: Permitting or performing any
ablutions in or near any public drinking fountain.
      12.   Boarding House Or Factory, Sanitary Condition: Failing to furnish
any dwelling house, boarding house or factory or other place of employment with
such privy vaults, water closets, sinks or other facilities as may be required
to maintain the same in sanitary condition.
      13.   Cleaning Privy Vaults: Neglecting or refusing to discontinue use
of, clean out, disinfect and fill up all privy vaults and cesspools or other
individual wastewater disposal systems within twenty (20) days after notice
from an enforcement officer or official of the town.
      14.   Stagnant Water; Offensive Substances: Permitting any lot or
excavation to become the repository of stagnant water or any decaying or
offensive substances.
      15.   Obstructing Public Ways, Watercourses, Parks: Obstructing or
tending to obstruct or interfere with or render dangerous for passage any
street or sidewalk, lake, stream, drainage, canal or basin, or any public park
without first obtaining the written permission of the town council. (1976 Code
§ 10-313)
   C.   No Limitation: The types of nuisances above stated shall be deemed in
addition to and in no way a limitation of the nuisances subject to this
chapter. (1976 Code § 10-314)
4-2-3: TOILET OR SEWER FACILITIES:
All toilet or sewer facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with state law and town ordinances. All such facilities that do not
comply with such provisions are hereby declared to be a nuisance and are
subject to abatement as herein prescribed. (1976 Code § 10-315; amd. 2001 Code)
4-2-4: RESTRICTIONS ON BLOCKING WATER:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any drainage system,
canal, ditch, conduit or other watercourse of any kind or nature, natural or
artificial, to become so obstructed as to cause the water to back up and
overflow therefrom, or to become unsanitary.
   B.   Maintenance of any such watercourse in such condition shall constitute
a nuisance and the same shall be subject to abatement. (1976 Code § 10-316)
4-2-5: NUISANCES ON PROPERTY:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, the term "nuisance" is
defined to mean any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which
are deleterious or injurious, noxious or unsightly, which includes, but is not
limited to, keeping or depositing on or scattering over the premises any of the
following:
      1.   Lumber, junk, trash or debris. (1976 Code § 10-331)
      2.   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, containers or
other discarded items not currently in use. (1976 Code § 10-331; amd. 2001
Code)
   B.   Duty Of Maintenance: No person owning, leasing, occupying or having
charge of any premises shall maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall
any such person keep or maintain such premises in any manner causing
substantial diminution in the value of the other property in the neighborhood
in which such premises are located. (1976 Code § 10-332)
   C.   Storage Of Personal Property: Unsheltered storage of old, unused,
stripped and junked machinery, implements, equipment or personal property of
any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purpose for which it was
manufactured, for a period of thirty (30) days or more (except in licensed
junkyards) within the town, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous
to the public safety. (1976 Code § 10-333)
   D.   Abatement By Owners: The owner, owners, tenants, lessees or occupants
of any lot within the town on which such "storage", as defined in subsection C
of this section, is made, and also the owner, owners or lessees of the above
described personal property involved in such storage, shall jointly and
severally abate such nuisance by its prompt removal into completely enclosed
and secured yards or buildings to be used for such purposes, or otherwise
remove such property from the town. (1976 Code § 10-334)
4-2-6: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
   A.   County Sheriff's Department Act As Nuisance Inspector:
      1.   Established: There is hereby established the position of nuisance
inspector, whose duties it shall be to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Until another person is designated, the Garfield county sheriff's department
shall enforce the provisions of this chapter. More than one person may be
appointed to act as nuisance inspector under this section.
      2.   Duties: The Garfield county sheriff's department is authorized to:
         a.   Perform all functions necessary to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
         b.   Inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as needed, all
buildings, structures, lots or places for the purpose of determining whether
such are in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   Existence Of Objectional Condition: If the department concludes
there exists an objectionable condition in violation of this chapter, the
Garfield county sheriff's department shall:
         a.   Ascertain the names of the owners and occupants and descriptions
of the premises where such objects and conditions constituting a nuisance
exist.
         b.   Serve notice in writing upon the owner and occupant of such
premises, either personally or by mailing notice prepaid, addressed to the
owner and occupant at their last known post office addresses as disclosed by
the records of the county assessor, or as otherwise ascertained, requiring such
owner or occupant, or both, as the case may be, to eradicate or destroy and
remove the nuisance within such time as the Garfield county sheriff's
department may designate; provided, that any person notified pursuant to this
subsection shall be given at least ten (10), but not more than twenty (20)
days, as determined by the county sheriff's department following the date of
service of such notice, to correct the objectionable condition. The notice
shall:
            (1)   Contain a specific statement of the nature of the violation
and generally describe the premises on which the violation exists.
            (2)   Inform the owner, occupant or other person that in the event
he disagrees with the determination of the Garfield county sheriff's department
and does not wish to comply with the provisions of the notice or that he
objects to the factual or legal basis for the notice, he may request in writing
a hearing before the town council at a time and place to be set by the town
council. A written application for a hearing shall state the time within which
the person must conform to the provisions of the notice. (1976 Code § 10-351;
amd. 2001 Code)
            (3)   Inform the person that in the event he fails or neglects to
correct the objectionable condition, the town will correct the objectionable
condition and will collect the costs of so correcting the objectionable
condition by either a court action, in which case he will be assessed such
costs, together with reasonable attorney fees and court costs, or will charge
the cost of correcting the violation against the property as a tax.
         c.   In the event the owner or occupant makes such request for a
hearing, the town council shall set the time and place for hearing objections
and the town clerk shall notify the owner, occupant or other persons having an
interest in said property on the condition thereof in writing of the time and
place at which they may appear and be heard. The hearing shall be heard within
less than five (5) days from the date of service or mailing of the notice of
hearing. (1976 Code § 10-351)
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   Informal Hearing; Written Decision: At the written request of an
owner, occupant or other person having an interest in property which is the
subject of a notice to remove or abate weeds, objectionable conditions or
objects from the property, the town council shall conduct an informal hearing
(which need not be reported), wherein such persons may present such evidence
and argument as is pertinent to the question of whether or not the removal or
abatement of the objects or conditions is properly within the purview of this
chapter. The town council shall also permit the presentation of evidence and
argument by the Garfield county sheriff's department and other interested
parties. Thereafter, within not less than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days,
the town council shall, over the signature of the mayor, or such other member
of the town council as it may designate, render its written decision, a copy of
which shall be mailed to or served upon the owner or any other person to whom
the original notice was given by the county sheriff's department.
      2.   Notice Of Decision; Abatement By Owner Or Occupant: In the event the
decision of the town council upholds the determination of the Garfield county
sheriff's department, the notice originally given by the county sheriff's
department as above provided shall be deemed to be sufficient to require the
owner or occupant to remove or abate the objectionable objects or conditions,
and he shall have up to ten (10) days from the date of notice of the decision
within which to conform thereto, unless additional time, not to exceed thirty
(30) days, is authorized by the county sheriff's department.
      3.   Time Period For Compliance: In the event that the decision of the
town council either overrules or modifies the determination of the county
sheriff's department, the written decision of the town council shall apprise
the owner or occupant of that fact and set forth the details and extent to
which the owner or occupant must make removal or other abatement of the
objectionable objects or conditions, if any. The owner or occupant shall be
required to conform to the decision of the town council within ten (10) days
after service or mailing of a copy of the decision, and the decision shall be
deemed to be the modified decision of the county sheriff's department, unless
additional time is authorized by the town council.
      4.   Filing Of Amended Notice: The Garfield county sheriff's department
shall file an amended notice and proof of service of notice and file the same
in the office of the county treasurer. (1976 Code § 10-352; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Failure To Comply; Abatement By Town: If any owner, occupant or other
person having an interest in land described in such notice of decision to whom
the notice was given shall fail or neglect to conform to the requirements
thereof relating to the eradication, destruction or removal of such weeds,
garbage, refuse, objects or structures, the county sheriff's department shall
employ all necessary assistance to cause such objectionable objects or
conditions to be removed or destroyed at the expense of the town. (1976 Code §
10-353; amd. 2001 Code)
   D.   Itemized Statement: The Garfield county sheriff's department shall
prepare an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in the removal and
destruction of nuisances, and shall mail a copy thereof to the owner or
occupant, or both, or to persons having an interest in the property, demanding
payment within twenty (20) days of the date of mailing. The notice shall be
deemed delivered when mailed by registered mail, addressed to the last known
address of the property owner, occupant or persons having an interest in the
property. (1976 Code § 10-354; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   Failure To Make Payment: In the event the owner, occupant or person
having an interest in the property fails to make payment of the amount set
forth in the statement to the town treasurer within the twenty (20) days, the
Garfield county sheriff's department may either cause suit to be brought in an
appropriate court of law or may refer the matter to the county treasurer as
provided in this chapter. (1976 Code § 10-355; amd. 2001 Code)
   F.   Collection:
      1.   Lawsuit: In the event collection of expenses of destruction and
removal are pursued through the courts, the town shall sue and receive judgment
for all of said expenses of destruction and removal, together with reasonable
attorney fees, interest and court costs, and shall execute upon such judgment
in the manner provided by law. (1976 Code § 10-356)
      2.   Taxes: In the event that the Garfield county sheriff's department
elects to refer the expenses of destruction or removal to the county treasurer
for inclusion in the tax notice of the property owner, he shall make in
triplicate an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in the destruction
and removal of the same, and shall deliver three (3) copies of the statement to
the county treasurer within ten (10) days after the completion of the work of
destroying or removing such weeds, refuse, garbage, objects or structures.
Thereupon, the costs of the work shall be pursued by the county treasurer in
accordance with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 10-11-4, as
amended, and the recalcitrant owner shall have such rights and shall be subject
to such powers as are thereby granted. (1976 Code § 10-357; amd. 2001 Code)
   G.   Criminal Proceedings: The commencement of criminal proceedings for the
purpose of imposing penalties for violations of this chapter shall not be
conditioned upon prior issuance of a notice or the granting to the defendant an
opportunity to abate or remove the nuisance. The provisions of this chapter
relating to notice and abatement shall be deemed merely alternative and
additional methods of securing conformity to the provisions of this chapter.
(1976 Code § 10-358)
4-2-7: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A.   Class C Misdemeanor: Any owner, occupant or person having an interest
in property subject to this chapter who shall fail to comply with the notice or
order given pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor
and upon conviction thereof, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and further sum of ninety nine dollars
($99.00) for each and every day such person fails to comply beyond the date
fixed for compliance. (1976 Code § 10-359; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Criminal Proceedings: Compliance by any owner, occupant or person to
whom a notice has been given subsequent to the commencement of criminal
proceedings as provided in this chapter shall not be admissible in any criminal
proceeding brought pursuant to this section. (1976 Code § 10-359)
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definition
4-3-2: Standard Of Weed Control
4-3-3: Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITION:
"Weeds" shall include any vegetation commonly referred to as a weed or which
shall have been designated a noxious weed by the Utah commissioner of
agriculture. (1976 Code § 10-322)
4-3-2: STANDARD OF WEED CONTROL:
   A.   Conditions Constituting Nuisance: It is hereby declared that the above
stated weeds constitute a nuisance when they:
      1.   Create a fire hazard, a source of contamination or pollution of the
water, air or property, a danger to health, a breeding place or habitation for
insects or rodents or other forms of life deleterious to humans, or are
unsightly or deleterious to their surroundings; and
      2.   Exceed twelve inches (12") from the ground or soil in which they are
anchored.
   B.   Removal: The cut weeds shall be removed from the premises within ninety
six (96) hours after cutting. (1976 Code § 10-323)
4-3-3: PENALTY:
It shall be an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person owning or occupying real property to allow
weeds to grow higher on such property than is permitted by this chapter or not
to remove from such property any cuttings of such weeds or any refuse,
unsightly or deleterious objects after having been given notice as provided in
section
4-2-6 of this title. (1976 Code § 10-321; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Collection Of Garbage
4-4-3: Service Charges
4-4-4: Regulations
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
COMMERCIAL GARBAGE: Refers to garbage produced in commercial establishments,
public or quasi-public institutions or establishments, including restaurants,
hotels, motels and similar establishments.
COMMUNITY WASTE: Lawn cuttings, clippings from bushes and shrubs, leaves and
trees and tree branches.
CONTAINER OR REGULATION CONTAINER: A type of garbage or trash container of
galvanized metal or other approved material and having a tight-fitting lid or
properly and sufficiently treated weather-resistant paper bag manufactured
specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection.
GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, handling, storing, cooking or consumption
of food and food products.
REFUSE: All waste matter, except garbage, attending or resulting from the
occupancy of residences, apartments, hotels or other places of dwelling and
from the operation of a business. Refuse shall not be deemed to include
industrial waste or waste matter resulting from the construction, demolition or
repair of a building or other structure.
RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE: Garbage produced in places of private residence and dining
halls not open to the public. (1976 Code § 10-411; amd. 2001 Code)
4-4-2: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE:
   A.   All garbage and refuse shall be collected, removed and disposed of with
such frequency and in such manner as the town council may from time to time
establish by regulation. (1976 Code § 10-412; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Except as otherwise expressly permitted by this chapter, no garbage or
refuse shall be moved or hauled away or transported upon the streets or public
ways of the town except by the town or its agent and except by authorized
persons hauling commercial garbage or refuse as hereinafter provided. It is
hereby declared to be unlawful for any person, except as permitted in this
chapter, to haul or remove garbage or refuse in the town.
   C.   Commercial establishments, public or quasi-public institutions and
establishments creating commercial garbage, may remove commercial garbage
themselves or may employ the services of authorized contractors to remove
commercial garbage. Authorized garbage haulers must apply for and receive
permission to do so from the town clerk. Haulage of refuse must be done in the
manner, at such times and in such vehicles as may be approved for such purposes
as the town council may from time to time by regulation provide.
   D.   Nothing contained in this section shall preclude persons from hauling
their own garbage, trash or community waste over the streets and alleys of the
town in vehicles and containers approved by a sanitary inspector or such other
personnel of the town as the town council may authorize.
   E.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as eliminating the charge
made for garbage service. (1976 Code § 10-412)
4-4-3: SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Established: All residents and all business establishments within the
town shall pay the town the garbage service charges in such amounts as
established by resolution of the town council. (1976 Code § 10-413; amd. 2001
Code)
   B.   Applicability: Charges shall apply to all residences and business
establishments whether or not they have also elected to haul their own garbage
or employ the services of authorized garbage haulers.
   C.   Vacancy: If a dwelling unit or a place of business has remained vacant
for an entire month, the owner or possessor of the site may make arrangements
with the town clerk for no garbage collection charges during the continued
vacancy of the premises.
   D.   Exception For Specific Persons: The mayor, with the consent of the town
council, may excuse needy widows and elderly persons who are not reasonably
capable of paying the monthly charge for residential collection of garbage from
the payment of the residential rate for such period of time as may be deemed
proper or necessary. (1976 Code § 10-413)
   E.   Billing:
      1.   The garbage service charges above imposed by this section shall be
added to the charge made for water furnished through the water system of the
town and shall be billed and collected in the same manner as water service
charges are billed and collected.
      2.   In the event that the obligee for the water service charges and the
obligee for the garbage service charges do not coincide, or in the event that
practical economic and administrative reasons do not make combined billing and
collection feasible in the opinion of the town council, the garbage service
charges may be collected with such frequency and in such manner as the town
council shall by regulation provide. (1976 Code § 10-414)
4-4-4: REGULATIONS:
   A.   No Accumulation Of Garbage: It shall be unlawful for any person to
accumulate garbage or refuse or cause garbage or refuse to be deposited upon
any street or alley or upon any premises in the town without express permission
from the town. The town may permit the feeding or processing of garbage or
refuse upon premises properly equipped and maintained so as to prevent the
creation of a nuisance or a hazard to health, or permit the depositing of ashes
and other dry material for filling purposes at such places as the town may
designate and under such restrictions as the town council may by regulation
impose. Additionally, the town may grant to any person permission for sorting,
bailing and marketing trade waste upon premises properly equipped and
maintained. (1976 Code § 10-415; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Containers:
      1.   Requirements: All garbage and refuse shall be placed in suitable and
sufficient garbage receptacles, either receptacles with tight-fitting lids or
properly and sufficiently treated water-resistant paper bags manufactured
specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection, or plastic bags
manufactured specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection.
      2.   Size: Containers shall not exceed a thirty (30) gallon capacity for
receiving and holding garbage, market waste or other refuse which may
accumulate.
      3.   Weight: Receptacles shall not be filled to exceed seventy five (75)
pounds in weight, including the weight of the receptacle. Metal receptacles
shall be provided with handles for convenient lifting. (1976 Code § 10-416)
   C.   Closing Of Containers Required: All garbage and market waste must be
placed in rainproof and flyproof receptacles of the type herein required and
the receptacle shall be tightly closed in such manner as to prevent offensive
odors or flies. (1976 Code § 10-417)
   D.   Time And Place Of Pickup:
      1.   All garbage and refuse subject to garbage collection by the town
shall be placed at a pickup point at or near the premises designated from time
to time by regulations adopted by the town council and at such time or times as
shall be designated by regulations of the town council.
      2.   Until otherwise provided by regulation, garbage and refuse must not
be set out upon the street for collection prior to the evening of the day
before collection and must be set out on the day of collection before the hour
of collection designated by regulations of the town council.
      3.   All empty receptacles must be removed from the street as soon as
practicable after being emptied, and in every case, must be removed from the
street the same day they are emptied. Receptacles shall not be permitted to
remain on any street longer than may be necessary for the removal of the
contents. (1976 Code § 10-418)
   E.   Community Waste:
      1.   Community waste may be disposed of by residents and business
establishments in vehicles provided by them, subject to regulation by the town
council as to the places of disposal and as to the type of vehicle used to
avoid spillage upon the public ways of the town, hazards to safety and the
prevention of nuisances.
      2.   The town council from time to time may provide for the collection
and disposal of such types of community waste as it may decide to collect and
haul in connection with its regular garbage, waste collection and disposal
service. In the event community waste disposal service would require a charge
to be made by the town, the determination of the charge will be made by
negotiation with the residents or business enterprises and the residents or
business enterprises will be given an opportunity to choose from among services
offered by persons other than the town. (1976 Code § 10-419)
   F.   Burning Of Refuse Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
burn garbage, market waste, manure or other refuse in the open air or in any
furnace or stove within the town. (1976 Code § 10-420)
   G.   Dumping Refuse Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit, or dump garbage, ashes, market waste, paper boxes, cartons,
trade waste, manure or night soil, or any other refuse upon any lot within the
town whether such lot is occupied or vacant or whether such person so placing,
depositing or dumping such refuse is the owner, tenant, occupant or lessor
thereof or has the same under his jurisdiction and control. (1976 Code § 10-
421)
   H.   Limitations Upon Dumping: Dumping waste and garbage shall be permitted
only in such places as are designated by the town council. Dumping shall be
subject to such rules and regulations as may be formulated by the town council.
(1976 Code § 10-422)
   I.   Regulations Adopted By Town Council: The town council may adopt such
regulations as in its opinion are necessary to implement this chapter and its
objectives. (1976 Code § 10-423)
CHAPTER 5
LITTER; HANDBILLS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Handbills And Posters; Restricted Activity
4-5-3: Litter Regulations
4-5-4: Handbill Regulations
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter:
AUTHORIZED RECEPTACLE: A public or private litter storage and collection
receptacle.
COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or literature:
   A.   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
   B.   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest in sales thereof;
   C.   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit. However, the terms of this
clause shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection is
taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, when either of the
same is held, given or takes place in connection with the dissemination of
information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety and good order; provided, that nothing contained
in this clause shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place
of any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind without
a license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this state,
or under any ordinance of the town; or
   D.   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising matter is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed or
circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any
person so engaged as advertiser or distribution.
GARBAGE: Waste from the preparation, cooking or consumption of food, condemned
food products and all refuse and waste from the handling, storage, preparation
and sale of produce. Garbage originates primarily in kitchens, stores, markets,
restaurants, hotels and other places where food is handled, stored, sold,
cooked and consumed.
LITTER: "Garbage", "refuse" and "rubbish", as defined herein, and all other
waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to
create a danger to public health, safety, welfare or appearance of the town.
NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general or local circulation or any periodical or
current magazine regularly published with not less than four (4) issues per
year and sold to the public.
NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper, booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of
literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial handbill
or newspaper.
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the town, owned or used by the town.
REFUSE: Putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body wastes),
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals and solid
market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible waste, such as paper, wrapping, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans,
yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
VEHICLE: Every device in, on or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively on
stationary rails or tracks. (1976 Code § 10-431)
4-5-2: HANDBILLS AND POSTERS; RESTRICTED ACTIVITY:
No person or business shall post, stick, stamp, paint or otherwise affix, or
cause the same to be done by any person, any notice, placard, bill, card,
poster, advertisement or other paper or device calculated to attract the
attention of the public, upon any sidewalk, curb or any other portion or part
of any public way or public place, or any lamppost, electric light, telegraph,
telephone or railway structure, hydrant, shade tree or tree box, or upon the
columns, trusses, girders, railings, gates or other parts of any bridge or
other public structure or building, or upon any pole, box or fixture of the
fire alarm or police telegraph system, except such as may be authorized or
required by the laws of the United States or state, and the ordinances of the
town. (1976 Code § 10-449A)
4-5-3: LITTER REGULATIONS:
   A.   Public Places: No person shall throw or deposit litter in or on any
street, sidewalk or other public place except:
      1.   In authorized receptacles for collection or in official town garbage
dumps; or
      2.   For collection as authorized by the town council. (1976 Code § 10-
432)
   B.   Placement In Receptacles: Persons placing litter in authorized
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements on any street, sidewalk or other public place or on
private property. (1976 Code § 10-433)
   C.   Sweeping Into Gutters Prohibited: No person shall sweep into or deposit
in any gutter, street or other public place the accumulation of litter from any
building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway, except as
authorized by the town council. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep
the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter. (1976 Code § 10-434)
   D.   Merchants' Duty To Keep Sidewalks Clear: No person owning or occupying
a place of business shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any
public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of
business shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter. (1976 Code § 10-435)
   E.   Thrown By Person In Vehicle: No person, while a driver or passenger in
a vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter on any street or other public place,
or on private property. (1976 Code § 10-436)
   F.   Truck Loads Causing Litter: No person shall drive or move any truck or
other vehicle unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any
load, contents or litter from being blown or deposited on any street, alley or
other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck,
the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or
other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of
any kind. (1976 Code § 10-437)
   G.   Parks: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park, except in
authorized receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements on any part of the park or on
any street or other public place. Where authorized receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein. (1976 Code § 10-438)
   H.   Lakes And Fountains: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any
fountain, pond, lake, stream or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere
within the town. (1976 Code § 10-439)
   I.   Occupied Private Property: No person shall throw or deposit litter on
any occupied private property, whether owned by such person or not, except that
the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements on any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on any private property. (1976 Code § 10-447)
   J.   Vacant Lots: No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or
vacant private property, whether or not owned by such person. (1976 Code § 10-
448)
4-5-4: HANDBILL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Throwing Or Distributing In Public Places; Penalty: No person shall
throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any
sidewalk, street or other public place within the town. Unless otherwise
authorized by the town council, it is an infraction, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to hand out, distribute or sell any
commercial handbill in any public place; provided, however, that it shall not
be unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other public place for any person to
hand out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any
noncommercial handbill to any person willing to accept it. (1976 Code § 10-440;
amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Placing On Vehicles: Unless otherwise authorized by the town council,
no person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or
on any vehicle; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any public
place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the receiver
thereof a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is willing to
accept it. (1976 Code § 10-441)
   C.   Depositing On Uninhabited Or Vacant Premises: No person shall throw or
deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on any private premises
which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant. (1976 Code § 10-
442)
   D.   Prohibiting Distribution Where Properly Posted: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill on any private
premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do so or if there is placed on
said premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign being
the words "no trespassing", "no peddlers or agents", "no advertisements", or
any similar notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants of the premises
do not desire to be molested or to have their right of privacy disturbed or to
have any such handbills left on such premises. (1976 Code § 10-443)
   E.   Distributing At Inhabited Private Premises: No person shall throw,
deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or on private
premises which are inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such
handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person then present in or on
such private premises. However, in case of inhabited private premises which are
not posted, as provided in this section, such person, unless requested by
anyone on such premises not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in
or on such inhabited private premises if such handbill is so placed or
deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted
about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and except
that mailboxes may not be so used when prohibited by federal postal law or
regulations. (1976 Code § 10-444)
   F.   Exception For Mail And Newspapers: The provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers,
except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in such a manner so
as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements on any street,
sidewalk or other public place or on private property. (1976 Code § 10-445)
   G.   Posting Notice Prohibited: No person shall post or affix any notice,
poster or other paper or device, calculated to attract the attention of the
public, to any lamppost, public utility pole or shade tree, or on any public
structure or building, except as may be authorized or required by law. (1976
Code § 10-446)
CHAPTER 6
CARGO STORAGE CONTAINERS STANDARDS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Purpose
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: Permits
4-6-4: Quantity
4-6-5: Location
4-6-6: Placement
4-6-7: Contents
4-6-8: Exterior
4-6-9: Existing Containers
4-6-10: Violation
4-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the cargo storage containers standards is to establish
regulations for the use of cargo storage containers within the town limits of
the Town of Hatch; requiring a permit for the placement of such containers;
providing standards for use of cargo storage containers; and to establish
enforcement provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2020-04, 6-17-2020; amd. Ord.
2023-04, 5-17-2023)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
                         Means, generally, an all steel container (some with
                         wooden floors) and strength to withstand shipment,
                         storage and handling. Such containers include reusable
                         steel boxes, freight containers, and bulk shipping
                         containers, originally a standardized reusable vessel
CARGO STORAGE CONTAINER: that was designed for and used in the parking,
                         shipping, movement, transportation or storage of
                         freight, articles or goods or commodities; generally
                         capable of being mounted or moved on a rail car, truck
                         trailer or loaded on a ship. (Ord. 2020-04, 6-17-2020;
                         amd. Ord. 2023-04, 5-17-2023)
 
4-6-3: PERMITS:
   A.   A cargo storage container permit will be required for placing a storage
container on the property either temporarily or permanently. Once the permit is
obtained and signed the applicant will adhere to following rules and standards
set by town council.
   B.   Temporary permits can be obtained for construction projects for a
specific time period with a signature that the container will be removed after
a set time one year or agreed upon time frame. With the option to leave the
container on the lot if it meets all required setbacks and stipulations. (Ord.
2020-04, 6-17-2020; amd. Ord. 2023-04, 5-17-2023)
4-6-4: QUANTITY:
   A.   There will be one cargo storage container not larger than forty six
feet (46') allowed on each parcel of property.
   B.   Commercial zoned properties can have up to three (3) storage containers
for their commercial business on each parcel. Containers on commercial property
need to meet the same requirements for containers on residential property as
outlined below. (Ord. 2020-04, 6-17-2020; amd. Ord. 2023-04, 5-17-2023)
4-6-5: LOCATION:
   A.   Containers are viewed as a permanent building on residential property
and setbacks for residential buildings need to be met. Containers may not be
placed in front of residential homes. Container must be placed no closer than
ten feet (10') of the side and rear of the property line.
   B.   Containers are not to be used as living quarters. (Ord. 2020-04, 6-17-
2020; amd. Ord. 2023-04, 5-17-2023)
4-6-6: PLACEMENT:
   A.   Storage containers have a useful and valid purpose when properly used
and placed. Improper location of the storage container can be unsightly attract
rodents and health and safety hazards.
   B.   Placement of cargo containers may not create a sight obstruction to
adjoining property and may not obstruct the view of the street on a corner lot
or where it obstructs a safe traffic view.
   C.   Containers are not to be stacked.
   D.   Storage containers need to be placed on a prepared level surface for
safety. (Ord. 2020-04, 6-17-2020; amd. Ord. 2023-04, 5-17-2023)
4-6-7: CONTENTS:
   A.   No storage container shall be used to store hazardous material.
   B.   No storage container shall be used to store and keep refuse or debris
in or against on top of or under cargo storage units. (Ord. 2020-04, 6-17-2020;
amd. Ord. 2023-04, 5-17-2023)
4-6-8: EXTERIOR:
Cargo storage containers must be free of graffiti; sided and painted earth tone
color or a color that compliments surrounding structures. (Ord. 2020-04, 6-17-
2020; amd Ord. 2023-04, 5-17-2023)
4-6-9: EXISTING CONTAINERS:
The placement and use of cargo containers placed before such date of this
ordinance may be continued provided that no such use may be expanded, relocated
or changed in any way on the property without conformity with these provisions.
(Ord. 2020-04, 6-17-2020; amd. Ord. 2023-04, 5-17-2023)
4-6-10: VIOLATION:
A violation of this section follows the resulting progressive penalties:
   A.   A warning letter will be issued within thirty (30) days, from the time
of issuance, to resolve the violation.
   B.   If the violation is not appropriately resolved within the required
thirty (30) days, a misdemeanor class B citation may be issued. (Ord. 2020-04,
6-17-2020; amd. Ord. 2023-04, 5-17-2023)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-1-2: Burials Of Persons Prohibited
5-1-3: Discharging Firearms
5-1-4: Noise
5-1-1: CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Utah Criminal Code (Utah Code Annotated title 76), as amended,
are hereby adopted by the Town. Any and all violations thereof shall be
considered violations of this chapter, and each such violation shall subject
the violator thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter if proceeded
hereunder. (2001 Code)
5-1-2: BURIALS OF PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It is an infraction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, to bury the body of any person within the Town, unless by
special permission of the Town Council, subject to such rules and regulations
as it may prescribe. (1976 Code § 13-131; amd. 2001 Code)
5-1-3: DISCHARGING FIREARMS:
It shall be a Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, for any person to discharge any kind of firearm from an
automobile or other vehicle or to discharge a firearm from, upon or across any
highway. It shall also be unlawful for any person to discharge any rifle, gun
or pistol within the limits of the Town, except in self-defense or in the case
of any peace officer or animal control officer in the discharge of his duties.
(2001 Code)
5-1-4: NOISE:
   A.   Purpose: This section is enacted for the purpose of regulating
excessive noise.
   B.   Prohibited; Exemptions:
      1.   Generally, it shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or
cause to be made or continued, any excessive, unnecessary or unusual loud noise
or any noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort,
repose, health, peace or safety of others within Hatch Town limits.
      2.   Excessive noise is prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to
make, continue, or cause to be made or allow to be made excessive noise on any
premises or any public place or public right-of-way.
      3.   Persons engaged in Municipal activities including public concerts,
school related or Town sponsored related promotional activities and lawful
parades shall be exempt from the provisions of this section for the duration of
the activity.
      4.   In addition to the above, it is unlawful for any person to: engage
in prolonged shouting, yelling, hooting, whistling, singing, or playing of
music or musical instruments loud enough to disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of persons who are involuntarily subject to such noise.
   C.   Definitions:
    EXCESSIVE NOISE: Is defined as any noise which, due to its volume, duration
or location, unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort,
repose, health, peace or safety of others within Town limits, or sound levels
exceeding either sixty five (65) dBA or dBC.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE: Is defined to include any sound which endangers or
injures the health of humans or disturbs a reasonable person of normal
sensitivities.
   D.   Time Frame; Permit: A person may not cause noise disturbance in public
between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on weekdays,
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on weekends. If
it is known that a certain activity may extend over the above time frame, a
permit must be secured from the Town two (2) weeks prior to the date that the
activity occurs. Such permit shall be approved or denied by the Mayor. The
Mayor, in granting such special permit, may prescribe any conditions or
requirements that are deemed necessary to minimize adverse effects upon the
community or surrounding neighborhood.
   E.   Enforcement: All noise control in this section shall be subject to the
direction and control of the County Sheriff's Department. The Sheriff's
Department shall be responsible for the administration of these rules and
regulations and any other powers vested in it by law and shall make inspections
of any premises and issue orders as necessary to effect the purposes of these
regulations, and do any and all acts permitted by law that are necessary for
the successful enforcement of these regulations.
   F.   Violation: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of an infraction. (Ord. 2017-05, 4-19-2017)
CHAPTER 2
MINORS; CURFEW
SECTION:
5-2-1: Established
5-2-2: Responsibility Of Parents, Guardians
5-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
No person under the age of sixteen (16) years shall be or remain upon any of
the streets, alleys or public places or vacant lots at night between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. following, unless such
person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other person having legal
custody of such minor person, or unless the employment or lawful business of
such minor makes it necessary to be upon the streets, alleys or public places
between such specified hours, in which event such minor person shall obtain a
permit from the Garfield county sheriff to be upon the streets, alleys or
public places during such hours. On any night when school, civil or church
functions are taking place, the hours of curfew shall be one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. following, in order to provide adequate time to
attend such functions provided for minor persons. Where a permit is required
from the Garfield county sheriff under this section, such permit shall be kept
upon the person and it shall be unlawful to be upon the streets, alleys or
public places within such curfew hours without such permit. (1976 Code § 13-
312; amd. 2001 Code)
5-2-2: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS, GUARDIANS:
No person, guardian or other person having legal charge or custody of any
person under sixteen (16) years of age shall allow or permit any such person or
child, ward or other person under such age, while in such legal custody, to go
or be in or upon any of the streets, alleys or public places when such going or
being in or upon such streets, alleys or public places would be in violation by
such minor of any provision of section
5-2-1 of this chapter. (1976 Code § 13-313)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Uniform Traffic Code Adopted
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Traffic Control
6-1-4: Parking Regulations
6-1-1: UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED:
The Utah traffic code, rules of the road, 1974 edition, as compiled, prepared
and published as a code in book form by the Utah department of public safety
and the Utah municipal league (Utah league of cities and towns), one copy of
which has been filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the
town clerk, hereby is approved and adopted as the traffic code for the town,
except as such code may be altered or modified by the ordinances of the town.
(1976 Code § 11-321; amd. 2001 Code)
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in the traffic code to:
   A.   The state road commission or state department of transportation shall
mean the town and its officers, departments, agencies and agents.
   B.   Local authorities shall mean the town council. (1976 Code § 11-322)
   C.   The department of public safety of the state of Utah shall mean the
Garfield county sheriff.
   D.   Magistrate shall mean the justice of the peace or judge of the town.
(1976 Code § 11-322; amd. 2001 Code)
6-1-3: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Prima Facie Speed; Designated Streets:
      1.   When appropriate traffic-control or regulatory signs giving notice
of speeds are posted, the prima facie maximum speed limits designated upon said
signs shall apply to the appropriate streets or portions of streets so posted.
(1976 Code § 11-323)
      2.   In the absence of any speed limit sign designating a speed limit
applicable thereto, the prima facie speed limit shall be twenty five (25) miles
per hour. (1976 Code § 11-323; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Stop Or Yield Entrances: When appropriate traffic-control or regulatory
signs are posted at entrances to intersections identifying them as stop or
yield entrances, such streets are hereby declared to be stop or yield entrances
as designated by said signs. (1976 Code § 11-325)
   C.   Angle Parking: When appropriate traffic-control or regulatory signs are
posted permitting angle parking, angle parking shall be permitted on the
streets or parts of streets so posted at the angle designated by the sign.
(1976 Code § 11-324)
   D.   Designation Of Posting: The town council shall designate the places at
which appropriate traffic-control devices or regulatory signs shall be placed
relating to maximum speed limits, angle parking, through streets, stop and
yield intersections and other regulations governing traffic. (1976 Code § 11-
326)
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating, causing or permitting violation of any
provision of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in state law.
(1976 Code § 11-327; amd. 2001 Code)
6-1-4: PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Signs; Erection: The town council may authorize or direct any person
employed by the town to erect or install any sign or traffic-control device
required to enforce the provisions of this section. (1976 Code § 11-342)
   B.   Properly Posted Areas: It shall be a class B misdemeanor to park or
leave standing at any time a motor vehicle, as defined in the Utah traffic
code, rules of the road, 1974, as adopted by the town, on any public road
within town limits when properly posted, except when necessary to avoid
interference with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic-control device. (1976 Code § 11-343; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Blocking Streets Or Highways: In addition to the parking provisions
contained in the Utah traffic code, as adopted by the town, it shall be a class
B misdemeanor for any person to:
      1.   Remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway in such a
manner as to obstruct the free passage of vehicular or pedestrian traffic
thereon.
      2.   Wilfully remain standing, lying or sitting on any street or highway
in such manner for more than one minute after being requested to move by any
police officer.
      3.   Wilfully remain on such street or highway in such manner as to
obstruct the free passage of any person or vehicle into or out of any property
abutting upon the street or highway or any property having access to such
street or highway. (1976 Code § 11-341)
   D.   Unlawful Parking:
      1.   Parking At Curb: No motor vehicle shall be parked with the left side
of the vehicle next to the curb, except on one-way streets. It shall be
unlawful to stand or park any motor vehicle in a street other than parallel
with the curb and with the two (2) right wheels of the vehicle within twelve
inches (12") of the regularly established curb line, except on those streets
which have been marked for angle parking; then vehicles shall be parked at the
angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
      2.   Trucks: It is an infraction for any person to allow, permit or cause
any truck to operate while standing still for more than ten (10) minutes during
the hours following sunset and before sunrise. (1976 Code § 11-344)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Department Of Streets
7-1-2: Removal Of Snow
7-1-3: Obstructions In Streets
7-1-4: Openings In Streets; Doors Obstructing
7-1-5: Discharge Of Water
7-1-6: Crossing At Intersections
7-1-7: Sidewalk Regulations
7-1-1: DEPARTMENT OF STREETS:
   A.   Creation: There is hereby created a department of streets which shall
have general supervision of streets, sidewalks, bridges and other public ways.
   B.   Superintendent: The department shall be under the direction and control
of the superintendent of streets. (1976 Code § 11-311)
   C.   Powers And Duties: The department shall:
      1.   Have charge of the construction, maintenance and repair of streets,
sidewalks, bridges, curbs, gutters, culverts, drains, waterways and other
public ways. It shall have control of all waters flowing on the streets,
sidewalks and public ways whether originating from storm, flood, drainage or
irrigation waters.
      2.   Keep a record of and promptly investigate all complaints of
defective streets, culverts, drains, ditches, sidewalks, and other public ways
and, when proper, repair, replace or take such action as deemed best, and shall
record the action taken on each complaint.
      3.   Enforce the provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances
relating to the maintenance and use of streets, culverts, drains, ditches,
waterways, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and other public ways.
      4.   Repair, or cause to be repaired, all defects coming to the
department's attention and take reasonable precautions to protect the public
from injuries due to such defects pending their repair. (1976 Code § 11-312)
7-1-2: REMOVAL OF SNOW:
   A.   Failure To Remove Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for the owner,
occupant, lessor, or agent of any property, abutting on a paved sidewalk, to
fail to remove, or have removed from such paved sidewalk, all hail, snow, or
sleet thereon within a reasonable time after such snow, hail, or sleet has
fallen. In the case of a storm between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., such sidewalks shall be cleaned before nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. of the same day.
   B.   Depositing In Gutter Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person
removing snow from the sidewalk, to deposit snow, dirt, leaves, or any other
material, in the gutter so as to clog or prevent the free flow of water
therein. (1976 Code § 11-361)
7-1-3: OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying or having control of any
premises to place, or permit to be placed upon or in the sidewalk, parking
area, gutter, or on the half of the street next to such premises:
   A.   Refuse: Any broken ware, glass, filth, rubbish, sweepings, refuse
matter, ice, snow, water, garbage, ashes, tin cans or other like substances.
   B.   Building Materials: Any wagons, lumber, wood boxes, fencing, building
material, dead trees, tree stumps, merchandise or other thing which shall
obstruct such public street, gutter, parking area or sidewalk, or any part
thereof, or the passage over and upon the same, or any part thereof, except as
expressly authorized by ordinance, without the permission of the town council
first had and obtained.
   C.   Permanent Or Temporary Structures: Any permanent or temporary
structure, mechanism, device, vehicle, or other thing of any kind or character
except trees planted pursuant to the provisions of applicable ordinances. (1976
Code § 11-362)
7-1-4: OPENINGS IN STREETS; DOORS OBSTRUCTING:
   A.   Cellars: It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building
having a cellar which opens upon any street or sidewalk to fail to keep the
door or other covering in good repair and safe for the passage of the customary
traffic on the street or sidewalk. If the owner or occupant of any such
building shall neglect or refuse to repair properly any such door or covering
within twenty four (24) hours after notice from the superintendent of streets
to do so, the superintendent of streets shall forthwith cause such repairs to
be made at the expense of the owner or occupant.
   B.   Coal Holes: It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain coal holes or
other openings in streets or sidewalks, except with the special permission of
the town council, and under the direction and supervision of the superintendent
of streets. (1976 Code § 11-363)
   C.   Doors: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning
or having the control or management of any alley, road or passageway to
construct or hang gates or doors to such alley, road or passageway so that the
gates or doors thereto, when open, shall project outwardly more than two feet
(2') over or upon the sidewalk beyond the property line. (1976 Code § 11-364)
7-1-5: DISCHARGE OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, occupying, or having control of any
premises to fail, refuse or neglect to prevent water from the roof or eaves of
any house, building, or other structure, or from any other source under the
control of such person, to be discharged upon the surface of any sidewalk.
(1976 Code § 11-365)
7-1-6: CROSSING AT INTERSECTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or park a self-propelled vehicle
or lead, drive, or ride any animal upon any sidewalk except across a sidewalk
at established crossings. (1976 Code § 11-366)
7-1-7: SIDEWALK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Businesses To Keep Clean: It shall be unlawful for any owners or
occupants of any place of business to refuse, neglect or fail to cause the
sidewalk abutting thereon to be swept or cleaned each morning before the hour
of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. (1976 Code § 11-367)
   B.   Placing Goods For Sale Or Show: No goods, wares, or merchandise shall
be placed, maintained or permitted for sale or show in or on any parking area,
street, or sidewalk beyond two feet (2') from the front line of the lot,
without first obtaining the written approval of the town council. Such approval
shall be granted only when such sale or show shall be a promotional activity
not exceeding forty eight (48) hours and when participated in by a majority of
firms seeking approval in their business areas. The town council's written
approval shall specifically provide that no goods, wares, or merchandise shall
be placed in such a manner as to leave less than a six foot (6') passageway for
pedestrians. (1976 Code § 11-368)
   C.   Place Goods For Receipt Or Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place or suffer to be placed or kept upon any sidewalk, any goods,
wares or merchandise which he may be receiving or delivering, without leaving a
foot passageway upon which sidewalk. It shall be unlawful for any person
receiving or delivering such goods, wares or merchandise to suffer the same to
be or remain on such sidewalk for a longer period than two (2) hours. (1976
Code § 11-369)
   D.   Playing: Every person who obstructs the sidewalk or street by playing
any game or engaging in any activity which obstructs the free travel thereon is
guilty of an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1976 Code § 11-370; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   Congregating: It is an infraction and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for any person or persons to congregate about or upon any
sidewalks, stairway, doorway, window or in front of any business or dwelling
house, theater, lecture room, church or elsewhere and by so doing to obstruct
or interfere with the free passage of persons entering, leaving or occupying
such building or premises. (1976 Code § 11-371)
CHAPTER 2
STREET AND SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Permit Required; Inspection
7-2-2: Conform To Established Specifications
7-2-3: Changing Existing Construction
7-2-4: Building Materials In Street; Permit
7-2-5: Mixing Concrete On Paved Streets Or Sidewalks
7-2-6: Overflowing Of Water
7-2-7: Irrigation Ditches
7-2-8: Removal Of Sod Or Earth
7-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; INSPECTION:
   A.   Required: No person, either as owner, agent, servant, contractor or
employee, shall construct any permanent sidewalk for public use without first
obtaining from the town clerk a permit to do so. The permit shall specify that
the sidewalk be constructed of cement, the character and quality of the cement,
the consistent parts of the mixture, and the thickness of the walk.
   B.   Unlawful Violation Of Specifications: It shall be unlawful to construct
a sidewalk in violation of the specifications given by a proper town official.
   C.   Inspection: All sidewalks shall be inspected by the superintendent of
streets or his duly authorized representative. (1976 Code § 11-352)
7-2-2: CONFORM TO ESTABLISHED SPECIFICATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, agent, servant, contractor
or employee to construct a street or sidewalk which does not conform to
specifications established by the town engineer or other authorized
representative of the town unless special permission to deviate from such
specification is first obtained from the town council. (1976 Code § 11-351)
7-2-3: CHANGING EXISTING CONSTRUCTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a driveway across a sidewalk,
or cut or change the construction of sidewalk, curb or gutter without first
making written application and obtaining from the town clerk a permit to do so.
The acceptance of such permit shall be deemed an agreement on the part of such
person to construct said driveway in accordance with specifications furnished
by the town. (1976 Code § 11-353)
7-2-4: BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET; PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or use any portion of the public
streets when erecting or repairing any building upon land abutting thereon
without first making application to and receiving from the town council a
permit for the occupation or use of such portions of streets for such periods
of time and under such limitations and restrictions as may be required by the
town council. Any such permit may be revoked by the town council at any time
when the holder thereof fails to comply with any rule or regulation under which
it is granted, or when, in the opinion of the town council, the public interest
requires such revocation. (1976 Code § 11-354)
7-2-5: MIXING CONCRETE ON PAVED STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
Unless a permit from the superintendent has been obtained, it shall be unlawful
to:
   A.   Place, Pile Or Permit: Place or pile or permit to be placed or piled,
any sand, gravel, lime, cement, mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance
or mixture, or allow the same to remain on any portion of any paved street or
sidewalk.
   B.   Make, Mix Or Permit: Make or mix or permit to be made or mixed any
mortar, plaster, concrete or any like substance or mixture on any portion of
any paved street or sidewalk. (1976 Code § 11-355)
7-2-6: OVERFLOWING OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow water to overflow from any ditch,
canal, well or irrigation stream onto the streets, sidewalks or property of the
town. (1976 Code § 11-356)
7-2-7: IRRIGATION DITCHES:
All owners or occupants of lots in the town who require water from a ditch for
irrigation or other purposes shall dig ditches, erect flumes, lay pipes and
install culverts, as needed, and maintain the same to convey water under
sidewalks to or from their respective lots. All culverts, ditches, pipes and
flumes conveying water under sidewalks shall meet such reasonable standards and
specifications as may be established by the superintendent of streets. (1976
Code § 11-357)
7-2-8: REMOVAL OF SOD OR EARTH 1 :
No person shall dig, cut or remove any sod or earth from any street or other
public place without a permit from the superintendent of streets. (1976 Code §
11-358)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 3 of this title.
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Administrative Authority
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Permit Required; Basis For Issuance
7-3-4: Application For Permit; Requirements
7-3-5: Fees For Permit
7-3-6: Insurance Requirements
7-3-7: Bond Required
7-3-8: Duration Of Permit; Extensions
7-3-9: Compliance Required
7-3-10: Relocation Of Structures In Public Ways
7-3-11: Impact On Existing Improvements
7-3-12: Restoration Of Public Property
7-3-13: Transferability; Assignability
7-3-14: Other Highway Permits
7-3-15: Work Without Permit
7-3-16: Revocation Or Suspension; Stop Order; Default
7-3-17: Failure To Conform To Design Standards
7-3-18: Emergency Work
7-3-19: Nonliability Of Town
7-3-20: Appeals
7-3-21: Tampering With Traffic Barricades
7-3-22: Conflicting Provisions
7-3-23: Penalty
7-3-1: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
In approving or disapproving work within any public way, or permits therefor,
in the inspection of such work; in reviewing plans, sketches or specifications;
and generally in the exercise of the authority conferred upon him/her by this
chapter, the town engineer shall act in such manner as to preserve and protect
the public way and the use thereof, but shall have no authority to govern the
actions or inaction of permittees and applicants or other persons which have no
relationship to the use, preservation or protection of the public way. (2001
Code)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
APPLICANT: Any person who makes application for a permit.
BUSINESS: Any place in the town in which there is conducted or carried on
principally or exclusively any pursuit or occupation for the purpose of gaining
a livelihood.
EMERGENCY: Any unforeseen circumstances or occurrence, the existence of which
constitutes an immediate danger to persons or property, or which causes
interruption of utility or public services.
ENGINEERING REGULATIONS, REGULATIONS, SPECIFICATIONS AND/OR DESIGN STANDARDS:
The latest version of the engineering regulations, specifications, design
standards or criteria published or adopted by the town engineer.
FAILURE: A work site restoration which fails to meet town engineer
specifications, or which results in a deteriorated or substandard condition
within the duration of the warranty period. Failure may be settlement of
surfaces, deterioration of materials or other surface irregularities.
Measurement of failure shall be further defined in the engineering regulations.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing telecommunication services to customers, all or part of the necessary
system which uses the right of way.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a telecommunications system and
directly or through one or more affiliates owns a controlling interest in such
system, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the operation of such a
system.
PERMITTEE: Any person which has been issued a permit and thereby has agreed to
fulfill the requirements of this chapter.
PERSON: Means and includes any natural person, partnership, firm, association,
provider, corporation, company, organization or entity of any kind.
PIPE DRIVEWAY: A driveway approach which uses a pipe or other means to bridge
the gutter.
PRIVATE DRAIN LINE: A pipe installed solely for the transmission of water
collected or generated on private property, such as drainage, spring or storm
water, or condensate into the public drainage system.
PROPERTY OWNER: Person or persons who have legal title to property and/or
equitable interest in the property, or the ranking official or agent of a
company having legal title to property and/or equitable interest in the
property.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller, system lessee or
public utility company.
PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANY: Any company subject to the jurisdiction of the Utah
state public service commission or any mutual corporation providing gas,
electricity, water, telephone or other utility products or services for use by
the general public.
PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all public rights of way and easements, public
footpaths, walkways and sidewalks, public streets, public roads, public
highways, public alleys and public drainageways. It does not, however, include
utility easements not within public ways of the town.
RESELLER: Refers to any person that provides service over a system for which a
separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the underlying
system used for the transmission and does not install any system in the rights
of way.
RESIDENT: The person or persons currently making their home at a particular
dwelling.
STORM DRAIN: A dedicated pipe, conduit, waterway or ditch installed in a right
of way or easement for the transmission of storm and drainage water. This term
does not include private drain lines.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a system or a specific portion
of a system to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: All conduits, manholes, poles, antennas,
transceivers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices, equipment, wire and
appurtenances owned, leased or used by a provider located in the construction,
ownership, operation, use or maintenance of a telecommunications system.
TOWN: The town of Hatch, a municipal corporation of the state of Utah.
TOWN ENGINEER: The town engineer or his/her authorized representative.
WORK SITE RESTORATION: Means and includes the restoring of the original ground
or paved hard surface area to comply with engineering regulations, and
includes, but is not limited to, repair, cleanup, backfilling, compaction and
stabilization, paving and other work necessary to place the site in acceptable
condition following the conclusion of the work, or the expiration or revocation
of the permit. (2001 Code)
7-3-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; BASIS FOR ISSUANCE:
Any person desiring to perform work of any kind in a public way within the
town, shall make application for a permit. The decision by the town to issue a
permit shall include, among other factors determined by the town, the
following:
   A.   The capacity of the public way to accommodate the facilities or
structures proposed to be installed in the public way;
   B.   The capacity of the public way to accommodate multiple wire in addition
to cables, conduits, pipes or other facilities or structures of other users of
the public way, such as electrical power, telephone, gas, sewer and water;
   C.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements or landscaping previously existing in the public way;
   D.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction from numerous excavations of the public way. (2001 Code)
7-3-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required; Filing: Application for a permit shall be filed with the town
engineer on a form or forms to be furnished by the town. Property owners and/or
tenants for whom work is being done shall be responsible for obtaining the
permits, provided, however, contractors may obtain the permit in the
contractor's name.
   B.   Eligible Persons: No person shall be eligible to apply for or receive
permits to do work within the public ways of the town, save and except the
following:
      1.   Contractors licensed by the state as general contractors;
      2.   Providers;
      3.   Property owners installing, replacing or maintaining less than five
hundred (500) square feet or one hundred (100) linear feet of sidewalk, curb
and gutter, or driveway approach, or other work approved by the town engineer,
upon a portion of the public way adjacent to their residence; or
      4.   Persons offering a service which requires occupation of the public
way, such as scaffolding or staging of a crane, installation or maintenance of
electric signs, glass, awnings and painting or cleaning of buildings or
signboards or other structures.
   C.   Denial Based On Past Performances: The town engineer may deny the
issuance of permits to contractors, utility companies or other permit
applicants who have shown by past performance that, in the opinion of the town
engineer, they will not consistently conform to the engineering regulations,
specifications, design standards or the requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Engineering Plans; When Required: When necessary, in the judgment of
the town engineer, to fully determine the relationship of the work proposed to
existing or proposed facilities within the public ways, or to determine whether
the work proposed complies with the engineering regulations, construction
specifications and design standards, the town engineer may require the filing
of engineering plans, specifications and sketches showing the proposed work in
sufficient detail to permit determination of such relationship or compliance,
or both, and the application shall be deemed suspended until such plans and
sketches are filed and approved.
   E.   Approval Required Prior To Commencement Of Work: It shall be unlawful
for any person to commence work upon any public way until the town engineer has
approved the application and until a permit has been issued for such work,
except as specifically approved to the contrary in this chapter.
   F.   Government Employees: It shall be lawful for a town, county, state,
federal or other government employee to perform routine maintenance work, not
involving excavations, without first having obtained a permit therefor.
   G.   Hand Digging Excavations: A permit is not required from the town
engineer for hand digging excavations for installation or repair of sprinkler
systems and landscaping within the nonpaved areas of the public way. However,
conformance to all town specifications is required. (2001 Code)
7-3-5: FEES FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Authorized: The town shall charge and the permittee shall pay upon
issuance of the permit, fees for costs associated with the work performed under
the permit as outlined in the consolidated fee schedule. Such costs could
include costs for reviewing the project and issuing the permit, inspections of
the project, deterioration of the public way or diminution of the useful life
of the public way, and other costs to the town associated with the work to be
done under the permit. All costs shall be assessed in a nondiscriminatory
manner.
   B.   Waiver; Determination: The town engineer may waive permit fees or
penalties, or portion thereof, provided for in this chapter, when he/she
determines that such permit fee or penalty:
      1.   Low Income Housing: Pertains to construction or rehabilitation of
housing for persons whose income is below the median income level for the town;
or
      2.   Encroachment Involving Beautification Project: Pertains to an
encroachment on the public way involving a beautification project which
furthers specific goals and objectives set forth in the town's strategic plan,
master plans or other official documents, including decorative street lighting,
building facade lighting, flower and planter boxes and landscaping.
   C.   Required Reviews And Inspections: Additional charges to cover the
reasonable cost and expenses of any required engineering review, inspection and
work site restoration associated with each undertaking may be charged by the
town to each permittee, in addition to the permit fee. (2001 Code)
7-3-6: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Evidence Provided; Limits, Provisions: Before a permit is issued, the
applicant shall furnish to the town evidence that such applicant has a
comprehensive general liability and property damage policy that includes
contractual liability coverage endorsed with the following limits and
provisions:
      1.   A minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined single
limit per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury and property damage and
not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) in the aggregate. The general
aggregate limit shall apply separately to the permit, or the general aggregate
limit shall be two (2) times the required occurrence limit. The coverage shall
be in the nature of broad form commercial general liability coverage. The town
attorney may increase or decrease minimum insurance limits, depending on the
potential liability of any project.
      2.   All policies shall include the town, its employees, officers,
officials, agents, volunteers and assigns as insured. Any reference to the
"town" shall include the town, its employees, officers, officials, agents,
volunteers and assigns.
      3.   The coverage shall be primary insurance as respects the town, its
employees, officers, officials, agents, volunteers, and assigns. Any insurance
or self-insurance maintained by the town, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns shall be in excess of the permittee's insurance
and shall not contribute to or with it.
      4.   Any failure to comply with reporting provisions of the policy shall
not effect coverage provided to the town, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers and assigns.
      5.   Coverage shall state that the permittee's insurance shall apply
separately to each insured against whom claim is made or suit is brought,
except with respect to the limits of the insurer's liability.
      6.   Underwriters shall have no right of recovery or subrogation against
the town, it being the intent of the parties that the insurance policy so
affected shall protect both parties and be primary coverage for any and all
losses covered by the described insurance.
      7.   The insurance companies issuing the policy shall have no recourse
against the town for payment of any premiums due or for any assessments under
any form of any policy.
      8.   Each insurance policy shall be endorsed to state that the coverage
shall not be suspended, voided, canceled or reduced in coverage or in limits,
except after thirty (30) days' prior written notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, sent to the town.
      9.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, save harmless and defend
the town and its officers and employees against any claim or loss, damage or
expense sustained on account of damages to persons or property occurring by
reason of permit work done by the permittee, his/her subcontractor or agent,
whether or not the work has been completed and whether or not the right of way
has been opened to public travel.
      10.   Each policy shall be endorsed to indemnify, hold harmless and
defend the town and its officers and employees against any claim or loss,
damage or expense sustained by any person occurring by reason of doing any work
pursuant to the permit, including, but not limited to, falling objects or
failure to maintain proper barricades and/or lights as required from the time
work begins until the work is completed and right of way is opened for public
use.
   B.   Rating Of Insurer: Insurance is to be placed with insurers with an AM
best rating of no less than an "A" carrier, with a rating of "7" or higher.
   C.   Certificates, Endorsements: The permittee shall furnish the town with
certificates of insurance and original endorsements affecting coverage required
by the permit. The certificates and endorsements of each insurance policy are
to be signed by a person authorized by that insurer to bind coverage on its
behalf. The town expressly reserves the right to require complete, certified
copies of all required insurance policies at any time. Consequently, the
permittee shall be prepared to provide such copies prior to the issuance of the
permit.
   D.   Unsatisfactory Policy: If any of the required policies are, or at any
time become, unsatisfactory to the town as to form or substance, or if a
company issuing any such policy is, or at any time becomes, unsatisfactory to
the town, the permittee shall promptly obtain a new policy, submit the same to
the town for approval and thereafter submit verification of coverage as
required by the town. Upon failure to furnish, deliver and maintain such
insurance as provided herein, the town may declare the permit to be in default
and pursue any and all remedies the town may have at law or in equity,
including those actions outlined in this chapter.
   E.   Subcontractors: The permittee shall include all subcontractors as
insured under its policies or shall furnish separate certificates and
endorsements for each subcontractor. All coverages for subcontractors shall be
subject to all of the requirements stated herein.
   F.   Deductibles, Self-Insured Retentions: Any deductibles or self-insured
retentions shall be declared to and approved by the town. At the option of the
town, either the insurer shall reduce or eliminate such deductibles or self-
insured retentions as respects the town, its employees, officers, officials,
agents, volunteers or assigns, or the permittee shall procure a bond, in a form
acceptable to the town, guaranteeing payment of losses and related
investigations, claim administration and defense expenses.
   G.   Property Owner Performing Work: A property owner performing work
adjacent to his/her residence may submit proof of a homeowner's insurance
policy in lieu of the insurance requirements of this section.
   H.   Relief Of Obligation; Circumstances: A public utility company provider
may be relieved of the obligation of submitting certificates of insurance under
the following circumstances:
      1.   If such company shall submit satisfactory evidence in advance that:
         a.   It is insured in the amounts set forth in this chapter or has
complied with state requirements to become self-insured. Public utilities may
submit annually evidence of insurance coverage in lieu of individual
submissions for each permit; and
         b.   Said coverage provides to the town the same scope of coverage
that would otherwise be provided by a separate policy as required by this
chapter; or
      2.   The work to be performed under the permit issued to the applicant is
to be performed by the town, in which case insurance or other risk transfer
issues shall be negotiated between the town and the applicant by separate
agreement. (2001 Code)
7-3-7: BOND REQUIRED:
   A.   Acceptable Security: Except as noted in this chapter, each applicant,
before being issued a permit, shall provide the town with an acceptable
security (this may include a corporate surety bond, cash bond or letter of
credit, as determined by the town) in the amount of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) to guarantee faithful performance of the work authorized by a
permit granted pursuant to this chapter. The amount of the security required
may be increased or decreased at the discretion of the town engineer whenever
it appears that the amount and cost of the work to be performed, and not
satisfactorily completed, may vary from the amount of security otherwise
required under this chapter. The form of the security and the entity issuing
the security shall be subject to the approval of the town attorney.
   B.   Public Utilities Franchised By Town: Public utilities franchised by the
town shall not be required to file any security if such requirement is
expressly waived in the franchise documents.
   C.   Conditions Of Security: The security required by this section shall be
conditioned as follows:
      1.   Compliance With Specifications And Regulations: The permittee shall
fully comply with the requirements of the town ordinances and regulations,
specifications and standards promulgated by the town relative to work in the
public way, and respond to the town in damages for failure to conform
therewith;
      2.   Diligent Completion: After work is commenced, the permittee shall
proceed with diligence and expedition and shall promptly complete such work and
restore the public way to construction specifications so as not to obstruct the
public place or travel thereon more than is reasonably necessary;
      3.   Guarantee Of Materials, Workmanship: The permittee shall guarantee
the materials and workmanship for a period of two (2) years from completion of
such work, with reasonable wear and tear excepted; and
      4.   Street Facilities: Unless authorized by the town engineer on the
permit, all paving, resurfacing or replacement of street facilities on major or
collector streets shall be done in conformance with the regulations contained
herein within three (3) calendar days, and within seven (7) calendar days from
the time the excavation commences on all other streets, except as provided for
during excavation in winter or during weather conditions which do not allow
paving according to engineering regulations. In winter, a temporary patch must
be provided. In all excavations, restoration of pavement surfaces shall be made
immediately after backfilling is completed or concrete is cured. If work is
expected to exceed the above duration, the permittee shall submit a detailed
construction schedule for approval. The schedule will address means and methods
to minimize traffic disruption and complete the construction as soon as
reasonably possible. (2001 Code)
7-3-8: DURATION OF PERMIT; EXTENSIONS:
   A.   Completion Date; Determination: Each permit application shall state the
starting date and estimated completion date. Work shall be completed within
five (5) days from the starting date or as determined by the town engineer.
Such determination shall be based upon factors reasonably related to the work
to be performed under the permit. Such factors may include, in addition to
other factors related to the work to be performed, the following:
      1.   The scope of work to be performed under the permit;
      2.   Maintaining the safe and effective flow of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic on the public way affected by the work;
      3.   Protecting the existing improvements to the public way impacted by
the work;
      4.   The season of the year during which the work is to be performed, as
well as the current weather and its impact on public safety and the use of the
public way by the public;
      5.   Use of the public way for extraordinary events anticipated by the
town.
   B.   Notification To Town Upon Commencement: The town engineer shall be
notified by the permittee of commencement of the work within twenty four (24)
hours prior to commencing work. The permit shall be valid for the time period
specified in the permit.
   C.   Application For Extension: If the work is not completed during such
period, prior to the expiration of the permit, the permittee may apply to the
town engineer for an additional permit or an extension, which may be granted by
the town engineer for good cause shown.
   D.   Length Of Extension: The length of the extension requested by the
permittee shall be subject to the approval of the town engineer. No extension
shall be made that allows work to be completed in the winter period without
payment of winter fees. (2001 Code)
7-3-9: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Regulations, Specifications: The work performed in the public way shall
conform to the requirements of the engineering regulations, design standards,
construction specifications and traffic-control regulations of the town, copies
of which shall be available from the town engineer, kept on file in the office
of the town clerk and be open to public inspection during office hours.
   B.   Unattended Site; Permittee Identification: Where a job site is left
unattended before completion of the work, signage with minimum two inch (2")
high letters shall be attached to a barricade or otherwise posted at the site,
indicating the permittee's name or company name, telephone number and after
hours telephone number.
   C.   Traffic Control; Barricades: All excavations shall be conducted in a
manner resulting in a minimum amount of interference or interruption of street
or pedestrian traffic. Inconvenience to residents and businesses fronting on
the public way shall be minimized. Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades
and/or other structures will be available and used where necessary to prevent
accidents involving property or persons. Barricades must be in place until all
of the permittee's equipment is removed from the site and the excavation has
been backfilled and proper temporary gravel surface is in place, except where
backfilling and resurfacing is to be done by the town; in which case the
barricades, together with any necessary lights, flares or torches, must remain
in place until the backfill work is actually commenced by the town. From sunset
to sunrise, all barricades and excavations must be clearly outlined by adequate
signal lights, torches, etc.
   D.   Advance Notice Given: The Garfield county sheriff and fire department
shall be notified at least twenty four (24) hours in advance of any planned
excavation requiring street closure or traffic detour. (2001 Code)
7-3-10: RELOCATION OF STRUCTURES IN PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Authority; Costs: The town engineer may direct any person owning or
maintaining facilities or structures in the public way to alter, modify or
relocate such facilities or structures as the town engineer may require.
Sewers, pipes, drains, tunnels, conduits, pipe driveways, vaults, trash
receptacles and overhead and underground gas, electric, telephone,
telecommunication and communication facilities shall specifically be subject to
such directives. The person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
shall, at their own cost and expense and upon reasonable written notice by the
town, promptly protect or promptly alter or relocate such facilities or
structures, or part thereof, as directed by the town. In the event that such
person refuses or neglects to conform to the directive of the town, the town
shall have the right to break through, remove, alter or relocate such part of
the facilities or structures without liability to such person. Such person
shall pay to the town all costs incurred by the town in connection with such
work performed by the town, including also design, engineering, construction,
materials, insurance, court costs and attorney fees.
   B.   Considerations For Issuing Directive: Any directive by the town
engineer shall be based upon the following:
      1.   The facility or structure was installed, erected or is being
maintained contrary to law, or determined by the town engineer to be
structurally unsound or defective;
      2.   The facility or structure constitutes a "nuisance" as defined under
state statute;
      3.   The permit under which the facility or structure was installed has
expired or has been revoked;
      4.   The public way is about to be repaired or improved and such
facilities or structures may pose a hindrance to construction; or
      5.   The grades or lines of the public way are to be altered or changed.
   C.   Police Power: Any directive of the town engineer under this section
shall be under and consistent with the town's police power. Unless an emergency
condition exists, the town engineer shall make a good faith effort to consult
with the person regarding any condition that may result in a removal or
relocation of facilities in the public way to consider possible avoidance or
minimization of removal or relocation requirements and provide the directive as
far enough in advance of the required removal or relocation to allow the person
a reasonable opportunity to plan and minimize cost associated with the required
removal or relocation.
   D.   Exception: This obligation does not apply to facilities or structures
originally located on private property pursuant to a private easement, which
property was later incorporated into the public way, if that prior private
easement grants a superior vested right.
   E.   Failure To Comply: Any person owning or maintaining facilities or
structures in the public way who fails to alter, modify or relocate such
facilities or structures upon notice to do so by the town engineer shall be
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. All costs of alteration, modification or relocation shall
be borne by the person owning or maintaining the facilities or structures
involved.
   F.   Action By Town: The town may, at any time, in case of fire, disaster or
other emergency, as determined by the town in its reasonable discretion, cut or
move any parts of the system and appurtenances on, over or under the public
way, in which event the town shall not be liable therefor to a person. The town
shall notify a person in writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as
soon as possible and in no case later than the next business day following any
action taken under this subsection. (2001 Code)
7-3-11: IMPACT ON EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Sidewalk Or Curb Ramp Blocked; Temporary Improvement: If any sidewalk
or curb ramp is blocked by excavation work, a temporary sidewalk or curb ramp
shall be constructed or provided. Said temporary improvement shall be safe for
travel and convenient for users, and consistent with town standards for such.
   B.   Paved Areas; Temporary Surface: Where excavations are made in paved
areas, the surface shall be replaced with a temporary gravel surface until such
time as the permanent repairs are completed.
   C.   Disturbance Of Property:
      1.   At any time a permittee disturbs the yard, residence or the real or
personal property of a private property owner or the town, such permittee shall
ensure that such property is returned, replaced and/or restored to a condition
that is comparable to the condition that existed prior to the commencement of
the work.
      2.   The costs associated with the disturbance and the return,
replacement and/or restoration shall be borne by the permittee. Further, a
permittee shall reimburse a property owner or the town for any actual damage
caused by the permittee, its subcontractor or its independent contractor, in
connection with the disturbance of such property. However, nothing in this
subsection shall require the permittee to pay a subscriber or private property
owner when that subscriber or private property owner requests that the
permittee remove, replace or relocate improvements associated with the service
provided by the permittee to the property owner and when the permittee
exercises due care in the performance of that service, or when the subscriber
or private property owner provided false information to the permittee on which
the permittee relied to its detriment.
   D.   Acts Specifically Included: Examples of types of acts specifically
included in this section are the following:
      1.   Removal of sod, lawn, shrubbery, flowers, trees, driveways or fence
to install, trench, repair, replace, remove or locate equipment, cable or other
appurtenances of the permittee;
      2.   Installation or removal of equipment or other appurtenances of the
permittee's system within a private property owner's property or residence
which requires drilling, excavating, plastering or the like on the part of the
permittee;
      3.   Temporarily relocating or moving a piece of personal property or a
fixture of a private property owner, such as a motor vehicle, fence, air
conditioning, heating unit or the like, in order to perform some sort of
construction, maintenance or repair by the permittee; or
      4.   Permanently removing a permittee's equipment or other appurtenances
due to the revocation, termination or nonrenewal of the franchise (if
applicable).
   E.   Drainage Channels Free From Debris: Existing drainage channels, such as
gutters or ditches, shall be kept free of dirt or other debris so that natural
flow will not be interrupted. When it is necessary to block or otherwise
interrupt flow of the drainage channel, a method of rerouting the flow must be
submitted for approval by the town engineer prior to the blockage of the
channel.
   F.   Subcontractor, Independent Contractor: The requirements imposed upon
the permittee extend to any subcontractor or independent contractor that the
permittee might employ to perform the tasks pursuant to the permit.
   G.   Exception: The requirements of this section shall not apply to the
removal by a permittee of a permanent structure placed by a property owner in a
public way, unless such property owner has received prior written permission
from the town granting the property owner the right to install a permanent
structure on a public way, and such written permission has been recorded in the
office of the county recorder. (2001 Code)
7-3-12: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Required: The permittee shall, at its own expense, restore the surface
of any public way to its original condition and replace any removed or damaged
pavement with the same type and depth of pavement as that which is adjoining,
including the gravel base material. All restoration shall conform to the
engineering regulations, design standards and specifications promulgated by the
town and shall be accomplished within the time limits set forth in the permit,
unless additional time is granted in writing by the department.
   B.   By Town; Fee Charged To Permittee: At its option, the permittee doing
the actual excavation work may request that the town restore the surface to its
original condition. The fee for such resurfacing shall be determined by the
town engineer in accordance with its reasonable costs for such work and shall
be charged to the person, firm or corporation making the excavation. Payment
for said work shall be received by the town prior to the release of the bond.
(2001 Code)
7-3-13: TRANSFERABILITY; ASSIGNABILITY:
Permits shall not be transferable or assignable, and work shall not be
performed under a permit in any place other than that specified in the permit.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent a permittee from subcontracting the work
to be performed under a permit; provided, however, that the holder of the
permit shall be and remain responsible for the performance of the work under
the permit, and for all bonding, insurance and other requirements of this
chapter and under said permit. (2001 Code)
7-3-14: OTHER HIGHWAY PERMITS:
   A.   Town Permit Not Required: Holders of permits for work on highways owned
or under the jurisdiction of other governmental entities, but located within
the town limits, shall not be required to obtain permits from the town under
the provisions of this chapter, unless the work extends beyond the back side of
the curb, or beyond any other designated jurisdictional boundary. Any town
permit shall not be construed to permit or allow work on a county road or a
state highway within the town without an applicable county or state permit.
   B.   Regulation Of Work By Town; Authority: The town engineer, in his or her
discretion, shall have the right and authority to regulate work under permits
issued by other governmental entities with respect to hours and days of work,
and measures required to be taken by the permittee of said governmental entity
for the protection of traffic and safety of persons and property.
   C.   Liability: Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this chapter shall
be construed to impose any duty, implied or expressed, on the town or its
employees, officers, agents or assigns, relative to the protection of traffic
and safety of persons or property arising out of the issuance of any permit
issued by governmental entities other than the town, or arising out of any work
performed on any public way owned or within the jurisdiction of the town. (2001
Code)
7-3-15: WORK WITHOUT PERMIT:
   A.   Stop Order: A stop order may be issued by the town engineer directed to
any person or persons doing or causing any work to be done in the public way
without a permit. The abutting property owner shall be responsible for causing
work to be done.
   B.   Fee: Any person found to be doing work in the public way without having
obtained a permit, as provided in this chapter, shall be required to pay a
permit fee equal to two (2) times the normal permit fee. For replacement work,
where a fee is not normally charged, the normal permit fee for new construction
shall apply. (2001 Code)
7-3-16: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION; STOP ORDER; DEFAULT:
   A.   Authority; Notice: Any permit may be revoked or suspended and a stop
order issued by the town engineer after notice to the permittee for:
      1.   Violation of any condition of the permit, the security or of any
provision of this chapter;
      2.   Violation of any provision of any other ordinance of the town or law
relating to the work; or
      3.   Existence of any condition or the doing of any act which does
constitute, may constitute or cause a condition endangering life or property.
   B.   Immediate Effect: A suspension or revocation by the town engineer and a
stop order, shall take effect immediately upon entry thereof by the town
engineer and notice to the person performing the work in the public way. Notice
to the person performing the work shall be accomplished when the town engineer
has posted a stop work order at the location of the work and written notice has
been mailed, return receipt requested, to the address indicated by the
permittee on the permit.
   C.   Default: Whenever the town engineer finds that a default has occurred
in the performance of any term or condition of the permit, written notice
thereof may be given to the principal and to the surety on the bond, if there
is a surety bond. Such notice shall state the work to be done, the estimated
cost thereof and the period of time deemed by the town engineer to be
reasonably necessary for the completion of the work.
   D.   Failure To Commence Work: In the event that the surety (or principal),
within a reasonable time following the giving of such notice (taking into
consideration the exigencies of the situation, the nature of the work, the
requirements of public safety and for the protection of persons and property),
fails either to commence and cause the required work to be performed with due
diligence, or to indemnify the town for the cost of doing the work, as set
forth in the notice, the town may perform the work, at the discretion of the
town engineer, with town forces or contract forces, or both, and suit may be
commenced by the town attorney against the contractor and bonding company and
such other persons as may be liable, to recover the entire amount due to the
town, including attorney fees, on account thereof. In the event that cash has
been deposited, the cost of performing the work may be charged against the
amount deposited, and suit brought for the balance due, if any. (2001 Code)
7-3-17: FAILURE TO CONFORM TO DESIGN STANDARDS:
For failure to conform to the design standards and regulation, the town
engineer may:
   A.   Suspend or revoke the permit;
   B.   Issue a stop order;
   C.   Order removal and replacement of faulty work;
   D.   Require an extended warranty period; and/or
   E.   Negotiate a cash settlement to be applied toward future maintenance
costs. (2001 Code)
7-3-18: EMERGENCY WORK:
   A.   Authorized Without Permit: Any person maintaining pipes, lines or
facilities in the public way may proceed with work upon existing facilities
without a permit when emergency circumstances demand the work to be done
immediately; provided a permit could not reasonably and practicably have been
obtained beforehand.
   B.   Notification To Town; Protection Of Public: In the event that emergency
work is commenced on or within any public way of the town during regular
business hours, the town engineer shall be notified within one-half (1/2) hour
from the time the work is commenced. The person commencing and conducting such
work shall take all necessary safety precautions for the protection of the
public and the direction and control of traffic, and shall ensure that work is
accomplished according to town engineering regulations, the manual on uniform
traffic-control devices and other applicable laws, regulations or generally
recognized practices in the industry.
   C.   Application For Permit; Time Limit: Any person commencing emergency
work in the public way during other than business hours without a permit shall
immediately thereafter apply for a permit or give notice during the first hour
of the first regular business day on which town offices are open for business
after such work is commenced. A permit for such emergency work may be issued
which shall be retroactive to the date when the work was begun, at the
discretion of the town engineer. (2001 Code)
7-3-19: NONLIABILITY OF TOWN:
   A.   Agreement To Hold Town Harmless: The permittee agrees to save the town,
its officers, employees and agents harmless from any and all costs, damages and
liabilities which may accrue or be claimed to accrue by reason of any work
performed under the permit. The issuance and acceptance of any permit under
this chapter shall constitute such an agreement by the permittee to this
section.
   B.   Liability: This chapter shall neither be construed as imposing upon the
town, its officers, employees and agents, any liability or responsibility for
damages to any person injured by or by reason of the performance of any work
within the public way, or under a permit issued pursuant to this chapter; nor
shall the town, its officers, officials, employees, agents, volunteers or
assigns thereof be deemed to have assumed any such liability or responsibility
by reason of inspection authorized hereunder, the issuance of any permit or the
approval of any work. (2001 Code)
7-3-20: APPEALS:
   A.   Application Disapproval Or Denial: The disapproval or denial of an
application by the town engineer may be appealed by the applicant to the town
council by the filing of a written notice of appeal within ten (10) days of the
action of the town engineer. The town council shall hear such appeal, if
written request therefor be timely filed as soon as practicable, and render
their decision within two (2) weeks following notice of such appeal.
   B.   Suspension, Revocation Or Stop Order: Any suspension, revocation or
stop order by the town engineer may be appealed by the permittee to the town
council by filing a written notice of appeal within ten (10) days of the action
of the town engineer. The town council shall hear such appeal, if written
request therefor be timely filed, as soon as practicable, and render their
decision within a reasonable time following filing of notice of appeal. (2001
Code)
7-3-21: TAMPERING WITH TRAFFIC BARRICADES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously or wantonly or without
authorization and legal cause, extinguish, remove or diminish any light
illuminating any barricade or excavation, or to tear down, remove or in any
manner alter any rail, fence or barricade protecting any excavation or other
construction site. (2001 Code)
7-3-22: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Should there be a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of any other ordinance, agreement, franchise or other document
governing the excavation of a public way, the more restrictive provisions of
the aforesaid documents shall apply. (2001 Code)
7-3-23: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, a violation of any provision of
this chapter, or failure to comply with an order of suspension, revocation or
stop work, shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day the violation exists shall be a separate offense.
No criminal conviction shall excuse the person from otherwise complying with
the provisions of this chapter. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY USE AND CONTROL
SECTION:
7-4-1: Unlawful Use
7-4-2: Repair After Unlawful Use
7-4-3: Franchise; Easement
7-4-4: Acts Exempted
7-4-1: UNLAWFUL USE:
Unless authorized by permit or other written authorization issued by the town
or unless authority is granted by provisions of this code or other ordinance of
the town now or hereafter enacted, it shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to: (1976 Code § 8-111; amd. 2001 Code)
   A.   Property Controlled By Town: Construct, lay, excavate, erect, operate
or maintain over, under, across, in or through any property owned or controlled
by the town, any utility, canal, ditch, construction or building.
   B.   Restricted Areas: Enter upon any property of the town contrary to any
posting or marking restricting or prohibiting use of the area.
   C.   Damage To Property: Intentionally use or perform acts upon property of
the town which materially impairs, alters or damages the property. (1976 Code §
8-111)
7-4-2: REPAIR AFTER UNLAWFUL USE:
The town council, in addition to any other penalty which may be imposed, may
order any person who has damaged, altered or changed any property of the town
to repair or restore the property to its original condition prior to the
damage, alteration or change. (1976 Code § 8-112)
7-4-3: FRANCHISE; EASEMENT:
   A.   Provisions: The town council may grant to any person a franchise or
easement on such terms and conditions as it deems reasonable, for the purpose
of entering upon, constructing, building, operating and maintaining any
business or for other use of the property of the town and the provisions of
sections
7-4-1 and
7-4-2 of this chapter shall not apply to the extent such provisions are waived,
qualified or made inapplicable to the rights or privileges granted in the
franchise ordinance or easement.
   B.   In Writing: Any franchise or easement granted by the town shall be in
writing and any franchise or easement not in writing shall be void. (1976 Code
§ 8-113)
7-4-4: ACTS EXEMPTED:
It shall not be a violation of this chapter where any person uses the public
property of the town in the manner or for the purpose for which such property
has been made available for public use. (1976 Code § 8-114)
CHAPTER 5
TELECOMMUNICATIONS; USE OF RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-5-1: Findings And Intent; Scope
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Franchise Or License Required
7-5-4: Compensation And Other Payments
7-5-5: Franchise And License Applications
7-5-6: Construction And Technical Requirements
7-5-7: Franchise And License Nontransferable
7-5-8: Oversight And Regulation
7-5-9: Rights Of Town
7-5-10: Rights Of Individuals
7-5-11: General Provisions
7-5-12: Public Educational And Governmental Access
7-5-13: Federal, State And Town Jurisdiction
7-5-1: FINDINGS AND INTENT; SCOPE:
   A.   Declaration Of Findings And Intent:
      1.   Rights Of Way: The town finds that the public streets, alleys,
easements and other rights of way within the town:
         a.   Are critical to the travel and transport of persons and property
in the business and social life of the town;
         b.   Are intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled
consistent with that intent;
         c.   Can be partially occupied by the facilities of utilities and
other public service entities delivering utility and public services rendered
for profit, to the enhancement of the health, welfare and general economic
well-being of the town and its citizens;
         d.   Are a unique and physically limited resource requiring proper
management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and
negative effects upon the public from such facilities' construction, placement,
relocation and maintenance in the rights of way; (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998)
         e.   Are an asset of the town that taxpayers spent at least three
thousand dollars ($3,000.00) in the past fiscal year to acquire, and six
thousand dollars ($6,000.00) to improve. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998; amd. 2001
Code)
      2.   Use Valuable Economic Right: The town finds that the right to occupy
portions of the rights of way for limited times for the business of providing
telecommunications services or open video services is a valuable economic right
to use a unique public resource that has been acquired and is maintained at
great expense to the town and its taxpayers, and the economic benefit of such
rights should be shared with all the taxpayers of the town.
      3.   Local Concern: The town finds that while telecommunications systems
are in part an extension of interstate commerce, their operations also involve
rights of way, municipal franchising and vital business and community service,
which are of local concern.
      4.   Promotion Of Telecommunications Services: The town finds that it is
in the best interests of its citizens to promote the rapid development of
telecommunications facilities responsive to community and public interest, to
assure that telecommunications companies provide adequate, economical and
efficient service to their subscribers and to assure availability for municipal
services, educational and community services.
      5.   Franchise Standards: The town council finds that it is in the
interests of the public to franchise or license, and to establish standards for
franchising or licensing operators, infrastructure providers, resellers and
system lessees in a manner that:
         a.   Compensates the town for the fair market value of the property
used and for ongoing costs associated with the use of such property;
         b.   Encourages competition by establishing terms and conditions under
which providers may use valuable public property to serve the public;
         c.   Fully protects the public and the town from any harm that may
flow from such private commercial use of rights of way;
         d.   Protects the regulatory authority of the town in a manner
consistent with federal and state law;
         e.   Otherwise protects the public interests in the development and
use of town infrastructure; and
         f.   Protects the public's investment in improvements in the rights of
way.
      6.   Authority: The town adopts this telecommunications chapter pursuant
to its power to manage the rights of way and receive reasonable,
nondiscriminatory compensation for the use of rights of way by
telecommunications providers as expressly set forth by sections 253 and 653 of
the telecommunications act of 1996 ("act") (P.L. No. 104-104), and Utah
constitution article XI.
   B.   Scope Of Chapter: This chapter shall provide the basic local regulatory
scheme for providers of telecommunications services, including providers of
only the physical plant necessary to operate a communications system, unless
otherwise expressly excluded. This chapter shall apply to all regulated
providers, whether operating with or without a franchise or license. Providers
maintaining a presence in the right of way or other public property pursuant to
an ordinance granted by the town prior to the effective date hereof, or
maintaining a presence without such consent, shall comply with the provisions
of this chapter.
   C.   Excluded Activity:
      1.   This chapter shall not apply to cable television operators otherwise
regulated by the cable television ordinance.
      2.   Providers excused by other law that prohibits the town from
requiring a franchise or license shall not be required to obtain a franchise or
license, but all of the requirements imposed by this chapter through the
exercise of the town's police power and not preempted by other law shall be
applicable. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall have the meanings set forth in this section, unless the
context clearly indicates that another meaning is intended. Words used in the
present tense include the future tense, words in the single number include the
plural number, words in the plural number include the singular. The words
"shall" and "will" are mandatory, and "may" is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
AFFILIATED PERSON: Each person who has, directly or indirectly, a controlling
interest in an operator, infrastructure provider, reseller or system lessee,
and/or each person in which an operator, infrastructure provider or reseller
has, directly or indirectly, a controlling interest; provided, however, that
"affiliated person" shall in no event mean the town.
APPLICATION: The process by which a provider submits a request and indicates a
desire to be granted a franchise or license to utilize the rights of way of
all, or a part of, the town. An application includes all written documentation,
verbal statements and representations, in whatever form or forum, made by a
provider to the town concerning: the construction of a telecommunications
system or open video system over, under, on or through the public rights of
way; the telecommunications services or open video services proposed to be
provided in the town by a provider; the area proposed to be served within the
town by a provider; the portion of the public rights of way proposed to be used
by a provider; the manner in which services are to be provided to consumers;
the rates to be charged for services provided through a proposed system; and
any other matter pertaining to a proposed system or service.
COMPLETION DATE: The date that a provider begins providing services to
customers on the system.
CONSTRUCTION COSTS: All costs of constructing a system, including make-ready
costs, other than engineering fees, attorney or accountant fees, or other
consulting fees.
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS: The telecommunication construction standards of the
town.
CONTROL OR CONTROLLING INTEREST: Actual working control in whatever manner
exercised, including, without limitation, working control through ownership,
management, debt instruments or negative control, as the case may be, of the
system or of a provider. A rebuttable presumption of the existence of control
or a controlling interest shall arise from the beneficial ownership, directly
or indirectly, by any person, or group of persons acting in concert, of more
than five percent (5%) of any provider (which person or group of persons is
hereinafter referred to as "controlling person"). "Control" or "controlling
interest", as used herein, may be held simultaneously by more than one person
or group of persons.
DARK FIBER: Fiber optic telecommunications cable or lines not currently
dedicated to transmit or receive information.
FCC: The federal communications commission, or any successor thereto.
FIBER: Fiber optic telecommunications cable, wire, coaxial cable, or other
transmission medium that may be used in lieu thereof for similar purposes.
FRANCHISE: The rights and obligation extended by the town to a provider to own,
lease, construct, maintain or operate a system in the rights of way within the
boundaries of the town for the purposes of providing services in the town. Any
such authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not mean or include:
   A.   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the town required by the
ordinances and laws of the town;
   B.   Any permit, agreement or authorization required in connection with
operations on public streets or property, including, without limitation,
permits and agreements for placing devices on or in poles, conduits or other
structures, whether owned by the town or a private entity, or for excavating or
performing other work in or along public rights of way.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A contract entered into in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter between the town and a franchisee that sets forth, subject to
this chapter, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will be
exercised.
FRANCHISE AREA OR LICENSE AREA: The area served by franchisee or licensee and
described in a franchise agreement or license.
GROSS REVENUE: Includes all revenue, received directly or indirectly by
franchisee or by any affiliated person from or in connection with any
telecommunications services or open video services that originate in and/or
terminate in or transit the town, including revenue derived from the sale or
lease of equipment and/or facilities provided by franchisee or any affiliated
person if such facilities and/or equipment are required for and integrated with
the services provided by franchisee, and any revenue derived from
interconnecting telecommunication service providers for services provided by
the franchisee; provided, however, that gross revenue shall not include taxes
collected to pay to legitimate taxing authorities and; provided, further, that
a franchisee may deduct from its gross revenues, revenues received from a
reseller/lessee or reseller that submits a certification stating that it has
paid the fees it owes for the applicable reporting period.
INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: A person providing to another, for the purpose of
providing communications services to customers, all or part of the necessary
physical plant, including fiber, which uses the rights of way.
INITIAL SYSTEM: The system depicted in exhibit A which is on file in the town
office and hereby incorporated by reference.
LICENSE: The rights and obligations extended by the town to a provider to own,
construct, maintain, lease or operate a system in the rights of way within the
boundaries of the town for the sole purpose of providing services to persons or
areas outside the town. Any such authorization, in whatever form granted, shall
not mean or include:
   A.   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the town required by the
ordinances and laws of the town;
   B.   Any permit, agreement or authorization required in connection with
operations on public streets or property, including, without limitation,
permits and agreements for placing devices on or in poles, conduits or other
structures, whether owned by the town or a private entity, or for excavating or
performing other work in or along public rights of way.
OPEN VIDEO SERVICE: Any video programming services provided to any person
through the use of rights of way, by a provider that is certified by the FCC to
operate an open video system pursuant to sections 651 et seq., of the
telecommunications act (to be codified at 47 USC title VI, part V), regardless
of the facilities used.
OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM: The system of cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides,
optic fiber, microwave, laser beams, and any associated converters, equipment
or facilities designed and constructed for the purpose of producing, receiving,
amplifying or distributing open video services to or from subscribers or
locations within the town.
OPERATOR: Any person who provides service over a communications transmission
system and directly or through one or more affiliates owns a significant
interest in such facility, or who otherwise controls or is responsible for the
operation of such a system.
ORDINANCE OR TELECOMMUNICATIONS ORDINANCE: This chapter concerning the granting
of franchises and licenses in and by the town for the construction, ownership,
operation or maintenance of a telecommunications system or open video system.
PERSON: Includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint
stock company, trust, or any other legal entity, but not the town.
PROVIDER: An operator, infrastructure provider, reseller or system lessee.
RESELLER: Refers to any person that provides service over a facility for which
a separate charge is made, where that person does not own or lease the
underlying facility used for the transmission.
RIGHTS OF WAY: The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
sidewalk, alley, or other public way of any type whatsoever, now or hereafter
existing as such within the town.
SERVICE OR TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Any telecommunications services provided
by a provider within the town that the provider is authorized to provide under
federal, state and local law, and any equipment and/or facilities required for
and integrated with the services provided within the town, except that these
terms do not include "cable service" as defined in the cable communications
policy act of 1984, as amended by the cable television consumer protection and
competition act of 1992 (47 USC section 521 et seq.), and the
telecommunications act of 1966.
SIGNAL: Any transmission or reception of electronic, electrical, light or laser
or radio frequency energy or optical information in either analog or digital
format.
SYSTEM: The open video system or wired communications system constructed,
operated or maintained by any provider in the town, including, without
limitation, all real property and interests in real property, all tangible and
intangible personal property, buildings, offices, furniture, customer lists,
cables, wires, optical fibers, amplifiers and all other electronic devices,
equipment and facilities used in connection therewith and all rights, contracts
and understandings with regard to any matter related thereto, and described in
exhibit A which is on file in the town office and hereby incorporated by
reference.
SYSTEM LESSEE: Refers to any person that leases a facility or a specific
portion of a facility to provide services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: The transmission, between or among points specified by the
user, of information of the user's choosing (e.g., data, video and voice),
without change in the form or content of the information sent and received.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES OR FACILITIES: All conduits, manholes, poles,
antennas, transceivers, cable (including fiber optic cable) and appurtenances
owned by a provider, located in the streets, utility easements, public
property, rights of way and air space over rights of way, and utilized in the
provision of services, including fully digital or analog voice, data and video
imaging and other enhanced telecommunications services.
TOWN: The town of Hatch, or any board, bureau, authority, agency, commission,
department or any other entity of the town, or any authorized officer,
official, employee or agent thereof, including individual volunteers or
volunteer boards or commissions, or any successor thereto.
WIRED COMMUNICATIONS TRANSMISSION SYSTEM OR WIRED COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM: A
facility consisting of a set of closed transmission path and associated signal
generation, reception and control equipment that is designed and used for the
transmission of video, voice or data signals, which facility occupies public
streets, alleys or rights of way or other public places within the town, other
than cable communications systems, wireless communications systems and open
video systems. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998; amd. 2001 Code)
7-5-3: FRANCHISE OR LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Authority: The town is empowered and authorized to issue, in accordance
with article XI of the Utah constitution and other applicable statutory
provisions, nonexclusive franchises and/or licenses governing the installation,
construction, operation and maintenance of systems in the town's rights of way.
   B.   Every Provider Must Obtain: Every provider must obtain a franchise
prior to constructing a telecommunications facility or providing
telecommunications services, and every provider must obtain a franchise before
constructing an open video system or providing services via an open video
system. The fact that a particular communications facility may be used for
multiple purposes does not obviate the need to obtain a franchise for other
purposes. By way of illustration and not limitation, a cable operator of a
cable system must obtain a cable franchise, and, should it intend to provide
telecommunications services over the same facilities, must also obtain a
telecommunications franchise.
   C.   Exceptions: A franchise may be waived for a facility or system that is
not designed to provide services in the town, and that does not provide
services in the town; or a facility, such as an antenna, where the use of the
rights of way is de minimis. For such facilities, the town may issue a license.
Every license shall require the provider owning or operating the facility to
obtain a franchise if it is determined that the license is being used in a
manner that creates a competitive advantage for that provider or otherwise
unduly discriminates in favor of such provider.
   D.   Nature Of Grant: Neither a franchise or license shall convey title,
equitable or legal, in the rights of way. A franchise or license is only the
right to occupy rights of way, in the franchise area or license area, for the
purposes and for the period stated in the franchise or license; the right may
not be subdivided or subleased. Neither a franchise nor license excuses a
provider from obtaining appropriate access or pole attachment agreements before
collocating its facilities on facilities of others, including the town's
facilities.
   E.   Current Operators, Infrastructure Providers, Resellers And System
Lessees: Any provider acting without a franchise or license on the effective
date hereof shall request issuance of a franchise or license from the town
within ninety (90) days of the effective date hereof. If such request is made,
the provider may continue providing service during the course of negotiations.
If a timely request is not made, or if negotiations cease and a franchise or
license is not granted, the provider shall comply with the provisions of
subsection 7-5-9D of this chapter.
   F.   Nature Of Franchise Or License: The franchise or license granted by the
town under the provisions of this chapter shall be a nonexclusive franchise or
license providing the right and consent to install, operate, repair, maintain,
remove and replace fiber and related equipment and facilities on, over and
under the rights of way of the town in order to provide services that originate
and/or terminate in or transit the franchise area or license area.
   G.   Regulatory Approval Needed: Before offering or providing any services
pursuant to the franchise or license, a provider shall obtain any and all
regulatory approvals, permits, authorizations or licenses for the offering or
provision of such services from the appropriate federal, state and local
authorities, if required, and shall submit to the town upon the written request
of the town evidence of all such approvals, permits, authorizations or
licenses.
   H.   Other Permits And Agreements: A provider shall obtain and pay for all
pole attachment agreements, construction, building, road cut or other permits
or approvals necessary under federal, state or town law or ordinance, before
installing fiber or related equipment and facilities.
   I.   Term: No franchise or license issued pursuant to this chapter shall
have a term of less than five (5) years or greater than fifteen (15) years.
(Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998)
7-5-4: COMPENSATION AND OTHER PAYMENTS:
   A.   Compensation:
      1.   Obligations: As compensation for any franchise or license granted
pursuant to this chapter, a provider shall have the following obligations:
         a.   Application Fee: In addition to all other fees, permits or
charges, a provider shall pay to the town at the time of application, or
amendment to its application, an application fee in such amount as established
by resolution of the town council. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998; amd. 2001 Code)
         b.   Franchise: The obligation to pay franchise or license fees shall
commence on the completion date. For purposes of this section, the completion
date shall be the date of completion of the initial system. Commencing on the
completion date, a provider shall pay to the town as reimbursement for costs
associated with allowing access to and as fair compensation for the use of the
rights of way the following:
            (1)   As a fee for a franchise for a wired communications system, a
fee equal to one percent (1%) of gross revenues.
            (2)   As a fee for a franchise for an open video system, a fee
equal to one percent (1%) of gross revenues. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998)
            (3)   As a fee for a license for any system, a fee assessed on a
per linear foot basis, for actual linear feet of any system that makes physical
use of the rights of way, the fee shall be:
               $2.50 per linear foot in zone A on the map attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
               $1.75 per linear foot in zone B on the map attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
               $1.25 per linear foot in zone C on the map attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
               $0.75 per linear foot in zone D on the map attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
            (4)   The town may, at its option, agree to accept excess capacity
on a system or other facilities in lieu of all or part of these fees.
      2.   Timing: Unless otherwise agreed to in writing, all fees shall be
made on a monthly basis within fifteen (15) days of the close of each calendar
month. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Taxes And Assessments: To the extent taxes or other assessments are
imposed by taxing authorities on the use of town property as a result of a
provider's use or occupation of the rights of way, the provider shall be
responsible for payment of its pro rata share of such taxes, payable annually
unless otherwise required by the taxing authority. Such payments shall be in
addition to any other fees payable pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   Interest On Late Payments: In the event that any payment is not
actually received by the town on or before the applicable date fixed in the
franchise or license, interest thereon shall accrue from such date until
received at eighteen percent (18%) per annum.
   D.   Fee Statement: Unless a franchise or license provides otherwise, each
fee payment shall be accompanied by a statement showing the manner in which the
fee was calculated.
   E.   No Accord And Satisfaction: No acceptance by the town of any fee shall
be construed as an accord that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount,
nor shall such acceptance of such fee payment be construed as a release of any
claim the town may have for additional sums payable.
   F.   Not In Lieu Of Taxes: The fee payment is not a payment in lieu of any
tax, fee or other assessment except as specifically provided in this chapter,
or as required by applicable law. By way of example, and not limitation, permit
fees and fees to obtain space on city-owned poles are not waived and remain
applicable.
   G.   Continuing Obligation And Holdover: In the event a provider continues
to operate all or any part of the system after the term of the franchise or
license, such operator shall continue to comply with all applicable provisions
of the franchise or license, including, without limitation, all compensation
and other payment provisions of the franchise or license throughout the period
of such continued operation; provided, that any such continued operation shall
in no way be construed as a renewal or other extension of the franchise or
license, nor as a limitation on the remedies, if any, available to the town as
a result of such continued operation after the term, including, but not limited
to, damages and restitution.
   H.   Costs Of Publication: A provider shall assume any publication costs
associated with its franchise or license that may be required by law. (Ord.
1998-2, 4-9-1998)
7-5-5: FRANCHISE AND LICENSE APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Required: To obtain a franchise or license to construct, own, operate,
maintain or provide services through any system within the town, to expand a
franchisee's current permitted franchise area, or expand a licensee's current
permitted license area, to obtain a renewal of a franchise or license granted
pursuant to this chapter, or to obtain town approval of a sale, transfer,
lease, sublet or other disposal of a system, franchise or license granted
pursuant to this chapter, an application must be filed with the town on the
form attached to the ordinance codified herein as exhibit A, which is on file
in the town office and hereby incorporated by reference. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-
1998; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Considerations: In making a determination as to an application filed
pursuant to this chapter, the town may, but shall not be limited to, consider
the following:
      1.   Provider's financial ability to compensate the town for provider's
intrusion, maintenance and use of the public rights of way during the franchise
or license term proposed by the provider;
      2.   Provider's financial ability to operate a telecommunications system
or open video system in a manner which protects and makes efficient use of the
public rights of way;
      3.   Provider's compliance with the terms and conditions of federal,
state and local laws in other jurisdictions where it operates;
      4.   Whether provider has secured all certificates and other
authorizations required by federal, state and local law in order to construct
and operate a telecommunications system or open video system in the manner
proposed by the provider;
      5.   The technical ability of provider to construct, maintain and operate
a system in compliance with federal, state and local laws in a manner which
protects and makes efficient use the public rights of way and, if applicable,
in a manner which results in the provision of safe, reliable services during
the term proposed by the provider;
      6.   The capacity of the rights of way to accommodate the provider's
proposed facilities;
      7.   The capacity of the rights of way to accommodate additional utility
and telecommunications facilities if the franchise or license is granted;
      8.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements or landscaping if the franchise or license is granted;
      9.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the rights of way;
      10.   The nature and scope of the service that the provider will provide
to the community and region;
      11.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
franchise or license is granted;
      12.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the
proposed facilities;
      13.   Applicable federal and state telecommunications laws, regulations
and policies;
      14.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the
rights of way will serve the community interest; and
      15.   The willingness to enter into a pole attachment agreement with the
town.
The town, in its discretion, shall determine the award of any franchise or
license on the basis of these and other relevant considerations without
competitive bidding.
   C.   Limitations: The town may grant one or more franchises in a franchise
area or one or more licenses in a license area. The town may, in its sole
discretion, limit the number of franchises or licenses granted, based upon, but
not necessarily limited to, specific local considerations, such as:
      1.   The capacity of the rights of way to accommodate multiple fiber in
addition to the cables, conduits and pipes of other users of the rights of way,
such as electrical power, telephone, gas and sewage utilities.
      2.   The impact that an additional grant may have on rights of way,
particularly the disruption arising from numerous excavations of the rights of
way. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998)
7-5-6: CONSTRUCTION AND TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Requirement: No provider shall receive a franchise or license
unless it agrees to comply with each of the terms set forth in this section
governing construction and technical requirements for its system, in addition
to any other requirements or procedures specified by the town, the franchise or
license, including requirements regarding collocation and cost sharing.
   B.   Quality: All work involved in the construction, operation, maintenance,
repair, upgrade and removal of the system shall be performed in a safe,
thorough and reliable manner using materials of good and durable quality. If,
at any time, it is determined by the town or any other agency or authority of
competent jurisdiction that any part of the system, including, without
limitation, any means used to distribute signals over or within the system, is
harmful to the public health, safety or welfare, or quality of service or
reliability, then a provider shall, at its own cost and expense, promptly
correct all such conditions.
   C.   Licenses And Permits: A provider shall have the sole responsibility for
diligently obtaining, at its own cost and expense, all permits, licenses or
other forms of approval or authorization necessary to construct, operate,
maintain, upgrade or repair the system, including, but not limited to, any
necessary approvals from persons and/or the town to use private property,
easements, poles and conduits. A provider shall obtain any required permit,
license, approval or authorization, including, but not limited to, road cut
permits, pole attachment agreements, etc., prior to the commencement of the
activity for which the permit, license, approval or authorization is required.
   D.   Relocation Of System:
      1.   New Grades Or Lines: If the grades or lines of any rights of way
within the franchise or license area are changed at any time in a manner
affecting the system, then a provider shall, at its own cost and expense and
upon reasonable notice by the town, promptly protect or promptly alter or
relocate the system, or part thereof, so as to conform with such new grades or
lines. In the event that a provider unreasonably refuses or neglects to so
protect, alter or relocate all or part of the system, the town shall have the
right to break through, remove, alter or relocate part of the system without
any liability to a provider, and a provider shall pay to the town the costs,
including overhead, incurred in connection with such breaking through, removal,
alteration or relocation.
      2.   Town Authority To Move System: The town may, at any time, in case of
fire, disaster or other emergency, as determined by the town, in its reasonable
discretion, cut or move any poles, optical fibers, wires, cable, amplifiers,
materials, equipment, appliances or other parts of the system and appurtenances
on, over or under the rights of way of the town, in which event the town shall
not be liable therefor to a provider. The town shall notify a provider in
writing prior to, if practicable, but in any event as soon as possible and in
no case later than the next business day following any action taken under this
section.
      3.   Provider Required To Move System: A provider shall, upon prior
written notice by the town or any person holding a permit to move any
structure, and within the time that is reasonable under the circumstances,
temporarily move any part of its system to permit the moving of said structure.
A provider may impose a reasonable charge on any person other than the town for
any such movement of its wires.
   E.   Protect Structures: In connection with the construction, operation,
maintenance, repair, upgrade or removal of the system, a provider shall, at its
own cost and expense, protect any and all existing structures belonging to the
town and all designated landmarks, as well as all other structures within any
designated landmark district. A provider shall obtain the prior written consent
of the town to alter any water main, power facility, sewerage or drainage
system, or any other municipal structure on, over or under the rights of way of
the town required because of the presence of the system. Any such alteration
shall be made by the town or its designee on a reimbursable basis. A provider
agrees that it shall be liable for the costs incurred by the town to replace or
repair and restore to its prior condition in a manner as may be reasonably
specified by the town, any municipal structure or any other rights of way of
the town involved in the construction, operation, maintenance, repair, upgrade
or removal of the system that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of
any work thereon by or on behalf of a provider pursuant to the franchise or
license.
   F.   No Obstruction: In connection with the construction, operation,
maintenance, upgrade, repair or removal of the system, a provider shall not
unreasonably obstruct the rights of way of the town, subways, fixed guideway
systems, railways, passenger travel, or other traffic to, from or within the
franchise or license area without the prior consent of the appropriate
authorities.
   G.   Safely Precautions: A provider shall, at its own cost and expense,
undertake all necessary and appropriate efforts to prevent accidents at its
work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper guards, fences,
barricades, security personnel and suitable and sufficient lighting, and such
other requirements prescribed by OSHA and Utah OSHA. Franchisee or licensee
shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local requirements,
including, but not limited to, the national electrical safety code.
   H.   Repair: Any rights of way within the town which are disturbed or
damaged during the construction, operation, maintenance or reconstruction of a
provider's telecommunications system or open video system shall be repaired by
the town at the provider's expense, on a reimbursable basis, to a condition as
good as that prevailing before such work was commenced.
   I.   Town May Repair: Upon the failure, refusal or neglect of a provider to
comply with the provisions of this chapter, the town council, after reasonable
notice is given to such a provider, may cause the work or other activity
required by this chapter to be completed or performed, in whole or in part, to
the satisfaction of the town. Upon doing so, the town shall submit to such a
provider an itemized statement of the cost for repairing and restoring the
public rights of way intruded upon. The provider shall, within thirty (30) days
after receipt of the statement, pay to the town the entire amount thereof.
   J.   System Maintenance: A provider shall:
      1.   Install and maintain all parts of its system in good condition
throughout the entire period of its franchise or license.
      2.   Install and maintain its system in accordance with standard prudent
engineering practices and shall conform, when applicable, with the national
electrical safety code and all applicable other federal, state and local laws
or regulations.
      3.   At all reasonable times, permit examination by any duly authorized
representative of the town of the system, together with any appurtenant
property of a provider situated within or without the town. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-
1998)
   K.   Trimming Of Trees: A provider shall have the authority to trim trees,
in accordance with all applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and easement
restrictions, upon and hanging over public rights of way to prevent the
branches of such trees from coming in contact with its system. The town
representatives shall have authority to supervise and approve all trimming of
trees conducted by a provider. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998; amd. 2001 Code)
7-5-7: FRANCHISE AND LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A.   No Sale Allowed: A provider shall not sell, transfer, lease, assign,
sublet or dispose of, in whole or in part, either by forced or involuntary
sale, or by ordinary sale, consolidation or otherwise, a franchise or license
granted pursuant to this chapter or any of the rights or privileges granted
thereby, without the prior written consent of the town. This provision shall
not apply to sales of property or equipment by a provider in the normal course
of business. No consent from the town shall be required for a transfer in
trust, mortgage or other instrument of hypothecation, in whole or in part, to
secure an indebtedness, or for a pro forma transfer to a corporation,
partnership or other entity controlling, controlled by or under common control
with a provider.
   B.   Events Of Sale: The following events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment or other transfer of the franchise or license requiring compliance
with this section: 1) the sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a
majority of a provider's assets to another person; 2) the sale, assignment or
other transfer of capital stock or partnership, membership or other equity
interests in a provider by one or more of its existing shareholders, partners,
members or other equity owners so as to create a new controlling interest in a
provider; 3) the issuance of additional capital stock or partnership,
membership or other equity interest by a provider so as to create a new
controlling interest in such a provider; and 4) the entry by a provider into an
agreement with respect to the management or operation of such provider or its
telecommunications system or open video system. The term "controlling
interest", as used herein, means majority equity ownership of a provider.
   C.   Right Of First Refusal: In the event a provider wishes to sell its
system or any part thereof, the town shall have a right of first refusal to
purchase such system on the same terms and conditions offered to and acceptable
to any other prospective buyer. The town shall have a period of not less than
sixty (60) days from the receipt of notice of such terms and conditions to
exercise this right of first refusal. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998)
7-5-8: OVERSIGHT AND REGULATION:
   A.   Insurance, Indemnity And Security: Prior to the execution of a
franchise or license, a provider will deposit with the town an irrevocable,
unconditional letter of credit and/or surety bond as required by the terms of
the franchise or license, and shall obtain and provide proof of the insurance
coverage required by the franchise or license. A provider shall also indemnify
the town as set forth in the franchise or license.
   B.   Oversight: The town shall have the right to oversee, regulate and
inspect periodically the construction, maintenance, operation and upgrade of
the system, and any part thereof, in accordance with the provisions of the
franchise or license and applicable law. A provider shall establish and
maintain managerial and operational records, standards, procedures and controls
to enable a provider to prove, in reasonable detail, to the satisfaction of the
town at all times throughout the term, that a provider is in compliance with
the franchise or license. A provider shall retain such records for not less
than ten (10) years following their creation, and for such additional period as
the town may direct.
   C.   Maintain Records: A provider shall at all times maintain:
      1.   On file with the town, a full and complete set of plans, records and
"as-built" hard copy maps or in electronic format compatible with the town's
existing GIS system, of all existing and proposed installations and the types
of equipment and facilities installed or constructed, properly identified and
described as to the types of equipment and facility by appropriate symbols and
marks which shall include annotations of all rights of ways where work will be
undertaken. Maps shall be drawn to scale.
      2.   If requested by the town, a summary of service calls, identifying
the number, general nature and disposition of such calls, on a monthly basis. A
summary of such service calls shall be submitted to the town within thirty (30)
days following its request in a form reasonably acceptable to the town.
      3.   Throughout the tern, a provider shall maintain complete and accurate
books of account and records of the business, ownership and operations of a
provider with respect to the system in a manner that allows the town at all
times to determine whether a provider is in compliance with the franchise or
license. Should the town reasonably determine that the records are not being
maintained in such a manner, a provider shall alter the manner in which the
books and/or records are maintained so that a provider comes into compliance
with this section. All financial books and records which are maintained in
accordance with the regulations of the FCC and any governmental entity that
regulates utilities in the state, and generally accepted accounting principles
shall be deemed to be acceptable under this section. A provider shall also
maintain and provide such additional books and records as the town deems
reasonably necessary to ensure proper accounting of all payments due the town.
   D.   Reports:
      1.   Status Reports: A provider shall submit to the town reports
describing, in detail, the status of the construction of the initial system
every six (6) months until its substantial completion. A provider shall, upon
substantial completion of the initial system, notify the town in writing. If
the scope of the initial system is expanded, a provider shall likewise report
every six (6) months on the state of continuation of expansion.
      2.   Financial Reports: A provider shall submit to the town not later
than ninety (90) days after the end of each annual fiscal period, a copy of a
provider's annual financial statements for such period which statements shall
be signed by the chief financial officer of a provider; provided, however, that
the town may also require such statements to be audited and certified by an
independent certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. Further, within ninety (90) days following the end of
the calendar year, each provider which paid a franchise or license fee based
upon gross revenues shall submit a statement, certified as true, setting forth
gross revenues of the communications facility, by category, and describing what
revenues were included and excluded in the fee calculation, and any adjustments
made to gross revenues. Such statements shall be accurate and complete.
      3.   Additional Information And Reports: A provider shall provide
annually to the department designated by the town a list of any and all
material communications, public reports, petitions or other filings, either
received from or submitted to any municipal, county, state or federal agency or
official (and any response thereto submitted by or received by a provider),
which in any way materially affects the operation of the system or any service
or a provider's representations and warranties set forth herein, but not
including tax returns or other filings which are confidential. Upon the request
of the town, a provider shall promptly, but in no case later than ten (10)
business days following the request, deliver to the town a complete copy of any
item on said list. Upon the request of the town, a provider shall promptly
submit to the town any information or report reasonably related to a provider's
obligations under the franchise, its business and operations, or those of any
affiliated provider, with respect to the system or its operation, or any
service distributed over the system, in such form and containing such
information as the town shall specify. Such information or report shall be
accurate and complete.
   E.   Confidentiality: If the information required to be submitted in an
annual report is proprietary in nature or must be kept confidential by federal,
state or local law, upon proper request by a provider, such information shall
be treated as confidential, making it available only to those providers who
must have access to perform their duties on behalf of the town, including, but
not limited to, the department of finance, the office of the town attorney and
the mayor and council members; provided, that a provider notifies the town of,
and clearly labels the information which a provider deems to be confidential,
proprietary information. Such notification and labeling shall be the sole
responsibility of franchisee. To the extent the government records and
management access act ("GRAMA") or any other federal requirement for privacy
applies to the information to be submitted, such law shall control.
   F.   Provider's Expense: All reports and records required under this chapter
shall be furnished at the sole expense of a provider, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, a franchise or a license.
   G.   Right Of Inspection: The town's designated representatives shall have
the right to inspect, examine or audit during normal business hours and upon
reasonable notice to a provider under the circumstances, all documents, records
or other information which pertain to a provider or any affiliated provider
with respect to the system, its operation, its employment and purchasing
practices, services distributed over the system, and with respect to a
provider's obligations pursuant to the franchiser license. All such documents
shall be made available within the town or in such other place that the town
may agree upon in writing to facilitate said inspection, examination or audit;
provided, however, that if such documents are located outside of the town, then
a provider shall pay the reasonable expenses incurred by the town's designated
representatives in traveling to such location. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998)
7-5-9: RIGHTS OF TOWN:
   A.   Enforcement And Remedies:
      1.   Town Designee To Enforce: The town is responsible for enforcing and
administering this chapter, and the town or its designee is authorized to give
any notice required by law or under any franchise or license.
      2.   Enforcement Provision: Any franchise or license granted pursuant to
this chapter shall contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation
and protection of the public, consistent with the other provisions of this
chapter, including, but not limited to, defining events of default, procedures
for accessing the bond/security fund, rights of termination or revocation, the
rights of the town to purchase a system in the event of revocation,
termination, or nonrenewal, and the town's right of first refusal to purchase a
system in the event of a voluntary transfer.
   B.   Force Majeure: In the event a provider's performance of any of the
terms, conditions or obligations required by this chapter or a franchise or
license is prevented by a cause or event not within a provider's control, such
inability to perform shall be deemed excused and no penalties or sanctions
shall be imposed as a result thereof. For the purpose of this section, causes
or events not within the control of a provider shall include, without
limitation, acts of God, strikes, sabotage, riots or civil disturbances,
failure or loss of utilities, explosions, acts of public enemies, and natural
disasters such as floods, earthquakes, landslides and fires.
   C.   Extended Operation And Continuity Of Services: Upon either expiration
or revocation of a franchise or license granted pursuant to this chapter, the
town shall have discretion to permit or require a provider to continue to
operate its system or provide services for an extended period of time not to
exceed six (6) months from the date of such expiration or revocation. A
provider shall continue to operate its system under the terms and conditions of
this chapter and the franchise or license granted pursuant to this chapter.
   D.   Removal Or Abandonment Of Franchise Property:
      1.   In the event that: a) the use of any facilities is discontinued for
a continuous period of twelve (12) months; b) any facilities have been
installed in the rights of way without complying with the requirements of this
chapter, franchise or license; or c) the provisions of subsection 7-5-3E of
this chapter are applicable and no franchise or license is granted, a provider
shall be deemed to have abandoned such facilities.
      2.   The town, upon such terms as it may impose, may give a provider
written permission to abandon, without removing any system, facilities or
equipment laid, directly constructed, operated or maintained under a franchise
or license. Unless such permission is granted or unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, a provider shall remove within a reasonable time all abandoned
facilities and shall restore, using prudent construction standards, any
affected rights of way to their former state at the time such facilities and
equipment were installed, so as not to impair their usefulness. In removing its
plant, structures and equipment, a provider shall refill, at its own expense,
any excavation necessarily made by it and shall leave all rights of way in as
good condition as that prevailing prior to such removal without materially
interfering with any electrical or telephone cable or other utility wires,
poles or attachments. The town shall have the right to inspect and approve the
condition of the rights of way cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to
and after removal. The liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this
chapter and any security fund provided in a franchise or license shall continue
in full force and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance
by a provider with the terms and conditions of this section.
      3.   Upon abandonment of any facilities in place, a provider, if required
by the town, shall submit to the town a written instrument, satisfactory in
form to the town, transferring to the town the ownership of the facilities
abandoned.
      4.   At the expiration of the term for which a franchise or license is
granted, or upon its revocation or earlier expiration, as provided for by this
chapter, in any such case without renewal, extension or transfer, the town
shall have the right to require a provider to remove, at its expense, all
aboveground portions of a telecommunications system or open video system from
the public rights of way within a reasonable period of time, which shall not be
less than one hundred eighty (180) days.
      5.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this chapter,
a provider may abandon any underground facilities in place so long as it does
not materially interfere with the use of the rights of way or with the use
thereof by any public utility, cable operator or other person. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-
9-1998)
7-5-10: RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS:
   A.   No Discrimination: A provider shall not deny service, deny access, or
otherwise discriminate against any other person on the basis of race, color,
religion, national origin, disability, age, gender or sexual preference. A
provider shall comply at all times with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws and regulations, relating to nondiscrimination.
   B.   Equal Employment: A provider shall adhere to the applicable equal
employment opportunity requirements of federal, state and local laws, as now
written or as amended from time to time.
   C.   Privacy: A provider shall adhere to subscriber privacy laws and shall
take reasonable steps to prevent the invasion of a person's right of privacy or
other personal rights through the use of the system as such rights are
delineated or defined by applicable law. A provider shall not, without lawful
court order or other legal authority, utilize a system's interactive two (2)
way equipment or capability for unauthorized personal surveillance of any
person.
   D.   Easements: No fiber or other piece of equipment owned by a provider
shall be installed by a provider on another person's private property, other
than in appropriate easements, without first securing consent. If a person
requests a service, permission to install facilities necessary for providing
the requested service upon such person's private property shall be presumed.
Where a property owner, his, her or its predecessor has granted an easement,
including a public utility easement, or a servitude to another and the
servitude by its terms contemplates a use such as a provider's intended use,
such provider shall not be required to obtain the written permission of the
owner for the installation of the system.
   E.   Publicizing Work:
      1.   A provider shall publicize the initial build, or any substantial
rebuild, upgrade or extension, of its facility that involves work in the rights
of way in each affected neighborhood at least one week prior to commencement of
that work by causing written notice of such construction work to be delivered
to the town and by notifying those persons whose property is within three
hundred feet (300') of the work in at least two (2) of the following ways: by
telephone, in person, by mail, by distribution of flyers through residences, by
publication in local newspapers, or in any other manner reasonably calculated
to provide adequate notice. Apart from any initial build or substantial rebuild
or upgrade, any underground construction will be publicized in accordance with
applicable notice requirements.
      2.   In other cases, before entering onto any person's property, a
provider shall contact the property owners or (in the case of residential
property) the resident at least one day in advance, and describe the work to be
performed. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998)
7-5-11: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Conflicts: In the event of a conflict between any provision of this
chapter and a franchise or license entered pursuant to it, the provisions of
this chapter shall control.
   B.   Separability: If any provision of this chapter is held by any federal,
state or local court of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid as conflicting
with any federal or state statute, or is ordered by a court to be modified in
any way in order to conform to the requirements of any such law and all
appellate remedies with regard to the validity of the ordinance provisions in
question are exhausted, such provision shall be considered a separate, distinct
and independent part of this chapter, and such holding shall not affect the
validity and enforceability of all other provisions hereof. In the event that
such law is subsequently repealed, rescinded, amended or otherwise changed, so
that the provision which had been held invalid or modified is no longer in
conflict with such law, the provision in question shall return to full force
and effect and shall again be binding on the town and the provider; provided,
that the town shall give the provider thirty (30) days', or a longer period of
time as may be reasonably required for a provider to comply with such a
rejuvenated provision, written notice of the change before requiring compliance
with such provision.
   C.   New Developments: It shall be the policy of the town to liberally amend
this chapter, upon application of a provider, when necessary, to enable the
provider to take advantage of any developments in the field of
telecommunications which will afford the provider an opportunity to more
effectively, efficiently or economically serve itself or the public. (Ord.
1998-2, 4-9-1998)
   D.   Notices: All notices from a provider to the town required under this
chapter or pursuant to a franchise or license granted pursuant to this chapter
shall be directed to the officer as designated by the mayor. A provider shall
provide in any application for a franchise or license the identity, address and
phone number of the person to receive notices from the town. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-
1998; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   Regulation By Town: To the full extent permitted by applicable law
either now or in the future, the town reserves the right to adopt or issue such
rules, regulations, orders or other directives governing telecommunications
that it finds necessary or appropriate in the lawful exercise of its police
powers.
   F.   Most Favored Nation: If a provider enters into a franchise or other
agreement regarding the use of rights of way with any other city in the state
that contains additional, enhanced or more favorable terms than those included
in a franchise or license granted pursuant to this chapter, such person shall,
at the town's request, agree to modify the franchise or license to include such
provisions. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998)
7-5-12: PUBLIC EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS:
Any provider that operates an open video system will comply with all applicable
FCC rules regarding support for public educational and governmental access.
(Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998)
7-5-13: FEDERAL, STATE AND TOWN JURISDICTION:
   A.   Construction: This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent
with all applicable federal and state statutes.
   B.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all franchises and licenses
granted or renewed after the effective date hereof. Unless otherwise agreed to
by the town, this chapter shall further apply to the extent permitted by
applicable federal or state statutes to all existing franchises and licenses
granted prior to the effective date hereof.
   C.   Police Powers: A provider's rights are subject to the police powers of
the town to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety and
welfare of the public. A provider shall comply with all applicable general laws
and ordinances enacted by the town pursuant to its police powers. In
particular, all providers shall comply with the town zoning and other land use
requirements pertaining to the placement and specifications of franchised or
licensed property.
   D.   Failure To Enforce Not Relief: A provider shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any
franchise or license granted pursuant to this chapter by reason of any failure
of the town to enforce prompt compliance.
   E.   State Laws Applicable: This chapter and any franchise or license
granted pursuant to this chapter shall be construed and enforced in accordance
with the substantive laws of the state. (Ord. 1998-2, 4-9-1998)
TITLE 8
UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Water Department
8-1-2: Connection For Each Individual Unit
8-1-3: Floodplain Area Restrictions
8-1-4: Applications For Connection, Service
8-1-5: Fees
8-1-6: Statement Of Charges; Delinquency
8-1-7: Use Without Payment Prohibited
8-1-8: Use Without Authority; Restrictions
8-1-9: Pipe Requirements
8-1-10: Installation Permit Required
8-1-11: Water Mains Extended
8-1-12: Interconnections Prohibited
8-1-13: Open Discharge Of Pressurized System
8-1-14: Sprinkling Vehicles
8-1-15: Motors And Certain Machinery Restricted
8-1-16: Liability For Damages
8-1-17: Scarcity Of Water
8-1-18: Prohibited Uses; Waste Of Water
8-1-19: Access By Department
8-1-20: Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
8-1-21: Penalty
8-1-22: Water Conservation
8-1-1: WATER DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Created: The culinary water department of the town is hereby created.
It shall administer the operation and maintenance of the culinary water system
of the town. So far as is practically appropriate, this department shall
operate and be governed separately from the irrigation water system 1  of the
town.
   B.   Superintendent:
      1.   There is hereby created the position of superintendent of the
culinary water system. His title shall be sometimes stated "superintendent" to
indicate and parallel the customary usage and practice of distinguishing a
culinary water supervisor or administrator as a "superintendent" and also to
distinguish his office from that of the irrigation water system
"superintendent". When the term "water" is used in this chapter, including its
use in the application for water revenue embodied in this chapter, it shall be
deemed to apply specifically and exclusively to culinary water furnished under
this system, except where the context indicates to the contrary, particularly
but not exclusively, where intermingling of culinary and irrigation water is
prohibited.
      2.   The superintendent of the system shall manage and supervise the
system pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and pursuant to resolutions,
rules and regulations adopted by the town council from time to time prescribing
his powers and duties and directing the manner and frequency with which he
shall make reports to the mayor relating to the water system. All of the
functions and activities of the superintendent shall be carried on under the
direction of the mayor or council member appointed by the mayor. (Ord. 1992-1,
11-7-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. The secondary water system falls under the jurisdiction of the Hatch
  irrigation company.
8-1-2: CONNECTION FOR EACH INDIVIDUAL UNIT:
A water connection shall be required for each individual unit as established in
the town. For the purpose of this chapter, an "individual unit" is defined as a
separate residence, building, commercial establishment, summer or recreational
or other similar unit for use or served by culinary water, whether or not
maintained in the same group as other units or parcels and each separate unit
shall be required to pay minimum rates herein specified. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-
1992)
8-1-3: FLOODPLAIN AREA RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Preamble Incorporated: The entire preamble of the ordinance codified
herein is incorporated into and is a part of this chapter. (Ord. 1993-1, 4-3-
1993; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Restrictions: No new connections to the town culinary water system
shall be allowed for development, residential or commercial, within areas
designated as special flood hazard areas, specifically zone A of the flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) as used by the federal emergency management agency
(FEMA) to define such areas, without first gaining approval of the majority of
the Town Council, showing prima facie evidence of proper compliance with
Federal, State, County and local laws and ordinances as pertains to development
in special flood hazard areas, specifically Zone A. Be it further clarified
that this evidence must be presented to the entire Council and voted upon prior
to approval of a water connection. (Res. 6/98, 10-8-1998, eff. retroactive to
10-1-1998)
   C.   Floodplain Area Defined: "Floodplain" and "floodplain areas" shall mean
such areas as determined from time to time by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) or such other Federal or State agencies having authority or
jurisdiction over the determination of such areas. (Ord. 1993-1, 4-3-1993)
8-1-4: APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTION, SERVICE:
   A.   Connection: Any person, other than a subdivider or developer seeking
multiple connections, who desires or is required to secure a new connection to
the culinary system, shall file with the Water Department for each such
connection, a written and signed connection application in such form as is
approved by the Town Council and on file in the Town office.
   B.   Subdivider Or Group Outside Town Limits: Whenever a subdivider,
developer or other group outside the Town limits desires or is required to
install water connections and extensions for a subdivision or development, the
subdivider, developer or group shall enter into a written extension agreement
which shall constitute an application for permission to make the extensions and
connections and an agreement specifying the terms and conditions under which
the water extensions and connections shall be made and the payments that shall
be required, all of which shall be fixed by the Town and paid by the applicant.
(Res. 12/94, 12-10-1994, eff. 6-1-1995; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Service: Any person who desires or is required to secure water services
when such service is available from the Town water system, shall file with the
Water Department a written application and agreement for the service which
shall be in such form as is approved by the Town Council and on file in the
Town office.
   D.   Nonowner Applicant; Agreement Of Owner: Applications for water service
made by the tenant of any owner must, in addition to the above requirements, be
guaranteed by an agreement signed by the owner of the premises or his duly
authorized agent in such form as is approved by the Town Council and on file in
the Town office.
   E.   Nonresident Applicant: An application for a connection outside the
corporate limits of the Town shall be required in such form as is approved by
the Town Council and on file in the Town office. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992; amd.
2001 Code)
8-1-5: FEES:
   A.   Established: The rates, penalty fee for delinquency in payment,
connection fee, inspection fee, reconnection fees, and other charges incidental
to the connection and services from the Town's culinary water system, shall be
fixed from time to time by the Town Council. The Town Council may, from time to
time, promulgate rules for levying, billing, guaranteeing and collecting
charges for culinary water services and all other rules necessary for the
management and control of the system. Rates for services furnished shall be
uniform with respect to each class or classes of service established or that
may hereafter be established. Rates may be established at different levels for
premises outside the corporate boundaries of the Town.
   B.   Schedule: Until further resolution or order or by any enacted
legislation as provided in subsection A of this section, the schedule of
connection and user fees shall be as follows: (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992)
      1.   Connection Fees:
         a.   Connection Fees Inside Town Limits:
            (1)   For three-fourths inch (3/4") service (residential), one
thousand eight hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
            (2)   For one inch (1") service, two thousand dollars ($1,800.00).
            (3)   For two inch (2") service, five thousand one hundred dollars
($2,200.00).
         b.   Connection Fees Outside Town Limits: All dimensions, sizes and
capacities; to be fixed when and if application therefor is approved by the
Town Council. (Res. 2012-03, 6-11-2012; amd. Res. 2022-10, 9-21-2022)
      2.   User Fees:
         a.   Residential User Fees Inside Town Limits:
            (1)   Minimum monthly fee per month for active as well as inactive
connections shall be an amount as set by town council.
The minimum monthly charge shall entitle the user to an amount of culinary
water per month as set by town council. The minimum charge shall be applicable
to seasonal, temporary, inactive, as well as active connections to the system
for both residential and commercial and may be regarded as a "demand" charge
based upon capital investment to make service available at each point of
connection and therefor peremptorily assessed although no water may be utilized
at the premises in any given month.
            (2)   Charges for uses exceeding the amount of culinary water per
month as set by town council shall be an amount as set by town council.
         b.   Other Than Residential User Fees Inside Town:
            (1)   Minimum monthly fee per month for active as well as inactive
connections shall be an amount as set by town council.
The minimum monthly charge shall entitle the user to an amount of culinary
water per month as set by town council. The minimum charge shall be applicable
to seasonal, temporary, inactive, as well as active, connections to the system
for both residential and commercial and may be regarded as a "demand" charge
based upon capital investment to make service available at each point of
connection and therefor peremptorily assessed although no water may be utilized
at the premises in any given month.
            (2)   Charges for uses exceeding the amount of culinary water per
month as set by town council shall be an amount as set by town council. (Ord.
1992-1, 11-7-1992; amd. Res. 2004-01, 9-8-2004)
         c.   Usage Fees Outside Town Limits: Charges for usage outside the
corporate limits of the town not only as to the minimum, but also as to all
overages, shall be fixed from time to time by resolution or agreement as deemed
proper under the circumstances. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992)
         d.   Deposits: A deposit will be collected by the town at the time
that property changes ownership. At the time of termination of ownership of a
property that a deposit has been made on, the deposit will be reimbursed as
long as there is no balance due amount. Otherwise, the balance due amount will
be deduced from the deposit amount.
            (1)   Deposits on residential properties, two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00);
            (2)   Deposits on business properties, one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). (Res. 2/97, 2-8-1997, eff. 3-1-1997)
            (3)   The town will accept a credit letter in lieu of a deposit for
businesses and/or residents. This will be on a case by case basis which must be
approved by the town council. (Res. 5/98, 7-9-1998, eff. 7-9-1998)
   C.   Special Rates: The town council may, from time to time, fix by
agreement or resolution special rates and conditions for users using
exceptionally large amounts of water service or making use of the system under
exceptional circumstances, upon such terms and conditions as they may deem
proper.
   D.   Disposition Of Funds: All connection fees and monthly user charges
collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be deposited in the town's
water system fund and used to meet the operation and maintenance cost of the
system; debt service on obligations appertaining to the construction associated
with the completion of the system; and such other allocations as town council
may by resolution provide. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992)
8-1-6: STATEMENT OF CHARGES; DELINQUENCY:
   A.   Statement: The town clerk or superintendent shall furnish to each user,
or mail to, or leave at his place of residence or usual place of business, a
written or printed statement stating thereon the amount of water service
charges assessed against him once each month or at such other regular intervals
as the town council shall direct.
   B.   Notice Of Intent To Discontinue: The statement shall specify the amount
of the bill for the water service and the place of payment and date due. If any
person fails to pay the water charges within thirty (30) days from the date
due, the clerk or superintendent shall give the consumer notice in writing of
intention to discontinue the service to the consumer unless the consumer pays
the bill in full within five (5) days from the date of notice. (Ord. 1992-1,
11-7-1992)
   C.   Discontinuance Of Service: If the culinary water service is thereafter
discontinued for failure to make payment, then before the water service to the
premises shall again be provided, all delinquent water charges must have been
paid to the town treasurer or arrangements made for their payment in a manner
satisfactory to the town. In the event water is turned off for nonpayment of
water charges then before the water service to the premises shall again be
provided, the consumer shall pay, in addition to all delinquent water charges,
such extra charge for turning the water on or off as the town council may have
established by resolution. Until such a resolution has been adopted, there
shall be added an extra charge, in such amount as established by resolution of
the town council, for turning on the water. Furthermore, in addition to such
payments and penalties, a delinquent consumer may be required to make and file
a new application and deposit if the previous deposit has theretofore been
applied to the payment of delinquent bills. The town clerk is hereby authorized
and empowered to enforce the payment of all delinquent water charges by an
action at law in the name of the town. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992; amd. 2001 Code)
   D.   Delinquencies:
      1.   Delinquencies associated with the payment of the initial hookup fee
shall bear interest at the rate of one and five- tenths percent (1.5%) per
month on the unpaid amount, and the town may commence, at its option, an action
against the delinquent property owner of record at any time to recover the
amount due plus court costs. In the event the owner of any of the premises, or
the tenant or occupant of the premises, shall fail to pay any fee or charge,
the town may cause the water to be shut off from such premises, and the town
shall not be required to turn the same on again until all arrearages for water
furnished shall be paid in full. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to
require the town to connect any premises until the full connection fee and any
security deposit imposed are both and all paid in full.
      2.   Delinquency in the payment of monthly user fees shall bear interest
at the rate of one and five-tenths percent (1.5%) per month against the amount
thirty (30) days past due, and delinquencies following notice of intent to
discontinue service shall result in the termination of all culinary water
service until the delinquent amount, plus interest accrued, shall be paid to
the town. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992)
8-1-7: USE WITHOUT PAYMENT PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person by himself, family, servants or agents to
utilize the culinary water system without paying therefor, as herein provided,
or without authority, to open any pipe, line, connection, stopcock, valve or
other fixtures attached to the system of culinary water supply unless it is
done pursuant to proper application, agreement or resolution. It shall be
unlawful to injure, deface or impair any part or appurtenance of the water
system or to cast anything into any reservoir or facilities appurtenant or
contributing to the culinary water system. It shall be a criminal offense in
any way to pollute any water source, watershed, drainage area, or any part of
or contributing to the culinary water system. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992)
8-1-8: USE WITHOUT AUTHORITY; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Turning On Water After Being Turned Off Prohibited: It shall be
unlawful for any person, after the water has been turned off from the premises
for nonpayment of culinary water charges or other violations of the ordinances,
rules, regulations or resolutions pertaining to the water supply, to turn on or
to allow the water to be turned on or used without authority from the
superintendent or town clerk.
   B.   Separate Connections: It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more families
or service users to be supplied from the same service pipe, connection, water
outlet or discharge unless special permission for such combination usage has
been granted by the town council and the premises served are owned by the same
owner. In all such cases, a failure on the part of any one of the users to
comply with this section shall warrant a withholding of the supply of water
through the service connections until compliance or payment has been made, and
in any event, the property owner shall be primarily liable to the town for all
water services utilized on all such premises. Nothing herein shall be deemed to
preclude the power of the town to require separate pipes or connections at a
subsequent time.
   C.   Unauthorized Users: It shall be unlawful for any water service user to
permit any person from other premises or any unauthorized person to use or
obtain water service regularly from his premises or water facilities, either
outside or inside his premises.
   D.   Unauthorized Connection: No consumer shall be permitted to conduct
water pipes across lots or buildings to adjoining premises without permission
from the water superintendent and subject to such requirements relating to
controls as may be imposed by him. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992)
8-1-9: PIPE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Good Repair: All users of water service shall keep their service pipes,
connections and other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at
their own expense. No person, except under the direction of the superintendent,
shall be allowed to dig into the street for the purpose of laying, removing or
repairing any service pipe.
   B.   Quality Of Service Pipe: All service and other pipe used in conjunction
with the water services of the town shall be of such material, quality and
specifications as the town council may, from time to time by resolution,
provide and shall be installed at such distances below ground as may be
specified by regulations relating to the water department. All work,
alterations or extensions affecting water pipes shall be subject to the
acceptance of the water superintendent and no connections with any water mains
shall be made without first obtaining a permit therefor from the town clerk.
(Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992)
8-1-10: INSTALLATION PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to lay, repair, alter or connect any water
line to the town culinary water system without first having obtained a
construction permit from the town clerk, or from the superintendent. (Ord.
1992-1, 11-7-1992; amd. 2001 Code)
8-1-11: WATER MAINS EXTENDED:
   A.   Petition To Town Council: Any person or persons, including any
subdivider who desires to have the water mains extended within the town which
extension shall be further than one hundred feet (100') from the existing line,
and is willing to advance the whole expense of such extension, may make
application to the town council by petition. The petition shall contain a
description of such proposed extension accompanied by a map showing the
location of the proposed extension, together with an offer to advance the whole
expense thereof, which cost shall be verified by the water superintendent. The
town council may grant or deny the petition as in its discretion deems best for
the welfare of existing water users in the town. Such extension, when
completed, shall become a part of the town's water system.
   B.   Cost Determined: Upon the receipt of such petition and map and before
the petition is granted, the town council shall obtain from the water
superintendent a certified statement showing the whole cost and expense of
making extensions.
   C.   Amount Deposited: If the town council grants the petition, the amount
of the cost of making the extension, as certified by the superintendent, shall
be deposited with the town clerk before any work shall be done on such
extensions. The deposit shall be made within thirty (30) days, or such other
time as the town council shall require, after the granting thereof.
   D.   Return Of Deposit: At the time the town council decides whether or not
to grant a petition for an extension, it shall also decide whether or not any
portion of the cost is to be refunded and the manner and the circumstances
under which such refund shall be made or credited to the applicant, his
successors or representatives. Such determination shall be duly recorded in
writing and a copy thereof furnished to the applicant.
   E.   Forfeiture: In the event any deposit remains unclaimed for a period of
five (5) years after the depositor has discontinued water service, the deposit
may be forfeited and then transferred to the water utility fund.
   F.   Ownership Of Extension: Any such extension shall be deemed the property
of the town. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992)
8-1-12: INTERCONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
No interconnection, cross-connection or other joining of the culinary and
irrigation systems by any existing or future water user of the town shall be
permitted, and any such interconnection shall be punishable as a class B
misdemeanor as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and the owner of record of such property found to have such
interconnection upon it shall bear all costs associated with the destruction
and removal of such interconnecting device or apparatus. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-
1992; amd. 2001 Code)
8-1-13: OPEN DISCHARGE OF PRESSURIZED SYSTEM:
There shall be no open discharge of water from the culinary water system which
may or could intermingle culinary water with irrigation water. Any discharge
from the culinary water system not out of a sprinkler or nozzle shall be a
violation of this system and shall be punishable as a class B misdemeanor as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and the owner of record of such property found to have any
open discharge shall bear all costs required to repair or rectify the
violation. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992; amd. 2001 Code)
8-1-14: SPRINKLING VEHICLES:
Vehicles for sprinkling shall be regulated and controlled by the water
department through the superintendent of the water department. (Ord. 1992-1,
11-7-1992)
8-1-15: MOTORS AND CERTAIN MACHINERY RESTRICTED:
No water shall be supplied from the pipes of the town water system for the
purpose of driving motor, syphon, turbine or other wheels, or any hydraulic
engines or elevators, or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind
whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose,
except by special permission of the town council. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992)
8-1-16: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
   A.   All damages or injury to the lines, meters or other materials of the
town on or near the consumer's premises caused by any act or neglect of the
consumer shall, in the discretion of the town, be repaired by and at the
expense of the consumer, and the consumer shall pay all costs and expenses,
including reasonable attorney fees, which may arise or accrue to the town
through its efforts to repair the damage to the lines, meters or to other
equipment of the department, or collect such costs from the consumer.
   B.   The town shall not be liable for any damage to a water service user by
reason or stoppage or interruption of his or her water supply service caused by
fires, scarcity of water, accidents to the water system or its mains, or which
occurs as the result of maintenance and extension operations, or from any other
unavoidable cause. This section shall not be construed to extend the liability
of the town beyond that provided in the governmental immunity act. (Ord. 1992-
1, 11-7-1992)
8-1-17: SCARCITY OF WATER:
In times of scarcity of water, whenever it shall in the judgment of the mayor
and town council be necessary, the mayor shall, by proclamation, limit the use
of water to such extent as may be necessary. It shall be unlawful for any
person, his family, servants or agents to violate any proclamation made by the
mayor in pursuance of this section. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992)
8-1-18: PROHIBITED USES; WASTE OF WATER:
   A.   Prohibited Uses: It shall be unlawful for any water user to:
      1.   Waste water;
      2.   Allow it to be wasted by stops, taps, valves, leaky joints or pipes,
or to allow tanks or water troughs to leak or overflow;
      3.   Wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets or stops or through
basins, water closets, urinals, sinks or other apparatus;
      4.   Use the water for purposes other than those for which he has applied
or to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for controlling the
water supply.
   B.   Waste Of Water:
      1.   Users of water from the culinary water system shall not permit water
to continue to run wastefully and without due effort to conserve water. If, in
the judgment of the superintendent or of any of the officers of the town, a
user of culinary water engages in practices which result in the needless waste
of water and continues to do so after the notice to discontinue wastefulness
has been given, the superintendent or any officer may refer the matter to the
town council.
      2.   The town council may thereupon consider terminating the right of the
individual to use culinary water. If it elects to consider the matter of
termination, it shall give notice to the water user of the intention to
terminate his water connection at least five (5) days prior to the meeting of
the town council at which termination of water service is to be considered. The
notice shall inform him of the time and place of the meeting and of the charges
which lead to the consideration of the termination.
      3.   A water user whose right to utilize culinary water is being reviewed
shall have opportunity to appear with or without counsel and present his
reasons why his water service should not be discontinued.
      4.   After due hearing, the town council may arrive at a determination.
If the determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user's service
connection, it shall notify him of decision and of the period during which the
service will remain discontinued. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992)
8-1-19: ACCESS BY DEPARTMENT:
All authorized persons connected with the waterworks of the town shall have the
right to enter upon any premises furnished with water by the town to examine
the apparatus, the amount of water used and the manner of use, and to make all
necessary shutoffs for vacancy, delinquency or violation of the ordinances,
rules or regulations enacted or adopted by the town. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992;
amd. 2001 Code)
8-1-20: EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION:
The town may construct or authorize the construction of waterworks within or
without the town limits, and for the purpose of maintaining and protecting the
same from injury and the water from pollution, its jurisdiction shall extend
over the territory occupied by such works, and over all reservoirs, streams,
canals, ditches, pipes and drains used in and necessary for the construction,
maintenance and operation of the same, and over the stream or source from which
the water is taken, for fifteen (15) miles above the point from which it is
taken and for a distance of three hundred feet (300') on each side of such
stream and over highways along such stream or watercourse within said fifteen
(15) miles and said three hundred feet (300'). All ordinances and regulations,
including this chapter, are deemed necessary to carry the power herein
conferred into effect, and is to enact among other things, an ordinance
preventing pollution or contamination of the streams or watercourses from which
the inhabitants of the town derive their water supply, in whole or in part, for
domestic and culinary purposes, and this chapter prohibits the construction or
maintenance of any closet, privy, outhouse or urinal within the area over which
the town has jurisdiction, and provides for permits for the construction and
maintenance of the same, applications for which permits must be made to the
town council. In granting such permits, the council may annex thereto such
reasonable conditions and requirements for the protection of the public health
as they deem proper, and may, if deemed advisable, require that all closets,
privies and urinals along such streams shall be provided with effective septic
tanks or other germ destroying instrumentalities. (Ord. 1992-1, 11-7-1992)
8-1-21: PENALTY:
Without altering or diminishing the effect of any other sanction, penalty or
consequence provided in this chapter elsewhere, the violation of, failure to
observe, or omission to comply with any provision of this chapter, shall be a
criminal offense punishable as a class B misdemeanor as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of continued violation shall be a separately
punishable offense, and this section shall be in addition to any other penalty,
sanction, consequence or remedy for enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 1992-1,
11-7-1992; amd. 2001 Code)
8-1-22: WATER CONSERVATION:
   A.   Time Of Day Watering Parameters: Sprinkler irrigation of all lawns and
landscapes is prohibited between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) P.M.
   B.   Applicability Of Time Of Day Watering: The provisions of this section
shall apply to all landscapes within the town. This section does not apply in
the following situations:
      1.   New lawns that require frequent irrigation for establishment
purposes within ninety (90) days of planting.
      2.   Short cycles required for testing, inspecting and maintaining
irrigation systems.
      3.   Other situations as permitted by the city.
   C.   Penalty: If a water user is found in violation of this section the town
council may terminate the right of the individual to use culinary water. (See
also subsection 8-1-18B of this chapter.) (Ord. 2002-02, 5-15-2002, eff.
retroactive to 5-9-2002)
CHAPTER 2
CONTROL OF BACK-FLOW AND CROSS CONNECTIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Cross Connection Control–General Policy
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Requirements
8-2-1: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL–GENERAL POLICY:
   A.   Purpose Of Chapter:
      1.   To protect the public drinking water supply of Town of Hatch from
the possibility of contamination or pollution by requiring compliance with the
Utah State Rules for Public Drinking Water Systems and the Plumbing Code as
adopted by the State of Utah, that require cross connection control protection
of all public drinking water systems in the State of Utah. Compliance with
these codes will be considered reasonable diligence for the prevention of
contaminants or pollutants which could backflow into the public drinking water
system; and
      2.   To promote the reasonable elimination or control of cross connection
in the plumbing fixtures and industrial piping system(s) of the consumer, as
required by the state and plumbing regulations to assure water system safety;
and
      3.   To provide for the administration of a continuing program of
backflow prevention which will systematically examine risk and effectively
prevent the contamination or pollution of the drinking water system.
   B.   Responsibility: Drinking Water Purveyor:
      1.   Town of Hatch shall be responsible for the protection of the
drinking water distribution system from the foreseeable condition leading to
the possible contamination or pollution of the drinking water system due to the
backflow of contaminants or pollutants into the drinking water supply.
      2.   Drinking water system surveys/inspections of the consumer's water
distribution system(s) shall be conducted or caused to be conducted by
individuals deemed qualified by and representing Town of Hatch. Survey records
shall indicate compliance with the Utah State Rules for Public Drinking Water
Systems and the Plumbing Code as adopted by the State of Utah. All such records
will be maintained by Town of Hatch.
      3.   Town of Hatch shall schedule and notify in writing, all consumers of
the need for the periodic system survey to ensure compliance with existing
applicable minimum health and safety standards.
      4.   Selection of an approved backflow preventer for containment
protection required at the service connection shall be determined from the
results of the cross connection hazard assessment survey.
   C.   Responsibility: Consumer:
      1.   To comply with this chapter as a term and condition of water supply
and consumer's acceptance of service is admittance of his/her awareness of his/
her responsibilities as a water system user.
      2.   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to purchase, install,
and arrange testing and maintenance of any backflow prevention device/assembly
required to comply with this chapter. Failure to comply with this chapter shall
constitute grounds for discontinuation of service.
   D.   Responsibility: Plumbing Official:
      1.   The plumbing official's responsibility to enforce the applicable
sections of the plumbing code begins at the point of service (downstream or
consumer side of the meter) and continues throughout the length of the
consumer's water system.
      2.   The plumbing official will review all plans to ensure that
unprotected cross connections are not an integral part of the consumer's water
system. If a cross connection cannot be eliminated, it must be protected by the
installation of an air gap or an approved backflow prevention device/assembly,
in accordance with the Plumbing Code as adopted by the State of Utah.
   E.   Responsibility: Certified Backflow Technician, Surveyor, Or Repair
Person:
      1.   Whether employed by the consumer or a utility to survey, test,
repair, or maintain backflow prevention assemblies the Certified Backflow
Technician, Surveyor, or Repair Person will have the following
responsibilities:
         a.   Ensuring that acceptable testing equipment and procedures are
used for testing or repairing of backflow prevention assemblies.
         b.   Record all testing and/or repairs and submit report forms to the
consumer and the water purveyor within thirty (30) days of work performed.
         c.   Report to the water purveyor of any failed backflow assembly test
within five (5) days of work performed.
         d.   Ensuring that replacement parts are equal in quality to parts
originally supplied by the manufacturer of the assembly being repaired.
         e.   Not changing the design, material, or operational characteristics
of the assembly during testing, repair, or maintenance.
         f.   Performing all tests of the mechanical devices/assemblies and
shall be responsible for the competence and accuracy of all tests and reports.
         g.   Ensuring that his/her Backflow Technician license is current, the
testing equipment being used is acceptable to the State of Utah and is in
proper operating condition.
         h.   Being equipped with, and competent to use, all necessary tools,
gauges, and other equipment necessary to properly test, and maintain backflow
prevention assemblies.
      2.   Responsibility: Repair Of Backflow Assemblies: In the case of a
consumer requiring an assembly installation, repair, or relocation shall be
done with individuals having appropriate licensure from the Utah Division of
Professional Licensing. (Ord. 2020-07, 12-2-2020; amd. Ord. 2024-05, 2-21-2024)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
                               An assembly accepted by the Utah State
                               Department of Environmental Quality, Utah State
APPROVED BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY:    Rules for Public Drinking Water Systems, and the
                               Plumbing Code as adopted by the State of Utah as
                               meeting an applicable specification or as
                               suitable for the proposed use.
                               Any water supply on or available to the premises
                               other than the purveyor's public water supply
                               will be considered as an auxiliary water supply.
                               These auxiliary waters may include water from
                               another purveyor's public potable water supply,
                               secondary irrigation water, or any natural
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY:        source(s) such as a private well, spring, river,
                               stream, etc., or "used water" or "industrial
                               fluids". These waters may be contaminated or
                               polluted, or they may be objectionable and
                               constitute an unacceptable water source over
                               which the water purveyor does not have
                               authority.
BACKFLOW:                      The reversal of the normal flow of water caused
                               by back-pressure or back-siphonage.
                               The reversal of the normal flow of water or
                               other liquids, mixtures, or substances from a
BACK-PRESSURE:                 region of high pressure to a region of lower
                               pressure caused by an increase of pressure in
                               the downstream piping.
                               The reversal of the normal flow or water or
BACK-SIPHONAGE :               other liquids, mixtures, or substances under
                               vacuum conditions caused by a sub-atmospheric
                               pressure in the potable water system.
                               An assembly or device designed to prevent
                               backflow. Specifications for backflow prevention
BACKFLOW PREVENTER:            assemblies and devices are contained within the
                               Utah State Rules for Public Drinking Water
                               Systems and the Plumbing Code as adopted by the
                               State of Utah.
                               Any actual or potential connection between the
                               public water system or the consumer's water
                               system and any other source or auxiliary supply
                               through which it is possible to introduce
CROSS CONNECTION:              anything else. This would include temporary
                               conditions, such as dual source connections,
                               swing connections, removable sections, four (4)
                               way plug valves, spools, dummy sections of pipe,
                               swivel or change-over devices, sliding multiport
                               tubes, or other plumbing arrangements.
                               Means a quality degradation of the potable water
                               supply by a toxic substance that is introduced
                               which poses a threat to public health. This
CONTAMINATION:                 would include sewage, industrial fluids,
                               irrigation chemicals, boiler compounds, waste
                               liquids, or other materials not suitable for
                               human consumption.
                               A connection between a potable water system and
                               an auxiliary supply or other cross connections
CROSS CONNECTION- CONTROLLED:  with an approved backflow preventer properly
                               installed and maintained so that it will
                               continuously afford the protection commensurate
                               with the degree of hazard.
                               The installation of an approved backflow
CROSS CONNECTION- CONTAINMENT: preventer at the water service connection to any
                               customer's premises for cross connection
                               control.
                               The person designated to be in charge of the
                               Water Department of Town of Hatch, is invested
                               with the authority and responsibility for the
WATER PURVEYOR:                implementation of an effective cross connection
                               control program and for the enforcement of the
                               provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2020-07, 12-2-
                               2020; amd. Ord. 2024-05, 2-21-2024)
 
8-2-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Policy:
      1.   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the Water Purveyor unless the water supply is protected as
required by the Utah State Rules for Public Drinking Water Systems and the
Plumbing Code as adopted by the State of Utah and this chapter. Water service
shall be discontinued by the water purveyor after due process of written
notifications of violation and an appropriate time suspense for voluntary
compliance, if:
         a.   A backflow preventer is not installed, tested, and maintained as
required by the Utah State Rules for Public Drinking Water Systems and the
Plumbing Code as adopted by the State of Utah and this chapter for cross
connection control; or
         b.   If it is found that a backflow preventer has been removed or by-
passed; or
         c.   If an unprotected cross connection exists on the premises; or
         d.   If the cross connection hazard assessment survey has not been
conducted;
         e.   Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
      2.   The customer's system(s) shall be open for a cross connection hazard
assessment survey at all reasonable times to authorized representatives of the
water purveyor to determine whether cross connections or other structural or
sanitary hazards, including violation of the Utah State Rules for Public
Drinking Water Systems and the Plumbing Code as adopted by the State of Utah
this ordinance exist.
      3.   An approved backflow preventer shall be installed on the service
line of the identified consumer's water system, at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being served; but, in all cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service line.
      4.   The type of backflow preventer assembly or device installed at this
point of containment required under subsection A3, shall be determined by the
Water Purveyor.
      5.   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer at any premises where
backflow preventers are installed to have certified surveys; inspections, and
operational tests at the consumer's expense.
      6.   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested within ten (10)
working days of installation, relocation, or repair and annually thereafter. In
processes where the Water Purveyor deems the hazard to be significant, he/she
may require tests at a more frequent interval.
      7.   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed with twelve inches
(12") of surrounding clearance, and safely and readily accessible to Backflow
Technicians, Repair Persons, and the Water Purveyor. No backflow prevention
assemblies shall be installed so as to create a safety hazard. (Example:
Installed over an electrical panel, steam pipes, boilers, or other unsafe
location.)
   B.   Violation Of This Policy: A violation of this chapter exists if there
has not been any corrective action taken by the consumer within ten (10) days
of the written notification of the deficiencies as noted within the survey or
test results. The water purveyor shall then deny or immediately discontinue
service to the premises by providing a physical break in the service line until
the customer has corrected the condition(s) in conformance with all State and
local regulations and statutes relating to plumbing, safe drinking water
suppliers, and this chapter. (Ord. 2020-07, 12-2-2020; amd. Ord. 2024-05, 2-21-
2024)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDINGS AND RELATED CODES; REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Codes Adopted
9-1-2: Building And Construction; Procedure
9-1-3: Penalty
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
   A.   Building Code: The most current edition of the uniform building code,
with the exception of its suggested fee schedule, is hereby adopted and
incorporated by this reference.
   B.   Fire Code: The most current edition of the uniform fire code is hereby
adopted and incorporated by this reference.
   C.   Electrical Code: The most current edition of the national electrical
code is hereby adopted and incorporated by this reference.
   D.   Plumbing Code: The most current edition of the uniform plumbing code is
hereby adopted and incorporated by this reference.
   E.   Energy Code: The most current edition of the model energy code is
hereby adopted and incorporated by this reference.
   F.   Mechanical Code: The most current edition of the uniform mechanical
code is hereby adopted and incorporated by this reference. (2001 Code)
9-1-2: BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Project Approval Required: Any person or entity, before building a new
home, business, shed or garage; before moving or placing a mobile or modular
home on new property; before changing the exterior footprint of any building;
structurally altering the exterior of any building; or before constructing a
new fence, deck, mobile shed or porch within the incorporated area of the
municipality, shall first obtain project approval from the Hatch town planning
and zoning commission and the Hatch town council verifying that there is
sufficient water, sewer and wastewater capacity, and that the project complies
with zoning ordinances and all other adopted ordinances for the municipality.
(Ord. 2006-06, 11-15-2006)
   B.   Building Permit Required: After obtaining project approval from the
municipality, the party shall then obtain a building permit from the Garfield
county building inspector.
   C.   Applications And Fee: The party applying for a building permit shall
first file with the county building inspector an application, on a form
authorized and approved by the county, together with the applicable fee, and
shall fully and completely disclose all information required to complete the
same. The amount of such fee shall be in accordance with the schedule, attached
to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by this reference as
exhibit A, which is on file in the town office. (2001 Code)
There will additionally be an administrative fee as set by the town council for
each building permit granted by the town. (Res. 2006-04, 5-17-2006)
   D.   Approval By Building Inspector: Upon receipt of the application, fee
and preliminary approval by the town, if it appears to the county building
inspector that the application complies with all applicable laws and
regulations, it shall be approved.
   E.   Powers And Duties Of Building Inspector:
      1.   Generally: The county building inspector and/or his agent shall have
the following powers, duties and responsibilities within the town:
         a.   To enter, at any reasonable time, and without prior notice, upon
the premises of any building where construction, remodeling or other structural
alteration is taking place, or upon any premises deemed to be unsafe, for
purposes of inspecting the same.
         b.   To order all work to be stopped on the construction, remodeling
or structural alteration of any building, when such work is being done in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, and any applicable law or
regulation. Work shall not proceed on such premises, after the issuance of a
stop order, without the prior written consent of the county building inspector.
         c.   To inspect all buildings being constructed, remodeled or
structurally altered, to determine compliance with all applicable building
construction and safety codes, and to enforce the provisions of the same.
         d.   To examine all applications for building permits, to determine
their compliance with applicable law, and to review the same.
      2.   Discretion To Approve Or Reject: The county building inspector shall
have the power to either approve or reject a building permit application. If
the application is rejected, the reason for the rejection shall be specified,
in writing, by the building inspector. If the application is approved, the
building permit may be issued upon payment of the appropriate fee according to
the authorized fee schedule.
   F.   No Material Variation From Permit: No material variation from approved
plans or the terms of the building permit approved by the county building
inspector shall be permitted without the prior written consent of the county
building inspector.
   G.   Appeal:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the county building inspector
may appeal such decision by filing with the town clerk, a notice of appeal, no
later than ten (10) days following the date of issuance of the decision which
is the subject of the appeal.
      2.   The notice of appeal shall be in writing, and shall state with
specificity the reasons for the appeal. The town clerk shall then refer the
appeal to the appropriate body, either the board of adjustment, or if there is
no board of adjustment, to the town council for review. The appropriate
municipal body shall then hold a public hearing, not less than thirty (30) days
after receipt of the notice of appeal.
      3.   At the public hearing, the aggrieved person shall appear and show
cause why the decision of the building inspector was in error, and why said
decision should be reversed. The building inspector shall also appear to defend
his/her decision. The county attorney may assist the building inspector at the
hearing. The hearing shall be informal, and the Utah rules of civil procedure
and Utah rules of evidence shall not apply. The hearing shall be recorded.
      4.   At the hearing, the aggrieved person shall bear the burden of proof,
and unless the decision of the building inspector shall be found, by a
preponderance of the evidence, to be arbitrary, capricious, or a clear abuse of
discretion, the decision of the building inspector shall be affirmed.
      5.   If the aggrieved person wishes to appeal the decision of the board
of adjustment or town council, he/she may then appeal directly to the district
court of the county. (2001 Code)
9-1-3: PENALTY:
Any person or entity who fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day of noncompliance shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation of this chapter and may be punished accordingly. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 2
FALLOUT SHELTERS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definition
9-2-2: Exemption From Building Code Requirements
9-2-3: Administrative Application Of Building Code
9-2-4: Design
9-2-5: Construction
9-2-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, a "family fallout shelter" is a structure
designed and constructed for emergency use only, to afford minimum protection
from nuclear radiation, commonly known as fallout, resulting from a nuclear
incident which recently has been or is likely to be of catastrophic
proportions. (1976 Code § 9-662)
9-2-2: EXEMPTION FROM BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS:
Due to the specialized purpose of emergency nature for which family fallout
shelters are designed, any such shelter which complies with the provisions of
this chapter are hereby exempt from the provisions of the building code, except
as otherwise provided herein. (1976 Code § 9-661)
9-2-3: ADMINISTRATIVE APPLICATION OF BUILDING CODE:
Notwithstanding the provisions contained in this chapter, the provisions
contained in the building code relating to administration, permits and
inspections shall be applicable to family fallout shelters. (1976 Code § 9-665)
9-2-4: DESIGN:
A family fallout shelter shall be of a design conforming to that recommended or
accepted by the federal department of defense, office of civil defense. (1976
Code § 9-663)
9-2-5: CONSTRUCTION:
A family fallout shelter shall, in all matters relating to construction and
structural stability, comply with not less than the equivalent of the
provisions relating to design loads and general building requirements specified
in the uniform building code. (1976 Code § 9-664)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PURPOSE AND SCOPE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Authority
10-1-4: Interpretation
10-1-5: Severability
10-1-6: Fees
10-1-7: Penalties
10-1-8: Definitions
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the "Hatch Town Zoning Ordinance" and
may also be identified within this document as "this chapter" or "Zoning
Ordinance." (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes and enacts regulations for the use and development of
land in Hatch Town in order to execute the policies and objectives of the
general plan. As such, it is the specific purpose of this chapter to guide
development within the Town in an orderly fashion, and thus protect the
prosperity, health, safety and welfare for the Town for its present and future
inhabitants. To this end, the following specific goals are identified:
   A.   To protect, preserve, restore and enhance the natural, historical and
cultural resources.
   B.   To guide the growth and development of the Town to assure a suitable
balance between desirable economic activity and the most satisfactory
residential lifestyle.
   C.   To secure safety from flood, geological hazard and other danger.
   D.   To manage land use and construction to assure availability and capacity
of public utilities and services during periods of growth and change.
   E.   To promote the most efficient relationship between land uses and
buildings and the circulation of vehicular and pedestrian traffic to minimize
congestion, accidents and noise. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-1-3: AUTHORITY:
Utah Code Annotated (UCA) Title 10, Chapter 9a. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
In all interpretations of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall be
held to be minimum requirements. This chapter shall not affect the rights of
private parties to enforce the more restrictive provisions of private covenants
and agreements and shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of other
ordinances or laws, but this chapter shall prevail and take precedence whenever
such other ordinances or laws are less restrictive. In the event of ambiguity,
uncertainty or conflict regarding the terms of this chapter, an interpretation
of the same shall be made according to the following procedure:
   A.   Application: Application for an interpretation of this chapter shall be
made in writing to Hatch Town Council and shall include the interpretation
sought and such other information and pertinent facts as may be required by
Hatch Town Council to facilitate the determination.
Hatch Town Council may approve or deny the interpretation, or agree upon a
different interpretation of the section in question.
   B.   Standards: In interpreting this chapter, Hatch Town Council shall make
an interpretation which is in harmony with State law, this chapter and other
Town ordinances, as well as with the intent and purpose of the applicable
section in question, and with the intent and purpose of the general plan. (Ord.
2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-1-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any section of this chapter should for any reason be found invalid, by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining sections nevertheless be carried
into effect. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-1-6: FEES:
Appropriate fees shall be charged for building permits and inspections, land
use applications, Appeal Authority hearings or any other service required by
this chapter. Such fees shall be established by the Hatch Town Council (See
Appendix A). (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-1-7: PENALTIES:
Any civil offense against this chapter shall be a Class C Misdemeanor, which
shall be punishable by imprisonment up to ninety (90) days and a maximum fine
of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-1-8: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context requires otherwise, the following definitions shall be used
in the interpretation and construction of this chapter. Words used in the
present tense include the future: the singular tense shall include the plural
and the plural the singular. The word "building" shall include the term
"structure"; the words ''used" or "occupied" shall include arranged, designed,
constructed, altered, converted, rented, leased, or intended to be used or
occupied; the word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary, the word "may"
is permissive; the word "person" includes affirm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual; the word
"lot" includes the word "plot" or "parcel". Words used in this chapter but not
defined herein shall have the meaning as defined in any other ordinance adopted
by Hatch Town.
                                     A use or building on the same lot with,
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE:           and of a nature customarily incidental and
                                     subordinate to, the principal building or
                                     use.
                                     An industry or business involving
                                     agricultural products in manufacturing,
                                     packaging, treatment, sales, intensive
                                     feeding or storage, including but not
AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRY OR BUSINESS:   limited to animal feed yards, fur farms,
                                     food packaging or processing plants,
                                     commercial poultry or egg production and
                                     similar uses as determined by the Planning
                                     Commission.
                                     Land shall be deemed to be in agricultural
                                     use when devoted to the raising of plants
                                     and animals useful to man, including but
                                     not limited to. forages and sod crops;
                                     grain and feed crops; dairy animals,
                                     poultry, livestock, including beef cattle,
                                     sheep, swine, horses, ponies, mules or
                                     goats, including the breeding or grazing
AGRICULTURAL USE:                    of any or all such animals; bees, fur
                                     animals, trees, fruits of all kinds,
                                     including grapes, nuts and berries;
                                     vegetables, nursery, floral, and
                                     ornamental stock; or when devoted to and
                                     meeting requirements and qualifications
                                     for payment for other compensation
                                     pursuant to a cropland retirement program
                                     under an agreement with an agency of the
                                     state or federal government.
                                     Any area of land designated and set aside
AIRPORT:                             for the landing and taking off of aircraft
                                     plus maintenance and auxiliary facilities
                                     and building maintenance.
                                     A public access way less than twenty-six
                                     feet (26') in width but not less than
                                     twelve feet (12'), which is designed to
ALLEY:                               give secondary access to lots or abutting
                                     properties; an alley shall not be
                                     considered a street, for the purposes of
                                     this chapter.
                                     Any change, addition or modification in
ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL:             the supporting members of a building, such
                                     as bearing walls, column, beams or
                                     girders.
                                     Any building or group of buildings which
APARTMENT:                           contain dwelling units, and also satisfies
                                     the definition of a motel, as defined in
                                     the chapter.
APARTMENT HOUSE:                     See Dwelling, Multiple Family.
                                     The board formally appointed by the Hatch
                                     Town Council to hear appeals by any person
                                     aggrieved by inability to obtain a
APPEAL AUTHORITY:                    building permit, or by the decision of any
                                     administrative officer or agency based
                                     upon or made in the course administration
                                     or enforcement of the provisions of this
                                     chapter.
                                     Any building or structural projection
                                     which is not intended for occupancy and
ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION:            which extends beyond the face of an
                                     exterior wall of a building or structure,
                                     but not including signs.
                                     An open area used for display, sale, or
AUTOMOBILE SALES AREA:               rental of new or used motor vehicles,
                                     mobile homes, recreational coaches, or
                                     recreation vehicles in operable condition.
                                     A place where gasoline, or any other motor
                                     fuel or grease for operating motor
                                     vehicles is offered for sale to the public
                                     and deliveries are made directly into
                                     motor vehicles, and where services
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION:          performed may include tube and tire
                                     repair, battery changing, storage of
                                     merchandise, lubricating of automobiles,
                                     replacement of spark plugs, lights, fans,
                                     and other small parts, but not including
                                     major auto repair.
BASEMENT HOUSE:                      A residential structure without a full
                                     story structure above grade.
                                     A story whose floor is more than twelve
                                     below the average level of the adjoining
                                     ground, but where no more one-half of its
                                     floor-to-ceiling height is above the
BASEMENT:                            average contact level of the adjoining
                                     ground. A basement shall be counted as a
                                     story for purpose of height measurement,
                                     and as a half-story for the purpose of
                                     yard determination.
BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION:           The placing of concrete footings for
                                     building or structure.
                                     A mark affixed to a permanent or semi-
BENCHMARK:                           permanent object to furnish a datum level
                                     in survey.
                                     A dwelling where, for compensation, meals
BOARDING HOUSE:                      are provided for at least three (3) but
                                     not more than fifteen (15) persons.
                                     A facility for major automobile, mobile
BODY AND FENDER SHOP:                home, recreational coach or recreation
                                     vehicle repairs to body, or fenders, and
                                     including rebuilding.
BUILDABLE AREA:                      The portion of a lot remaining after
                                     required yards have been provided.
                                     A building owned and/or operated or owned
BUILDING, PUBLIC:                    and intended to be operated by a public
                                     agency.
                                     Any structure used or intended to be used
BUILDING:                            for the shelter or enclosure of persons,
                                     animals or property.
                                     The Official designated by the Town
BUILDING OFFICIAL:                   Council as the Building Inspector for
                                     Hatch Town.
BUILDING, MAIN:                      The principle building housing the
                                     principal use upon a lot.
                                     A private garage not completely enclosed
                                     by walls or doors. For the purpose of this
CARPORT:                             chapter, a carport shall be subject to all
                                     the regulations prescribed of a private
                                     garage.
                                     A room or rooms wholly under the surface
                                     of the ground or having more than fifty
CELLAR:                              percent of its floor to ceiling height
                                     under the average level of the adjoining
                                     ground.
                                     An establishment for the instruction of
                                     six (6) or more children, for
CHILD NURSERY:                       compensation, other than members of the
                                     family residing on the premises, but not
                                     including a public school.
                                     A building, together with its accessory
                                     buildings and uses, maintained and
CHURCH:                              controlled by a duly recognized religious
                                     organization where persons regularly
                                     assemble for worship.
                                     A building in which a group of dentists,
                                     physicians, and allied professional
                                     assistants are associated for the conduct
CLINIC, MEDICAL OR DENTAL:           of their professions. The clinic may
                                     include a dental and/or medical laboratory
                                     and an apothecary, but it shall not
                                     include in-patient care or operating rooms
                                     for major surgery.
                                     An organization, group or association
                                     supported by the members thereof, the sole
                                     purpose of which is to render a service
                                     customarily rendered for members and their
CLUB, PRIVATE:                       guests but shall not include any service,
                                     the chief activity of which is customarily
                                     carried on as a business and does not
                                     include labor union organizations or
                                     similar labor or business organizations.
                                     A use of land for which a Conditional Use
CONDITIONAL USE:                     Permit is required, pursuant to this
                                     chapter.
CONDOMINIUM:                         An ownership structure established in
                                     accordance with the Utah Condominium Act.
                                     A camp or other residential area of a
                                     temporary nature established for a period
                                     of five (5) or more days for the housing
                                     of one or more persons engaged in
CONSTRUCTION CAMP:                   activities related to construction, mining
                                     and logging. Camps established for
                                     hunting, fishing, recreation or
                                     agricultural purposes are excluded from
                                     the definition of a construction camp.
                                     An enclosure, other than a building less
CORRAL:                              than one acre, used for the confinement of
                                     animals and fowl.
COUNCIL:                             Unless otherwise indicated, the Town
                                     Council of Hatch Town, Utah.
                                     An open, unoccupied space, other than a
                                     yard. on the same lot with a building or
                                     group of buildings, and which is bounded
                                     on three or more sides by such building or
                                     buildings. The width of a court is its
COURT:                               least horizontal dimension, measured
                                     between opposite sides in the same
                                     direction as the yard or lot line on which
                                     tile court opens. The length of a court is
                                     its least horizontal dimension measured at
                                     right angles to its width.
COVERAGE, BUILDING:                  The percent of the total site area covered
                                     by buildings.
                                     A minor street having an open end and
CUL-DE-SAC:                          being terminated at the other end by a
                                     vehicle turnaround.
                                     A commercial establishment for the
                                     manufacture, processing, or packaging of
                                     dairy products, and their sale; for
DAIRY:                               purposes of this definition, the
                                     production of milk on a farm for wholesale
                                     marketing off the premises shall not
                                     classify the farm as a dairy.
                                     A portion of the area of Hatch Town, Utah
                                     shown on a Zoning Map (attached to this
DISTRICT:                            Zoning Ordinance and given a Zone
                                     classification as set forth in this
                                     chapter.
                                     A private roadway, the use of which is
DRIVEWAY:                            limited to persons residing, employed or
                                     otherwise using or visiting the parcel on
                                     which the driveway is located.
                                     A building that contains one (1) or two
                                     (2) dwelling units used, intended or
DWELLING:                            designed to be used, rented, leased, let
                                     or hired out to be occupied for living
                                     purposes.
                                     A building arranged or designed to be
DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY:             occupied by one (1) family, the structure
                                     having only one (1) dwelling unit.
                                     A building arranged or designed to be
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY:                occupied by two (2) families, the
                                     structure having only two (2) dwelling
                                     units.
                                     A group of two (2) or more detached
DWELLING, GROUP:                     buildings used as dwellings, located on a
                                     lot or parcel of land.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY:           A building arranged or designed to be
                                     occupied by more than two (2) families.
                                     One (1) or more rooms in a dwelling or
                                     apartment motel, designed for or occupied
DWELLING UNIT:                       by one (1) family for living or sleeping
                                     purposes and having kitchen and bathroom
                                     facilities for the use of not more than
                                     one (1) family.
                                     The acquired private or right-of-use or
EASEMENT:                            enjoyment which one or more persons may
                                     have in the land of another.
                                     An individual or two or more persons
                                     related by blood, marriage, or adoption
FAMILY:                              (excluding servants) who are not related,
                                     living in a dwelling unit as a single
                                     housekeeping unit and using common cooking
                                     facilities.
                                     A physical barrier to delineate, contain,
FENCE:                               or designate an area designed for a
                                     specific use, i.e. and an enclosure for a
                                     dwelling unit, and area of storage etc.
FLOOD HAZARD:                        A hazard to land or improvements due to
                                     inundation.
                                     The planting, caring for or cultivating of
FORESTRY:                            a dense growth of trees. May include the
                                     gathering of wood for domestic fire use.
                                     All property fronting on one side of the
                                     street between intersecting or
                                     intercepting streets, or between a street
                                     and a right-of-way, waterway, end of dead-
FRONTAGE:                            end street, or political subdivision
                                     boundary, measured along the street line.
                                     An intercepting street shall determine
                                     only the boundary of the frontage on the
                                     side of the street which it intercepts.
                                     A structure or portion thereof, other than
                                     a private garage, used for the repair of
                                     self-propelled vehicles, trailers or
                                     boats, including general repair,
                                     rebuilding or reconstruction of engines,
                                     motor vehicles, recreation coaches, and
GARAGE, REPAIR:                      minor collision service, but not including
                                     major body, frame or fender repairs or
                                     overall automobile or truck painting,
                                     except by Conditional Use Permit. A repair
                                     garage may also include individualized
                                     storage, care, washing, or sale of
                                     automobiles.
                                     A detached accessory building, or portion
                                     of a main building, used or intended to be
                                     used for the storage of motor vehicles,
                                     recreational coaches, boats, or other
                                     recreational vehicles, but not including
GARAGE, PRIVATE:                     the parking or storage of trucks or vans
                                     having a capacity in excess of one and
                                     one-half tons, and not including space for
                                     more than a total of four such vehicles,
                                     unless on a bona fide agricultural tract
                                     of land.
                                     A building or portion thereof other than a
GARAGE, PUBLIC:                      private garage, designed or used for
                                     servicing, equipping, hiring, selling or
                                     storage or motor driven vehicles.
                                     A hazard inherent in or on the crust of
                                     the earth, or artificially created, which
GEOLOGICAL HAZARD:                   is dangerous or potentially dangerous to
                                     life, property, or improvements due to the
                                     movement, failure or shitting of the
                                     earth.
                                     The vertical location of the ground
                                     surface.
                                     For buildings adjoining one street only,
                                     the elevation of the sidewalk at the
                                     center of the wall adjoining the street.
                                     For buildings adjoining more than one
                                     street, the average of the elevations of
                                     the sidewalk at the centers of all walls
GRADE:                               adjoining the streets.
                                     For buildings having no wall adjoining the
                                     street, the average level of the finished
                                     surface of the ground adjacent to the
                                     centers of all exterior walls of the
                                     building.
                                     Any wall parallel or nearly parallel to
                                     and not more than five feet from a street
                                     line is to be considered as adjoining the
                                     street.
                                     The State of Utah Division of
HEALTH DEPARTMENT:                   Environmental Quality or local health
                                     agency having jurisdiction.
                                     Any use conducted entirely within a
                                     dwelling and carried on by persons
                                     residing in the dwelling unit, occupying
                                     no more than twenty-five percent of the
                                     dwelling unit, which is clearly incidental
                                     and secondary to the use of the dwelling
                                     for dwelling purposes and does not change
                                     the character thereof and in connection
                                     with which there is no display nor stock
                                     in trade. The home occupation shall not
                                     include the sale of commodities except
                                     those which are produced on the premises
                                     and shall not involve the use of any
HOME OCCUPATION:                     accessory building or yard space or
                                     activity outside the main building not
                                     usually associated with residential use.
                                     Home occupation may include the use of the
                                     home by a physician, surgeon, dentist,
                                     lawyer, clergyman, engineer or
                                     professional person for consultation or
                                     emergency treatment. Home occupation
                                     includes the care of not more than five
                                     children other than members of the family
                                     residing in the dwelling. In all cases
                                     where a home occupation is engaged in,
                                     there shall be no advertising of said
                                     occupation, no window displays, or signs
                                     and no employees employed.
                                     Institution for the diagnosis, treatment
HOSPITAL:                            and care of the human illness or
                                     infirmity, but not including sanitariums
                                     and clinics.
                                     A building designed for or occupied as the
                                     more or less temporary abiding place of
HOTEL:                               six or more individuals who are, for
                                     compensation, lodged with or without
                                     meals.
                                     Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in
                                     the house and kept for company or
                                     pleasure, such as dogs, cats, and
HOUSEHOLD PETS:                      canaries, but not including a sufficient
                                     number of dogs as to constitute a kennel
                                     as defined in this chapter. Household pets
                                     shall not include the keeping of dangerous
                                     animals.
                                     Parcels that have surface or underground
                                     water diverted continuously or
IRRIGATED LAND:                      intermittently upon them for the
                                     production of crops or pasture, through
                                     the utilization of man- made improvements.
                                     Any discarded material, including but not
                                     limited to scrap metal, one or more
JUNK:                                abandoned, inoperable and/or unlicensed
                                     motor vehicles, machinery, equipment,
                                     paper, glass, containers and
                                     substructures.
                                     Any place, establishment or business
JUNKYARD:                            maintained, or operated for storage
                                     keeping, buying and selling junk,
                                     including vehicles and salvage yards.
KENNEL:                              Any premises where six (6) or more dogs
                                     older than four months are kept.
                                     A commercial operation on a parcel where
LIVESTOCK FEED YARD:                 livestock are kept in high density corrals
                                     or yards and fed.
LOCAL JURISDICTION:                  Hatch Town.
                                     The health officer or department employed
LOCAL HEALTH OFFICER:                by or officially representing the Town of
                                     Hatch.
LOCAL ENGINEER:                      The Engineer officially appointed or
                                     designated by Hatch Town.
                                     A dwelling with not more than five (5)
LODGING HOUSE:                       guest rooms where, for compensation,
                                     lodging is provided but does not include
                                     motels or hotels.
                                     Lot abutting on two intersecting or
                                     intercepting streets where the interior
LOT CORNER:                          angle of intersection or interception does
                                     not exceed one-hundred thirty-five (135)
                                     degrees.
                                     A parcel or unit of land described by
                                     metes and bounds and held or intended to
                                     be held in separate lease or ownership, or
                                     shown as a lot or parcel on a recorded
LOT:                                 subdivision map, or shown on a plat used
                                     in the lease or sale or offer of lease or
                                     sale of land resulting from the division
                                     of a longer tract into two (2) or more
                                     smaller units.
                                     Lot coverage shall be calculated by taking
LOT COVERAGE:                        the ground area of the main and accessory
                                     buildings and dividing that total by the
                                     area of the lot.
                                     Any lot having particular problems in
LOT RESTRICTED:                      size, slope, contour or space requiring
                                     special action of the Appeal Authority.
LOT INTERIOR:                        A lot other than a comer lot.
                                     The horizontal distance between the front
LOT DEPTH:                           and rear lot lines measured in the main
                                     direction of the side lot line.
LOT LINE:                            Property lines bounding the lot.
                                     A detached, single-family dwelling unit
                                     not less than forty-five feet long,
                                     designed for long-term occupancy, and to
                                     be transported on its own wheels or on
                                     flatbed or other trailers or detachable
                                     wheels, containing a flush toilet,
                                     sleeping accommodations, a tub or shower
                                     bath, kitchen facilities, and plumbing and
                                     electrical connections provided for
                                     attachment to appropriate external systems
MOBILE HOME:                         and ready for occupancy except for utility
                                     connections and other minor work. Pre-
                                     sectionalized modular, or prefabricated
                                     homes not placed on a permanent
                                     foundation, shall be regarded as mobile
                                     homes; if placed upon a permanent
                                     foundation such structures which meet all
                                     applicable building and housing codes
                                     shall not be considered as mobile homes
                                     but shall be regarded as conventional
                                     housing.
                                     A lot within a mobile home park or
MOBILE HOME LOT:                     subdivision, designed to be used for the
                                     accommodation of one mobile home.
                                     A parcel designed and approved by the Town
MOBILE HOME PARK:                    for occupancy by mobile homes on a rental
                                     basis, meeting all requirements of the
                                     Hatch Town plans and ordinances.
                                     Space within a mobile home park, designed
MOBILE HOME SPACE:                   and to be used for the accommodation of
                                     one mobile home.
                                     A subdivision designed and intended for
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION:             residential use where the lots are to be
                                     individually owned or leased and occupied
                                     by mobile homes exclusively.
                                     A permanent dwelling structure which
                                     conforms to applicable building codes,
MODULAR HOME/MANUFACTURED HOME:      built in prefabricated units, which are
                                     assembled and erected on the site, or at
                                     another location, and brought as a unit to
                                     the site.
                                     A building or group of buildings for the
                                     drive-in accommodation of transient
MOTEL:                               guests, comprising individual sleeping or
                                     living units, and designed and located to
                                     serve the motoring public.
                                     Areas varying in width along streams,
                                     creeks, springs, gullies or washes which
NATURAL WATERWAYS:                   are natural drainage channels as
                                     determined by a licensed engineer, in
                                     which no buildings should be constructed.
                                     Building or structure or portion thereof,
                                     lawfully existing at the time this chapter
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: became effective, which does not conform
                                     to all height, area and yard regulations
                                     herein prescribed in the Zone in which it
                                     is located.
                                     Use which lawfully occupied a building or
                                     land at the time this chapter became
NONCONFORMING USE:                   effective, and which does not conform with
                                     the use regulations of the Zone in which
                                     it is located.
NURSING HOME:                        Institution providing residence and care
                                     for the aged or infirm.
                                     Improvements not on individual lots but
OFF-SITE FACILITIES:                 which are generally within the boundaries
                                     of the subdivision which they serve.
                                     Space reserved in parks, courts,
                                     playgrounds, golf courses and other
OPEN SPACE:                          similar open areas, and those areas
                                     reserved to meet the density requirements
                                     of Planned Unit Developments.
                                     An open area, other than a street used for
                                     the temporary parking of more than four
PARKING LOT:                         (4) automobiles and available for public
                                     use, whether free, for compensation, or as
                                     an accommodation for clients, customers or
                                     employees.
                                     The percentage increase in elevation over
                                     a one-hundred-foot horizontal distance.
PERCENT OF GRADE:                    For example, a ten percent grade would be
                                     a use in elevation of one foot (1') in ten
                                     feet (10') or ten feet (10') in one-
                                     hundred feet (100').
                                     A structure of concrete, masonry and/or
                                     metal permanently placed on or in the
PERMANENT MONUMENT:                  ground, including those expressly placed
                                     for surveying reference, which meets the
                                     requirements of the Town for permanent
                                     monuments.
                                     An integrated design for development of
                                     residential, commercial or industrial uses
                                     or limited combinations of such uses, in
                                     which the density and location regulations
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:            of the District in which the development
                                     is situated may be varied or waived to
                                     allow flexibility and initiative in site
                                     and building design and location, in
                                     accordance with a plan approved by the
                                     Planning Commission the Town Council.
PLANNING COMMISSION:                 The Hatch Town Planning Commission.
                                     These include every common carrier,
                                     pipeline corporation, gas corporation,
                                     electrical corporation, telephone
PUBLIC UTILITIES:                    corporation, telegraph corporation, water
                                     corporation where the service is performed
                                     for the commodity delivered to the public
                                     or any portion thereof.
                                     An area or tract of land or a designated
                                     section within a mobile home park where
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK:           lots are rented or held for rent to one or
                                     more owners or users of recreational
                                     vehicles for a temporary time not to
                                     exceed one-hundred twenty (120) days.
                                     A vehicle, such as a travel trailer, tent
                                     camper, camp car or other vehicle with or
                                     without motive power, designed and/or
RECREATIONAL COACH:                  constructed to travel on the public
                                     thoroughfare in accordance with the
                                     provisions of the Utah Vehicle Code, and
                                     designed for use as human habitation for a
                                     temporary and recreational nature.
ROOMER:                              One who occupies a hired room in another's
                                     house.
                                     An area set aside that meets all federal
SANITARY LANDFILL:                   and state laws for the disposal of solid
                                     waste.
                                     Any dwelling unit, or any portion thereof,
                                     being used for transient accommodation
                                     purposes, including but not limited to,
                                     single-family dwellings, multiple family
                                     dwellings, accessory dwelling units
                                     (ADU's), glamping units or any other
                                     dwelling unit for a period typically less
                                     than thirty (30) consecutive days.
                                     Additionally, any dwelling unit that 1) is
                                     listed on any accommodation website
SHORT-TERM RENTAL:                   including, but not limited to Airbnb,
                                     Vrbo, HomeAway, Trip Advisor, etc.; 2) has
                                     (or should have) an approved Hatch Town
                                     Business License and Conditional Use
                                     Permit, if applicable, for a STR or 3)
                                     pays (or should pay) applicable Sales and
                                     Use and Transient Room Taxes for the STR,
                                     is hereby considered a Short-Term Rental
                                     and shall be subject to the regulations
                                     set forth in this chapter, even if the STR
                                     is rented out for a period longer than
                                     thirty (30) days.
SIGN:                                See "Sign" definitions in Chapter 16 "Sign
                                     Regulations" of this chapter.
                                     A plan required by, and providing the
SITE PLAN:                           information required by Section 6-6 of
                                     this chapter.
                                     One-story detached accessory structure
SMALL SHED:                          provided that the floor area does not
                                     exceed two-hundred (200) sq. ft.
                                     A detached accessory building for the
STABLE, PRIVATE:                     keeping of horses owned by the occupant of
                                     the premises and not kept for
                                     remuneration, hire or sale.
                                     A public thoroughfare which affords
STREET:                              principal means access to abutting
                                     property with a minimum width of twenty-
                                     six feet (26').
                                     The division of any tract, lot or parcel
                                     of land into three or more lots, plots,
                                     sites, or other divisions of land for the
                                     purpose, whether immediate or future, of
                                     sale, lease or of building development,
SUBDIVISION:                         provided that the term "subdivision" shall
                                     not apply to those divisions accepted or
                                     exempted in this chapter. The word
                                     "subdivide" and any other derivative
                                     thereof shall have reference to the word
                                     "subdivision" as herein defined.
TOWN ATTORNEY:                       The Attorney officially appointed or
                                     designated by Hatch Town.
TOWN:                                Unless otherwise indicated, Hatch Town,
                                     Utah.
TRANSIENT RENTAL:                    See Short-Term Rental.
                                     Occupancy of a dwelling unit, sleeping
TRANSIENT:                           unit, Recreational Coach or any other
                                     space for not more than thirty (30) days.
                                     A use subordinate and incident to the main
USE ACCESSORY:                       use of a building or land located upon the
                                     same lot or parcel.
                                     A building and runs where large and/or
VETERINARY OR ANIMAL HOSPITAL:       small animals are kept and/or treated by a
                                     licensed veterinarian.
                                     A required open space on a lot, other than
YARD:                                a court, unoccupied and unobstructed from
                                     the ground upward, except as permitted
                                     elsewhere in this chapter.
                                     A space on the same lot with a building,
                                     between the front line of building and the
                                     front lot line and extending across the
YARD, FRONT:                         full width of the lot. The "depth" of
                                     front yard is the minimum distance between
                                     the front lot line and the front line of
                                     the building.
                                     A space on the same lot with a building,
                                     between the rear line of the building and
                                     the rear lot line and extending the full
YARD, REAR:                          width of the lot. The "depth" of the rear
                                     yard is the minimum distance between the
                                     rear lot line and the rear line of the
                                     building.
                                     A space on the same lot with a building,
                                     between the side line of the building and
                                     the side lot line and extending from the
YARD, SIDE:                          front yard to the rear yard. The "width"
                                     of the side yard shall be the minimum
                                     distance between the side lot line and the
                                     side line of the building.
ZONE:                                See “District.”
ZONING ORDINANCE:                    The Hatch Town Zoning Ordinance.
                                     The Official designated by the Town
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:                Council as the Zoning Administrator for
                                     Hatch Town. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
 
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
10-2-1: Establishment
10-2-2: Number And Terms Of Members
10-2-2-1: Numbers Of Members
10-2-2-2: Terms Of Members
10-2-3: Appointment Of Members
10-2-4: Filling Vacancies And Removal From Office
10-2-5: Compensation
10-2-6: Officers
10-2-7: Quorum And Vote
10-2-8: Duties And Powers
10-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
This Section hereby establishes a Planning Commission within the incorporated
areas of Hatch Town. The establishment of the Planning Commission shall be in
accordance with the policies and procedures as set forth in UCA 10-9a-301.
(Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-2-2: NUMBER AND TERMS OF MEMBERS:
10-2-2-1: NUMBER OF MEMBERS:
The Planning Commission shall consist of five members and up to three alternate
members appointed by the Town Council. Alternate members may fill the position
of any absent or excused regular member and shall have all the duties and
powers of regular members when filling in. Alternates who are not filling in
for regular members may still participate in planning commission meetings, but
may not vote. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-2-2-2: TERMS OF MEMBERS:
The terms of office for the members of the Planning Commission shall be two
years. Members shall be permitted to be removed for cause upon written charges
and after a public hearing before the Town Council, if such a hearing is
requested. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-2-3: APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS:
Members shall be appointed and approved by the Town Council. The terms of
office for the Planning Commission members shall be staggered at intervals so
as to provide continuity in policy and personnel. Members of the Planning
Commission shall be residents of Hatch Town. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-2-4: FILLING VACANCIES AND REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The Town Council may appoint members to fill any unexpired terms of any regular
or alternate members who vacate their positions for any reason. Planning
Commission members may be removed from their position for cause by the Town
Council. "Cause" includes, but is not limited to, moving out of the Town
limits, failing to attend Planning Commission meetings or committing any act
inimical to public service. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-2-5: COMPENSATION:
The members of the Planning Commission, whether regular or alternate members,
shall serve without compensation except for the reimbursement of actual
expenses incurred as approved by the Town Council. The Town Council may elect
to provide compensation to the chairperson. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-2-6: OFFICERS:
The Planning Commission shall elect from its membership a chairperson and a
vice chairperson. The Planning Commission shall establish and adopt rules and
procedures for its organization and transaction of business and shall keep a
public record of its proceedings.
A secretary to assist the Planning Commission shall be appointed by the Town
Council. The secretary shall keep minutes of the Planning Commission meetings
for public record and conduct all correspondence, including the notification of
decisions. The secretary shall certify records. The secretary shall prepare and
submit the minutes of Planning Commission meetings to the Zoning Administrator
and the Planning Commission. The Town Council may elect to provide compensation
to the secretary. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-2-7: QUORUM AND VOTE:
A quorum shall consist of at least three members. Evidence shall not be
presented unless a quorum is present. A majority vote shall be constituted of
at least a majority of members present. If a majority vote cannot be obtained
among the quorum, the item of business will be tabled until the next regular
meeting of the Hatch Town Planning Commission. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-2-8: DUTIES AND POWERS:
   A.   The Planning Commission shall, with respect to the incorporated areas
of Hatch Town, review and approve, approve with modifications or deny:
      1.   Any construction of a dwelling, commercial building or any other
structure;
      2.   Any application for a business license.
   B.   The Planning Commission shall, with respect to the incorporated areas
of Hatch Town, review and make a recommendation to the Town Council for:
      1.   A general plan and amendments to the general plan;
      2.   Land use regulations, including:
         a.   Land use regulations regarding the use of land within the Town;
and
         b.   Amendments to existing land use regulations; and
      3.   Conditional use permits.
   C.   Before making a recommendation to the Town Council on an item described
in this Section, the Planning Commission shall hold a public meeting and public
hearing, if applicable, in accordance with UCA 10-9a-2.
      1.   For proposed zoning map amendments, the Planning Commission shall:
         a.   Send a courtesy notice to each owner of private real property
whose property is located entirety or partially within a proposed zoning map
amendment in accordance with UCA 10-9a-205.4; and
         b.   Send a separate courtesy notice to each owner of private real
property whose property is located within five hundred (500) feet from a
proposed zoning map amendment.
   D.   General Plan. It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission, after
holding public hearings, to assist in the creation of and recommend to the Town
Council, a General Plan for Hatch Town, which shall be permitted to include
areas outside its boundaries that bear consideration to the planning of the
Town. The General Plan shall include at least the following elements:
      1.   Official maps;
      2.   Growth and land use;
      3.   Commercial/industrial uses;
      4.   Transportation and utilities;
      5.   Community facilities;
      6.   Housing;
      7.   Environmental; and
      8.   Geologic/natural hazards.
The Planning Commission shall be permitted to recommend amendments to the
General Plan regarding the administration or maintenance of this chapter.
   E.   Zoning Ordinance. It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to
assist in the development of and recommend to the Town Council, a Zoning
Ordinance, in accordance with the guidelines of the General Plan, establishing
zones within the Town. Such regulations shall be made in regard to the
character of each District and the most appropriate use of land within the
Town.
   F.   Subdivisions. It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to
develop and certify regulations governing the division of land in accordance
with the adopted regulations.
   G.   Conditional Uses. It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to
review Conditional Use Permit applications. The application shall be
accompanied by maps, drawings or other documentation in support of the request.
   H.   Zoning Map. It shall be the duty of the Planning Commission to assist
in the development of and recommend to the Town Council, an official Zoning Map
for all areas included within the Town. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd. Ord.
2022-05, 4-20-2022; Ord. 2022-07, 6-6-2022)
10-2-9: APPEALS AND HEARINGS:
Any person with standing aggrieved by any decision of the Planning Commission
shall have the right to make such appeals as provided by this chapter or State
law. Such appeals shall be based on the record.
Appeal of Planning Commission decisions shall be to the Town Council. Appeals
shall be in writing and shall be filed with the Town Clerk not more than thirty
days after the decision by the Planning Commission. The Town Council may
affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the Planning Commission. Appeal
review by the Town Council shall be recorded in an open public meeting. Town
Council decisions will be final. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 3
TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
10-3-1: Duties And Powers
10-3-2: Appeals
10-3-1: DUTIES AND POWERS:
   A.   The Town Council shall, with respect to the incorporated areas of Hatch
Town:
      1.   Exercise all legislative powers, have all legislative duties and
perform all legislative functions of the Town.
      2.   Consider each land use application or regulation that the Planning
Commission recommends.
      3.   Provide notice as required by UCA 10-9a-2 and hold a public meeting
to consider the Planning Commission's recommendation.
   B.   The Town Council may, with respect to the incorporated areas of Hatch
Town:
      1.   Take any action required by law and necessary to the full discharge
of its duties, even though the action is not expressly authorized by State
statute;
      2.   Approve a land use application or regulation as recommended by the
Planning Commission;
      3.   Approve a land use application or regulation with revisions, and/or
conditions;
      4.   Deny the recommended a land use application or regulation.
      5.   Consider the Planning Commission's failure to make a timely
recommendation as a negative recommendation.
      6.   Require onsite and offsite improvements, facilities and amenities if
they are determined necessary to protect the health, safety and general welfare
of the residents of the Town, and are found consistent with the intent of this
and other related ordinances. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-3-2: APPEALS:
Appeal of Town Council decisions shall be to the Hatch Town Appeal Authority.
Appeals shall be in writing and shall be filed with the Town Clerk not more
than thirty (30) days after the decision by the Town Council. The Appeal
Authority may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the Town Council.
Appeal review by the Appeal Authority shall be recorded in an open public
meeting. Appeal Authority decisions will be final. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 4
APPEAL AUTHORITY
SECTION:
10-4-1: Establishment
10-4-2: Number Of Terms And Members
10-4-3: Appointment Of Members
10-4-4: Filling Vacancies And Removal From Office
10-4-5: Compensation
10-4-6: Officers
10-4-7: Quorum And Vote
10-4-8: Duties And Powers
10-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
This Section hereby establishes an Appeal Authority within the incorporated
areas of Hatch Town. The establishment of the Appeal Authority shall be in
accordance with the policies and procedures as set forth in UCA 10-9a-701.
(Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-4-2: NUMBER AND TERMS OF MEMBERS:
   A.   Number of Members. The Planning Commission shall consist of three
members and up to three alternate members appointed by the Town Council.
Alternate members may fill the position of any absent or excused regular member
and shall have all the duties and powers of regular members when filling in.
Alternates who are not filling in for regular members may still participate in
planning commission meetings, but may not vote.
   B.   Terms of Members. The terms of office for the members of the Planning
Commission shall be two years. Members shall be permitted to be removed for
cause upon written charges and after a public hearing before the Town Council,
if such a hearing is requested. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-4-3: APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS:
Members shall be appointed and approved by the Town Council. Members of the
Appeal Authority shall be residents of Hatch Town. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-4-4: FILLING VACANCIES AND REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The Town Council may appoint members to fill any unexpired terms of any regular
or alternate members who vacate their positions for any reason. Planning
Commission members may be removed from their position for cause by the Town
Council. "Cause" includes, but is not limited to, moving out of the Town
limits, failing to attend Planning Commission meetings or committing any act
inimical to public service. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-4-5: COMPENSATION:
The members of the Appeal Authority shall serve without compensation except for
the reimbursement of actual expenses incurred as approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-4-6: OFFICERS:
The Appeal Authority shall establish and adopt rules and procedures for its
organization and transaction of business and shall keep a public record of its
proceedings.
A secretary to assist the Appeal Authority shall be appointed by the Town
Council. The secretary shall keep minutes of the Appeal Authority meetings for
public record and conduct all correspondence, including the notification of
decisions. The secretary shall certify records. The secretary shall prepare and
submit the minutes of meetings to the Appeal Authority. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-
2021)
10-4-7: QUORUM AND VOTE:
Evidence shall not be presented unless a quorum is present. A majority vote
shall be constituted of at least a majority of members present. If a majority
vote cannot be obtained among the quorum, the item of business will be deferred
until the next scheduled meeting of the Appeal Authority. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-
2021)
10-4-8: DUTIES AND POWERS:
The Hatch Town Appeal Authority shall have the following duties:
   A.   To hear and decide:
      1.   Requests for variances from the terms of land use ordinances;
      2.   Appeals from decisions applying land use ordinances; and
      3.   Appeals from a fee charged in accordance with UCA 10-9a-510.
   B.   Variance Review Criteria. The Appeal Authority shall be permitted to
approve, approve with conditions or deny a request for a variance. Each request
for a variance shall be consistent with the following criteria:
      1.   Limitations on the use of the property due to physical,
topographical and geologic features.
      2.   The grant of the variance will not grant any special privilege to
the property owner or the owner's authorized agent.
      3.   The applicant can demonstrate that without a variance there can be
no reasonable use of the property.
      4.   The grant of the variance is not based solely on economic reasons.
      5.   The necessity for the variance was not created by the property owner
or the owner's authorized agent.
      6.   The variance requested is the minimum variance necessary to allow
reasonable use of the property.
      7.   The grant of the variance will not be injurious to the public
health, safety or welfare.
      8.   The property subject to the variance request possesses one or more
unique characteristics generally not applicable to similarly situated
properties.
   C.   Subject to the adopted building codes and other Town ordinances,
regulations for the enlargement of, addition to, or relocation of a
nonconforming structure are as follows:
      1.   For a nonconforming use located in any residential zoning district,
the enlargement, addition, or relocation shall either:
         a.   Comply with all the height, yard and area requirements for a
single-family dwelling in the zone in which the non-conforming building is
located; or
         b.   The proposed enlargement, addition or relocation will either:
            (1)   Improve the area by increasing the off-street parking; or
            (2)   Improve the general appearance, convenience or safety of the
area.
      2.   For a non-conforming use located in any zone other than a
residential zoning district, the enlargement, addition, or relocation shall
comply with all height, yard, and area requirements for a main building, other
than dwellings, in the zone in which it is located.
      3.   Before granting a permit for any enlargement, addition, or
relocation as provided above, the Appeal Authority shall find in its public
hearing that the proposed changes will not hinder or obstruct the attainment of
the objectives listed in Section
10-1-2 of this Title more than the existing nonconforming use.
   D.   The Appeal Authority may allow those enlargements of, additions to, or
relocation of buildings and structures, nonconforming as to yard, height or
area regulations in those cases where an undue hardship will result to the
owner of the land involved unless granted, and the attainment of the objectives
listed in Section
10-1-2 of this title will not be hindered or obstructed, and provided the
proposed enlargement, addition to or relocation will either:
      1.   Improve the area by increasing needed off-street parking; or
      2.   Improve the general appearance, convenience or safety of the area.
   E.   Where a zone boundary line divides a lot in single ownership at the
time of the establishment of said boundary the Board may permit a use
authorized on either portion of such lot to extend to the entire lot.
   F.   Permit a nonconforming use to be changed to another use allowed in the
same or in a more restrictive zone than the one in which the non-conforming use
would be allowed; provided that the Appeal Authority finds in its public
hearing that such change will not hinder or obstruct the attainment of the
objectives listed in Section
10-1-2 hereof more than does the existing nonconforming use.
   G.   Permit the construction and use of a dwelling upon a lot which does not
have frontage on a dedicated right-of-way but does have frontage on a private
street. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-4-9: APPEALS:
   A.   General. Appeal of Town Council decisions shall be to the Appeal
Authority. Appeals shall be in writing and shall be filed with the Town Clerk
not more than thirty days after the decision by the Town Council. The Appeal
Authority may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the Town Council.
Appeal review by the Appeal Authority shall be recorded in an open public
meeting. Appeal Authority decisions will be final.
   B.   Notice of Hearing of Appeals Right of Appearance. The Appeal Authority
shall schedule a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeals, after giving
public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in interest and
shall decide the same within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person,
by agent or by attorney.
   C.   Stay of Proceedings Pending Appeal. An appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the
appeal is taken certifies to the Appeal Authority, after the notice of appeal
shall have been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would in his opinion cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
restraining order, which may be granted by the Appeal Authority or by the
District Court, on application and notice and on due cause shown.
   D.   Judicial Review of Board's Decision - Time Limitation. Hatch Town or
any person aggrieved by Adjustment may have and maintain a plenary action for
relief in any court of competent jurisdiction; provided, a petition for such
relief is presented to the court within thirty days after the filing of such
decision with the Town Clerk.
   E.   Time Limitation on Variance. In the event the Appeal Authority does
grant a variance in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, alterations
in accordance with the variance must be activated within six months after the
date such variance is granted, or the variance becomes null and void. The time
limit of the variance may be extended an additional six months by the Appeal
Authority, only if the petitioner shows adequate cause to the Board that
circumstances necessitate a time extension.
   F.   Filing Fee. Upon filing of any appeal or application to the Appeal
Authority, the appellant or applicant shall pay the Town a fee prescribed by
the Town Council in the appropriate Fee Resolution. The said fee shall be
collected by the officer in whose office said appeal is filed and shall be
deposited with the Town Clerk and credited to the general fund. No appeal or
application shall be considered by the Appeal Authority unless such fee has
been paid. (Ord. 2021- 05, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING OFFICIALS
SECTION:
10-5-1: General
10-5-2: Zoning Administrator
10-5-3: Building Official
10-5-4: Liability
10-5-1: GENERAL:
This section establishes the duties and responsibilities for Zoning Officials
within the limits of Hatch Town, Utah with respect to the administration of
this Chapter. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-5-2: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   The Zoning Administrator shall be authorized to undertake reviews, make
recommendations and grant approvals as set forth in this chapter.
   B.   The Zoning Administrator shall assist the Planning Commission in the
amending, preparing and adopting the General Plan and land use regulations.
   C.   The Zoning Administrator, along with the Building Official, shall
receive all applications for site plan review and review for completeness and
prepare submittals for review by the Planning Commission.
   D.   The Zoning Administrator shall receive all land use applications or
other plans to be permitted or approved as required by this chapter, review for
completeness and prepare submittals for review by the Planning Commission and
Town Council.
   E.   Requests for amendments or changes to land use regulations, the General
Plan, this chapter or map shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for
processing.
   F.   The interpretation and application of the provisions of this chapter
shall be by the Zoning Administrator. An appeal of an interpretation by the
Zoning Administrator shall be submitted to the Appeal Authority, and such
interpretation shall be considered to be final. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd.
Ord. 2022-07, 6-6-2022)
10-5-3: BUILDING OFFICIAL:
Applications for building permits and amendments thereto shall be submitted to
the Planning Commission for review and approval prior to review and permit
issuance from the Building Official. Each application shall include a set of
building plans and all data necessary to show that the requirements of this
chapter are met. Unless otherwise designated and approved by the Town Council,
the Building Official for Hatch Town shall be the Garfield County Building
Official. The Building Official is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions
of this Title and any adopted building codes, such as International Building or
Residential Code, when performing any building inspection within the limits of
Hatch Town. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 6-6-2022)
10-5-4: LIABILITY:
The Zoning Administrator, Building Official or designee, charged with the
enforcement of this chapter, acting in good faith and without malice in the
discharge of the duties described in this chapter, shall not be personally,
civilly or criminally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of an act or by reason of an act or omission in the
discharge of such duties. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Parking And Loading Spaces
10-6-2: Fencing
10-6-3: Accessory Buildings
10-6-4: Easements And Rights-Of-Way
10-6-5: Special Regulations
10-6-1: PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
   A.   General. Off-street parking shall be provided in compliance with this
Section where any building is erected, altered, enlarged converted or increased
in size or capacity.
The off-street parking spaces required for each permitted use in this chapter
shall not be less than that found in Table 6-1.
Table 6-1
Off Street Parking Requirements Use Number of Parking Spaces Required
Table 6-1
Off Street Parking Requirements Use Number of Parking Spaces Required
Dwelling Unit                       2 per dwelling unit
Hotel/Motel                         1 per sleeping unit
Restaurant                          1 per 100 gross square feet
Retail                              1 per 200 gross square feet
Commercial                          1 per 300 gross square feet
Industrial                          1 per 500 gross square feet
 
   B.   Dimensions. A minimum width of nine feet (9’) and a minimum length of
twenty feet (20’) shall be provided for each parking stall. Handicap spaces
shall be developed in accordance with the American Disabilities Act (ADA). For
uses or occurrences where the parking requirements of this chapter are found
unreasonable, appropriate parking and loading space requirements shall be
determined by the Planning Commission. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-6-2: FENCING:
   A.   General. Unless specifically approved by the Planning Commission and/or
Building Official, any wall, fence or hedge shall not exceed those found in
Table 6-2.
 
Table 6-2
Maximum Wall, Fence or Hedge Heights Yard Height (feet)
Front                                     3.5
Side                                      6.0
Rear                                      6.0
 
   B.   Fence Types. Any wall, fence or hedge that is not primarily transparent
(metal bar, chain link, etc.) shall not exceed three and a half feet (3.5’) in
height inside twenty-five feet (25’) from any front property line or side
property line which fronts a street or road. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-6-3: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   General. Accessory buildings shall occupy the same lot as the main use
or building and shall be located at least ten feet (10’) from the main building
or any other building.
   B.   Setbacks. Accessory buildings shall meet the same front setback
requirements as the main building. However, the side and rear yard setbacks for
any accessory building shall be ten feet (10’). An accessory building may be
built on the side or rear property line upon approval from the Building
Official as a fire proof structure (metal, block or cement). (Ord. 2021-05, 10-
20-2021)
10-6-4: EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
Uses of easements and/or rights-of-way shall be permitted in or through any
Zone for the purpose of serving a permitted use in the same or any Zone. Such
easements or rights-of-way may be used for uses similar to, but not limited to
the following:
   A.   Roads, streets, highways.
   B.   Railroads, tramways, cableways and conveyor systems.
   C.   Pipelines for the transmission of water, waste water, materials, fuels
or products.
   D.   Overhead or underground transmission or distribution lines, including
poles, towers and conductors.
   E.   Uses not requiring continuous routes along the ground such as radio,
television or microwave relay stations and towers.
   F.   Structures and facilities incidental to the above. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-
20-2021)
10-6-5: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Home Occupations. Classification. Home Occupations shall be classified
as follows:
      1.   Class A: Fully contained within the interior of the dwelling unit or
accessory building with little to no impact on the Conditional Use Review
Criteria listed in
10-7-7 of this Title (i.e., home offices, shops, etc.).
      2.   Class B: May be contained within the interior and/or the exterior of
the dwelling unit or accessory building with potential outdoor storage,
parking, increased traffic, etc. and a clear impact on the Conditional Use
Review Criteria listed in
10-7-7 of this Title (i.e., daycares, salons, retail, manufacturing, rentals,
outdoor storage, etc.).
   B.   Conditions. Home Occupations shall comply with the following
conditions:
      1.   Class A Home Occupations shall comply with the following conditions:
      2.   Class B Home Occupations shall be a conditional use in all zoning
districts and an approved Conditional Use Permit shall be required.
         a.   Class B Home Occupations shall be limited to one (1) per parcel
and may be approved as the main dwelling unit or the accessory dwelling unit,
but not both.
      3.   A Town approved Business License shall be required for all Home
Occupations.
      4.   The Home Occupation, and all inventory, supplies and equipment shall
not exceed or consume more than fifty percent (50%) of the primary structure.
      5.   Goods relating to the Home Occupation shall not be stored in the
front yard of the lot.
      6.   If necessary, additional parking spaces shall be provided to
accommodate the Home Occupation. All parking shall be off-street.
   C.   Adult Uses. Adult Uses shall be permitted in Commercial zoning
districts and shall be prohibited in all other zoning districts.
   D.   Conditions. Adult Uses shall comply with the following conditions:
      1.   Adult Use businesses shall not be located within one thousand feet
(1,000’) from any park, school, day care, library or religious institution.
      2.   Adult Use businesses shall not be located along major highways or
main streets and shall not be located adjacent to any residential zone
boundary.
      3.   Adult Use businesses shall only include those deemed legal by the
State of Utah such as bars, taverns, pool halls, lounges, etc. (Ord. 2021-05,
10-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 6-6-2022)
CHAPTER 7
CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
10-7-1: General
10-7-2: Application
10-7-3: Public Hearing
10-7-4: Determination
10-7-5: Expiration And Revocation
10-7-6: Amendments
10-7-7: Conditional Use Review Criteria
10-7-1: GENERAL:
A Conditional Use Permit shall be obtained for certain uses, which would become
harmonious or compatible with neighboring uses through the application and
maintenance of qualifying conditions and located in specific locations within a
Zone, but shall not be allowed under the general conditions of the Zone as
stated in this chapter.
An approved Conditional Use Permit shall be required for each Conditional Use
listed in this chapter. No building permit, other permit or license shall be
issued for a Conditional Use by any officer or employee unless a Conditional
Use Permit has been recommended by the Planning Commission and approved by the
Town Council. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-7-2: APPLICATION:
Application for a Conditional Use Permit shall be available at the office of
the Town Clerk or on the Town's Website. Conditional Use Permit applications
shall be submitted to the Town as provided in this chapter. Applications shall
be accompanied by maps, drawings, statements or other documents in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. An appropriate fee outlined in the Hatch
Town Fee Resolution shall be collected at the time of submittal. (Ord. 2021-05,
10-20-2021)
10-7-3: PUBLIC HEARING:
A public hearing need not be held; however, hearings may be held when the
Planning Commission or Town Council deem it necessary or desirable to serve the
public interest. Impacted property owners shall be advised through appropriate
advertising or direct contact. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-7-4: DETERMINATION:
   A.   Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall recommend approval,
approval with modifications or deny the Conditional Use application. In
recommending any Conditional Use Permit to the Town Council, the Planning
Commission shall set conditions based on the standards listed in Section
10-7-7 of this Chapter.
   B.   Town Council Action. The Town Council shall approve, approve with
modifications or deny recommended Conditional Use applications. In approving a
Conditional Use Permit, the Town Council shall determine if the proposed use:
      1.   Has reasonable conditions proposed, or imposed, to mitigate the
reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance
with the applicable standards listed in Section
10-7-7 of this Chapter.
      2.   Will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of
persons residing or working in the area, or injurious to the property or
improvements in the area.
      3.   Is in harmony with the intent of the Town's General Plan, Zoning
Ordinance and the Zoning District in which it is located. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-
2021)
10-7-5: EXPIRATION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Expiration. A Conditional Use Permit shall be considered to be
exercised when the application has been approved by the Town Council. When such
permit is abandoned or discontinued for a period of one (1) year, it shall not
be reestablished, unless authorized by the Planning Commission, Town Council or
Appeal Authority on appeal.
   B.   Revocation. A Conditional Use Permit shall be revoked where the
applicant fails to comply with conditions imposed by the Town. Conditional Use
Permits shall be suspended upon failure to renew any associated business
licenses. Upon suspension, the Planning Commission shall determine if the
Conditional Use Permit is to be reissued or revoked. The Planning Commission
may initiate revocation proceedings when evidence indicates the Conditional Use
Permit is no longer in the public interest, or when directed by the Hatch Town
Council. Conditional Use Permit holders and impacted land owners shall be
granted the opportunity of a public hearing prior to any revocation. (Ord.
2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-7-6: AMENDMENTS:
An amendment to an approved Conditional Use Permit shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator accompanied by supporting information. The Planning
Commission or Town Council shall review the amendment and shall be permitted to
approve, deny or amend such amendment and impose conditions deemed necessary.
(Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-7-7: CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW CRITERIA:
   A.   A request for a Conditional Use shall be approved, approved with
modifications or denied. Each request for a Conditional Use approval shall be
consistent with the criteria listed as follows:
   B.   The request:
      1.   Is consistent with all applicable provisions of the General Plan.
      2.   Shall not adversely affect adjacent properties.
      3.   Is compatible with the existing or allowable uses of adjacent
properties.
      4.   Can demonstrate that adequate public facilities, including roads,
drainage, potable water, sanitary sewer and police and fire protection exist or
will exist to serve the requested use at the time such facilities are needed.
      5.   Can demonstrate adequate provision for maintenance of the use and
associated structures.
      6.   Has minimized, to the degree possible, adverse effects on the
natural environment.
      7.   Will not create undue traffic congestion.
      8.   Will not adversely affect the public health, safety or welfare.
      9.   Conforms to all provisions of this chapter and other applicable Town
Ordinances. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 8
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
10-8-1: General
10-8-2: Discontinuance
10-8-3: Enlargements And Modifications
10-8-1: GENERAL:
Except as otherwise required by State law, a structure or use legally
established prior to the adoption date of this chapter be maintained unchanged.
In other than criminal proceedings, the owner, occupant or user shall have the
burden to show that the structure, lot or use was lawfully established. (Ord.
2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-8-2: DISCONTINUANCE:
   A.   Vacancy. Any lot or structure, or portion thereof, occupied by a
nonconforming use, that is or hereafter becomes vacant and remains unoccupied
by a nonconforming use for a period of one (1) year shall not thereafter be
occupied, except by a use that conforms to this chapter.
   B.   Damage. If any nonconforming structure or use is, by any cause, damaged
to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its value as determined by the Building
Official, it shall not thereafter be reconstructed as such. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-
20-2021)
10-8-3: ENLARGEMENTS AND MODIFICATIONS:
   A.   Maintenance and Repair. Maintenance, repairs and structural alterations
shall be permitted to be made to nonconforming structures or to a building
housing a nonconforming use with valid permits.
   B.   Changes of Nonconforming Use. A change of use of a nonconforming use of
a structure or parcel of land shall not be made except to that of a conforming
use. Where such change is made, the use shall not thereafter be changed back to
a nonconforming use.
   C.   Additions. Additions to nonconforming structures and parking areas
shall conform to the requirements of this chapter. Additions to structures
housing nonconforming uses that increase the area of a nonconforming use shall
not be made.
   D.   Certificate of Occupancy Required. No building hereafter structurally
altered or erected shall be used or changed in use for a nonconforming use
until a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued by the Building Official,
stating that the building or proposed use thereof or the use of the land,
complies with the provisions of this chapter for the renewing, changing or
extending thereof. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 9
SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Scope
10-9-3: Approval Required
10-9-4: Exemptions From The Plat Requirements
10-9-5: Subdivision Pre-Application Meeting
10-9-6: Preliminary Plat Contents
10-9-7: Filing And Review Of Preliminary Plans And Subdivision Improvement
Plans
10-9-8: Preliminary Plan Approval
10-9-9: Duration Of Preliminary Plan Approval
10-9-10: Filing And Review Of Final Plats
10-9-11: Final Plat Contents
10-9-12: Final Plat Approval And Recordation
10-9-13: Dedication, Acceptance And Maintenance Responsibility
10-9-14: Site Preparation And Building Permits Prohibited
10-9-15: General Standards
10-9-16: Lot Standards
10-9-17: Design Standards
10-9-18: Financial Responsibility
10-9-19: Compliance With Final Plat
10-9-20: Penalties
10-9-21: Fees
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the community by:
   A.   Managing efficient and orderly growth in Hatch Town;
   B.   Establishing requirements and procedures which encourage growth to
preserve the high quality of community environment and protect property values;
and
   C.   Providing policies, procedures, requirements and standards for the
physical development of subdivisions of land, construction of buildings and
improvements within Hatch Town, including, but not limited to, the construction
and installation of roads, streets, curbs, gutters, drainage systems, water and
sewer systems, dedication of land and streets, granting easements or rights of
way and to establish fees and other charges for the authorizing of a
subdivision. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 11-17-2021; Ord.
2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-2: SCOPE:
   A.   Applicability: No person shall subdivide any parcel of land which is
located wholly or in part in Hatch Town except in compliance with this Chapter.
   B.   Approval To Subdivide Required: The boundaries of any lot shall not be
altered in any manner so as to create more lots than initially recorded, or any
nonconforming lot, without first obtaining the approval of Hatch Town Council
as provided in this Chapter.
   C.   Compliance Prior To Occupancy: There shall be no human occupancy of any
building until the improvements have been accepted by Hatch Town and the
building and lot fully comply with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2021-
05, 10-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 11-17-2021; Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-3: APPROVAL REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to subdivide any tract of land within the
municipal limits of Hatch Town, where the said transaction would result in the
"subdivision" of land, as herein defined, nor shall any person offer for
recording any deed conveying a parcel of land or any interest therein which
would amount to a "subdivision", as herein defined, unless he shall first make
or cause to have made a plat thereof, which plat must receive final approval by
Hatch Town Council and recorded in the office of the County Recorder before
such sale or exchange or purchase is affected. The approval of the final plat
shall be obtained by complying with all applicable requirements of this chapter
and all other applicable laws and regulations. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd.
Ord. 2021-06, 11-17-2021; Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM THE PLAT REQUIREMENT:
This section applies to the subdivision of lands within the incorporated areas
of Hatch Town, that are not required to complete a formal preliminary or final
plat process, but follow a simplified process as outlined herein (UCA 10-9a-
605).
   A.   Minor-Lot Subdivisions UCA 10-9a-605(1): A lot or parcel resulting from
a division of incorporated land is exempt from the subdivision plat
requirements of this section, if:
      1.   The proposed subdivision:
         a.   Is not traversed by the mapped lines of a proposed street as
shown in the general plan unless the municipality has approved the location and
dedication of any public street, municipal utility easement, any other
easement, or any other land for public purposes as the municipality's ordinance
requires;
         b.   Has been approved by the culinary water authority and the
sanitary sewer authority;
         c.   Is located in a zoned area; and
         d.   Conforms to all applicable land use ordinances or has properly
received a variance from the requirements of an otherwise conflicting and
applicable land use ordinance.
      2.   The Record of Survey has been reviewed by the Zoning Administrator,
Building Official and/or Recorder and they have given recommendation to the
Planning Commission that the proposed development qualifies as a Minor-Lot
Subdivision as set forth herein.
      3.   The property is being subdivided into five (5) or fewer building
lots that all front a dedicated Town street or road.
      4.   Each new lot created meets, or will meet with an appropriate zone
change in conjunction with the proposed subdivision, the requirements of the
Hatch Town Zoning Ordinance.
      5.   A lot created from a previously approved minor-lot subdivision shall
not be further subdivided via minor-lot subdivision within three (3) years of
the filing and recording date of the minor-lot subdivision where the applicable
lot was originally created.
      6.   The Planning Commission has reviewed the development plan and Record
of Survey in a public meeting and has given its recommendations to the Town
Council for final approval.
      7.   Before the minor-lot subdivision is to be considered by the Town
Council in a public meeting, the developer shall furnish evidence of recordable
deeds for each proposed lot in the subdivision. The minor-lot subdivision shall
not be presented to the Town Council for final approval until evidence of
recordable deeds have been provided.
      8.   Upon final approval from the Town Council, the developer shall file
the Record of Survey with the County Surveyor's Office and record the deeds
with the County Recorder's Office.
         a.   The Town shall provide a certificate of approval, indicating that
the Record of Survey for the minor-lot subdivision has been reviewed and
approved by the City Council. The certificate of approval shall be recorded at
the County Recorder's Office in conjunction with Record of Survey.
      9.   Submitting a minor-lot subdivision Record of Survey otherwise shall
be null and void.
   B.   Agricultural Land Exemptions UCA 10-9a-605(2):
      1.   A lot or parcel resulting from a division of agricultural land is
exempt from the subdivision plat requirements of this section, if the lot(s):
         a.   Qualifies as land in agricultural use under UCA 59-2-5 Farmland
Assessment Act;
         b.   Is not used and will not be used for nonagricultural purposes;
and
         c.   Meets the minimum size of six (6) acres.
      2.   The boundaries of each lot or parcel that is exempted shall be
graphically illustrated on a Record of Survey map that has received the
approval of the Zoning Administrator along with the Administrative Land Use
Authority.
         a.   For purposes of an agricultural exemption, the Administrative
Land Use Authority shall be the same body or individual as designated for the
Preliminary Plan.
      3.   If a lot or parcel exempted as agricultural land is used for
nonagricultural purposes as defined by the Farmland Assessment Act, the Town
shall require the lot or parcel to comply with the related plat requirements of
this Section.
      4.   When the above requirements have been met, the property owner shall
file the Record of Survey with the County Surveyor within fourteen (14) days of
approval.
      5.   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel,
nor the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates this Section
or other ordinances of Hatch Town.
   C.   Other Exceptions: A property owner may:
      1.   To make a property boundary adjustment (i.e., parcel or lot line
adjustment), a property owner shall meet the requirements of UCA 10-9a-523.
      2.   To execute a boundary line agreement, a property owner shall meet
the requirements of UCA 10-9a-524. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2021-
06, 11-17-2021; Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-5: SUBDIVISION PRE-APPLICATION MEETING:
This procedure is optional, at the discretion of the applicant, before
application submittal of any preliminary or final plat.
   A.   An applicant for a subdivision may request a pre-application meeting
with the Town. At this meeting, the Town will provide:
      1.   Information on accessing applicable land use ordinances;
      2.   A complete list of standards required for the project;
      3.   Preliminary and final application checklists; and
      4.   Feedback on the concept plan.
   B.   With regard to a pre-application meeting, the following shall apply:
      1.   The applicant shall submit a concept plan for staff review.
      2.   The municipality shall, within fifteen (15) business days after the
request, schedule the meeting to review the concept plan and give initial
feedback.
      3.   At the pre-application meeting, the Town shall provide or have made
available on the municipal website the following:
         a.   Copies of the applicable land use regulations;
         b.   A complete list of standards required for the project;
         c.   Preliminary and Final Plat checklist.
      4.   Pre-application review of a concept plan does not create any vested
rights and feedback on the concept plan does not grant or infer any official
standing or approval. The applicant is responsible to adhere to the ordinance.
   C.   The Concept Plan shall include the following:
      1.   A plan of the entire project area showing:
         a.   The general layout of the proposed subdivision, overall project
acreage, and relationship to adjacent properties;
         b.   The location of each proposed lot;
         c.   The dimensions and size of each lot;
         d.   The location, width and general configuration of proposed roads
in the subdivision;
         e.   Major canals and water sources in the vicinity.
      2.   Brief written statement or oral presentation in sufficient detail
that the intent of the subdivider is clear to those who review the proposals.
         a.   Current and proposed zoning;
         b.   Proposed use of the property;
         c.   Manner for complying with the improvement guarantee and any other
public improvements.
      3.   Feasibility:
         a.   Review of available water resources and water and sewer
connections.
      4.   Any phasing plan, if applicable. (Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT CONTENTS:
A preliminary plat shall be finished for all proposed land divisions.
Subdivision applications shall include all the items below.
   A.   Completed Application: Completed preliminary plat (Subdivision)
application with application fee.
   B.   Feasibility Study: The subdivider shall be required to show the
feasibility of the proposed water and sewage systems necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter, the local health officer and the state division
of environmental health as indicated by letters of feasibility from such health
officers.
   C.   Summary Statement: Summary statement containing the following:
      1.   Total area within the subdivision showing all phases.
      2.   Total area of each lot.
      3.   Total number of proposed dwelling units.
      4.   Estimated maximum drainage flow (100-year storm) through any natural
courses lying within the area to be subdivided expressed in cubic feet per
minute.
   D.   Scaled Drawing: A plan showing the proposed subdivision layout drawn at
a scale of one-inch equals fifty feet, which shall meet the requirements of the
County Surveyor (UCA 17-23) County Recorder (UCA 17-21) and UCA 10-9a-6.
   E.   Preliminary Engineer Drawings: Preliminary engineering drawings,
including typical cross sections, and plans and/or written statements regarding
width and type of proposed off-site and on-site water mains, sanitary sewers,
drainage facilities and other proposed improvements such as sidewalks, curbs
and gutters, parks and fire hydrants. The proposed location of all of the
aforementioned improvements, if such improvements are required, must be shown
on the preliminary plat.
   F.   Drainage Study: A drainage study and report shall be prepared by a
licensed professional civil engineer and shall be submitted with each
application.
   G.   Proof Of Interest, Permission: Sufficient documentation to show the
subdivider has a vested interest in the subject property or has the owner's
permission to subdivide must be presented with preliminary application.
   H.   Irrigation Clearance: For all subdivisions proposed through which an
irrigation ditch, canal or other such waterway passes, the subdivider will need
to obtain a letter of agreement from the owner of said ditch, canal or other
waterway specifying any required improvements or possible relocation.
   I.   Traffic Study: If deemed necessary by the Planning Commission, the
developer shall submit a traffic study prepared by a licensed engineer
qualified in the area of traffic and circulation. Such study will incorporate
safety issues for pedestrian, bicycle and vehicular traffic, as applicable.
   J.   Disposal Of Floodwater, Surface Water: Disposal of surface water and
disposition of flood hazards so as to protect lands located outside the
boundaries of the subdivision due to impacts of the development of the
subdivision.
   K.   Other: Any additional reports which are required by the associated
Zoning District. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 11-17-2021; Ord.
2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-7: FILING AND REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY PLANS AND SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT
PLANS:
This chapter outlines the process to submit and review preliminary plans and
the accompanying subdivision improvement plan. The intention is for the
definitions and process for application, review, and approval to follow Utah
State Code 10-9a-604, et seq.
   A.   Prior Approvals: If the application requires legislative approvals,
such as a zone change, annexation, general plan amendment, right of way or
easement vacation, or any other legislative action, the legislative approval
shall be completed prior to submittal of the preliminary plan application.
      1.   The Town Council may grant an approval contingent on completion of
the subdivision process within a given time frame.
   B.   Optional Pre-Application Meeting: Prior to filing a preliminary plan,
the applicant may request a pre-application meeting to review the concept plan
with applicable Town staff or representatives, as outlined in the prior
chapter.
   C.   Application Provided: The Town shall provide, or have available on the
Town website, each of the following:
      1.   The preliminary plan application;
      2.   The owner's affidavit;
      3.   A breakdown of application fees;
      4.   A copy of the applicable land use ordinance;
      5.   Complete list of standards required for the project;
      6.   Preliminary plan drawings checklists.
   D.   Submittal: To apply for preliminary plan approval, applicants must
follow instructions on the form provided by the Town and submit all required
materials, including:
      1.   Complete preliminary plan application;
      2.   Owner's affidavit;
      3.   An electronic copy of all plans in a PDF format;
      4.   Preliminary and subdivision improvement plan drawings;
      5.   Payment of all preliminary plan fees;
      6.   All other required details, specifications, information, permits,
will-serve letters, and other information as detailed in Hatch Town Code, Town
development standards, and any regulations by other applicable jurisdictions.
   E.   Check For Completeness: The Town will review the submission for
completeness.
      1.   If the submittal includes all materials, the Town receives the
submittal and starts the first review cycle.
      2.   If the submittal is found to be incomplete, the submittal is
returned to the applicant. No review shall commence until the Town has made a
determination that the application is complete.
   F.   Water Conveyance Facilities: If the location is within one hundred feet
(100') of a water conveyance facility, within twenty (20) calendar days after
receipt of the completed application, the Town shall notify in writing the
water conveyance facility owner(s) of the application and request comments
related to the following aspects of the water conveyance facility: access,
maintenance, protection, safety, and any other issues related.
      1.   Any water conveyance facility shall have at least twenty (20) days
to respond. While the Town may provide comments to the applicant before this
twenty (20) day window is complete, the administrative land authority shall not
grant approval until after at least twenty (20) days after the day on which the
Town mailed notice to the water conveyance facility.
      2.   Water Conveyance Facility: Shall mean a ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline, or other watercourse used to convey water used for irrigation or
stormwater drainage and any related easement for the ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline, or other watercourse. See State Code 73-1-15.5-1b.
   G.   Town Review Time Frame: Within forty (40) days the Town shall complete
a review of the preliminary plan and subdivision improvement plan, except as
follows:
      1.   Geological Hazard Areas: The review cycle dates restrictions and
requirements do not apply to the review of subdivision applications affecting
property within identified geological hazard areas.
      2.   Land Uses: The review cycle number of days only applies to single
family, two family, and townhome developments. It does not apply to other land
uses, such as commercial, industrial development, or other multifamily
development.
   H.   Determination Of Corrections Required: After review, the Town will
determine if the completed application meets all requirements or requires
corrective actions and shall notify the applicant in a written response. This
marks the end of the respective review cycle.
      1.   Application Requires Corrections: If the application is found to
require corrections, the Town must be specific and cite the ordinance, statute,
or specifications that require the modification. Comments shall be logged in an
index of requested modifications or additions. The required corrections are
sent to the applicant to prepare a resubmittal.
      2.   Additional Information Required: The Town may require additional
information relating to the applicant's plans to ensure compliance with
municipal ordinances and approved standards and specifications for construction
of public improvements.
      3.   Application Meets All Standards: If the applicant is found to meet
all codes, standards, and specifications, the application is forwarded to the
Administrative Land Use Authority for review and approval.
   I.   Application Expiration: An application is expired if the applicant does
not respond to a request for corrections by submitting a complete resubmittal
within twelve (12) months.
   J.   Resubmittal: After receiving the list of required modifications or
additions, the applicant's resubmittal shall include a written explanation in
response to each of the municipality's review comments, identifying and
explaining the applicant's revisions or reasons for declining to make the
revisions.
      1.   New Review Cycle: An applicant's resubmittal shall constitute a new
review cycle.
   K.   Check For Completeness: The Town shall review the resubmittal to ensure
the applicant has responded to each item logged in the index of requested
modifications or additions.
      1.   If the response does not address each item, the Town shall return
the submittal to the applicant.
   L.   Town Review Of Resubmittal:
      1.   Time Frame: The time frame to complete the review depends on how
quickly the applicant was able to respond to the corrections in full and if the
applicant made any material changes.
         a.   If the applicant responded within forty (40) days, the Town has
forty (40) days to complete the second review cycle.
         b.   If the applicant responded after forty (40) days, the Town has
sixty (60) days to complete the second review cycle.
         c.   If the applicant made a material change that merits a new review,
then the review shall restart at the first review cycle as it relates to the
new material.
      2.   Land Uses: The review cycle number of days only applies to single
family, two family, and townhome developments. It does not apply to other land
uses, such as commercial, industrial, or other multifamily development.
      3.   New Corrections: If the Town neglected to include a required change
or correction in the initial review process, the modification or correction can
only be imposed on subsequent reviews if it is necessary to protect public
health and safety or to enforce state or federal law.
      4.   Determination of Corrections Required: At the end of the Town's
review, the Town shall make a determination of corrections required, if any, as
outlined in subsection H.
   M.   Fourth Review Cycle: An application for preliminary plan and
subdivision improvement plan approval shall not exceed four (4) review cycles.
      1.   Fourth Review: If, after the fourth (4) review cycle the application
is found to not meet all required corrections, the application shall be
forwarded to the Administrative Land Use Authority for review with a
recommendation that the application does not meet all codes, standards, and
specification.
         a.   Appeal: The applicant may appeal this determination as outlined
in Utah Code 10-9a-604.2(11), as amended.
   N.   Application Ready For Approval: If the Town determines that the
resubmittal is now complete and meets all codes, standards, and specifications,
the resubmittal shall be forwarded to the Administrative Land Use Authority to
complete the review.
      1.   If the Town finds the resubmittal does not comply with all
applicable codes, standards, and specifications, another review letter and
index of requested modifications or additions shall be created and sent to the
applicant.
         a.   This shall be provided to the applicant up until the fourth
review cycle, at which point the application shall be forward or to the
Administrative Land Use Authority for review with a recommendation that the
application does not meet all codes, standards, and specification. The
applicant may appeal this determination as outlined in Utah Code 10-9a-604.2
(11), as amended.
   O.   Dispute Of Determination: If, on the fourth and final review, a
municipality fails to respond within forty (40) business days, the municipality
shall, upon request of the property owner, and within ten (10) business days
after the day on which the request is received:
      1.   Subdivision Improvement Plan Dispute: For a dispute arising from the
subdivision improvement plans, assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Utah
Code 10-9a-508(5)(d) to review and approve or deny the final revised set of
plans; or
      2.   Preliminary Plan Dispute: For a dispute arising from the subdivision
ordinance review, advise the applicant, in writing, of the deficiency in the
application and of the right to appeal the determination to a designated appeal
authority.
The appeal authority shall be the Town Council. (Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-8: PRELIMINARY PLAN APPROVAL:
   A.   Administrative Land Use Authority: The Administrative Land Use
Authority shall be the Planning Commission.
   B.   Public Hearing: Unless otherwise required under Utah State Code, no
public hearing is required.
   C.   Approval: If the Administrative Land Use Authority finds the applicant
has completed all requirements addressed during review, and the proposed plat
and subdivision improvement plan comply with the requirements of this Title and
all adopted standards and specifications, then it shall approve the Preliminary
Plan and Subdivision Improvement Plan.
   D.   Corrections Required: The Administrative Land Use Authority shall
remand the application back to the applicant for a new review cycle, unless the
applicant has already completed four (4) review cycles, if the Administrative
Land Use Authority finds that either:
      1.   The applicant has not completed all requirements as outlined in the
review index; or
      2.   The application does not address all requirements, and although the
item was not addressed in the first review, the requirement relates directly to
public health and safety.
   E.   Denial: The Administrative Land Use Authority shall deny the
application if either:
      1.   The applicant is unwilling to make required corrections or provide
required information.
      2.   The application has completed the fourth (4) review cycle and the
applicant has failed to meet the stated requirements. (Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-
2024)
10-9-9: DURATION OF PRELIMINARY PLAN APPROVAL:
   A.   Approval of the Preliminary Plan by the Town shall be valid for a
period of twelve (12) months after approval.
      1.   If an applicant has not submitted a complete application for Final
Plat approval within twelve (12) months, the Preliminary Plan and Subdivision
Improvement Plan approval is deemed to have lapsed.
      2.   For a preliminary plan with multiple phases, the plan remains active
provided a final plat is recorded at least every twenty four (24) months. If a
final plat has not been recorded within the twenty four (24) month period, the
preliminary plan must again be submitted to the Town for re-approval. (Ord.
2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-10: FILING AND REVIEW OF FINAL PLATS:
   A.   Time Frame: Within twelve (12) months after approval of the preliminary
plan and subdivision improvement plan the applicant must make a complete final
plat submittal.
   B.   Pre-Application Meeting: An applicant may request a pre-application
meeting. If so, the Town and the applicant follow the provisions of Hatch Town
Code
10-9-5 before proceeding to the next step.
   C.   Application Provided: The Town shall provide, or have available on the
Town website, each of the following:
      1.   The final plat application;
      2.   The owner's affidavit;
      3.   A breakdown of application fees, payable to the Hatch Town Clerk;
      4.   A copy of the applicable land use ordinance;
      5.   Complete list of standards required for the project;
      6.   An electronic copy of all plans in PDF format.
   D.   Application is made by following instructions on the form provided by
the Town and submitting all required materials, including the following:
      1.   A (PDF) file of the plat.
      2.   All fees for the final plat application are due upon filing the
application.
      3.   All other information required on the final plat checklist and
necessary to determine compliance with this code and all applicable
regulations.
   E.   Check For Completeness: The Town checks the submittal for completeness.
      1.   If the submittal includes all materials, the Town receives the
submittal and starts the review.
      2.   If the submittal is found to be incomplete, the submittal is
returned to the applicant. No review shall commence until the Town has made a
determination that the application is complete.
   F.   Town Review Time Frame: After a determination that the application
submittal is complete, the Town begins its review. The Town has a thirty (30)
day review window to conduct its review and provide comments to the applicant.
      1.   Land Uses: The review cycle number of days only applies to single
family, two family, and townhome developments. It does not apply to other land
uses, such as commercial, industrial, or other multifamily development.
   G.   Water Conveyance Facilities: If the location is within one hundred feet
(100') of a water conveyance facility, within twenty (20) calendar days after
receipt of the completed application, the Town shall notify in writing the
water conveyance facility owner(s) of the application and request comments
related to the following aspects of the water conveyance facility: access,
maintenance, protection, safety, and any other issues related.
      1.   Any water conveyance facility shall have at least twenty (20) days
to respond. While the Town may provide comments to the applicant before this
twenty (20) day window is complete, the Administrative Land Use Authority shall
not grant approval until after at least twenty (20) days after the day on which
the Town mailed notice to the water conveyance facility.
      2.   Water Conveyance Facility: Shall mean a ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline, or other watercourse used to convey water used for irrigation or
stormwater drainage and any related easement for the ditch, canal, flume,
pipeline, or other watercourse. See State Code 73-1-15.5-1b.
   H.   Attorney Review: During review, the Town Attorney shall review the
final plat and shall recommend approval if the attorney finds that:
      1.   There is a current title opinion from a licensed title company
showing that the person dedicating the property described on the final plat is
the title owner as shown on the records of the Garfield County Recorder's
Office.
      2.   The performance bond, escrow deposit, letter of credit, or trust
deed with the Town is in appropriate form and signed by the necessary parties.
      3.   That the subdivision does not, in the attorney's opinion, violate
any ordinance of the Town or the laws of the State of Utah of the rules and
regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.
   I.   Determination Of Corrections Required: Within the review window
specified in Subsection (F) the Town shall complete a review of the final plat
and all submittal content and provide a response to the applicant. The Town
shall determine whether the completed application meets all requirements or
requires corrective actions and shall notify the applicant in a written
response.
      1.   Application Requires Corrections: If the application is found to
require corrections, the Town must be specific and cite the ordinance, statute,
or specifications that require the modification. Comments shall be logged in an
index of requested modifications or additions. The required corrections are
sent to the applicant to prepare a resubmittal.
      2.   Additional Information Required: The Town may require additional
information relating to the applicant's plans to ensure compliance with
municipal ordinances and approved standards and specifications.
      3.   Application Meets All Standards: If the applicant is found to meet
all codes, standards, and specifications, the application is forwarded to the
Administrative Land Use Authority for review and approval.
   J.   Application Expiration: An application is expired if the applicant does
not respond to a request for corrections by submitting a complete resubmittal
within twelve (12) months.
   K.   Resubmittal: If corrections were required, the applicant shall provide
a resubmittal. The resubmittal shall include a written explanation in response
to each of the municipality's review comments, identifying and explaining the
applicant's revisions or reasons for declining to make the revisions.
   L.   Check For Completeness: The Town shall check the resubmittal to ensure
that the applicant has responded to each item logged in the index of requested
modifications or additions. If the response does not address each item, the
Town shall return the submittal to the applicant.
   M.   Time Frame To Review: If the resubmittal is complete, the Town shall
review the application and provide written comments within the applicable
review window, as outlined in subsection (F).
      1.   Land Uses: The review cycle number of days only applies to single
family, two family, and townhome developments. It does not apply to other land
uses, such as commercial, industrial, or other multifamily development.
   N.   Determination Of Corrections Required: At the end of the Town's review,
the Town shall make a determination of corrections required, if any, and take
action as outlined in subsection (I).
   O.   Dispute Of Determination: If, on the fourth and final review, the Town
fails to respond within forty (40) business days, the Town shall, upon request
of the property owner, and within ten (10) business days after the day on which
the request is received:
      1.   Advise the applicant, in writing, of the deficiency in the
application and the right to appeal the determination to a designated appeal
authority.
         a.   The appeal authority shall be the Town Council. (Ord. 2024-10,
10-16-2024)
10-9-11: FINAL PLAT CONTENTS:
   A.   The developer shall submit a complete application with all items listed
and all requirements met as found on the Town's Final Plat Checklist.
   B.   The mylar shall meet the requirements of the Garfield County Surveyor
and Recorder, in addition to Hatch Town Code.
   C.   The developer must submit a mylar of the Final Plat to the Town in a
format approved by the Town and County Recorder's Office. (Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-
2024)
10-9-12: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL AND RECORDATION:
   A.   Ready For Final Approval: Once all reviewing Town staff have found the
Final Plat to be in conformity, the plat will be submitted to the
Administrative Land Use Authority for approval.
   B.   Land Use Authority: For final plat approval, the Administrative Land
Use Authority shall be a staff member or other individual or board appointed by
the Town. The Administrative Land Use Authority may not be the Town Council or
Planning Commission and no public hearing shall be held.
      1.   No public hearing may be held for the subdivision final plat
approval.
   C.   Approval: The Land Use Authority shall approve the final plat if it
finds:
      1.   The proposed plat complies with the requirements of Town Code, Utah
State Code, and all other applicable policies and regulations,
      2.   The plat has been approved by all regulatory bodies, such as a
culinary water authority, or sanitary sewer authority, or County Health
Department, as applicable,
   D.   Denial: The Land Use Authority may deny or remand the proposed final
plat if:
      1.   The Land Use Authority finds the applicant has not provided a
complete, accurate, and satisfactory response to all comments during review and
any other point of non-compliance with applicable regulations.
      2.   The applicant is unwilling to make required corrections or provide
required information.
   E.   Appeal: Any appeal shall be consistent with the provisions of Utah Code
10-9a-604.2.
   F.   Signing The Plat: If approved, the Mayor, Planning Commission Chair,
and Town Engineer shall sign the Final Plat.
   G.   Subdivider Posts Performance Guarantee: Upon approval by the
Administrative Land Use Authority, the subdivider shall proceed to post or make
arrangements suitable to the Town for posting a bond or other financial
assurance guaranteeing construction of the required improvements. Said
performance guarantee shall be in conformance with the provisions of Town Code
and Utah State Code.
      1.   All inspection, testing and/or connection fees required by ordinance
shall be paid and permits required shall be obtained prior to the recording of
the Final Plat.
   H.   Correcting Mistakes At Recordation: The Town Engineer may approve minor
modifications to approved final plats before the final plat is recorded if the
Engineer finds the proposed modifications are in line with the intent of the
approval and do not jeopardize the interest of the Town or adjoining property
owners.
      1.   The types of minor amendments contemplated in this section include
legal description mistakes, surveyor errors-such as tie in description
mistakes, typos, and items agreed to that should have been included in writing
on the final plat. Any substantive change requires reapproval.
   I.   Recording: Following approval, the Town shall deposit the final plat,
bearing all official approvals, in the office of the Garfield County Recorder
for recording.
      1.   Only the Town may record Final Plats.
      2.   The final plat must be recorded within one (1) year of approval. If
the final plat is not recorded within one (1) year of plat approval, the
approval expires and the plat must be resubmitted.
      3.   Upon the recording of the plat, the owner may thereafter proceed to
convey title to the lots as described by the plat.
   J.   Releases Of Performance Guarantees: All partial and final releases of
performance guarantees shall be approved by action of the Town in accordance
with the provision of this title, as applicable. The granting of the final
release by the Town Council shall constitute the acceptance of the improvements
by the Town.
   K.   Release Of Durability Retainer: At the conclusion of the durability
guarantee period and subject to compliance with the provisions of this title,
the Town Council shall authorize the release of the improvements durability
from any obligation with respect to the improvements. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-
2021; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 11-17-2021; Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-13: DEDICATION, ACCEPTANCE AND MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Definitions:
 
                            Actions of the Town to take ownership of rights of
ACCEPTANCE:                 way dedicated to public use as shown on the
                            subdivision plat or other recordable downward.
                            Action of the developer to transfer ownership and
DEDICATION:                 control of rights of way shown on the subdivision
                            plat or other recordable elements from private to
                            public ownership.
                            The obligation and responsibility of keeping road,
MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY: street, or improvement in a condition that provides
                            responsible use.
 
   B.   Dedication And Acceptance.
      1.   The subdivider shall identify public roads, streets, and
improvements that are to be transferred to public ownership on the subdivision
plat or other recordable document. Dedication shall not occur until widths,
alignments, location and design features of the proposed rights of way are
approved by the Town.
      2.   After approval by the Town, the final subdivision plat or recordable
document defining roads, streets and public improvement that are dedicated to
the public may be accepted by the Town, at the Town's discretion. A legal
description of accepted improvements will be filed in the office of the
Garfield County Recorder and the Town shall take ownership as of the date of
recording.
      3.   The subdivider shall bring public streets, easements and other
public improvements to Hatch Town standards and maintain them in that condition
for a period of one year before maintenance as public facility may be
requested. Only after inspection shall the Town Council consider the facilities
for public maintenance; however, the developer will be required to maintain
said improvements until such time as the Town decides to accept maintenance
responsibility for streets and other improvements dedicated to Hatch Town.
      4.   At the time the Town decides to accept maintenance responsibility it
will do so only when it finds that the subdivider has constructed, installed,
and maintained the required public improvements to the minimum standards and
requirements of the Town at the time the project was approved for completion.
      5.   Town services will not be provided to the subject area until
maintenance responsibility for the public improvements is accepted, and the
roads are formally dedicated.
      6.   In the event the Hatch Town Council does not accept maintenance
responsibility of the dedicated public improvements, the subdivider shall be so
advised in writing by the Town Attorney stating the reason for the non-
acceptance and necessary corrective actions. If the needed corrections are not
made within a reasonable time, as so stated in the notice, the Town may have
the improvements completed and paid for out of the security deposits for the
subdivision. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 11-17-2021; Ord.
2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-14: SITE PREPARATION AND BUILDING PERMITS PROHIBITED:
No excavation, grading or other improvement shall take place on any land and no
building permits shall be issued within the proposed subdivision until:
   A.   The final subdivision plat has been approved;
   B.   The subdivision plat has filed at the office of the County Surveyor, or
the applicant has elected to construct all improvements at-will;
   C.   Applicable deeds have been recorded at the office of the County
Recorder; and
   D.   All applicable fees have been paid. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd.
Ord. 2021-06, 11-17-2021; Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-15: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Preservation In Design, Development: The design and development of
subdivisions shall preserve, insofar as it is possible, the natural terrain,
natural drainage, existing topsoil, trees and vegetation. Land which is subject
to hazardous conditions such as landslides, mud flows, rock falls, ground
subsidence, shallow water table, open quarries, floods and polluted water
supply shall be identified and evaluated by a certified engineer.
   B.   Control Of Water, Storm Runoff: During grading or construction on any
property, including off site construction, the developer shall control both
waters used for construction and storm runoff in such a manner as to not affect
any adjoining properties, nor add silt or debris to any existing storm drain,
wash, channel or roadway. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 11-17-
2021; Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-16: LOT STANDARDS:
   A.   All lots shall conform in dimension and acreage requirements of the
zone in which they are located.
   B.   Lots shall meet the minimum requirements of this chapter and the Local
Health Department for wastewater disposal.
   C.   All lots shall abut a dedicated street, a public street, a street which
has become public by right of use or a private street maintained by a
maintenance agreement.
   D.   The travel surface for streets shall be at least twenty-four feet (24')
wide. In the event a lot abuts a public right-of-way created by use, the
subdividers shall improve the right-of-way to the standards required by this
chapter.
   E.   Corner lots shall have extra width sufficient for maintenance of
required building lines and setbacks on both streets.
   F.   All remnants of lots less than minimum size left over after subdividing
a larger tract shall be added to adjacent lots rather than allowed to remain
lot remnants.
   G.   No single lot shall be divided by a Hatch Town or County boundary line.
   H.   A lot shall not be divided by a road, alley or other lot.
   I.   No wedge-shaped lot shall be less than thirty feet (30') in width at
the front property line. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 11-17-
2021; Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-17: DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Natural Conditions Protected. All subdivisions shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   The design and development of subdivisions shall preserve insofar as
possible the natural terrain, natural drainage, existing topsoil and trees.
      2.   Land subject to hazardous conditions such as slides, mud flows, rock
falls, snow avalanches, possible mine subsidence, shallow water table, open
quarries, floods and polluted or non-potable water supply shall be identified
and shall not be subdivided until the hazards have been eliminated or will be
eliminated by the subdivision and construction plans.
   B.   Street Standards. All Town streets and roads shall be designed and
built to the AASHTO Standards. The designing engineer shall certify in writing
that this is the case when the preliminary plats are submitted for approval.
      1.   Stub streets with approved turn-arounds shall be provided where
needed to connect to adjacent undeveloped land, and new streets shall be
provided where needed to connect to existing stub streets in adjacent
subdivisions. Not more than three lots shall front stub streets, except where a
temporary cul-de-sac turnaround is provided.
      2.   Intersections of minor streets with major streets shall be kept to
the minimum possible.
      3.   Streets shall have the following minimum right-of-way widths :
         a.   Major Collector: One hundred feet (100').
         b.   Minor Collector: Sixty-six feet (66').
         c.   Collector Street: Sixty-six feet (66').
         d.   Major Street: One hundred feet (100').
         e.   Minor Streets and Frontage Roads: Sixty-six feet (66').
         f.   Private Street Or Road: Private streets or road rights-of-way are
not under the authority of the Town and shall not be restricted in any manner
except that the Town may require a minimum sixty-six feet (66') road right of
way for future public needs if it is apparent that more lots may developed in
the future that will require a public road to service these lots.
      4.   Maintenance of private streets is the responsibility of the land
owner(s). If the street is to ever become a public street, it shall be brought
up to Town Road standards prior to the Town accepting maintenance
responsibility.
      5.   If the private property owners that the road serves request that the
road become a public road, they shall pay the cost of doing so. If the Town or
some other public entity requests that the road become a public road, the costs
of bringing the road to Town standards may be negotiated.
      6.   The Town shall not take a private road right of way against a
private property owner's will for public use without due process and fair
compensation.
      7.   All Town roadway travel surface widths shall be consistent with
AASHTO Standards for the use and speed to be traveled on said roads as
determined by the designing engineer and approved by the Town.
      8.   Minimum ten-foot (10') shoulders shall be provided where there are
no curbs installed.
      9.   No half-streets are permitted, except if required to complete a
half-street already existing and approved by the Planning Commission and the
Town Council.
      10.   Dead-end streets and or street stubs shall have approved temporary
turn-arounds and/or shall be built to accommodate future access to adjoining
properties.
      11.   Approved permanent cul-de-sac streets shall serve no more than six
(6) lots and extend not more than five hundred feet (500') with the cul-de-sac
having a minimum radius of fifty feet (50') or more, and the outside curb or
pavement edge radius as required by fire code.
      12.   No more than four (4) streets shall enter an intersection.
      13.   Streets shall intersect at ninety (90) degrees.
      14.   Two (2) streets meeting a street from opposite sides shall meet at
the same point, or their center lines shall be offset at least two hundred feet
(200').
      15.   Streets shall have the names of existing streets which are in
alignment or which connect directly to the end of a street. There shall be no
duplication of street names within the area. All street names shall be approved
by the Planning Commission. Permanent signs shall be installed by the developer
at his expense at the time of installation of other off-site public
improvements.
      16.   Curvature And Alignment:
         a.   All horizontal curves shall comply with AASHTO Standards for
desired speeds.
         b.   All vertical curves shall comply with AASHTO Standards for
desired speeds.
         c.   Where a subdivision abuts a highway, frontage roads may be
required for the safety of the public.
      17.   Roadbed Construction: Minimum roadbed grading and paving for Town
streets and roads shall be according to AASHTO Standards.
      18.   Road Grades: All road and street grades shall be designed in
compliance with AASHTO Standards.
      19.   Block Standards: Block lengths shall provide for safe, convenient
access and circulation for the general public and emergency vehicles as per
fire code.
   C.   Easement Standards:
      1.   Easements shall follow rear and side lot lines whenever practical
and shall have a minimum total width of fifteen feet (15') apportioned equally
in abutting properties except where the gradient or terrain may require
additional space for working or maintenance of the easement.
      2.   Where front-line easements are required, a minimum of fifteen feet
(15') shall be allocated as a utility easement. Perimeter easements shall not
be less than fifteen feet (15') in width, extending throughout the peripheral
area of the development, if required by the Hatch Town Planning Commission.
      3.   All easements shall be designed so as to provide efficient
installation of utilities, design features or street planning.
      4.   The Hatch Town Planning Commission may require the exterior
perimeter of any subdivision to be fenced if the need is apparent to protect
the health, safety, and welfare of the residents or others.
   D.   Alleys: The Planning Commission may approve service access to the
interior of blocks in certain instances, in which case alleys shall be
indicated on the plan and plat.
   E.   Culinary Water System Standards:
      1.   Culinary water systems shall meet the requirements of the local
health department and the State of Utah.
      2.   Prior to final subdivision approval, the proposed culinary water
system plans and specifications (improvement drawings), including water
quantity and quality, shall be approved by the local health department or the
DEQ, as applicable.
      3.   Hauling water to a proposed subdivision to meet the water and fire
protection requirements of this chapter is prohibited and shall not be accepted
by Hatch Town as a method of providing any subdivision with water and fire
protection services.
      4.   The subdivider shall provide a piped, public or private culinary
water supply to the property line of every lot in any full subdivision in Hatch
Town.
      5.   Said system shall be designed and built to safe drinking water
standards as evidenced by written approval from the State of Utah.
      6.   The culinary water system and plans shall also be approved by the
local health department, DEQ, Fire Marshal and County Building Official before
approval is issued.
   F.   Wastewater System Standards:
      1.   The local health department and/or DEQ shall review and approve the
proposed wastewater treatment method and submit its approval in writing with
the application for preliminary plat approval. It shall be the responsibility
of the applicant to provide information and materials as required by the local
health department or DEQ, as applicable, necessary to evaluate the proposed
sewage treatment method.
      2.   For all proposed subdivisions, or subdivision phases, where onsite
wastewater disposal systems are proposed, the preliminary subdivision
application shall include written approval from the health department for each
lot proposed.
      3.   When individual on-site wastewater systems are proposed, the lot
owner shall install such facilities at the time the principal building is
constructed, and no building permit shall be issued until such installation is
assured and approved by the Building Official.
      4.   In all other cases, wastewater disposal facilities shall be provided
for every lot or parcel that is to be used for residential or commercial
building.
      5.   Written approval from the local health department or DEQ shall be
required for all forms of wastewater disposal.
   G.   Flood Plain Standards:
      1.   All subdivisions and buildings within a flood plain shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider and not the Town of Hatch.
      2.   No subdivision in Hatch Town shall be allowed in a flood plain
unless each lot is situated where there is sufficient area for the location of
a dwelling entirely outside the flood plain, and where all setback requirements
of the zone in which the subdivision is located, can be met.
      3.   Flood plains shall be determined according to the latest FEMA flood
maps.
   H.   Storm Drainage Standards:
      1.   Complete drainage systems for the entire subdivision area shall be
designed by a professional engineer, licensed in the state of Utah and
qualified to perform such work, and shall be shown graphically. All existing
drainage features which are to be incorporated in the design shall be
identified. If the final plat is to be presented in phases, a general drainage
plan for the entire area shall be presented with the first phase, and
appropriate development stages for the drainage system for each phase
indicated.
      2.   All proposed surface drainage structures shall be indicated on the
plans.
      3.   All appropriate designs, details, and dimensions needed to explain
clearly proposed construction materials and elevations shall be included in the
drainage plans.
      4.   The subdivider shall be responsible for the results and performance
of the drainage system.
   I.   Fire Protection:
      1.   All subdivisions shall have a fire protection plan prepared by
qualified individuals and approved by the State, County, or Community Fire
Officials as the case may be prior to approval of any subdivision or
development within Hatch Town.
      2.   The fire protection plan shall apply to all lands that are to be
developed as well as any properties adjacent to and that might otherwise be
impacted by the possibility of fire.
      3.   The following shall be a minimum to be included in the plans:
         a.   Fire flow needs to protect all properties to be located in the
development to a minimum fire protection rating.
         b.   Source, availability, amount, and delivery of water necessary to
meet fire flow requirements.
         c.   Responsibility, training, and availability of personnel for
maintenance and operation of required firefighting infrastructure and
equipment.
         d.   Written approval of the fire protection plan of all related Fire
Officials.
      4.   The Fire Protection Plan shall be submitted with the preliminary
plat application and be considered as an integral part of the subdivision plat
approval process.
      5.   In the case of remote cabin sites, a minimum of one thousand (1,000)
gallons of water storage shall be required for fire protection for each
dwelling during and following construction. It shall be the responsibility of
the respective property owners to ensure that this provision is met.
      6.   Hatch Town shall not be liable for any action taken by the
subdivider as a result of this chapter. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd. Ord.
2021-06, 11-17-2021; Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-18: FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Guarantee: To ensure that improvements are installed as required by
this Ordinance, and before Final Plat approval by the Hatch Town Council, the
Subdivider shall guarantee the installation thereof by one or a combination of
one or more of the methods specified as follows:
   B.   Performance Bonds: The Subdivider shall furnish and file with the Town
Clerk, a corporate surety bond, to assure that the actual construction of such
improvements is completed within a period of two (2) years immediately
following the approval of the Final Plat and subdivision by the Town Council,
which bond shall be approved by the Town Council and the Town Attorney.
   C.   Escrow Deposit: The Subdivider shall deposit in escrow with an escrow
holder approved by the Town Council an amount of money, under an interest-
bearing escrow agreement conditioned upon the installation of said improvements
within two (2) years from the approval of the Final Plat and subdivision. The
escrow agreement aforesaid shall be approved by the Town Council and the Town
Attorney and shall be filed with the Garfield County Recorder. (Ord. 2021-05,
10-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 11-17-2021; Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-19: COMPLIANCE WITH FINAL PLAT:
Every approved subdivision shall be constructed, developed or otherwise
completed according to the provisions of this chapter, in conformance to the
approved final plat and supplementary documents pertaining to such subdivision.
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to ensure that such provisions
are correctly constructed, installed or otherwise completed. Failure to comply
with this provision shall constitute grounds for immediate termination of all
work activity associated with such subdivision. Before resumption of work
activity, the subdivider shall agree, in writing, to reconstruct, at their
cost, those items not in conformance with the provisions of the title before
the release of the security guaranteeing improvements. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-
2021; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 11-17-2021; Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-20: PENALTIES:
Any plat of a subdivision filed or recorded without the approvals required by
this chapter shall be null and void. Any owner or agent of the owner of any
land located in a "subdivision", as defined in this chapter, who offers for
sale or who transfers or sells any land in that subdivision or any possessory
interest therein before a final plat of the subdivision has been approved and
recorded as required in this chapter, shall be guilty of a Class C Misdemeanor
and subject to penalty as provided in 10-9-1 through 10-9-7 of this chapter. A
description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other
documents used in the process of selling or transferring does not exempt the
transaction from a violation or from the penalties or remedies provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 11-17-2021; Ord. 2024-
10, 10-16-2024)
10-9-21: FEES:
The subdivider shall be required to pay all application and subdivision related
fees as determined by the Hatch Town Fee Resolution. In addition, the
subdivider shall reimburse Hatch Town for any attorney and engineer costs
related to the subdivision platting, recording and inspection of subdivision
improvements. The application fee shall not be refundable, whether the
subdivision proposal is approved or denied. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd.
Ord. 2021-06, 11-17-2021; Ord. 2024-10, 10-16-2024)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-10-1: General
10-10-2: Conditions
10-10-3: Planning Commission Determination
10-10-4: Required Contributions
10-10-5: Planning Commission Action
10-10-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Approval. Planned Unit Developments (PUDs) shall be allowed by Planning
Commission approval in any Zoning District. Such Planned Unit Development
permit shall not be granted unless such development will meet the use
limitations of the Zoning District in which it is located and meet the density
and other limitations of such Districts, except as such requirements may be
lawfully modified as provided by this Ordinance. Compliance with the
regulations of this Ordinance in no way excuses the developer from the
applicable requirements of the Subdivision requirements, except as
modifications thereof are specifically authorized in the approval of the
application for the Planned Unit Development.
   B.   Intent. These regulations are to encourage and provide means for
effecting desirable and quality development by permitting greater flexibility
and design freedom than that permitted under the basic Zoning District
regulations, and to accomplish a well-balanced, aesthetically satisfying Town
and economically desirable development of building sites within a PUD. These
regulations are established to permit latitude in the development of the
building site if such development is found to be in accordance with the
purpose, spirit and intent of this Ordinance and is found not to be hazardous,
harmful, offensive or otherwise adverse to the environment, property values or
the character of the neighborhood or the health, safety and welfare of the
community. It is intended to permit and encourage diversification, variation
and imagination in the relationship of uses, structures, open spaces and
heights of structures for developments conceived and implemented as
comprehensive and cohesive unified projects. It is further intended to
encourage more rational and economic development with relationship to public
services, and to encourage and facilitate the preservation of open lands. (Ord.
2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-10-2: CONDITIONS:
   A.   Area. A Planned Unit Development shall not have an area less than that
approved by the Planning Commission as adequate for the proposed development.
   B.   Uses. A Planned Unit Development that will contain uses not permitted
in the Zoning District in which it is to be located may require a change of
Zoning District and shall be accompanied by an application for a Zoning
amendment, except that any residential use shall be considered to be a
permitted use in a Planned Unit Development, which allows residential uses and
shall be governed by density, design and other requirements of the Planned Unit
Development permit. Where a site is situated in more than one use District, the
permitted uses applicable to such property in one District may be extended into
the adjacent use District.
   C.   Ownership. The development shall be in single or corporate ownership at
the time of application, or the subject of an application filed jointly by all
owners of the property.
   D.   Design. The Planning Commission shall require such arrangements of
structures and open spaces within the site development plan as necessary to
ensure that adjacent properties will not be adversely affected.
   E.   Density. Density of land use shall in no case be more than fifteen
percent (15%) higher than allowed in the Zoning District.
   F.   Arrangement. Where feasible, the least height and density of buildings
and uses shall be arranged around the boundaries of the development.
   G.   Specific regulations. Lot area, width, yard, height, density and
coverage regulations shall be determined by approval of the site development
plan.
   H.   Open spaces. Preservation, maintenance and ownership of required open
spaces within the development shall be accomplished by either:
      1.   Dedication of the land as a public park or parkway system; or
      2.   Creating a permanent, open space easement on and over the said
private open spaces to guarantee that the open space remains perpetually in
recreational use, with ownership and maintenance being the responsibility of an
owners' association established with articles of association and bylaws, which
are satisfactory to the legislative body.
   I.   Landscaping. Landscaping, fencing and screening related to the uses
within the site and as a means of integrating the proposed development into its
surroundings shall be planned and presented to the Planning Commission for
approval, together with other required plans for the proposed development.
   J.   Signs. The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and the
intensity and direction of area or floodlighting shall be detailed in the
application.
   K.   Desirability. The proposed use of the particular location shall be
shown as necessary or desirable, to provide a service or facility that will
contribute to the general wellbeing of the surrounding area. It shall also be
shown that under the circumstances of the particular case, the proposed use
will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons
residing in the vicinity of the Planned Unit Development. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-
2021)
10-10-3: PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION:
In carrying out the intent of this section, the Planning Commission shall
consider the following principles:
   A.   It is the intent of this section that site and building plans for a PUD
shall be prepared by a designer or team of designers having professional
competence in urban planning as proposed in the application. The Planning
Commission shall be permitted to require the applicant to engage such
professional expertise as a qualified designer or design team.
   B.   It is not the intent of this section that control of the design of a
PUD by the Planning Commission be so rigidly exercised that individual
initiative be stifled and substantial additional expense incurred; rather, it
is the intent of this section that the control exercised be the minimum
necessary to achieve the purpose of this section.
   C.   The Planning Commission shall be authorized to approve or disapprove an
application for a PUD. In an approval, the Planning Commission shall be
permitted to attach such conditions as it deems necessary to secure compliance
with the purposes set forth in this Chapter. The denial of an application for a
PUD by the Planning Commission shall be permitted to be appealed to the
legislative body of the jurisdiction. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-10-4: REQUIRED CONTRIBUTIONS:
The legislative body, as part of the approval of a PUD, shall be permitted to
require an applicant to make reasonable contributions to include, but not
limited to any combination of the following:
   A.   Dedication of land for public park purposes.
   B.   Dedication of land for public school purposes.
   C.   Dedication of land for public road right-of-way purposes.
   D.   Construction of, or addition to, roads serving the proposed project
where such construction or addition is reasonably related to the traffic to be
generated.
   E.   Installation of required traffic safety devices.
   F.   Preservation of areas containing significant natural, environmental,
historic, archeological or similar resources. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-10-5: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   Approval. The Planning Commission shall have the authority to require
that the following conditions for a Planned Unit Development (among others it
deems appropriate) be met by the applicant:
      1.   That the proponents intend to start construction within 1 year of
either the approval of the project or of any necessary Zoning District change,
and intend to complete said construction, or approved stages thereof, within 4
years from the date construction begins.
      2.   That the development is planned as one complex land use rather than
as an aggregation of individual and unrelated buildings and uses.
   B.   Limitations on application.
      1.   Upon approval of a PUD, construction shall proceed only in
accordance with the plans and specifications approved by the Planning
Commission and in compliance with any conditions attached by the jurisdiction
as to its approval.
      2.   Amendment to approved plans and specifications for a PUD shall be
obtained only by following the procedures here outlined for first approval.
      3.   The Town Council and/or Building Official shall not issue any permit
for any proposed building, structure or use within the project unless such
building, structure or use is in accordance with the approved development plan
and with any conditions imposed in conjunction with its approval. (Ord. 2021-
05, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 11
MOBILE HOMES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose
10-11-2: Interpretation
10-11-3: Intent
10-11-4: Definitions
10-11-5: Location
10-11-1: PURPOSE:
To protect the public, among other purposes, such provisions are intended to
provide for permanently wholesome community environments, adequate facilities,
adequate services and safety of its citizens. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-11-2: INTERPRETATION:
The interpretation, application and provisions of this chapter shall be held to
be the minimum regulations required for the protection or preservation of
public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-11-3: INTENT:
   A.   To permit variety and flexibility in land development for residential
purposes by allowing the use of Mobile Homes and Recreational Vehicles in
certain districts within Hatch Town.
   B.   To require that Mobile Home and Recreational Vehicle developments will
be of such character as to promote the objectives and purposes of the Hatch
Town Zoning Ordinance; to protect the integrity and characteristics of the
districts contiguous to those in which Mobile Home Parks and Recreational
Vehicle Parks are located; and to protect other land use values contiguous to
or near mobile home or Recreational Vehicle developments. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-
2021)
10-11-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless context requires otherwise, the following definitions shall be used in
the interpretation and construction of this title. Words used in present tense
include the future; singular number shall include the plural, and the plural
the singular; the word "building" shall include the word "structure"; the words
"used" or "occupied" shall include arranged, designed, constructed, altered,
converted, rented, leased, or intended to be used or occupied; the word "shall"
is mandatory and not directory, and the word "may" is permissive; the word
"person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust,
company, or corporation, as well as an individual; the word "lot" includes the
words plot or parcel. Words used in this title but not defined herein shall
have the meaning as defined in any other ordinance adopted by the Hatch Town
Council.
                      A residential unit, or portion thereof, such as an
EMPLOYEE HOUSING:     apartment, house, structure, or recreational vehicle
                      approved for such use that is allotted to an employee on
                      a subsidized or discounted rent or free of cost.
EMPLOYMENT:           The condition of having paid work at an establishment
                      located within the incorporated areas of Hatch Town.
                      A structure, transportable in one or more sections, the
                      in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width
                      or forty body feet or more in length, or, where erected
                      on site, is three hundred and twenty (320) square feet or
                      more, and that is built on a permanent chassis and
                      designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
                      permanent foundation where connected to the required
                      utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-
                      conditioning and electrical systems contained therein;
                      except that such term shall include any structure that
MOBILE HOME:          meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the
                      size requirements and with respect to which the
                      manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required
                      by the secretary (HUD) and complies with the standards
                      established under this Ordinance. For mobile homes built
                      prior to June 15, 1976, a label certifying compliance to
                      the standard for mobile homes, NFPA 501, in effect at the
                      time of the manufacture is required. If placed upon a
                      permanent foundation, such structures which meet all
                      applicable building and housing codes shall not be
                      considered as mobile homes, but shall be regulated as
                      conventional housing.
                      The condition of one (1) or more persons occupying a
PERMANENT LIVING:     recreational vehicle for longer than thirty (30) days in
                      any sixty (60)-day period.
                      A vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels, of such a
                      size or weight as not to require special highway movement
                      permits when drawn by a motorized vehicle. Vehicles such
                      as travel trailers, tent camper trailers, truck campers,
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: camp cars, motor homes or other vehicles with or without
                      motive power designed and/or constructed to travel on
                      public thoroughfares in accordance with provisions of the
                      Utah Vehicle Code and designed for human habitation. May
                      also be referred to as Recreational Coach, or Travel
                      Trailer.
                      Occupancy of a recreational vehicle for not more than a
SEASONAL USE:         total of six (6) months (one hundred eighty (180) days)
                      during any calendar year.
                      The condition of one (1) or more persons occupying a
TEMPORARY LIVING:     recreational vehicle for less than thirty (30) days at a
                      time.
TRAVEL TRAILER:       See Recreational Vehicle.
UNIMPROVED PROPERTY:  A vacant lot without a dwelling or structure. (Ord. 2021-
                      05, 10-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 8-20-2024)
 
10-11-5: LOCATION:
   A.   Mobile Homes. No occupied Mobile Home shall be located anywhere within
the incorporated areas of Hatch Town without approval of the Planning
Commission, Town Council and Building Official.
   B.   Recreational Vehicles. No Recreational Vehicle as herein defined shall
be located, placed, used or occupied for permanent living purposes in any
district except within approved and licensed recreational vehicle parks and
except as otherwise provided herein. Each person residing in a recreational
vehicle in violation of this Section and each property owner permitting persons
to reside in a recreational vehicle on the owner's property shall be guilty of
a Class C Misdemeanor. Each day of residence shall be a separate offense.
   C.   Storage. Recreational Vehicles which are unoccupied for living purposes
may be unoccupied and stored on a private lot or parcel of land, provided they
do not violate any required setbacks for front, rear or side yards.
   D.   Utility Connections.
      1.   Vacant Properties. On a vacant lot or parcel, no Recreational
Vehicle shall be connected to any permanent utility in any district except
within approved and licensed recreational vehicle parks and except as otherwise
provided herein.
      2.   Developed Properties. On a developed lot or parcel, a Recreational
Vehicle may be temporarily connected to the dwelling unit's utilities, but
permanent occupancy shall be prohibited.
      3.   Exceptions:
         a.   Self-contained infrastructure or utilities that are affixed to,
or part of the recreational vehicle do not apply to this section.
         b.   Occupancy of, and/or utility connections to a recreational
vehicle may be approved as a conditional use for the following uses:
            (1)   Occupancy of a recreational vehicle as a construction camp
while constructing a dwelling or commercial building with an active building
permit; or
            (2)   Seasonal occupancy of a recreational vehicle for employee
housing with the same owner as the commercial establishment. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-
20-2021; amd. Ord. 2024-06, 8-20-2024)
CHAPTER 12
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-12-1: Establishment Of Zones
10-12-2: Boundaries Of Zones
10-12-3: Filing Of Ordinance And Map
10-12-4: Rules For Locating
10-12-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following Zones are created as necessary
to regulate the development of the land in Hatch Town, Utah:
   A.   Agricultural - (A).
   B.   Commercial - (C).
   C.   Industrial - (I).
   D.   Public - (P).
   E.   Residential - (R). (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-12-2: BOUNDARIES OF ZONES:
The boundaries of each of the Zones are established as described herein, and as
shown on the map entitled “Zoning Map of Hatch Town Utah.” (Ord. 2021-05, 10-
20-2021)
10-12-3: FILING OF ORDINANCE AND MAP:
The Hatch Town Ordinance and Zoning Map shall be filed in the Office of the
Hatch Town and may be examined by the public, subject to any reasonable
regulations established by the town. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-12-4: RULES FOR LOCATING:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any Zone, the following rules
shall apply:
   A.   Whenever a boundary line of a Zone overlays any street, river,
irrigation canal, other water way, private/public land boundary or any section
line, the center of the street, river, irrigation canal, other water way,
private/public land boundary or any section line shall be deemed to be the
boundary of such Zone.
   B.   When the application of the above rules does not clarify the Zone
boundary location, the Zoning Administrator shall interpret the map.
   C.   This section applies to locating boundary lines for zoning purposes and
shall not determine the legal boundary line between adjoining properties. (Ord.
2021-05, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 13
AGRICULTURAL ZONES
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose
10-13-2: Permitted Uses
10-13-3: Conditional Uses
10-13-4: Building Regulations
10-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of an Agricultural Zone is to identify and preserve land for
agricultural activity or that is, by virtue of ownership or easement, precluded
from development, and to preserve the historic and natural beauty of those
areas. Qualifying land also includes property owned by a governmental entity,
or parcels for which a scenic or conservation easement has been granted to a
governmental entity, land trust or conservation organization. (Ord. 2021-05,
10-20-2021)
10-13-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Single-family dwellings, one per parcel.
   B.   Accessory buildings and uses.
   C.   Accessory dwelling units, one per parcel.
   D.   Livestock keeping and grazing.
   E.   Crop production.
   F.   Stands for the sale of produce grown on the premises. (Ord. 2021-05,
10-20-2021)
10-13-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Home occupations.
   B.   Gravel pits.
   C.   Short-term rentals.
   D.   Temporary commercial activities for special events.
   E.   Transmitting stations and towers.
   F.   Utility easements. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-13-4: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Height. No dwelling or accessory building shall be erected to a height
greater than three (3) stories above grade or thirty-five feet (35’), unless
specifically approved by the Building Official.
   B.   Area, Width and Yard Regulations. See Table 13-4.
 
Table 13-4
Agricultural / Open Space Minimum Area, Width and Yard Regulations.
Zone Area    Width    Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback
A    6 Acres 200 feet 25 feet       10 feet      20 feet
 
   C.   Other Provisions. No building, structure or enclosure housing any
animals shall be located or constructed closer than one hundred feet (100’)
from any dwelling on the same or adjacent lot. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 14
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
SECTION:
10-14-1: Purpose
10-14-2: Permitted Uses
10-14-3: Conditional Uses
10-14-4: Building Regulations
10-14-1: PURPOSE:
To preserve appropriate areas for primarily single-family detached residential
lots and/or estate type lots with restricted agricultural and ranching uses.
Large animals such as horses may be permitted, but the number and types are
limited. Higher density developments may be adjacent to these areas with
appropriate buffering. A higher level of suburban type improvements such as
sidewalks, street improvements and drainage facilities may be required. Public
uses such as churches, schools, parks and trails may be in or adjacent to these
areas. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-14-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Single-family dwellings, one per parcel.
   B.   Accessory buildings and uses.
   C.   Accessory dwelling units, one per parcel. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-14-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Home occupations.
   B.   Multiple-family dwellings.
   C.   Short-term rentals.
   D.   Utility easements. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021; amd. Ord. 2022-07, 6-6-
2022)
10-14-4: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Height. No dwelling or accessory building shall be erected to a height
greater than three (3) stories above grade or thirty-five feet (35’), unless
specifically approved by the Building Official.
   B.   Area, Width and Yard Regulations. See Table 14-4.
 
Table 14-4
Light-Density Residential Minimum Area, Width and Yard Regulations.
Zone Area       Width   Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback
R    0.5 Acres. 80 feet 25 feet       10 feet      20 feet
 
   C.   Other Provisions. Residential lots with onsite wastewater (septic) and
potable drinking water (well) shall have a minimum lot size of one (1) acre per
Local Health Department standards. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 15
PUBLIC ZONES
SECTION:
10-15-1: Purpose
10-15-2: Permitted Uses
10-15-3: Conditional Uses
10-15-4: Building Regulations
10-15-1: PURPOSE:
To provide appropriate locations for community centers, schools, churches,
libraries, fire stations or similar public facilities. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-
2021)
10-15-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Public buildings (i.e., schools, churches, libraries, etc.).
   B.   Emergency services (i.e., fire stations, ambulance, police, etc.).
   C.   Community centers and facilities.
   D.   Public infrastructure facilities (i.e., sewer lagoons, water storage
tanks, well houses, internet and phone structures, etc.). (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-
2021)
10-15-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Temporary commercial activities for special events.
   B.   Transmitting stations and towers.
   C.   Utility easements. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-15-4: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Height. No building shall be erected to a height greater than four (4)
stories above grade or forty-eight feet (48’), unless specifically approved by
the Building Official.
   B.   Area, Width and Yard Regulations. See Table 15-4.
 
Table 15-4
Public Minimum Area, Width and Yard Regulations.
Zone Area Width   Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback
P    None 30 feet 10 feet       10 feet      10 feet
 
   C.   Other Provisions. Any building or structure may be built on the side or
rear property line upon approval from the Building Official as a fire proof
structure (metal, block or cement). (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 16
COMMERCIAL ZONES
SECTION:
10-16-1: Purpose
10-16-2: Permitted Uses
10-16-3: Conditional Uses
10-16-4: Building Regulations
10-16-1: PURPOSE:
To provide for a large range of commercial uses. A mix of uses is encouraged
including shops, restaurants, offices, banking and hotels. Attractive and well-
designed recreational vehicle parks may be allowed if they do not exceed the
densities allowed by the general plan for these areas. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-
2021)
10-16-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Single-family dwellings.
   B.   Accessory buildings and uses.
   C.   Accessory dwelling units.
   D.   Mixed-use buildings.
   E.   Accommodation and food services.
   F.   Finance and insurance.
   G.   Health care and social assistance.
   H.   Information.
   I.   Management companies and enterprises.
   J.   Professional, scientific and technical services.
   K.   Public administration.
   L.   Real estate, rental and leasing.
   M.   Retail trade.
   N.   Wholesale trade. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-16-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
Temporary commercial activities for special events. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-16-4: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Height. No Commercial building shall be erected to a height greater
than four (4) stories above grade or forty-eight feet (48’), unless
specifically approved by the Building Official.
   B.   Area, Width and Yard Regulations. See Table 16-4.
 
Table 16-4
Commercial Minimum Area, Width and Yard Regulations.
Zone Area Width   Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback
GC   None 30 feet 10 feet       10 feet      10 feet
 
   C.   Other Provisions. Any Commercial building may be built on the side or
rear property line upon approval from the Building Official as a fire proof
structure (metal, block or cement). (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
CHAPTER 17
INDUSTRIAL ZONES
SECTION:
10-17-1: Purpose
10-17-2: Permitted Uses
10-17-3: Conditional Uses
10-17-4: Building Regulations
10-17-1: PURPOSE:
To provide space for indoor warehousing, indoor light manufacturing and
fabrication. Major utility infrastructure should try to locate in industrial
areas. Service and building trade industries which utilize heavy equipment are
typical of these areas. Sites are to have attractive buildings, landscaping and
parking. No outdoor storage or materials will be permitted without appropriate
screening. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-17-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Manufacturing.
   B.   Mining, gravel pits.
   C.   Transportation and warehousing.
   D.   Utilities. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
10-17-3: CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Any Industrial use abutting a Residential Zoning District.
   B.   Temporary commercial activities for special events. (Ord. 2021-05, 10-
20-2021)
10-17-4: BUILDING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Height. No Industrial building shall be erected to a height greater
than four (4) stories above grade or forty-eight feet (48’), unless
specifically approved by the Building Official.
   B.   Area, Width and Yard Regulations. See Table 17-4.
 
Table 17-4
Industrial Minimum Area, Width and Yard Regulations.
Zone Area Width   Front Setback Side Setback Rear Setback
I    None 50 feet 10 feet       10 feet      10 feet
 
   C.   Other Provisions. Any Industrial building may be built on the side or
rear property line upon approval from the Building Official as a fire proof
structure (metal, block or cement). (Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 2021-05, 10-20-2021) 1
 
Notes
1 See Title 10, Chapter 9, Subdivisions
