HILDALE, UT
MUNICIPAL CODE
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation through Ord. 2025-004, passed 7-9-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
The Municipal Code of Hildale, UT began in-house in 2020 with the assistance of
Municipal Code Corporation. This Municipal Code shall be cited as the Hildale
City Code or “HCC” as an acronym.
HCC references found within the code maintain a structure by subject matter
using a hyphenated numbering system which identifies the chapter and section
(for example: 1-1-1). This complete set of numbers is designed to aid in
searching and/or referencing the Municipal Code, and to assist in subsequent
codification as new ordinances are added to the Municipal Code.
?   The first number in the sequence (1-1-1) designates the Title level
?   The second series of numbers (1-1-1) designates the Chapter level
?   The last series (1-1-1) designates the Section level
?   If a fourth series exists comprising letters or numbers beyond a section
level, it designates a
Subsection level.
As shown in the Table of Contents, Chapters may be divided by Articles. These
divisions appropriately categorize each Section.
The legislation herein may be arranged as an alphanumeric ordered list (a),
(1), a, 1, i to show hierarchal relationships. The legislation may also be
arranged as an unordered list (using bullets, discs, squares, etc.) to show
items without hierarchal relationships. These list structures assist in
subsequent codification as new legislation is added.
Vacant titles, chapters, or sections may be designed for future use and may be
marked “Reserved” to ease internal expansion. The legislative history
identifies the specific legal sources of a section as may be provided in
footnotes.
This Municipal Code is supplemented from time to time with amendments and
additions made by Hildale, Utah. The specific legal sources that comprise this
Municipal Code have been adopted during the codification process from the
original formatting of the official hard copy. In the event of discrepancies
between the online Municipal Code and the official hard copy, the official hard
copy governs. Municipal Code Corporation, provides a searchable database of the
Municipal Code for easy reference and convenience.
NOTICE: THE MUNICIPAL CODE AVAILABLE ONLINE MAY NOT REFLECT ALL OR THE MOST
CURRENT VERSION OF LEGISLATION ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL THAT HAS YET TO BE
UPDATED ONLINE. IN THE EVENT OF CONFLICT BETWEEN THE MUNICIPAL CODE AND A
WRITTEN ORDINANCE, THE ORDINANCE TYPICALLY GOVERNS. ALSO, THE NILES CODE MAY
NOT REFLECT RULES OR OTHER REGULATIONS PROMULGATED UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF THE
MUNICIPAL CODE, INCLUDING TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS. FOR MORE INFORMATION
CONTACT THE CITY RECORDER.
TITLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1 CODE ESTABLISHED; PROVISIONS NOT AFFECTED BY CODE
CHAPTER 2 AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE
CHAPTER 3 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION
CHAPTER 4 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
CHAPTER 5 GOVERNMENT RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 6 CONSTITUTIONAL TAKINGS; PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION
CHAPTER 1 CODE ESTABLISHED; PROVISIONS NOT AFFECTED BY CODE
Sec
1-1 How Code Designated And Cited
Sec
1-2 Provisions Deemed Continuation Of Existing Ordinances
Sec
1-3 Code Does Not Affect Prior Offenses Or Rights
Sec
1-4 Certain Ordinances Not Affected By Code
Sec 1-1 How Code Designated And Cited
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters shall constitute and
be designated the "Code of Ordinances, City of Hildale, Utah," and may be so
cited. Such ordinances may also be cited as the "Hildale Code."
State Law reference— Ordinance codification, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3-706 et seq.
Sec 1-2 Provisions Deemed Continuation Of Existing Ordinances
The provisions of this Code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
legislation adopted by the city relating to the same subject matter, shall be
construed as reinstatements and continuations thereof and not as new
enactments.
Sec 1-3 Code Does Not Affect Prior Offenses Or Rights
   (a)   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects any
offense or act committed or done, any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any
contract or right established before the effective date of this Code
   (b)   The adoption of this Code does not authorize any use or the
continuation of any use of a structure or premises in violation of any city
ordinance on the effective date of this Code.
Sec 1-4 Certain Ordinances Not Affected By Code
   (a)   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects the
validity of any ordinance or portion of an ordinance not codified in this Code:
      (1)   Annexing property into the city or describing the corporate limits.
      (2)   Deannexing property or excluding property from the city.
      (3)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money or authorizing the
issuance of bonds or other instruments of indebtedness.
      (4)   Authorizing or approving any contract, deed, or agreement.
      (5)   Making or approving any appropriation or budget.
      (6)   Providing for salaries of city employees or other employee
benefits, or job descriptions for employee positions.
      (7)   Granting any right or franchise.
      (8)   Adopting or amending a comprehensive plan.
      (9)   Levying or imposing any special assessment.
      (10)   Dedicating, establishing, naming, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, repairing or vacating any street.
      (11)   Establishing the grade of any street or sidewalk.
      (12)   Dedicating, accepting or vacating any plat or subdivision.
      (13)   Levying or imposing or otherwise related to property taxes.
      (14)   That is temporary, although general in effect.
      (15)   That is special, although permanent in effect.
      (16)   The purpose of which has been accomplished.
   (b)   The ordinances designated in subsection (a) of this section continue
in full force and effect to the same extent as if published at length in this
Code.
CHAPTER 2 AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE
Sec
2-1 Amendments To Code; Effect Of New Ordinances; Amendatory Language
Sec
2-2 Supplementation Of Code
Sec 2-1 Amendments To Code; Effect Of New Ordinances; Amendatory Language
   (a)   All ordinances adopted subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or
in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this Code and printed for inclusion in this Code. Portions of this
Code repealed by subsequent ordinances may be excluded from this Code by
omission from reprinted pages affected thereby.
   (b)   Amendments to provisions of this Code may be made with the following
language: "Section (chapter, article, division or subdivision, as appropriate)
    of the Code of Ordinances, City of Hildale, Utah, is hereby amended to read
as follows: …."
   (c)   If a new section, subdivision, division, article or chapter is to be
added to this Code, the following language may be used: "Section (chapter,
article, division or subdivision, as appropriate)    of the Code of Ordinances,
City of Hildale, Utah, is hereby created to read as follows: …."
   (d)   All provisions desired to be repealed should be repealed specifically
by section, subdivision, division, article or chapter number, as appropriate,
or by setting out the repealed provisions in full in the repealing ordinance.
State Law reference— Form of ordinances, U.C.A. 1953, §§ 10-3-703.7, 10-3-705.
Sec 2-2 Supplementation Of Code
   (a)   Supplements to this Code shall be prepared and printed whenever
authorized or directed by the city. A supplement to this Code shall include all
substantive permanent and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period
covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in this Code. The pages
of the supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into this
Code and will, where necessary, replace pages that have become obsolete or
partially obsolete. The new pages shall be so prepared that when they have been
inserted, this Code will be current through the date of the adoption of the
latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (b)   In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of this Code that
have been repealed shall be excluded from this Code by the omission thereof
from reprinted pages.
   (c)   When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to
prepare the supplement may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances
and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as necessary to do
so in order to embody them into a unified Code. For example, the person may:
      (1)   Arrange the material into appropriate organizational units.
      (2)   Supply appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for chapters,
articles, divisions, subdivisions and sections to be included in this Code and
make changes in any such catchlines, headings and titles or in any such
catchlines, headings and titles already in this Code.
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to chapters, articles, divisions,
subdivisions and sections to be added to this Code.
      (4)   Where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing
numbers assigned to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections.
      (5)   Change the words "this ordinance" or similar words to "this
chapter," "this article," "this division," "this subdivision," "this section"
or "sections    to    " (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of
this Code that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in
this Code).
      (6)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of the ordinances inserted in this Code.
CHAPTER 3 DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION
Sec
3-1 General Definitions And Rules Of Construction
Sec
3-2 Catchlines Of Sections; History Notes; References
Sec
3-3 Effect Of Repeal Of Ordinances
Sec
3-4 Severability
Sec
3-5 Reasonable Time For Compliance
Sec 3-1 General Definitions And Rules Of Construction
The following definitions and rules of construction shall apply to this Code
and to all ordinances and resolutions unless the context requires otherwise:
Generally. When provisions conflict, the specific shall prevail over the
general. All provisions shall be liberally construed so that the intent of the
city council may be effectuated. Words and phrases shall be construed according
to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words,
technical phrases and words and phrases that have acquired peculiar and
appropriate meanings in law shall be construed according to such meanings.
City. The term "city" means the City of Hildale, Utah.
City council or council. The term "city council" or "council" means the city
council of the City of Hildale, Utah.
Code. The term "Code" means the Code of Ordinances, City of Hildale, Utah, as
designated in section
1-1.
Colorado City. The term "Colorado City" means the Town of Colorado City, Mohave
County, Arizona, the governing body of which is the common council.
Computation of time.
   (a)   In computing a period of days, the first day is excluded and the last
day is included. If the last day of any period is a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, the period is extended to include the next day that is not a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday. When the period of time prescribed or allowed, without
reference to any additional time provided under subsection (2) of this
definition, is less than 11 days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays shall be excluded in the computation.
   (b)   Whenever a person has the right or is required to do some act or take
some proceedings within a prescribed period after the service of a notice or
other paper upon him and the notice or paper is served upon him by mail, three
days shall be added to the end of the prescribed period as calculated under
subsection (1) of this definition. Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall
be included in the computation of any three-day period under this subsection,
except that if the last day of the three-day period is a Saturday, a Sunday, or
a legal holiday, the period shall run until the end of the next day that is not
a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday.
Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions,
provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are
connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either…or," the conjunction shall
be interpreted as follows, except that in appropriate cases, the terms "and"
and "or" are interchangeable:
   (a)   The term "and" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions,
provisions or events apply.
   (b)   The term "or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions,
provisions or events apply singly or in any combination.
   (c)   The term "either…or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions,
provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
County. The term "county" means Washington County, Utah.
Delegation of authority. A provision that authorizes or requires a city officer
or city employee to perform an act or make a decision authorizes such officer
or employee to act or make a decision through subordinates.
Gender. Words of one gender include all other genders.
Includes and including. The terms "includes" and "including" are terms of
enlargement and not of limitation or exclusive enumeration, and the use of the
terms does not create a presumption that components not expressed are excluded.
Joint authority. A grant of authority to three or more persons as a public body
confers the authority to a majority of the number of members, as fixed by
statute or ordinance.
May. The term "may" creates discretionary authority or grants permission or a
power.
May not. The term "may not" imposes a prohibition. Month. The term "month"
means a calendar month. Must. The term "must" imposes a duty.
Must not. The term "must not" imposes a prohibition.
Number. The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation.
Officers, departments, etc. References to officers, departments, boards,
commissions or employees are to city officers, city departments, city boards,
city commissions and city employees.
Owner. The term "owner," as applied to property, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or part of such property.
Person. The term "person" means any corporation, organization, government,
governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership,
association and any other legal entity.
Personal property. The term "personal property" means any property other than
real property.
Premises. The term "premises," as applied to real property, includes land and
structures.
Property. The term "property" means real and personal property.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and
hereditaments.
Shall. The term "shall" imposes a duty.
Shall not. The term "shall not" imposes a prohibition.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means that portion of the street between the curb
or lateral line of the roadway, and the adjacent property line, intended for
the use of pedestrians.
Signed. The term "signed" includes any symbol executed or adopted by a person
with present intention to authenticate a writing.
State. The term "state" means the State of Utah.
State statutes. References to state statutes or codes are to the same as
amended.
Swear. The term "swear" includes the term "affirm."
Tense. The present tense includes the past and future tenses. The future tense
includes the present tense.
U.C.A. 1953. The abbreviation "U.C.A. 1953" means the Utah Code Annotated,
1953, as now or hereafter amended.
Week. The term "week" means a period of seven consecutive days.
Written. The term "written" includes any form of words, letters, symbols or
figures.
Year. The term "year" means 12 consecutive months.
Sec 3-2 Catchlines Of Sections; History Notes; References
   (a)   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in
boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the
section and are not titles of such sections, or of any part of the section, nor
unless expressly so provided shall they be so deemed when any such section,
including the catchline, is amended or reenacted.
   (b)   The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after a section
in this Code have no legal effect and only indicate legislative history. Cross
references, editor's notes, and state law references that appear in this Code
after sections or subsections or that otherwise appear in footnote form are
provided for the convenience of the user of this Code and have no legal effect.
   (c)   Unless specified otherwise, all references to titles, chapters or
sections are to titles, chapters or sections of this Code.
Sec 3-3 Effect Of Repeal Of Ordinances
   (a)   Unless specifically provided otherwise, the repeal of a repealing
ordinance does not revive the ordinance originally repealed or impair the
effect of any savings provision in it.
   (b)   The repeal or amendment of an ordinance does not affect any punishment
or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect, nor does such repeal or
amendment affect any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the
amendment or repeal.
Sec 3-4 Severability
If any provision of this Code or its application to any person or circumstances
is held invalid or unconstitutional, the invalidity or unconstitutionality does
not affect other provisions or applications of this Code that can be given
effect without the invalid or unconstitutional provision or application, and to
this end the provisions of this Code are severable.
Sec 3-5 Reasonable Time For Compliance
   (a)   Unless stated otherwise, whenever in this Code a deadline for
compliance or performance of act is required to be done within a reasonable
time, such language means, except in emergencies, such time as is reasonable
under the circumstances, but not less than three days nor more than two weeks.
   (b)   For cause shown, the council may waive any deadline or time limit
provided for in this Code unless such deadline or time limit is mandated by
state law.
CHAPTER 4 ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
Sec
4-1 Definition
Sec
4-2 Penalty
Sec
4-3 Separate Offenses
Sec
4-4 Other Remedies
Sec 4-1 Definition
   (a)   In this chapter, the term "violation of this Code" means any of the
following:
      (1)   Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an
infraction, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or
regulation authorized by ordinance.
      (2)   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
      (3)   Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made
or declared unlawful, an infraction, an offense, a violation or a misdemeanor
by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
   (b)   In this chapter, the term "violation of this Code" does not include
the failure of a city officer or city employee to perform an official duty
unless it is specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to
be punished as provided in this section.
Sec 4-2 Penalty
Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, a person convicted of a
violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the fine for a
Class B misdemeanor under U.C.A. 1953, § 76-3-301 or a term of imprisonment of
up to six months, or both the fine and term of imprisonment. Violations of this
Code that are a Class C misdemeanor shall be punished as a Class C misdemeanor
as provided in U.C.A. 1953, §§ 76-3-204 and 6-3-301. Violations of this Code
that are an infraction shall be punished as an infraction as provided in U.C.A.
1953, § 76-3-301. Specific fines for offenses are found in the schedule of fees
and penalties.
State Law reference— Penalties for ordinance violations, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3-
703.
Sec 4-3 Separate Offenses
Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance:
   (a)   With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with
respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a separate offense.
   (b)   With respect to other violations, each violation constitutes a
separate offense.
Sec 4-4 Other Remedies
   (a)   The imposition of a penalty does not prevent suspension or revocation
of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
   (b)   Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a
public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The
imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief or civil or quasi-
judicial enforcement.
CHAPTER 5 GOVERNMENT RECORDS ACCESS AND MANAGEMENT
Sec
5-1 Statutes Adopted
Sec
5-2 Fees
Sec
5-3 Magnetic Media
Sec
5-4 Records Retention
Sec
5-5 Appeals
Sec
5-6 Criminal Penalties
State Law reference— Government Records Access and Management Act, U.C.A. 1953,
§ 63G-2-101 et seq.
Sec 5-1 Statutes Adopted
The provisions of the state Government Records Access and Management Act
(U.C.A. 1953, § 63G-2- 101 et seq.) are hereby adopted by reference and are
applicable to city records.
Sec 5-2 Fees
The charge to be paid to the city to cover the actual cost of providing a
record shall be as established by the schedule of fees and penalties.
(Ord. No. 7-92-1, § 6, 7-14-1992)
State Law reference— Fees, U.C.A. 1953, § 63G-2-203.
Sec 5-3 Magnetic Media
In order to increase cyber security, if it is requested that public records be
furnished on magnetic media, such media must be furnished by the city.
Sec 5-4 Records Retention
The city shall by resolution establish a retention schedule for each record
series. The initial retention schedule shall be as set forth in Exhibit "B"
attached to the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
(Ord. No. 7-92-1, § 14, 7-14-1992)
Sec 5-5 Appeals
   (a)   Notice of appeal.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved by the city's access determination under this
chapter, including a person not a party to the city's proceeding, may appeal
the determination to the mayor by filing a notice of appeal.
      (2)   If the city claims extraordinary circumstances and specifies the
date when the records will be available and, if the requester believes the
extraordinary circumstances do not exist or that the time specified is
unreasonable, the requester may appeal the city's claim of extraordinary
circumstances or date for compliance within 30 days after notification of a
claim of extraordinary circumstances by the city, despite the lack of a
"determination" or its equivalent.
   (b)   Business confidentiality claims.
      (1)   If the appeal involves a record that is the subject of a business
confidentiality claim under U.C.A. 1953, § 63G-2-309, the city recorder shall:
         a.   Send notice of the requester's appeal to the business
confidentiality claimant within three business days after receiving notice,
except that if notice under this section must be given to more than 35 persons,
it shall be given as soon as reasonably possible;
         b.   Send notice of the business confidentiality claim and the
schedule for the city recorder's determination to the requester within three
business days after receiving notice of the requester's appeal.
      (2)   The claimant shall have seven business days after notice is sent by
the city recorder to submit further support, for the claim of business
confidentiality.
   (c)   Determination by mayor.
      (1)   The mayor shall make a determination on any appeal within the
following period of time:
         a.   Within five business days after the mayor's receipt of the notice
of appeal; or
         b.   Within 12 business days after the city sends the requester's
notice of appeal to a person who submitted a claim of business confidentiality.
      (2)   If the mayor fails to make a determination within the time
specified in subsection (c)(1) of this section, the failure shall be considered
the equivalent of an order denying the appeal.
      (3)   The provisions of this section notwithstanding, the parties
participating in the proceeding may, by agreement, extend the time periods
specified in this section.
   (d)   The mayor may, upon consideration and weighing of the various
interests and public policies pertinent to the classification and disclosure or
nondisclosure, order the disclosure of information properly classified as
private or protected if the interests favoring access outweigh the interest
favoring restriction of access.
   (e)   The city shall send written notice of the determination of the mayor
to all participants. If the mayor affirms the denial in whole or in part, the
denial shall include a statement that the requester has the right to appeal the
denial to the appeals board, which board is hereby established under U.C.A.
1953, § 63G-2-701(5), and the time limits for filing an appeal.
   (f)   The duties of the mayor under this section may be delegated.
   (g)   The notice of appeal to the appeals board must be filed with the city
recorder no later than 30 days after the mayor has denied the appeal or fails
to make a determination within the time specified in subsection (c)(1) of this
section.
   (h)   The notice of appeal shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The petitioner's name, mailing address, and daytime telephone
number; and
      (2)   The relief sought.
   (i)   The petitioner may file a short statement of facts, reasons and legal
authority in support of the appeal.
   (j)   No later than three days after receiving a notice of appeal, the
recorder shall:
      (1)   Schedule a hearing for the appeals board to discuss the appeal
which shall be held no sooner than 15 days and no later than 30 days from the
date of the filing of the appeal.
      (2)   At the hearing, the appeals board shall allow the parties to
testify, present evidence, and comment on the issues. The appeals board may
allow other interested persons to comment on the issues.
      (3)   No later than three business days after the hearing, the city
council shall issue a signed order either granting the petition in whole or in
part or upholding the determination of the city in whole or in part.
      (4)   The order of the city shall include:
         a.   A statement of reasons for the decision, including citations to
this chapter or federal regulation that governs disclosure of the record,
provided that the citations do not disclose private, controlled, or protected
information;
         b.   A description of the record or portions of the record to which
access was ordered or denied, provided that the description does not disclose
private, controlled, or protected information;
         c.   A statement that any party to the appeal may appeal the city's
decision to a district court; and
         d.   A brief summary of the appeal, and a notice that in order to
protect his rights on appeal, the party may wish to seek advice from an
attorney.
      (5)   A person aggrieved by the city's classification or designation
determination under this chapter, but who is not requesting access to the
records, may appeal that determination using the procedures provided in this
section. If a nonrequestor is the only appellant, the procedures provided in
this section shall apply, except that the determination on the appeal shall be
made within 30 days after receiving the notice of appeal.
(Ord. No. 7-92-1, § 16, 7-14-1992)
Sec 5-6 Criminal Penalties
   (a)   Disclosure of private, controlled or protected records.
      (1)   A public employee or other person who has lawful access to any
private, controlled, or protected record under this chapter, and who
intentionally discloses or provides a copy of a private, controlled or
protected record to any person knowing that such disclosure is prohibited,
except as provided in U.C.A. 1953, § 53-5-708(1)(c), shall be punished as
provided in subsection (d) of this section.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection (a)(1) of this
section that the actor released private, controlled or protected information in
the reasonable belief that the disclosure of the information was necessary to
expose a violation of law involving government corruption, abuse of office or
misappropriation of public funds or property.
      (3)   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection (a)(1) of this
section that the record could have lawfully been released to the recipient if
it had been properly classified.
   (b)   Unlawful access to private, controlled or protected records.
      (1)   A person who, by false pretenses, bribery or theft, gains access to
or obtains a copy of any private, controlled or protected record to which he is
not legally entitled shall be punished as provided in subsection (d) of this
section.
      (2)   No person shall be guilty under subsection (b)(1) of this section
who receives the record, information, or copy after the fact and without prior
knowledge of or participation in the false pretenses, bribery, or theft.
   (c)   Refusal to release records.
      (1)   A public employee who intentionally refuses to release a record,
the disclosure of which the employee knows is required by law, ,shall be
punished as provided in subsection (d) of this section.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection (c)(1) of this
section that the public employee's failure to release the record was based on a
good faith belief that the public employee was acting in accordance with the
requirements of law.
      (3)   A public employee who intentionally refuses to release a record,
the disclosure of which the employee knows is required by a final unappealed
order from a government entity, the records committee or a court, shall be
punished as provided in subsection (d) of this section.
   (d)   The penalty for violating this section shall be a fine not to exceed
the maximum Class B misdemeanor fine under U.C.A. 1953, § 76-3-301, or a term
of imprisonment of up to six months, or both the fine and term of imprisonment.
(Ord. No. 7-92-1, § 21, 7-14-1992)
CHAPTER 6 CONSTITUTIONAL TAKINGS; PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION
Sec
6-1 Policy Considerations
Sec
6-2 Definitions
Sec
6-3 Guidelines Advisory
Sec
6-4 Review Of Decision
Sec
6-5 Reviewing Guidelines
Sec
6-6 Results Of Review
State Law reference— Constitutional Takings Issues Act, U.C.A. 1953, § 63L-4-
101 et seq.; local guidelines required, U.C.A. 1953, § 63L-4-201.
Sec 6-1 Policy Considerations
There is an underlying policy in the city, strongly favoring the careful
consideration of matters involving constitutional taking claims, in fairness to
the owner of private property bringing the claim and in view of the uncertainty
and expense involved in defending lawsuits alleging such issues. At the same
time, the legitimate role of government in lawfully regulating real property
must be preserved and the public's right to require the dedication or exaction
of property consistent with the federal and state Constitutions. Consistent
with this policy, it is desired that a procedure be established for review of
actions that may involve the issue of a constitutional taking. These provisions
are to assist governments in considering decisions that may involve
constitutional takings. It is intended that a procedure for such a review be
provided, as well as guidelines be construed to objectively and fairly review
claims by citizens that a specific government action should require payment of
just compensation, yet preserve the ability of the city to lawfully regulate
real property and fulfill its other duties and functions.
Sec 6-2 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Constitutional taking means actions by the city involving the physical taking
or exaction of private real property that might require compensation to a
private real property owner because of:
   (a)   The Fifth or Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States; or
   (b)   Article I, section 22, of the state constitution; or
   (c)   Any recent court ruling governing the physical taking or exaction of
private real property by a government entity.
Actions by the city involving the physical taking or exaction of private real
property is not a constitutional taking if the physical taking or exaction
bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest and is roughly
proportionate and reasonably related, on an individualized property basis, both
in nature and extent, to the impact of the proposed development on the
legitimate government interest.
Sec 6-3 Guidelines Advisory
The guidelines adopted and decisions rendered pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter are advisory, and shall not be construed to expand or limit the
scope of the city's liability for a constitutional taking. The reviewing body
or person shall not be required to make any determination under this chapter
except pursuant to section
6-4.
Sec 6-4 Review Of Decision
Any owner of private real property who claims there has been a constitutional
taking of his private real property shall request a review of a final decision
of any officer, employee, board, commission or council. The following are
specific procedures established for such a review:
   (a)   The person requesting a review must have obtained a final and
authoritative determination, internally, within the city, relative to the
decision from which he is requesting review.
   (b)   Within 30 days from the date of the final decision that gave rise to
the concern that a constitutional taking has occurred, the person requesting
the review shall file in writing, in the office of the city recorder, a request
for review of that decision. A copy shall also be filed with the city attorney.
   (c)   The city council, or an individual, or body designated by the city
council, shall immediately set a time to review the decision that gave rise to
the constitutional takings claim.
   (d)   In addition to the written request for review, the applicant must
submit the following:
      (1)   Name of the applicant requesting review;
      (2)   Name and business address of the current owner of the property,
form of ownership, whether sole proprietorship, for-profit or not-for-profit
corporation, partnership, joint venture or other, and if owned by a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company or joint venture, name and
address of all principal shareholders, partners, or members;
      (3)   A detailed description of the grounds for the claim that there has
been a constitutional taking;
      (4)   A detailed description of the property taken;
      (5)   Evidence and documentation as to the value of the property taken,
including the date and cost at the date the property was acquired if acquired
within the past three years. This should include any evidence of the value of
that same property before and after the alleged constitutional taking, the name
of the party from whom purchased, including the relationship, if any, between
the person requesting a review and the party from whom the property was
acquired;
      (6)   Nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such as,
but not limited to, fee simple ownership, leasehold interest;
      (7)   Terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of a
full or partial interest in the property in the three years prior to the date
of application;
      (8)   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, including
financing, offering for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the three years
prior to the date of application;
      (9)   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for the
previous three years;
      (10)   All information concerning current lessees or lien holders or
persons holding options to purchase said property;
      (11)   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and
offers received, if any, within the previous three years;
      (12)   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the
petitioner within the previous three years concerning feasibility of
development or utilization of the property;
      (13)   For income-producing property, itemized income and expense
statements from the property for the previous three years; and
      (14)   Information from a title policy or other source showing all
recorded liens or encumbrances affecting the property.
The city council or its designee may request additional information reasonably
necessary, in their opinion, to arrive at a conclusion concerning whether there
has been a constitutional taking.
   (e)   An application shall not be deemed to be "complete" or "submitted"
until the reviewing body/official certifies to the applicant, that all the
materials and information required above have been received by the city. The
reviewing body/official shall promptly notify the applicant of any incomplete
application.
   (f)   The city council, or an individual or body designated by it, shall
hear all the evidence related to and submitted by the applicant, city, or any
other interested party.
   (g)   A final decision on the review shall be rendered within 14 days from
the date the complete application for review has been received by the city
recorder. The decision of the city council or its designee regarding the
results of the review shall be given in writing to the applicant and the
officer, employee, board, commission or council that rendered the final
decision that gave rise to the constitutional takings claim.
   (h)   If the city council or its designee fails to hear and decide the
review within 14 days, the decision appealed from shall be presumed to be
approved.
Sec 6-5 Reviewing Guidelines
The city council shall review the facts and information presented by the
applicant to determine whether or not the action by the city constitutes a
constitutional taking. In doing so, they shall consider:
   (a)   Whether the physical taking or exaction of the private real property
bears an essential nexus to a legitimate governmental interest.
   (b)   Whether a legitimate governmental interest exists for the action taken
by the city.
   (c)   Whether the property and exaction taken is roughly proportionate and
reasonably related, on an individual property basis, both in nature and extent,
to the impact caused by the activities that are the subject of the decision
being reviewed.
Sec 6-6 Results Of Review
After completing the review, the reviewing body shall make a determination
regarding the above issues and, where determined to be necessary and
appropriate, shall make a recommendation to the officer, employee, board,
commission or council that made the decision that gave rise to the
constitutional takings claim.
TITLE III ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 30 MAYOR AND COUNCIL
CHAPTER 31 GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 34 TAXATION
CHAPTER 35 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL COST RECOVERY
CHAPTER 30 MAYOR AND COUNCIL
ARTICLE 30-I IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 30-II ELECTIONS
ARTICLE 30-I IN GENERAL
Sec
30-1 Adoption Of Form Of Government
Sec
30-2 Powers And Duties Of Mayor
Sec
30-3 Miscellaneous Powers Of City Council
Sec
30-4 Regular Council Meetings
Sec
30-5 Quorum
Sec
30-6 Public Places For Posting Ordinances
Sec
30-7 Electronic Meetings
Sec 30-1 Adoption Of Form Of Government
The city council, a six-member council form of government, hereby adopts by
ordinance and delegates to a city manager certain executive and administrative
duties pursuant to U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3b-303.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § I, 11-17-2009; Ord. No. 2010-2, § I, 11-9-2010)
Sec 30-2 Powers And Duties Of Mayor
   (a)   The mayor is the chief executive officer and as such shall receive
communications and give consultation to the city manager.
   (b)   In addition the mayor shall sign all city ordinances and resolutions,
and the mayor is further hereby authorized to sign his name officially for and
on behalf of the city to all deeds, bonds, bills, notes, contracts, leases and
other writings to which the city is a party, when so directed by the city
council.
   (c)   The mayor may, with the concurrence of a majority of the city council,
change the administrative assignment of any member of the city council who is
serving in any administrative position in the city government.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § II(C), (E), 11-17-2009)
The mayor may not serve as recorder and neither the mayor nor the recorder may
serve as treasurer.
Sec 30-3 Miscellaneous Powers Of City Council
   (a)   General administrative powers. The city council shall, from time to
time, prescribe by ordinance the general powers and duties to be performed by
appointed officers and department directors.
   (b)   Rules and regulations for administration. The city council shall
approve rules and regulations which are not inconsistent with the laws of the
state, for the efficient administration, organization, operation, conduct and
business of the city.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § II(F), (G), 11-17-2009)
Sec 30-4 Regular Council Meetings
The city council shall hold a regular monthly meeting on the Wednesday
following the first Saturday of each month, unless otherwise posted, at the
Hildale City Hall, 320 East Newel Avenue, Hildale, UT, 84784. Regular meetings
shall begin promptly at 6:00 p.m. unless otherwise posted.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § III(A), 11-17-2009; Ord. No. 2018-001, § 1, 4-11-2018)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2018-004 on 9/5/2018 Amended by Ord. 2020-016 on 12/10/2020
Amended by Ord. 2021-001 2022-004 on 3/3/2021 Amended by Ord. 2022-004 on 5/11/
2022 Amended by Ord. 2025-004 on 7/9/2025
Sec 30-5 Quorum
No action of the city council shall be official or of any effect except when a
quorum of the members are present.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § III(D), 11-17-2009)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2025-004 on 7/9/2025
Sec 30-6 Public Places For Posting Ordinances
The public places within the city where a complete copy of ordinances shall be
posted in accordance with Utah law.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § IV(D)(2), 11-17-2009)
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2025-004 on 7/9/2025
State Law reference— Posting of ordinances, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3-711.
Sec 30-7 Electronic Meetings
The city council, utility board, or planning commission may convene and conduct
open and public meetings by electronic means in accordance with this section,
sand Utah Code Annotated Title 52, Chapter 4, Section 207, as follows:
   a.   Quorum: A quorum of the city council, utility board, or planning
commission shall be present either physically or electronically for an
electronic meeting. The primary anchor location shall be in the building where
the city council, utility board, or planning commission would normally meet if
they were not holding an electronic meeting. Secondary anchor locations are
permitted but not required.
   b.   Notice to City Council, Utility Board, or Planning Commission: Except
as otherwise provided by law, notice of the electronic meeting shall be given
to city council, utility board, or planning commission members at least twenty-
four (24) hours before the meeting, so they may participate in and be counted
as present for all purposes, including a determination that a quorum is
present. The notice shall describe how the city council, utility board, or
planning commission members will be connected to the electronic meeting.
   c.   Public Notice: Public notice of the electronic meeting shall be given
in accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 52, Chapter 4, Section 202.
Written notice also shall be given by posting at the primary anchor location.
   d.   Open Meeting: Except as otherwise provided by law, space and facilities
shall be provided at the primary anchor location, so interested persons and the
public may attend and monitor the open portions of the meeting. For portions of
the meeting where comments from the public are accepted, space and facilities
shall be provided at the primary anchor location for interested persons and the
public to attend, monitor, and participate in the public comment portions of
the meeting.
Amended by Ord. 2025-004 on 7/9/2025
ARTICLE 30-II ELECTIONS
Sec
30-31 Nominations And Elections
Sec
30-32 Primary Elections
Sec
30-33 Election Procedure
Sec
30-34 Ballots
State Law reference— Elections, U.C.A. 1953, § 20-1-101 et seq.
Sec 30-31 Nominations And Elections
Regular elections shall be held in accordance with the Election Code (U.C.A.
1953, § 20A-1-101 et seq.).
(Ord. No. A-3, § 3, 8-2-1971)
Sec 30-32 Primary Elections
Election for mayor and councilmembers shall be conducted according to the
U.C.A. 1953, § 20A-9- 404(1) and (2). This section provides for the candidates
for mayor and councilmembers to be nominated at a primary election if required.
A primary election will be held only when the number of candidates filing for
an office exceeds twice the number to be elected. The candidates nominated at
the primary election plus candidates that were not required to run in the
primary are to be placed on the November ballot.
(Ord. No. 95-6-13, §§ 1, 2, 6-13-1995)
Sec 30-33 Election Procedure
The course of procedure for conducting elections in the city shall be in
accordance with the Election Code (U.C.A. 1953, § 20A-1-101 et seq.).
(Ord. No. A-3, § 4, 8-2-1971)
Sec 30-34 Ballots
The full names of all candidates who have been validly nominated shall be
printed on the official ballots for the office for which nominated without
party designation. All other specifications shall conform as nearly as
practical with those set forth in the state election code.
(Ord. No. A-3, § 6, 8-2-1971)
CHAPTER 31 GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 31-I CITY MANAGER
ARTICLE 31-II APPOINTED OFFICERS AND CITY DEPARTMENTS
ARTICLE 31-III (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 31-IV MISCELLANEOUS
ARTICLE 31-I CITY MANAGER
Sec
31-1 Office Created
Sec
31-2 Appointment
Sec
31-3 Term Of Office
Sec
31-4 Residency
Sec
31-5 Compensation
Sec
31-6 Powers And Duties
Sec
31-7 Acting City Manager
Sec
31-8 Removal From Office
Sec
31-9 Employment Agreement
Sec
31-10 Resignation
Sec 31-1 Office Created
The office of city manager was heretofore created and established pursuant to
U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3b- 303, and shall continue in force and effect as an
appointed office of the city.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § V(A), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-2 Appointment
The city manager shall be appointed by the city council (herein defined as the
mayor and city council). The city council shall approve the employment contract
entered into with the city manager and the mayor shall sign the approved
employment contract on behalf of the city.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § V(B), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-3 Term Of Office
The city manager shall serve at the pleasure of the city council for an
indefinite period. (Ord. No. 2009-2, § V(C), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-4 Residency
Residency in the city of a city manager shall not be required as a condition of
appointment.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § V(D), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-5 Compensation
The city manager shall receive such compensation as the city council shall,
from time to time, determine. In addition, the city manager shall be reimbursed
for all actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of his
official duties.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § V(E), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-6 Powers And Duties
Pursuant to the authority outlined in U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3b-303, and under the
direction and control of the city council, the city manager shall be
responsible for the efficient management of all administrative affairs of the
city. In addition to the general powers as chief administrative officer, the
city manager shall have the following powers, duties, and obligations:
   (a)   Enforcement. The city manager shall faithfully execute and enforce all
applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, and see that all
franchises, leases, permits, contracts, licenses and privileges granted by the
city are observed.
   (b)   Represent. It shall be the duty of the city manager to represent the
city at various meetings or other functions and respond to requests or
inquiries about city policies, rules, ordinances, regulations, resolutions or
services rendered by the city.
   (c)   Authority for employees. It shall be the duty of the city manager, and
the city manager shall have the authority, to control, order, and give
directions to all heads of departments and to subordinate officers and
employees of the city through their respective department heads.
   (d)   Power of appointment and removal. It shall be the duty of the city
manager to appoint, remove, promote, and demote any and all officers and
employees of the city, subject to all applicable personnel ordinances, rules
and regulations, except for the positions of city recorder, city treasurer,
justice court judge and city department heads, which shall only be appointed,
demoted or removed with the advice and consent of the city council.
   (e)   Direct and supervise administration. It shall be the duty of the city
manager to direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices,
and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by law.
   (f)   Administrative reorganization of offices. It shall be the duty and
responsibility of the city manager to conduct studies and implement such
administrative reorganization of offices, positions, or units under the city
manager's direction as may be indicated in the interest of efficient, effective
and economical conduct of the city's business.
   (g)   Implement and recommend policies and programs. The city manager shall
carry out the policies and programs established by the city council. The city
manager shall submit to the city council plans and programs relating to the
development and needs of the city.
   (h)   Ordinances. The city manager shall recommend to the city council for
adoption such measures and ordinances necessary for the efficient management of
administrative affairs.
   (i)   Attendance at city council meetings. It shall be the duty of the city
manager to attend all meetings of the city council, unless excused therefrom by
the mayor or the city council, and to take part in the discussions and to
recommend matters for adoption by the city council, but without the right to
vote.
   (j)   Financial reports. It shall be the duty of the city manager to keep
the city council fully advised at all times as to the financial condition and
needs of the city. The city manager shall prepare and submit monthly financial
reports to the city council for its information and review.
   (k)   Budget. The city manager shall prepare and submit the proposed annual
budget and capital improvements program to the city council for its approval
and in accordance with all state laws and regulations. The city manager shall
serve as the city budget officer.
   (l)   Expenditure control and purchasing. It shall be the duty of the city
manager to manage all expenditures in accordance with state law and the city
purchasing policy.
   (m)   Investigations and complaints. It shall be the duty of the city
manager to make investigations into the affairs of the city, or any department
or division thereof, and also any contract or the proper performance of any
obligations of the city. Further, it shall be the duty of the city manager to
investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the administration
of the city government. The city manager shall examine and inspect the books,
records and official papers of any office, department, agency, board or
commission of the city and make investigations and require reports from all
personnel.
   (n)   Public buildings. It shall be the duty of the city manager to exercise
general supervision over all public buildings, public parks and all other
public properties which are under the control and jurisdiction of the city.
   (o)   Emergencies. The city manager shall notify the city council of any
emergency that may arise in the city.
   (p)   Additional duties. It shall be the duty of the city manager to perform
such other duties and exercise such other powers as may lawfully be delegated
to the city manager from time to time by ordinance or resolution or other
official action of the city council.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § V(F), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-7 Acting City Manager
The city manager shall appoint, with the approval of the city council, an
acting city manager to serve in the absence or temporary incapacity of the city
manager. The acting city manager shall have all the powers and duties of the
city manager but shall consult with the mayor regarding decisions of major
impact on the city.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § V(G), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-8 Removal From Office
The removal of the city manager shall be effected only by a majority vote of
the city council. The city council may, without any particular showing of
cause, remove the city manager from office. The city council's action shall be
final.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § V(H), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-9 Employment Agreement
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a limitation on the power or
authority of the city council to enter into any supplemental agreement with the
city manager delineating additional terms and conditions of employment not
inconsistent with any provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § V(I), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-10 Resignation
The city manager shall give the city council 30 days' notice in writing of the
intent to resign as city manager. The city council may waive this requirement
for good cause.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § V(J), 11-17-2009)
ARTICLE 31-II APPOINTED OFFICERS AND CITY DEPARTMENTS
Sec
31-39 Appointed Officers
Sec
31-40 City Organization
Sec
31-41 General Requirements Of City Departments
Sec
31-42 Interdepartmental Cooperation
Sec
31-43 Department Directors; Powers And Responsibilities
Sec
31-44 Same; Duties
Sec 31-39 Appointed Officers
All appointed officers shall continue in office until their successors are
appointed and qualified. The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city
council, shall appoint a qualified person to each of the following offices:
   (a)   City recorder.
   (b)   City treasurer.
   (c)   Directors for each city department.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § VI(B), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-40 City Organization
The city organization shall be divided into such offices, departments,
divisions, boards, or committees as the city manager shall determine
appropriate with the advice and consent of the city council.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § VI(C), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-41 General Requirements Of City Departments
All departments, and units thereof, shall:
   (a)   Be open during regular business hours, as defined by the city council;
   (b)   Pay out monies belonging to the city only in the manner prescribed by
law, ordinance, policy or regulation; and
   (c)   Deliver all records, documents and property of every description
belonging to the office or to the city to the successor in office.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § VI(D), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-42 Interdepartmental Cooperation
Each department shall cooperate with other departments and furnish any other
department, upon the direction of the city manager, such service, labor and
materials as may be requisitioned by the head of such department.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § VI(E), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-43 Department Directors; Powers And Responsibilities
All department directors shall have the powers and responsibilities for
planning, organizing, staffing, directing and controlling the function of their
appointed departments. They shall be responsible to the city manager and shall
keep him fully advised of all the affairs with respect to their departments.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § VI(F), 11-17-2009)
Sec 31-44 Same; Duties
Department directors shall:
   (a)   Be responsible to the city manager for the effective administration of
their respective departments and all activities assigned thereto;
   (b)   Be responsible to implement all ordinances, resolutions, rules,
regulations, directives and services within the budget parameters established
by the city council to achieve the goals of the elected officials;
   (c)   Develop and maintain up-to-date departmental policies, procedures and
instructions for carrying out departmental operations in conformity with city
ordinances and directives of the city manager;
   (d)   Be responsible for planning, organizing, supervising and directing the
operations of the departments and for the full and effective use of personnel,
equipment and financial resources assigned to the department;
   (e)   Assign subordinate employees in the department to any duty which in
the director's judgment is required for the good of the city;
   (f)   Establish department goals, priorities and work plans consistent with
the goals and priorities of the mayor, city council and city manager;
   (g)   Conduct performance evaluations of department employees in accordance
with the personnel policies and procedures of the city;
   (h)   Implement risk management programs required by the city insurance
carriers and city manager to protect the health, safety and welfare of city
employees and the public; prevent financial losses and reduce insurance
premiums; conduct affairs of the department to reduce insurance premiums;
conduct affairs of the department to reduce the potential for claims and
lawsuits against the city;
   (i)   Maintain spending within the budget parameters established by the city
council and the city manager;
   (j)   Purchase equipment, supplies and services in accordance with the
procurement rules and procedures of the city;
   (k)   Recruit, select and appoint employees in accordance with the personnel
policies and procedures of the city;
   (l)   Keep informed as to the latest practices in their particular field and
implement such new practices within the parameters of city ordinances,
resolutions, policies, procedures and regulations in the most efficient and
effective manner possible;
   (m)   Create and maintain a work environment free from sexual and other
forms of harassment;
   (n)   Create and maintain a work environment free from discrimination based
on race, color, age, sex, religion or national origin;
   (o)   Submit reports as required by the city manager detailing the
activities of the department;
   (p)   Establish and maintain a system of filing and indexing records and
reports in sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for proper
control of departmental activities and to form a basis for periodic reports to
the city council and city manager;
   (q)   Perform such other duties assigned by the city manager or that may be
prescribed by the city council or state law.
(Ord. No. 2009-2, § VI(G), 11-17-2009)
ARTICLE 31-III (RESERVED)
HISTORY
Repealed by Ord. 2019-002 on 3/6/2019
ARTICLE 31-IV MISCELLANEOUS
Sec 31-81 Status Verification System For Physical Performance Of Services
ContractsSec 31-82 Compensation Of Elected And Statutory Officers
Sec 31-81 Status Verification System For Physical Performance Of Services
Contracts
   (a)   Employment status verification system. Employers as defined in U.C.A.
1953, § 63G-12-102 and such other entities or individuals submitting,
petitioning, or offering to the city their services for the physical
performance of services for the purposes of entering into a contract shall
certify, under penalty of perjury, that they have registered, are participating
in, and are compliant with the status verification system by providing any and
all required documentation required thereby, verifying the work eligibility
status of the contractor's new employees that are employed in the state in
accordance with current applicable federal and state laws, including but not
limited to all federal and state laws and this section.
      (1)   In addition to the statutory requirements of U.C.A. 1953, § 63G-11-
103(1)(a), any physical performance service contracts with the city shall
require that the following provision be placed in each subcontract at every
tier: "Any contractor or subcontractor who works under or for another
contractor shall certify to the main contractor by affidavit that the
contractor or subcontractor has verified through the state verification system
the employment status of each new employee of the respective contractor or
subcontractor, in accordance with U.C.A. 1953, § 63G-12-301. Such affidavit
must be provided prior to the notice to proceed for the subcontractor to
perform the work."
      (2)   The city shall not consider a proposal for award, nor will it make
any award without compliance with this section, applicable federal laws and
U.C.A. 1953, § 63G-12-301.
      (3)   Manual or electronic submittal of proposals shall be deemed as
contractor's certification of compliance. Said proposals shall include copies
of any and all subcontractors' verifying affidavits referenced in subsection
(a)(1) of this section.
   (b)   Compliance with federal immigration laws.
      (1)   All such proposals or contracts shall comply with current federal
laws governing employment eligibility and verification of contractors,
subcontractors, new employees and workers of such contractors and
subcontractors that contract to provide physical performance of services to the
city during the performance of such a contract.
      (2)   The city shall require that contractual agreements for said
performance of services for the city contain the following provisions:
         a.   By submitting a proposal and/or by signing this contract,
contractor certifies that he does not, nor shall during the performance of this
contract, knowingly employ
or subcontract with any individual contractor or entity which employs workers
in violation of current federal or state immigration laws, or this section, and
U.C.A. 1953, § 63G-12-301.
         b.   Contractors and subcontractors shall produce, at the city's
request, such documents which are required to verify the employment status of
each new employee in compliance with such said current applicable federal and
state laws.
         c.   If the contractor and subcontractor knowingly employ workers in
violation of any such laws, including U.C.A. 1953, § 63G-12-301, such violation
shall be cause for unilateral cancellation of the contract between the
contractor and the city. In the event this contract is terminated due to such a
violation by the contractor or by a subcontractor of the contractor, the
contractor shall be liable for any and all costs associated with such
termination, including, but not limited to, all costs and attorney fees and any
general damages incurred by the city.
Sec 31-82 Compensation Of Elected And Statutory Officers
   (a)   Compensation. The yearly compensation of the elected and statutory
officers shall be established as:
 
Mayor                          $78,000
Manager                        $0
Recorder                       $51,800
Treasurer                      $46,600
Attorney                       Per Contract
Justice Court Judge            $11,271
Mayor and City Council Stipend $70.00/meeting
   (b)   Payment. The Treasurer shall, on the regularly-scheduled bi-weekly
payroll drawn on the municipal checking account, pay each elected and statutory
officer according to the compensation schedule hereby established.
   (c)   Per Diem. Each member of the governing body shall receive mileage and
per diem for all trips approved by the governing body according to the
schedules adopted by the City and by the Utah Department of Finance.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2019-003 on 5/1/2019 Amended by Ord. 2020-002 on 6/3/2020
Amended by Ord. 2020-006 on 8/5/2020 Amended by Ord. 2020-015 on 12/10/2020
Amended by Ord. 2021-002 on 4/7/2021 Amended by Ord. 2021-004 on 7/19/2021
Amended by Ord. 2025-01 Compensation of Elected Officials on 3/4/2025
CHAPTER 34 TAXATION
ARTICLE 34-I IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 34-II SALES AND USE TAX
ARTICLE 34-III MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
ARTICLE 34-IV MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE TAX
ARTICLE 34-V MUNICIPAL TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
ARTICLE 34-I IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 34-II SALES AND USE TAX
Sec
34-19 Purpose
Sec
34-20 Imposition Of Tax; Regulations
Sec
34-21 Penalties
State Law reference— Local Sales and Use Tax Act, U.C.A. 1953, § 59-12-201 et
seq.
Sec 34-19 Purpose
   (a)   The 48th Session of the state legislature has authorized the counties
and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use tax ordinances imposing
a one percent tax.
   (b)   It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales and use tax of
the city to the requirements of the Local Sales and Use Tax Act (U.C.A. 1953, §
59-12-201 et seq.)
(Ord. No. 3-90-1, § 2, 3-12-1990)
Sec 34-20 Imposition Of Tax; Regulations
   (a)   Levied.
      (1)   From and after the effective date of the ordinance from which this
article is derived, there is levied and there shall be collected and paid a tax
upon every retail sale of tangible personal property, services and meals made
within the city at the rate of one percent.
      (2)   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other
consumption in the city of tangible personal property from any retailer at the
rate of one percent of the sales price of the property.
      (3)   For the purpose of this article all retail sales shall be presumed
to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out-of- state destination or to a common carrier for delivery
to an out-of-state destination. In the event a retailer has no permanent place
of business, the place at which the retail sales are consummated shall be as
determined under the rules and regulations prescribed by and adopted by the
state tax commission. Public utilities as defined by U.C.A. 1953, title 3 shall
not be obligated to determine the place within any county or municipality where
public utilities services are rendered, but the place of sale or the sales tax
revenue arising from such service allocable to the city shall be as determined
by the state tax commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules
and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   (b)   State law provisions in force and effect.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the Sales and Use Tax Act (U.C.A. 1953, §
59-12-201 et seq.), all of the provisions of U.C.A. 1953, title 59, ch. 12
(U.C.A. 1953, § 59-12-101 et seq.) as amended, and in force and effect on the
effective date of the ordinance from which this article is derived insofar as
they relate to sales taxes, excepting U.C.A. 1953, § 59-12- 101, are hereby
adopted and made a part of this article as though fully set forth herein.
      (2)   Wherever, and to the extent that in U.C.A. 1953, title 59, ch. 12
(U.C.A. 1953, § 59-12- 101 et seq.), the state is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of the city shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in
this subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the city
for the word "state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state
tax commission, or of the constitution of the state, nor shall the name of the
city be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of
that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the city or
any agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article.
      (3)   If an annual license has been issued to a retailer under U.C.A.
1953, § 59-12-106, an additional license shall not be required by reason of
this section.
      (4)   There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or charged by
which the tax is measured:
         a.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer.
         b.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use
tax has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality
and any county in the state, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by
that county or municipality in accordance with the Sales and Use Tax Act
(U.C.A. 1953, § 59- 12-101 et seq.).
(Ord. No. 3-90-1, § 4, 3-12-1990)
Sec 34-21 Penalties
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a
fine as established by the schedule of fees and penalties or imprisonment for a
period of not more than six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. No. 3-90-1, § 6, 3-12-1990)
ARTICLE 34-III MUNICIPAL ENERGY SALES AND USE TAX
Sec
34-46 Intent
Sec
34-47 Definitions
Sec
34-48 Tax Imposed
Sec
34-49 Exemptions To Tax
Sec
34-50 Existing Franchise Agreements
Sec
34-51 Contract With State Tax Commission
Sec
34-52 State Statutes Incorporated
Sec
34-53 Additional License Or Reporting Not Required
State Law reference— Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-
1-301 et seq.
Sec 34-46 Intent
It is the intent of the city to adopt the municipal energy sales and use tax,
pursuant to and in conformance with U.C.A. 1953, § 10-1-301 et seq., the
Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act.
(Ord. No. 2009-01, § 1, 9-16-2009)
Sec 34-47 Definitions
The definitions in U.C.A. 1953, § 10-1-303 apply to this article. (Ord. No.
2009-01, § 2, 9-16-2009)
Sec 34-48 Tax Imposed
There is hereby levied, subject to the provisions of this article, a tax on
every sale or use of taxable energy made within the city equaling six percent
of the delivered value of the taxable energy to the consumer. This tax shall be
known as the municipal energy sales and use tax.
   (a)   Calculation. The tax shall be calculated on the delivered value of the
taxable energy to the consumer.
   (b)   Additional tax. The tax shall be in addition to any sales or use tax
on taxable energy imposed by the city or the state as authorized by the Local
Sales and Use Tax Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 59-12- 201 et seq.).
(Ord. No. 2009-01, § 3, 9-16-2009)
Sec 34-49 Exemptions To Tax
   (a)   No exemptions are granted from the municipal energy sales and use tax,
except as expressly provided in U.C.A. 1953, § 10-1-305(2)(b), notwithstanding
an exemption granted under Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, part 1
(U.C.A. 1953, § 59-12-101 et seq.), tax collection.
   (b)   As required by U.C.A. 1953, § 10-1-305(2)(b), the following are exempt
from the municipal energy sales and use tax:
      (1)   Sales and use of aviation fuel, motor fuel and special fuels
subject to taxation under U.C.A. 1953, title 59, ch. 13 (U.C.A. 1953, § 59-13-
101 seq.);
      (2)   Sales and use of taxable energy that is exempt from taxation under
federal law, the United States Constitution or the state constitution;
      (3)   Sales and use of taxable energy purchased or stored for resale;
      (4)   Sales or use of taxable energy to a person, if the primary use of
the taxable energy is for use in compounding or producing taxable energy or a
fuel subject to taxation under U.C.A. 1953, title 59, ch. 13 (U.C.A. 1953, §
59-13-101 seq.);
      (5)   Taxable energy brought into the state by a nonresident for the
nonresident's own personal use or enjoyment while within the state, except
taxable energy purchased for use in the state by a nonresident living or
working in the state at the time of purchase;
      (6)   The sale or use of taxable energy for any purpose other than as a
fuel or energy; and
      (7)   The sale of taxable energy for use outside the boundaries of the
city.
   (c)   The sale, storage, use or other consumption of taxable energy is
exempt from the municipal energy sales and use tax levied by this chapter,
provided that:
      (1)   The delivered value of the taxable energy has been subject to a
municipal energy sales or use tax levied by another municipality within the
state authorized by The Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act (U.C.A. 1953, §
10-1-301 et seq.); and
      (2)   The city is paid the difference between the tax paid to the other
municipality and the tax that would otherwise be due under this article, if the
tax due under this article exceeds the tax paid to the other municipality.
(Ord. No. 2009-01, § 4, 9-16-2009)
Sec 34-50 Existing Franchise Agreements
   (a)   No alteration. This article shall not alter any existing franchise
agreements between the city and energy suppliers.
   (b)   Credit against tax due. There is a credit against the tax due from any
consumer in the amount of a contractual franchise fee paid if:
      (1)   The energy supplier pays the contractual franchise fee to the city
pursuant to previous franchise agreements;
      (2)   The contractual franchise fee is passed through by the energy
supplier to a consumer as a separately itemized charge; and
      (3)   The energy supplier has accepted the franchise.
(Ord. No. 2009-01, § 5, 9-16-2009)
Sec 34-51 Contract With State Tax Commission
   (a)   Required; authority of mayor. On or before the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article is derived, the city shall contract with the
state tax commission to perform all functions incident to the administration
and collection of the municipal energy sales and use tax, in accordance with
this article. This contract may be a supplement to any existing contract with
the commission to administer and collect the local sales and use tax. The
mayor, with the approval of the city council and the city attorney, is hereby
authorized to enter supplementary agreements with the state tax commission that
may be necessary to the continued administration and operation of the municipal
energy sales and use tax provisions enacted by the ordinance from which this
article is derived.
   (b)   Monthly payments by supplier; conditions. An energy supplier shall pay
the municipal energy sales and use tax revenues collected from consumers
directly to the city monthly, if:
      (1)   The city is the energy supplier; or
      (2)   Energy supplier estimation and collection:
         a.   The energy supplier estimates that the municipal energy sales and
use tax collected annually from its consumers in the state equals $1,000,000.00
or more; and
         b.   The energy supplier collects the municipal energy sales and use
tax.
   (c)   Deduction of franchise fees. An energy supplier paying the municipal
energy sales and use tax directly to the city may deduct any contractual
franchise fees collected by the energy supplier qualifying as a credit and
remit the net tax less any amount the energy supplier retains as authorized by
U.C.A. 1953, § 10-1-307(4).
(Ord. No. 2009-01, § 6, 9-16-2009)
Sec 34-52 State Statutes Incorporated
   (a)   Specified; exemptions. Except as herein provided, and except insofar
as they are inconsistent with the provisions of the Municipal Energy Sales and
Use Tax Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 10-1-301 et seq.), as well as this article, all of
the provisions of U.C.A. 1953, title 59, ch. 12, pt. 1 (U.C.A. 1953, § 59-12-
101 et seq.), as amended, and in force and effect on the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article is derived, insofar as they relate to sales
and use taxes, excepting U.C.A. 1953, § 59-12-101, and excepting for the amount
of the sales and use taxes levied therein, are hereby adopted and made a part
of this article as if fully set forth herein.
   (b)   Substitution of terms. Wherever, and to the extent that in U.C.A.
1953, title 59, ch. 12, pt. 1 (U.C.A. 1953, § 59-12-101 et seq.), as amended,
the state is named or referred to as the "taxing agency," the name of the city
shall be substituted, insofar as is necessary for the purposes of that part, as
well as the Municipal Energy Sales and Use Tax Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 10-1-301 et
seq.), as amended. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to require
substitution of the name of the city for the word "state" when that word is
used as part of the title of the state tax commission, or of the state
constitution, nor shall the name of the city be substituted for that of the
state in any section when the result of such a substitution would require
action to be taken by or against the city or any agency thereof, rather than by
or against the state tax commission in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this article.
   (c)   Amendments. Any amendments made to U.C.A. 1953, title 59, ch. 12, pt.
1 (U.C.A. 1953, § 59- 12-101 et seq.), which would be applicable to the city
for the purposes of carrying out this article, are hereby incorporated herein
by reference and shall be effective upon the date that they are effective as a
state statute.
(Ord. No. 2009-01, § 7, 9-16-2009)
Sec 34-53 Additional License Or Reporting Not Required
No additional license to collect or report the municipal energy sales and use
tax levied by this article is required, provided the energy supplier collecting
the tax has a license issued under U.C.A. 1953, § 59- 12-106.
(Ord. No. 2009-01, § 8, 9-16-2009)
ARTICLE 34-IV MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE TAX
Sec
34-82 Definitions
Sec
34-83 Levy Of Tax
Sec
34-84 Rate
Sec
34-85 Changes In Rate Or Repeal Of The Tax
Sec
34-86 Procedures For Taxes Erroneously Recovered From Customers
State Law reference— Municipal Telecommunications License Tax Act, U.C.A. 1953,
§ 10-1-401 et seq.
Sec 34-82 Definitions
The definitions in U.C.A. 1953, § 10-1-402 apply to this article. (Ord. No. 06-
04-01, 6-28-2004)
Sec 34-83 Levy Of Tax
There is hereby levied a municipal telecommunications license tax on the gross
receipts from telecommunications service attributed to the city.
(Ord. No. 06-04-01, 6-28-2004)
State Law reference— Tax authorized, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-4-403.
Sec 34-84 Rate
The rate of the tax levy shall be 3.5 percent of the telecommunication
provider's gross receipts from telecommunications service that are attributed
to the city. If the location of a transaction is determined to be other than
the city, then the rate imposed on the gross receipts for telecommunications
services shall be determined pursuant to the provisions of U.C.A. 1953, § 10-1-
407.
(Ord. No. 06-04-01, 6-28-2004)
State Law reference— Maximum tax rate, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-4-403.
Sec 34-85 Changes In Rate Or Repeal Of The Tax
This article is subject to the requirements of U.C.A. 1953, § 10-1-403. If the
tax rate is changed or the tax is repealed, then the appropriate notice shall
be given as provided in U.C.A. 1953, § 10-1-404.
(Ord. No. 06-04-01, 6-28-2004)
Sec 34-86 Procedures For Taxes Erroneously Recovered From Customers
Pursuant to the provisions of U.C.A. 1953, § 10-1-408, a customer may not bring
a cause of action against a telecommunications provider on the basis that the
telecommunications provider erroneously recovered from the customer the
municipal telecommunications license tax except as provided in U.C.A. 1953, §
10-1-408.
(Ord. No. 06-04-01, 6-28-2004)
ARTICLE 34-V MUNICIPAL TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
Sec
34-118 Definitions
Sec
34-119 Purpose
Sec
34-120 Tax Levied
Sec
34-121 Determination Of Gross Receipts
Sec
34-122 Exemptions
Sec
34-123 Payments
Sec
34-124 Penalties And Interest
State Law reference— Municipal transient room tax, U.C.A. 1953, § 59-12-352 et
seq.
Sec 34-118 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Public accommodations means a place providing temporary sleeping accommodations
that are regularly rented to the public and includes:
   (a)   A tourist home:
      (1)   An inn;
      (2)   A bed and breakfast establishment;
      (3)   A condominium;
   (b)   A hotel;
   (c)   A motor court;
Rents shall include:
   (a)   Rents; and
   (b)   Timeshare fees and dues.
Transient means the occupation of a public accommodation, by a person, of less
than 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. No. 2015-12-01, § 3.34.5.4, 12-15-2015)
Sec 34-119 Purpose
The state legislature has authorized municipalities to enact a transient room
tax that may be collected from persons and entities providing public
accommodations in the city. It is the purpose of this article to provide a
method of funding public services to the transient public and to provide for
the uniform assessment and collection of that tax pursuant to U.C.A. 1953,
title 59, ch. 12, part 3a (U.C.A. 1953, § 59-12-352 et seq.).
(Ord. No. 2015-12-01, § 3.34.5.2, 12-15-2015)
Sec 34-120 Tax Levied
There is levied and there shall be collected from every business, company,
corporation or other like and similar persons, groups or organizations doing
business within the city as tourist homes, inns, bed and breakfast
establishments, condominiums, and motor courts, motels, hotels, or like and
similar public accommodations, a transient room tax equal to one percent of the
gross revenue derived from the rent for each and every occupancy of a suite or
room for a period of less than 30 days.
(Ord. No. 2015-12-01, § 3.34.5.5, 12-15-2015)
State Law reference— Municipal transient room tax authorized, U.C.A. 1953, §
59-12-352.
Sec 34-121 Determination Of Gross Receipts
For purposes of this article, gross receipts shall be computed upon the base
room rental rate. There shall be excluded from the gross revenue, by which this
tax is measured:
   (a)   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state or by any
other governmental agency upon a retailer or consumer;
   (b)   The amount of any transient room tax levied under authority of U.C.A.
1953, title 17, ch. 31 (U.C.A. 1953, § 17-31-1 et seq.);
   (c)   Receipts from the sale or service charge for any food, beverage, or
room-service charges in conjunction with the occupancy of the suite or room,
not included in the base room rate; and
   (d)   Charges made for supplying telephone service, gas, or electrical
energy service, not included in the base room rate.
(Ord. No. 2015-12-01, § 3.34.5.6, 12-15-2015)
Sec 34-122 Exemptions
No transient room tax shall be imposed under this article upon any person:
   (a)   Engaged in business for solely religious, charitable, eleemosynary, or
other types of strictly nonprofit purposes who is tax exempt in such activities
under the laws of the United Sates and the state; or
   (b)   Engaged in a business specifically exempted from municipal taxation
and fees by the laws of the United States or the state.
(Ord. No. 2015-12-01, § 3.34.5.7, 12-15-2015)
Sec 34-123 Payments
On or before the effective date of the ordinance from which this article is
derived, the city shall contract with the state tax commission to perform all
functions incident to the administration and collection of the municipal
transient room tax, in accordance with the provisions of this article. The
mayor is hereby authorized to enter into agreements with the state tax
commission that may be necessary to the continued administration and operation
of the transient room tax enacted by this article.
(Ord. No. 2015-12-01, § 3.34.5.9, 12-15-2015)
Sec 34-124 Penalties And Interest
In the event that any person or entity that is required to report and pay the
tax provided for in this article fails to remit same to the state tax
commission when due, he shall be subject to the penalties and interest set
forth in U.C.A. 1953, §§ 59-1-401 and 59-1-402.
(Ord. No. 2015-12-01, § 3.34.5.9, 12-15-2015)
CHAPTER 35 HAZARDOUS MATERIAL COST RECOVERY
Sec
35-1 Definitions
Sec
35-2 Recovery Of Expenses
Sec
35-3 Cost Recovery Procedure
Sec
35-4 Action To Recover Costs
Sec
35-5 Expenses Of Other Responding Entities
State Law reference— Hazardous Materials Emergency Act, U.C.A. 1953, § 53-2a-
701 et seq.
Sec 35-1 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Agency means the Southwest Region Hazmat Agency.
Expenses means all costs incurred for the response, containment and/or removal
and disposal of hazardous materials on initial remedial action. The term
"expenses" includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the actual labor costs
of government and other personnel, including workers compensation benefits,
fringe benefits, administrative overhead, and any costs of equipment, equipment
operation, materials, disposal and any contract labor or materials.
Hazardous materials emergency means a sudden and unexpected release of any
substance that, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics, presents a direct and immediate threat to public
safety or the environment, and requires immediate action to mitigate the
threat.
(Ord. No. 2003-2-1, § 1, 2-1-2003)
Sec 35-2 Recovery Of Expenses
   (a)   Those persons or entities whose negligent or intentional actions cause
or create, in whole or in part, a hazardous materials emergency within the
boundaries of the city are liable to the agency/city for all costs and expenses
incurred in or arising from response to such hazardous materials emergency by
the agency/city and any other political subdivision, agency or cooperative
entity. The agency/city shall recover all such costs and expenses, including
reasonable attorney fees, litigation expenses and court costs incurred in,
related to or arising out of, all cost recovery efforts and enforcement of the
terms of this chapter.
   (b)   All costs and expenses shall be billed at the current rate established
and approved by resolution of the executive committee of the Agency.
   (c)   The payment of expenses under this section does not constitute an
admission of liability or negligence in any legal action for damages.
(Ord. No. 2003-2-1, § 2, 2-1-2003)
State Law reference— Recovery of expenses in cases of negligence, U.C.A. 1953,
§ 53-2a-703.
Sec 35-3 Cost Recovery Procedure
   (a)   The agency/city shall investigate and determine the person or entity
responsible for causing or creating the hazardous materials emergency and shall
notify the responsible party in writing of said determination of responsibility
and the amount of costs and expenses incurred by the agency/city in responding
to the hazardous materials emergency.
   (b)   The notice required by subsection (a) of this section shall specify
that the party determined to be responsible for causing or creating the
hazardous materials emergency has the right to appeal the decision determining
responsibility to the governing body of the agency/city and shall specify a
deadline for filing the notice of appeal and the person or office in which it
must be filed. The deadline for filing the notice of appeal shall not be less
than 15 days from the date of the notice.
   (c)   In the event a notice of appeal is filed, the hearing before the
governing body shall be an informal public hearing, and the parties shall not
be required to adhere to the state rules of civil procedure or evidence. The
appealing party and the city shall each be entitled to present evidence and
argument in support of their respective positions, in accordance with
procedures established at the hearing by the governing body.
   (d)   The decision of the governing body shall be final.
(Ord. No. 2003-2-1, § 3, 2-1-2003)
State Law reference— Recovery of expenses in cases of negligence, U.C.A. 1953,
§ 53-2a-703.
Sec 35-4 Action To Recover Costs
In the event the responsible party fails or refuses to pay all of the costs and
expenses determined by the agency/city related to or arising out of the agency/
city's response to the hazardous materials emergency within 30 days after
assessment or after the governing body's decision on an appeal, the agency/city
may initiate a legal action to recover such costs, including reasonable
attorney fees and costs.
(Ord. No. 2003-2-1, § 4, 2-1-2003)
Sec 35-5 Expenses Of Other Responding Entities
   (a)   In the event that personnel and equipment from other political
subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities shall respond to assist with the
hazardous materials emergency, then the city shall recover costs and expenses
incurred by such other political subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities
as part of the agency/city's cost recovery efforts.
   (b)   Upon recovery of costs and expenses from the responsible party, the
agency/city is authorized to reimburse such other political subdivisions,
agencies or cooperative entities for their actual costs incurred in responding
to the hazardous materials emergency.
(Ord. No. 2003-2-1, § 5, 2-1-2003)
TITLE V PUBLIC WORKS
CHAPTER 50 SEWER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 51 WATER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 52 UNIFORM UTILITY BILLING
CHAPTER 53 NATURAL GAS
CHAPTER 54 STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY
CHAPTER 55 DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 50 SEWER REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 50-I IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 50-II USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
ARTICLE 50-III PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
ARTICLE 50-IV BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
ARTICLE 50-V TREATMENT OF WASTE IN PUBLIC SEWERS
ARTICLE 50-VI AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS; VIOLATIONS
ARTICLE 50-VII RATES, CHARGES AND PAYMENTS
ARTICLE 50-VIII MISCELLANEOUS
State Law reference— Water, lighting and sewers, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-7-4 et seq.
ARTICLE 50-I IN GENERAL
Sec
50-1 Definitions
Sec
50-2 Penalty
Sec 50-1 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BOD (denoting biochemical oxygen demand) means the quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidization of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20 degrees Celsius, expressed in parts per million by
weight.
Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
Building official means the city building official as provided for under the
ordinances of the city, or his duly authorized agent or representative.
Building sewer means the extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
Consumer or customer means the recipient of wastewater treatment services.
Finance director/treasurer means the finance director/treasurer of the city as
provided for under the ordinances of the city or his duly authorized agent or
representative.
Garbage means solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of
food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food products.
Industrial wastes means liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage, resulting from any commercial, manufacturing, or
industrial operation or process, but the term "industrial wastes" is not to be
construed as meaning any solids, sludge or paunch, or any grease that congeals
or becomes solidified, or any matter that emits offensive odor.
May means permissive.
Natural outlet means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
Occupant means a person occupying a property for the purpose of residential,
industrial or other use, by permission of the owner.
Occupied means premises containing a structure which has a physical sanitary
sewer connection (tap- in) and water service.
Owner means the person recorded on the property tax records for the deeded
property.
Permit means any written authorization required pursuant to this or any other
regulation of the city for the installation of any sewage works.
pH means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution (i.e., the measure of relative acidity).
Properly shredded garbage means the wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degrees that all particles
will be carried under the flow conditions normally prevailing in the public
sewer, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
Public sewer means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
Public works director means the public works director as provided for under the
ordinances of the city, or his duly authorized agent or representative.
Residence means a building or house erected or constructed on any lot, parcel
of land or premises and used primarily for dwelling purposes with a yard
adjacent thereto.
Sanitary sewage means the washes from water closets, urinals, lavatories,
sinks, bathtubs, showers, household laundries, basement floor drains, garage
floor drains, bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking
fountains and floor drains, but excluding stormwater, surface water,
groundwater and industrial wastes.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer which carries sewage, and to which stormwater,
surface water and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
Sewage means a combination of water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwater, surface water and stormwaters as may be present.
Sewage treatment plant or treatment plant means an arrangement of devices and
structures used for treating sewage.
Sewage works means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
Sewer means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
Sewer connection means the connection to the public sewer and the extension
therefrom of the sewer to the property line at the alley or the curbline of the
street, whichever is applicable, depending on the location of the public sewer.
Sewer connection fee means the initial sewer tap-in fee and impact fee as set
forth in section
50-173 and shall apply to all sewer connections to the public sewer after the
effective date of this Code.
Shall means mandatory.
State authority means either State of Arizona or State of Utah, whichever state
has jurisdiction.
Storm sewer or storm drain means a sewer or drain which carries or disposes of
stormwater, surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted
industrial wastes.
Suspended solids means solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
Treasurer shall be used interchangeably with "finance director/treasurer" as
heretofore defined.
User charge or sewer charge means the charge made to the recipient of sanitary
sewer services by the city to defray the costs of operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) of the sewage collection and treatment facilities of the
city.
Wastewater superintendent means the manager of the city wastewater department
or his duly authorized agent or representative.
Watercourse means a channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently. (Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.01), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-2 Penalty
   (a)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is already provided, beyond the time limit provided in the required
notice shall be punished as provided in section
4-2.
   (b)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall become liable to
the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned the city by reason of such
violation.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.99), 2-13-2001)
ARTICLE 50-II USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
Sec
50-21 Depositing Sanitary Matter On Property
Sec
50-22 Disposal Of Waste Into Natural Outlet
Sec
50-23 Maintaining A Privy , Privy Vault, Etc
Sec
50-24 Installation Of Toilet Facilities
Sec
50-25 Discharge Of Certain Waters Into Sanitary Sewers Unlawful
Sec
50-26 Storm Sewers/Drains
Sec
50-27 Waters Which Are Not To Be Discharged Into Sewer
Sec 50-21 Depositing Sanitary Matter On Property
It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited
in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property, within the city, any
human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.02), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-22 Disposal Of Waste Into Natural Outlet
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or in
any area under jurisdiction of the city any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.03), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-23 Maintaining A Privy, Privy Vault, Etc
Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.04), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-24 Installation Of Toilet Facilities
The occupant of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purpose, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required
at his expense to connect all toilet facilities directly with the proper public
sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after
date of official notice to do so provided that such public sewer is within 300
feet of the structure to be served.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.05), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-25 Discharge Of Certain Waters Into Sanitary Sewers Unlawful
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process water to any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.06), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-26 Storm Sewers/Drains
Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers
or drains as are specifically designated as such or to a natural outlet
approved by the building official. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged upon approval of the building official to a
storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.07), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-27 Waters Which Are Not To Be Discharged Into Sewer
Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewer:
   (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees
Fahrenheit.
   (b)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 50 parts per million,
by weight, of fat, oil or grease.
   (c)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   (d)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
   (e)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, grits such as brick, cement, onyx
and carbide or any other solid or viscous substances capable of causing
obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewage works.
   (f)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
   (g)   Any waters or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
   (h)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the sewage treatment plant.
   (i)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.08), 2-13-2001)
ARTICLE 50-III PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
Sec
50-58 When Required
Sec
50-59 Before Construction Permit Required; Application Fee
Sec
50-60 Inspection Of Work To Be Made
Sec
50-61 Private System Must Comply With All Recommendations
Sec
50-62 When Private Sewage Disposal Shall Be Abandoned
Sec
50-63 Operation And Maintenance At Occupant's Expense
Sec
50-64 Additional Requirements Imposed
Sec 50-58 When Required
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of this
chapter the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.10), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-59 Before Construction Permit Required; Application Fee
   (a)   Before the commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the occupant shall first obtain a written permit signed by the building
official.
   (b)   The application for such a permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the building department, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the building
official.
   (c)   A permit and inspection fee according to the schedule of fees and
penalties on file shall be paid at the time the application is filed.
   (d)   At time of installation, a dry sewer shall be built to the property
line nearest the future route of the public sewer in such a manner as to
facilitate connection when public service is available.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.11), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-60 Inspection Of Work To Be Made
Use of a private sewage disposal system shall not be permitted until the
installation is completed to the requirements of the state plumbing code. The
building official shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction, and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
building official when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours
of the receipt of notice by the building official.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.12), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-61 Private System Must Comply With All Recommendations
The type, capacity, location and layout of a private sewage disposal system
shall comply with all recommendations of the appropriate state authority. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge into any public sewer.
No septic tank or cesspool shall be allowed unless there is in connection
therewith a proper leaching bed or leaching well.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.13), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-62 When Private Sewage Disposal Shall Be Abandoned
At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in this chapter, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this chapter,
and any septic tanks, cesspools, or similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and if deemed necessary by the building official, pumped out
and filled with suitable materials at the expense of the occupant.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.14), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-63 Operation And Maintenance At Occupant's Expense
The occupant shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a manner satisfying the state plumbing code at all times at no expense to
the city.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.15), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-64 Additional Requirements Imposed
No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirement that may be imposed by the building official in
compliance with the state plumbing code.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.16), 2-13-2001)
ARTICLE 50-IV BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
Sec
50-87 Tampering With Public Sewer Or Appurtenance
Sec
50-88 Building Sewer Connections; Applications; Fees
Sec
50-89 Cost And Expense To Be Borne By Occupant
Sec
50-90 Separate Sewer For Each Building; Exception
Sec
50-91 When Old Building Sewers May Be Used
Sec
50-92 Sewer Specifications; Joint Specifications
Sec
50-93 Connection Of Building Sewer With Public Sewer
Sec
50-94 Notification For Inspection
Sec
50-95 Excavations To Be Adequately Guarded
Sec 50-87 Tampering With Public Sewer Or Appurtenance
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the wastewater superintendent.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.20), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-88 Building Sewer Connections; Applications; Fees
   (a)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
   (b)   In either case, the occupant or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the wastewater department, which the applicant shall
supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed
necessary by the wastewater superintendent.
   (c)   A tap-in fee and impact fee according to the schedule of fees and
penalties on file shall be paid at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.21), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-89 Cost And Expense To Be Borne By Occupant
All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the occupant. The occupant shall indemnify the
city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.22), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-90 Separate Sewer For Each Building; Exception
   (a)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for each
building that is designed to be occupied by people, even if it is within the
property boundaries of an existing service. These buildings include, but are
not limited to: homes, schools, businesses of employment, trailers, apartments
and churches. Buildings that do not require a separate service include, but are
not limited to: barns, sheds, residential shops, residential animal housings
and bunkhouses used exclusively for sleeping quarters.
   (b)   Exception. Where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.23), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-91 When Old Building Sewers May Be Used
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they
are found on examination and test by the building official to meet all the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.24), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-92 Sewer Specifications; Joint Specifications
   (a)   Sewer specifications.
      (1)   The building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe, ASTM
specification (A74-42) or equal; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM specifications
(C-700 extra strength or equal); PVC, or other suitable material approved by
the building official and the state plumbing code. Joints shall be tight and
waterproof. Cast iron pipe with approved joints may be required by the building
official where the building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots. If
installed in filled or unstable ground, the building official may require such
particular materials and/or installation methods as may be deemed necessary.
Two sewer cleanouts facing each other shall be installed on the building sewer
immediately outside the structure.
      (2)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the building official, but in no event shall the diameter be less
than four inches, nor the slope of such pipe be less than one-eighth inch per
foot.
      (3)   No building sewer shall be laid parallel to within less than three
feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be
sufficient to afford protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at
uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible. Change in
direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe and fittings.
      (4)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
The responsibility of the installation, operation and maintenance, and all
other liability involved with the operation of such device is the sole
responsibility of the occupant.
      (5)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the building official.
Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM
specification (C12-72), except that no backfill shall be placed until the work
has been inspected.
      (6)   In the event that the building sewer is in excess of 100 feet from
the building to the property line, a downstream facing clean-out wye shall be
installed at least every 100 feet of pipe length.
   (b)   Joint specifications.
      (1)   All joints and connections shall be made watertight.
      (2)   All joints in vitrified clay pipe or between such pipe and metals
shall be made with watertight "O" ring compression joints or with approved
adapters.
      (3)   Other jointing materials and methods may be used only by approval
of the building official.
   (c)   The standard specifications shall be the state plumbing code as
adopted by the city council.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.25), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-93 Connection Of Building Sewer With Public Sewer
The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be at the
property line when such interceptor is available to the occupant's property.
Connection at the property line shall be made with a clean-out wye at the
occupant's expense. If no interceptor is available to the property line or if
the location of the interceptor is other than that desired by the occupant, the
occupant shall, at his expense, install a connection to the public sewer at a
location approved and as specified by the wastewater superintendent. Such
connection shall be made by cutting a neat hole into the public sewer to
receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream direction at an angle
of approximately 45 degrees. A 45-degree ell may be used to make such
connections, with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the inner surface
of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the point of
connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the
public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the connection made
secure and watertight. Special fittings may be used for the connection only
when approved by the wastewater superintendent.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.26), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-94 Notification For Inspection
The applicant for the building sewer connection shall notify the building
official or the wastewater superintendent when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the building official or the wastewater
superintendent.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.27), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-95 Excavations To Be Adequately Guarded
All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city as determined by
the city public works director.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.28), 2-13-2001)
ARTICLE 50-V TREATMENT OF WASTE IN PUBLIC SEWERS
Sec
50-119 Interceptors To Be Provided When Necessary
Sec
50-120 Materials Used To Construct Interceptors
Sec
50-121 Interceptors To Be Maintained By Occupant
Sec
50-122 Procedure When Waste Is Emitted Into Public Sewer
Sec
50-123 Preliminary Treatment Facilities Maintained At Occupant's Expense
Sec
50-124 Installation Of Control Manhole
Sec
50-125 Test, Analysis, Etc, Of Water And Waste
Sec
50-126 Special Agreements Or Arrangements
Sec 50-119 Interceptors To Be Provided When Necessary
Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, according to the
state plumbing code and the building official, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes, containing grease in excessive amounts, or
any flammable wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. Grease traps shall be required at all public premises where food is
served, such as restaurants, cafeterias and boardinghouses. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the building official and shall be
located to be readily accessible for cleaning. All interceptors shall be
readily accessible for inspection by the wastewater superintendent.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.30), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-120 Materials Used To Construct Interceptors
Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials
capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall
be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily movable
covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.31), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-121 Interceptors To Be Maintained By Occupant
Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be maintained by
the occupant, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
The wastewater superintendent shall inspect interceptors annually.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.32), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-122 Procedure When Waste Is Emitted Into Public Sewer
   (a)   The admission into public sewers of any wastes or waters having the
following content shall be subject to the review and approval of the wastewater
superintendent:
      (1)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 250 parts per
million by weight;
      (2)   Containing more than 300 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids;
      (3)   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described heretofore in section
50-27 (1) to (9) inclusive; or
      (4)   Having an average daily flow greater than two percent of the
average daily sewer flow of the city.
   (b)   Where necessary in the opinion of the wastewater superintendent, the
occupant shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to:
      (1)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 250 parts per million and
the suspended solids to 300 parts per million by weight;
      (2)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the
maximum limits provided above in this section;
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters and
wastes; or
      (4)   Comply with federal pretreatment requirements as per 40 CFR 403.
   (c)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent data relative to
proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval
of the wastewater superintendent and also to the appropriate state authority
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until such approvals
are obtained in writing.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.33), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-123 Preliminary Treatment Facilities Maintained At Occupant's Expense
Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation,
by the occupant at his expense.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.34), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-124 Installation Of Control Manhole
When required by the wastewater superintendent, the occupant of any property
served by a building sewer carrying industrial waste shall install a suitable
control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the wastewater superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the occupant
at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible
to the wastewater superintendent at all times.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.35), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-125 Test, Analysis, Etc, Of Water And Waste
All measurement, test and analysis of the characteristics of water and wastes
to which reference has been made in sections
50-122 and
50-124 shall be determined in accordance with "Standard Methods For Examination
of Water and Sewage" as set forth by the state and be determined at the control
manhole, provided in
50-124 or upon suitable samples taken at such control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.36), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-126 Special Agreements Or Arrangements
No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.37), 2-13-2001)
ARTICLE 50-VI AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS; VIOLATIONS
Sec 50-151 Officer Shall Be Permitted For Inspection PurposesSec 50-152 Notice
Of Violation
Sec 50-151 Officer Shall Be Permitted For Inspection Purposes
The wastewater superintendent and/or other duly authorized employees of the
city bearing the proper credentials and identifications shall be permitted to
enter upon all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.40), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-152 Notice Of Violation
Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be served
by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.41), 2-13-2001)
ARTICLE 50-VII RATES, CHARGES AND PAYMENTS
Sec
50-173 Tap-In Fees And Impact Fees
Sec
50-174 Rental For Sewer Services
Sec
50-175 When Not Subject To Charge
Sec
50-176 Sewer Fund
Sec
50-177 Sewer Rates Within The City
Sec
50-178 Industrial Exemptions
Sec
50-179 Payment Of Sewer Charges
Sec
50-180 Beginning Of Rental
Sec
50-181 Penalty For Non-Payment Of Sewer Charges
Sec
50-182 Collection Of Rentals By Treasurer
Sec
50-183 Industries Which Must Enter Into Special Agreements
Sec
50-184 Contracts With Others Outside City Limits
Sec 50-173 Tap-In Fees And Impact Fees
   (a)   At the time of application for building sewer connection there shall
be collected from the applicant a sewer tap-in fee and sewer impact fee for
each residence, business, or industry.
   (b)   Sewer tap-in fees. A tap-in fee in the amount established by the
schedule of fees and penalties shall be charged for each sewer connection. The
tap-in-fee shall be levied for the purpose of defraying costs of reviewing,
analyzing and changing, if necessary, the applicant's plans and/or
specifications, and inspecting and mapping the installation. Said fees shall be
deposited into the city's sewer fund as defined by section
50-176 and utilized for the purposes therein specified.
   (c)   Sewer impact fees. Impact fees shall be computed on the basis of
equivalent residential units (ERUs). One ERU shall be defined as the average
sewage flow capacity expected from a typical detached single-family dwelling.
All uses other than single-family dwellings shall be expressed in fractions or
multiples of one ERU. In no case shall a connection be classified as less than
one ERU. An impact fee per ERU as established in the schedule of fees and
penalties shall be charged to all new connections according to the following
table. Said fees shall be deposited into the city's sewer fund as defined by
section
50-176 and utilized for the renewal and replacement of sewer collection and
treatment infrastructure. Locations which have both a building permit and sewer
service available in the street serving the property prior to the enactment
date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived shall be exempt from
paying the impact fee.
TABLE OF ERUs FOR TYPICAL USES
Use ERUs
Use                                                   ERUs
Single-family dwellings (one head of household)       1
Multiple-family dwellings, per family                 1
Assembly halls, churches, auditoriums, and schools
Per set of restrooms                                  1
Restaurant, other public businesses
First 30 seats                                        1
Each additional 30 or fraction                        1
Factories, industrial plants
Per set of restrooms                                  1
Hospitals, nursing homes for each eight beds          1
Offices, retail merchants, shopping centers per 3,500 1
square feet
Plus per food service                                 1
Plus per laundry                                      1
Service stations without car wash                     1
Car wash                                              Wastewater superintendent
Other uses                                            Wastewater superintendent
 
For uses not covered in the table or for extreme quantity or quality of
effluent, appropriate ERU classification shall be determined by the wastewater
superintendent, in accordance with accepted engineering criteria.
   (d)   In the event where the city installs new wastewater main lines, there
shall be an appropriately determined construction fee assessed to each property
that will be served, to cover the cost of installing wastewater main lines and
appurtenances. To serve property which is not city-owned, the developer shall
be responsible for the installation of main lines and appurtenances, including
the sewer laterals, up to the property line of each lot to be served. Where a
developer constructs, totally at his own expense, street sewers, lateral
sewers, and appurtenances thereto, all construction methods and materials used
shall meet all city requirements and standards.
   (e)   Payment of Sewer tap-in and impact fees. No building sewer connection
shall be allowed without payment arrangements of tap-in fees and impact fees.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.43), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-174 Rental For Sewer Services
It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary and conducive to the
protection of the public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the city to
levy and collect service charges or sewer rentals upon all occupied premises
served by, having connection with, or having access to the sanitary sewerage
system and the sewage treatment plant of the city; the proceeds of such charges
or rentals so derived shall be for the operation, maintenance and replacement
of the sanitary sewage system and treatment plant as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.44), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-175 When Not Subject To Charge
   (a)   Any water which is not polluted and does not find its way into the
sanitary sewerage system shall not be subject to a sewer charge.
   (b)   Monthly charges may be exempted by the wastewater superintendent on a
case-by-case basis if the building is under construction and there is no water
going down the sewer. The occupant or a representative must present the
situation in person or in writing to the wastewater superintendent for approval
on a case-by-case basis.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.45), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-176 Sewer Fund
The funds received from the collection of sewer service rates and charges shall
be deposited with the city treasurer and kept by him in a separate and distinct
fund known as the city wastewater fund. This fund shall be used for the payment
of the cost of the management, construction, maintenance, debt service,
operation, design, improvement, and expansion of the sewerage system and sewage
treatment plant.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.46), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-177 Sewer Rates Within The City
   (a)   There is hereby levied and assessed upon each occupied premises,
having any sewer connection with or having access to the sanitary sewerage
system of the city or otherwise discharging sewage or industrial wastes into
the city sanitary sewerage system, a sewer service charge or rental, payable as
hereinafter provided and in an amount determinable for all users of the city
sanitary sewerage system, except as hereinafter provided. The rates shall be as
established in the schedule of fees and penalties.
   (b)   The rates and usage shall be reviewed periodically and adjusted if
necessary to cover the cost of operating, maintaining and replacing the system.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.47), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-178 Industrial Exemptions
In the event a lot, parcel of land, building or premises discharging sanitary
sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the city's sewerage
system, either directly or indirectly, is an industry and it can be shown, to
the satisfaction of the wastewater superintendent, that a portion of the water,
as measured by the water meter, does not and cannot enter the sewerage system,
the wastewater superintendent may determine in such manner and by such method
as he may find practicable, the percentage of metered water entering the
sewerage system, and the classification used to determine the sewer charge or
rental shall be that percentage, so determined, of the quantity of water
measured by the water meter. This industrial waste water shall also be subject
to sections
50-27 and
50-119 to
50-125.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.48), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-179 Payment Of Sewer Charges
The sewer charge or rental provided in this chapter shall be payable monthly at
the office of the city treasurer, upon statements rendered in the method,
manner and form as may be provided by the city.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.49), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-180 Beginning Of Rental
The sewer charge or rental shall be levied upon the first date that sanitary
sewer service is connected to the occupied property except as exempted in
section
50-175.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.50), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-181 Penalty For Non-Payment Of Sewer Charges
The non-payment of each charge or rental levied by or pursuant to this chapter
is subject to a penalty of water disconnection as defined in the state building
code adopted by the city, except that there shall be no monetary penalty
charged on sewer services. For locations outside the city, or for locations
which do not have city water service, the non-payment of sewer charges shall
result in disconnection of sewer services, or court action, or both. The
customer shall be liable for all costs associated with the collection of sewer
charges, including court costs.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.51), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-182 Collection Of Rentals By Treasurer
The sewer charges or rentals charged pursuant to this chapter shall be
collected by the treasurer, and the wastewater superintendent shall enforce
such bylaws and regulations as may be deemed necessary for the safe, economical
and efficient management and protection of the city's sewer system, pumping
stations, sewage treatment works, and connections to the sewer system, and for
the regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of such charges and rentals,
and such bylaws and regulations shall have the effect of ordinances.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.52), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-183 Industries Which Must Enter Into Special Agreements
   (a)   An exception to the rates set forth in section
50-177 shall be taken in special cases where industrial customers discharge an
effluent of such character and strength into the city sanitary sewers which
causes special problems and increased cost in sewage treatment. Included in
this class, but not limited to, are: cattle, swine and poultry processing, acid
plants, canning plants and other processing plants, plating, anodizing, cool
processing and manufacturing plants and the like.
   (b)   Such industrial customers and the city shall negotiate and enter into
an agreement as to the rate to be charged such industrial customers for the
treatment of their wastes. In the event that no agreement can be reached as to
the rate, upon written notice from the city, such industries shall be required
to provide their own waste treatment facilities in accordance with requirements
of the appropriate state authority. Plans shall be approved prior to
construction by the appropriate state authority.
   (c)   All industries and entities subject to the Federal Industrial Cost
Recovery Act shall enter into an agreement with the city in accordance with
U.S. EPA regulations.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.53), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-184 Contracts With Others Outside City Limits
The city may enter into agreements to be ratified and confirmed by the city
council, with cities, towns, corporations, and individuals whose premises are
located without the corporate limits of the city who desire to discharge
sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids into the city's sewerage
system; which agreement shall fix the rates, terms, and conditions under which
such sewage, industrial wastes, water or other liquids may be discharged into
such sewerage system and shall be in conformity with the other sections of this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.54), 2-13-2001)
ARTICLE 50-VIII MISCELLANEOUS
Sec
50-207 Tampering With Equipment Prohibited
Sec
50-208 Records To Be Kept By City
Sec
50-209 City Responsibilities And Liabilities
Sec
50-210 Ownership
Sec
50-211 Consumer's Responsibilities
Sec
50-212 Implied Service Agreement
Sec 50-207 Tampering With Equipment Prohibited
No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the municipal sewage works.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.55), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-208 Records To Be Kept By City
The city shall keep a record of all building connections made, the purpose for
which they are to be used, together with the name of the owner and occupant of
the property, his agent or representative.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.56), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-209 City Responsibilities And Liabilities
   (a)   The city shall not be responsible for the installation, maintenance or
inspection of the consumer's service line piping apparatus or for any defects
therein.
   (b)   The city shall have the right to refuse service unless the consumer's
lines or piping are installed in such manner as to prevent cross connections or
backflow.
   (c)   Under normal conditions, the consumer shall be notified of any
anticipated interruption of service.
   (d)   The city shall not be responsible for the negligence of third persons
or forces beyond the control of the city resulting in any interruption of
services or damage to the property of the consumer.
   (e)   The city may refuse service to any prospective consumer when the
capacity of the sewer system will not permit additional loads being placed
thereon.
   (f)   The sewer department may discontinue its service without notice for
the following reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse.
      (2)   The consumer's willful disregard of or refusal to comply with this
chapter or other rules as may be adopted by the city.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.57), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-210 Ownership
The city shall have exclusive control of connections to the main sewer lines,
and, upon completion, the main lines shall become and be the property of the
city. Except as otherwise herein provided, all provisions of the city Code and
ordinances or amendments thereto applicable to sewer services including all
charges therefor shall apply to services in the proposed area.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.58), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-211 Consumer's Responsibilities
   (a)   The consumer's house or building service line, sewer connection and
apparatus shall be installed and maintained by the consumer, including
maintenance of the sewer lateral from the property line to the sewer main line
in the street, at the consumer's expense, in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with the city's rules and regulations and in full compliance with
the regulations of the applicable state authority.
   (b)   The consumer shall safeguard the city's property placed on the
consumer's premises and shall permit access to it only by the authorized
representatives of the city.
   (c)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the sewer
department or any accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or
results from the negligence or wrongful act of the consumer, his agents or
employees, the cost of necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the
consumer to the sewer department and any liability otherwise resulting shall be
assumed by the consumer. The amount of such loss or damage or the cost of
repairs may be added to the consumer's bill and, if not paid, service may be
discontinued by the sewer department.
   (d)   When service to a consumer shall require the laying of any city sewer
lines or the installation of any other city property on, under, across or over
the consumer's property, the consumer will grant to the city an easement,
right-of-way, or license for such installation.
   (e)   It is unlawful for any person having a permit to dig up any portion of
any street or alley of the city for the purpose of connecting with the sewer
system of the city and fail or neglect to place the street or alley in its
original condition under the supervision of the city and as required by it.
   (f)   Within 15 days from the date of transfer of occupancy, the customer
shall deliver written notification to the city of any such change in occupancy
of the real property.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.59), 2-13-2001)
Sec 50-212 Implied Service Agreement
In the absence of a signed service agreement, the rental for wastewater service
by the city and the acceptance thereof by the customer shall be deemed to
constitute an agreement by and between the city and the customer for rental and
acceptance of wastewater service under the terms and conditions contained in
this chapter and the applicable rate schedule.
(Ord. No. 2-01-1, § I(2-01-1.60), 2-13-2001)
CHAPTER 51 WATER REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 51-I CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
ARTICLE 51-II (RESERVED)
ARTICLE 51-III CULINARY WATER SYSTEM CONSERVATION AND RATIONING
State Law reference— Water, lighting and sewers, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-7-4 et seq.
ARTICLE 51-I CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
Sec
51-1 Duty To Implement
Sec
51-2 Assessment Of Hazards
Sec
51-3 Unprotected Cross Connections Prohibited
Sec
51-4 Installation Required
Sec
51-5 Right Of Entry And Inspection
Sec
51-6 Cost Of Installation And Testing
Sec
51-7 Frequency Of Testing
Sec
51-8 Penalty For Violation
Sec
51-9 Existing Equipment
Sec 51-1 Duty To Implement
The city water department superintendent, or his duly authorized agent, shall
be charged with implementing the terms of this article. The city shall use
reasonable means to notify customers of the hazards of cross connections and
shall implement a regular schedule of customer education. The city shall keep
reasonable records of cross connection hazards and the location and test
results of backflow prevention assemblies as required by state and federal
agencies.
(Ord. No. 01-9-1, § 1, 9-11-2001)
Sec 51-2 Assessment Of Hazards
The city shall assess each connection for potential backflow hazards:
   (a)   At the time of water connection.
   (b)   On existing services when a building permit is issued which involves
major plumbing changes.
   (c)   The city shall review its water customer list periodically for
potential hazardous connections.
(Ord. No. 01-9-1, § 2, 9-11-2001)
Sec 51-3 Unprotected Cross Connections Prohibited
It shall be unlawful at any place supplied with water from the city water
department to install or use any physical connection or arrangement of piping
or fixtures which may allow any fluid or substance not suitable for human
consumption to come in contact with potable water in the city water
distribution system, without using a backflow prevention device or assembly
designed and approved for the prevention of such backflow. Any such device or
assembly must be approved for installation by the city water department and in
accordance with the state plumbing code with respect to each application.
(Ord. No. 01-9-1, § 3, 9-11-2001)
Sec 51-4 Installation Required
   (a)   Whenever the city deems that a customer's service connection
contributes a sufficient hazard to the water system, installation of an
approved backflow prevention assembly shall be required on the customer's
service line at or near the property line, immediately inside the building
being served, or at the point of cross connection, depending on the type of
hazard. The type of protective assembly required shall be determined by the
city depending on the degree of hazard existing at the point of cross
connection.
   (b)   Any inter-connection to a non-potable pressurized irrigation system or
private well shall require the installation of an approved reduced-pressure
(RP) backflow assembly. Such assemblies shall be protected from freezing and
shall be installed above ground or with a live drain to daylight such that they
cannot be submerged.
   (c)   The customer shall have the right to appeal in writing to the city's
water utility governing board or the city council any backflow assembly
installation requirement of the water department superintendent. In the absence
of such appeal, the water department superintendent's decision shall be final.
(Ord. No. 01-9-1, § 4, 9-11-2001)
Sec 51-5 Right Of Entry And Inspection
Authorized officers and employees of the city shall have the right to enter, at
all reasonable times, any place which is supplied with water from the city's
culinary water system, for the purpose of conducting a hazard survey or any
other examination or test reasonably necessary to the enforcement of this
article.
(Ord. No. 01-9-1, § 5, 9-11-2001)
Sec 51-6 Cost Of Installation And Testing
The customer is responsible for all costs of purchase, installation and testing
of backflow prevention devices or assemblies.
(Ord. No. 01-9-1, § 6, 9-11-2001)
Sec 51-7 Frequency Of Testing
Backflow prevention devices or assemblies required by this article shall be
tested not less than once each year by a certified technician. In specific
instances where the city deems the hazard to be great enough, certified
inspections may be required more frequently. Backflow prevention assemblies
shall also be tested within ten days after their initial installation. Test
results shall be furnished by the customer to the city.
(Ord. No. 01-9-1, § 7, 9-11-2001)
Sec 51-8 Penalty For Violation
Water service may be discontinued to any user who is found to be in violation
of this article and who fails to take corrective action within ten days after
violation notification, except that water service may be discontinued
immediately if an imminent threat to the water supply exists. Any person who
violates the provisions of this article shall be liable to cover all expenses
incurred by the city, including all attorney fees and court costs.
(Ord. No. 01-9-1, § 8, 9-11-2001)
Sec 51-9 Existing Equipment
All backflow prevention assemblies existing at the time the ordinance from
which this article is derived is adopted but which do not meet the requirements
hereof shall be excluded from the requirements of this article, provided they
were approved for the purpose for which they are being used at the time of
installation and have been properly maintained so as to function in the manner
originally intended. Such previously existing assemblies shall still be subject
to the testing requirements of section
51-7. Whenever an existing assembly is moved to another location, or requires
more than minimum maintenance, or where it is determined by the city to
constitute a health hazard, the unit shall be replaced by an approved backflow
prevention assembly meeting the requirements of this article and the plumbing
code.
(Ord. No. 01-9-1, § 9, 9-11-2001)
ARTICLE 51-II (RESERVED)
Editor's note— Ord. No. 2017-05-01, adopted May 16, 2017, repealed art. II,
which pertained to new culinary water connections, consisted of §§ 51-37—51-40,
and derived from Ord. No. 2010-01, adopted Jan. 12, 2010.
ARTICLE 51-III CULINARY WATER SYSTEM CONSERVATION AND RATIONING
Sec
51-68 Culinary Water Master Plan, Impact Facilities Plan And Impact Fees
Sec
51-69 Policy
Sec
51-70 Intent And Purpose
Sec
51-71 Procedures And Responsibilities
Sec
51-72 Implementation Of Management Plan
Sec
51-73 Culinary Water Restrictions
Sec
51-74 Management Plan
Sec
51-75 Emergency Restriction
Sec
51-76 Citations
Sec
51-77 Exemptions
State Law reference— Water conservation, U.C.A. 1953, § 73-10-32 et seq.
Sec 51-68 Culinary Water Master Plan, Impact Facilities Plan And Impact Fees
   (a)   Hildale City hereby approves and adopts the following impact fee
facilities plan for the water system of the City: Hildale City & Town of
Colorado City Culinary Water Master Plan Update, dated January 2024, prepared
by Sunrise Engineering.
   (b)   The City hereby establishes one service area consisting of the entire
geographical area of Hildale City, including future annexed areas.
   (c)   The City Council may adjust the impact fee at the time the same is
charged to (a) respond to unusual circumstances in specific cases and (b)
ensure that impact fees are imposed fairly.
   (d)   All impact fees received by the City pursuant to the section shall be
used for, and, as appropriate refunded in compliance with Utah Code Ann. 11-36-
301, 302, and 303, as amended.
   (e)   Any fee payer that has paid an impact fee pursuant to this section may
challenge the impact fee by filing:
      (1)   an appeal to City pursuant to subsection (f) of this section; or
      (2)   a request for arbitration as provided in Utah Code Ann. 11-36-402
(1), as amended; or
      (3)   an action in state district court as provided in Utah Code Ann. 11-
36-401(4) (c) (iii), as amended.
   (f)   Any person or entity who has paid or made an impact fee required by
this section may challenge or appeal the impact fee by filing a written notice
of appeal with the City Recorder within 30 days of the date that the fee was
paid or made. Upon receiving the challenge or appeal, the City shall set a
hearing date to consider the merits of the challenge or appeal. The hearing
panel, which shall consist of the City Council or such other body as the City
shall designate, shall hold a hearing and make a decision within 30 days after
the date that the challenge or appeal is filed. The person or entity
challenging or appealing the fee may appear at the hearing and present any
written or oral evidence deemed relevant to the imposition of the fee. The
decision of the hearing panel shall be in writing and shall be supported by
written findings. No appeal shall be permitted unless and until the impact fees
at issue have been paid.
   (g)   This Ordinance supersedes and/or repeals the provision(s) of any
ordinance(s) or resolution(s) that is/are inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance.
   (h)   The City hereby establishes an impact fee to be charged to all new
connections to the City's culinary water system based on Table 1 below, which
impact fees shall be paid to the City.
TABLE 1
Meter Size ERUs Impact Fee
Meter Size  ERUs  Impact Fee
5/8" & 3/4" 1.00  $12,580.00
1"          1.78  $22,364.44
1 1/2"      4.00  $50,320.00
2"          7.11  $89,457.78
3"          16.00 $201,280.00
4"          28.44 $357,831.11
6"          64.00 $805,120.00
 
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2024-01 on 4/10/2024
Sec 51-69 Policy
It shall be the policy of the city to implement the regulations and
restrictions outlined in this article to promote the conservation and efficient
use of culinary water.
(Ord. No. 03-09-2, § 1, 3-17-2009)
Sec 51-70 Intent And Purpose
   (a)   It is in the interest of the public health, safety, and welfare of the
city to require conservation of culinary water resources. It is the intent of
this article to establish measures for essential conservation of culinary water
resources and to provide for equitable distribution of culinary water supplies.
It is further the intent of this article to provide additional measures for
conservation of culinary water resources under emergency conditions as
determined by the utility board, the city council or mayor.
   (b)   It is imperative that culinary water customers within the city achieve
an immediate reduction in culinary water use in order to extend existing
culinary water supplies and ensure sufficient culinary water supply to preserve
the public health and sanitation, and provide fire protection service.
(Ord. No. 03-09-2, § 2, 3-17-2009)
Sec 51-71 Procedures And Responsibilities
   (a)   The city shall encourage efficient use of water resources and
conservation of all water resources on an ongoing basis. The city may provide
water conservation information and guidelines to its culinary water users.
   (b)   City employees, volunteers and contracted service providers shall
comply with all culinary water restrictions and conservation guidelines
established by this article.
(Ord. No. 03-09-2, § 3, 3-17-2009)
Sec 51-72 Implementation Of Management Plan
The drought/water management plan will be implemented as follows:
   (a)   The four-stage management plan will run as determined by the utility
board.
   (b)   Each stage of the plan will be noticed to residents by means of
posting in public places including the city office and the post office.
(Ord. No. 03-09-2, § 4, 3-17-2009)
Sec 51-73 Culinary Water Restrictions
The city shall implement a four-stage drought/water management plan as
determined by the utility board, the mayor and the city council. The culinary
water restrictions do not apply to irrigation water use. The culinary water use
restrictions for Stages 1, 2, 3 or 4 shall become effective when determined by
the utility board, and will remain in effect until the utility board declares
the water supply is adequate to return to other usage.
(Ord. No. 03-09-2, § 5, 3-17-2009)
Sec 51-74 Management Plan
   (a)   Stage 1: Reduction in water use.
      (1)   Reduction goal: ten percent.
      (2)   Suggested voluntary conservation methods:
         a.   Inside:
            1.   Fix dripping and leaking faucets and toilets. A leak in the
toilet can waste more than 100 gallons of water a day.
            2.   Don't let the water run while shaving. Filling the sink basin
when shaving uses one gallon of water, letting the water run uses five to ten
gallons.
            3.   Don't flush the toilet unnecessarily. Consider installing
water-saving toilets. Water-saving toilets use 1.6 gallons of water, standard
toilets use five to seven gallons of water each time they are flushed.
            4.   Take shorter showers or fill the bathtub only part way. Long
showers waste five to ten gallons of water every minute.
            5.   Consider installing low-flow showerheads.
            6.   Don't run the water while brushing teeth. Turning the water
off while brushing your teeth can save 1.5 to 3.5 gallons of water.
            7.   Don't run the tap to make water hot or cold. Keep a bottle of
drinking water in the refrigerator so you don't have to run the tap to get a
cool drink of water.
            8.   Wash only full loads of dishes and laundry. A dishwasher uses
approximately 25 gallons of water; a washing machine uses 30 to 35 gallons of
water per cycle.
            9.   Consider replacing any appliance that utilizes water with a
low-flow type appliance if such appliance is not already low flow.
            10.   Reduce or eliminate the use of the garbage disposal.
            11.   Wash fruits and vegetables in a basin instead of under
running water.
            12.   Notify hotel and restaurant patrons of water conservation
goals.
            13.   Serve water at restaurants only upon request.
            14.   Encourage all hotels, motels, inns and bed and breakfast
establishments to change sheets no more than every four days for guests staying
that long, unless necessary or specifically requested by the guest.
            15.   Adjust temperatures in buildings with water-cooled air
conditioners to require less water.
            16.   Use of reuse water for construction purposes if it is
available.
         b.   Outside:
            1.   Raise your lawn mower cutting height. Longer grass needs less
water.
            2.   Delay planting any new grass, sod or other new landscaping.
            3.   Don't fill swimming pools. If possible, cover the swimming
pool; an uncovered pool will lose 900 to 3,000 gallons of water a month to
evaporation, a covered pool losses 300 to 1,000 gallons a month.
            4.   Use mulch around shrubs and garden plants to save soil
moisture.
            5.   Use a hose with a shut off nozzle if washing cars at home or
wash at a facility that recycles water. Washing the car with the hose running
uses 100 to 200 gallons of water.
            6.   Sweep sidewalks and steps rather than hosing.
            7.   Aerate turf areas.
            8.   Know your plants' water requirements and apply only the amount
required for good plant health.
            9.   Monitor evapotranspiration (ET) data. Know how much moisture
is lost to ET as this is what needs to be replaced back into the soil for good
plant health.
            10.   Monitor soil moisture to determine if watering is needed.
            11.   Water between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
            12.   Avoid watering on windy days or midday when the evaporation
rate is the highest.
            13.   Keep fire hydrants closed.
            14.   Repair leaks in hoses, pipes, faucets and connections.
            15.   Limit operation of non-recycling fountains.
            16.   Limit city fleet washing by 30 percent to 50 percent.
      (3)   Mandatory restrictions on nonessential water use: No outside spray
irrigation use of water between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
   (b)   Stage 2: Mandatory water restriction.
      (1)   Reduction goal: 15 to 20 percent.
      (2)   Stage 1 restrictions will be in force.
      (3)   All parks, schools and cemeteries will be allowed to water every
other day during permitted hours.
      (4)   Residential and commercial water users will be allowed to water
outside during permitted hours on an odd/even concept as determined by address
(i.e., even addresses water on even days, etc.).
      (5)   Noncommercial car washing requires using a hose with an automatic
shut-off nozzle.
      (6)   Use of water for street and driveway washing will not be permitted.
      (7)   No planting any new grass, sod or other new landscaping.
      (8)   Water shall be served at restaurants only upon request.
   (c)   Stage 3: Additional mandatory restrictions.
      (1)   Reduction goal: 25 to 30 percent.
      (2)   All restrictions included in Stages 1 and 2 are in force.
      (3)   No use of fire hydrants for purposes other than fire protection.
      (4)   No use of water for ornamental use, including, but not limited to,
fountains, artificial waterfalls and pools.
      (5)   No use of water for water games or to fill or top off swimming
pools, hot tubs, etc.
      (6)   Culinary water will not be used to irrigate city parks or golf
courses or schools.
      (7)   Spray irrigation and hand watering may occur for a total of 15
minutes per landscaped area.
      (8)   Drip irrigation systems, bubbler or soaker hoses may be operated
for a total of two hours.
   (d)   Stage 4: Water rationing plan.
      (1)   Reduction goal: 40 to 60 percent.
      (2)   All restrictions included in Stages 1, 2 and 3 will be in force.
      (3)   No watering of lawns.
      (4)   No watering of gardens, landscaped areas, trees, shrubs, and other
outdoor plants, except by means of a bucket, pail, or handheld hose equipped
with an automatic shut-off nozzle.
      (5)   No use of water for flushing sewers or hydrants by municipalities
or any public or private individual or entity except as deemed necessary and
approved in the interest of public health or safety and specifically approved
by the city.
      (6)   No use of fire hydrants by the fire department for testing fire
apparatus and for fire department drills, except as deemed necessary in the
interest of public safety and specifically approved by the city.
(Ord. No. 03-09-2, § 6, 3-17-2009)
Sec 51-75 Emergency Restriction
Additional restrictions on the use of culinary water may be implemented if the
utility board, the mayor and the city council determine that additional
emergency culinary water conservation measures are required. Nothing herein
shall prevent the city council from enacting another ordinance or authorizing a
further mayoral proclamation pertaining to limitation of water use if such
scarcity remains in existence.
(Ord. No. 03-09-2, § 7, 3-17-2009)
Sec 51-76 Citations
The city council authorizes the city to issue citations for violations of this
article. Any owner, occupant or person having an interest in, or control over,
the property subject to this article who shall fail to comply with this article
shall be fined as indicated in the citation schedule below and water service
may be disconnected. Citations shall be issued with graduated penalties as
follows:
   (a)   First violation, a warning will be issued.
   (b)   Second violation (Class C misdemeanor), a fine as established in the
schedule of fees and penalties shall be imposed.
   (c)   Third violation (Class B misdemeanor), a fine as established in the
schedule of fees and penalties shall be imposed.
(Ord. No. 03-09-2, § 8, 3-17-2009)
State Law reference— Citations, U.C.A. 1953, § 77-7-18 et seq.
Sec 51-77 Exemptions
   (a)   If compliance with the nonessential use of water restrictions would
result in extraordinary hardship upon a water user, the water user may apply
for an exemption from this article.
   (b)   For purposes of this section, the term "extraordinary hardship" shall
mean a permanent damage to property or other personal or economic loss, which
is substantially more severe than the sacrifices borne by other water users
subject to the same nonessential use of water restrictions.
   (c)   A person or business entity may submit a written request for exemption
from this article. The written request shall include full documentation
supporting the following:
      (1)   The nature of the hardship claimed and reason for the requested
exemption.
      (2)   The efforts taken by the applicant to conserve water and the extent
to which culinary water use for nonessential purposes may be reduced by the
applicant without extraordinary hardship.
   (d)   The utility board shall hear and decide exemptions from this article.
(Ord. No. 03-09-2, § 9, 3-17-2009)
CHAPTER 52 UNIFORM UTILITY BILLING
Sec
52-1 Name
Sec
52-2 Billing
Sec
52-3 Due Date
Sec
52-4 Late Charge
Sec
52-5 Involuntary Disconnect Procedures
Sec
52-6 Voluntary Disconnect Procedures
Sec
52-7 New Service For Customer With Debt To City
Sec
52-8 Monthly Utility Rate Charges
Sec 52-1 Name
This chapter shall be known as the "Uniform Utility Billing Ordinance." (Ord.
No. 4-96-1, § 1, 4-16-1996)
Sec 52-2 Billing
All charges for water, solid waste and sewer services provided by Hildale City
and Colorado City shall be billed monthly on a combined statement (the
"statement") generated by Hildale City.
(Ord. No. 4-96-1, § 1, 4-16-1996)
Sec 52-3 Due Date
All charges billed on the statement generated by Hildale City shall be due and
payable on the due date provided on the statement. The due date shall be
generally between 15 and 25 days after the statement is mailed. All payments
received shall be allocated among the charges billed on the statement according
to procedures determined by the city's independent auditor. Those procedures
shall be based on requirements of the city's debt obligations and the computer
facilities used for billings.
(Ord. No. 4-96-1, § 1, 4-16-1996)
Sec 52-4 Late Charge
A late charge equal to five percent of all charges not paid on the due date
thereof is hereby assessed. The late charge shall be due and payable with all
other unpaid charges.
(Ord. No. 4-96-1, § 1, 4-16-1996)
Sec 52-5 Involuntary Disconnect Procedures
In the event any customer fails to pay all charges billed for water, solid
waste and sewer services, and any late charges assessed, on or before the due
date of the statement, the customer shall be subject to the following
disconnect procedures:
   (a)   The customer shall be mailed at the customer's last known address a
notice providing that the customer's water service shall be disconnected if all
delinquent charges billed for water, solid waste, sewer services and all
related late charges are not paid within 30 days of the date of the notice. The
customer shall be informed in that notice that the customer may request a
hearing to be held within that ten-day period to challenge the correctness of
charges.
   (b)   The city manager and/or his designee is hereby appointed as utility
hearing officer for the city. If a customer requests in writing that a hearing
be held during normal business hours within that ten-day period and that
writing is received by the city no later than 24 hours prior to the time for
the hearing, the utility hearing officer shall hold an informal hearing with
the customer to determine if the charges are correct. The hearing may be
continued by the utility hearing officer from time to time in order for the
officer to assemble evidence. The determination of the utility hearing officer
shall be announced to the customer at the hearing and that determination shall
be final. The utility hearing officer shall not have any authority to consider
questions of hardship or inability to pay.
   (c)   If all delinquent charges for water, solid waste, and sewer services
and all related late charges are not paid within the 30-day period and the
utility hearing officer has not determined that the charges are incorrect, the
water services for the customer shall be disconnected. The water meter may be
removed from the premises as part of the disconnection process if such removal
is deemed necessary by city utility personnel to prevent unauthorized
reconnection to the city water system.
   (d)   The water services may only be reconnected for the customer if the
following are paid:
      (1)   A water reconnect charge established by the schedule of fees and
penalties which may include an additional charge, also established by the
schedule of fees and penalties, if the water meter has been previously removed
by the city;
      (2)   All outstanding late charges for water and sewer services; and
      (3)   All delinquent charges for water and sewer services.
(Ord. No. 4-96-1, § 1, 4-16-1996)
Sec 52-6 Voluntary Disconnect Procedures
In the event a customer desires to disconnect the water services, the service
shall be disconnected by the city. The city may, for security purposes, remove
the water meter as part of the disconnection process. Then, if service is again
requested by that customer, reconnect charges established by the schedule of
fees and penalties shall be paid to reconnect the service disconnected.
(Ord. No. 4-96-1, § 1, 4-16-1996)
Sec 52-7 New Service For Customer With Debt To City
No new utility service application may be accepted from any person with a
delinquent debt owing the city for any purpose, unless the debt is the subject
of an administrative or judicial proceeding in which the validity of the debt
is contested.
(Ord. No. 4-96-1, § 1, 4-16-1996)
Sec 52-8 Monthly Utility Rate Charges
Each user of water, garbage and sewer services furnished by the city shall pay
to the city a monthly charge for such use in such manner and at such rates as
may from time to time be established by the schedule of fees and penalties.
(Ord. No. 4-96-1, § 1, 4-16-1996)
CHAPTER 53 NATURAL GAS
ARTICLE 53-I IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 53-II RESPONSIBILITY OF DEPARTMENT AND OTHER AGENCIES
ARTICLE 53-III REGULATION OF NATURAL GAS SERVICE
ARTICLE 53-IV CONNECTION AND INSTALLATION OF SYSTEM
ARTICLE 53-V GAS METERS AND REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 53-VI CONTROL AND PROTECTION OF NATURAL GAS SYSTEM
ARTICLE 53-I IN GENERAL
Sec
53-1 Definitions
Sec 53-1 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Board means the Twin City Power and Gas Board or its designated representative.
Bypass or bypassing means any line, pipe, hose or other instrument, device or
contrivance connected to the natural gas supply system, service line, fuel
piping or any part thereof in such a manner as to transport or distribute any
such natural gas without passing through an authorized meter for measuring or
registering the amount of such gas.
Certified operator or operator means any person certified by the city gas
department to install natural gas lines.
Customer means the person, authorized agent or employee of the person
responsible for the gas service account for the premises being served.
Department or gas department means the operating department of the city, which
is responsible for the operation and maintenance of the natural gas supply
system of the city.
Distribution line means a pipe transporting natural gas, high or low pressure,
which is used for the purpose of general distribution of natural gas to the
user.
Distribution system means that portion of the natural gas system of the city,
which is used primarily for the distribution of natural gas to the user.
Fuel piping means the piping downstream of the gas department's meter set,
which is owned and maintained by the owner or occupant of the premises being
served.
Main line means a distribution line that serves as a common source of supply
for more than one service line.
Master meter system means any system of distributing gas whereby an owner buys
metered gas from the city then distributes and sells the gas through the
owner's own underground piping system to the ultimate user.
Meter set means the gas department's piping, fittings, service regulator,
service meter, associated equipment, and instruments installed downstream of
the service riser shutoff valve and upstream of the connection to the owner's
fuel piping.
Natural gas means any fuel consisting in whole or in part of natural gas or
synthetic natural gas derived from petroleum liquids, coal organic wastes, etc.
Natural gas supply system or natural gas system means:
   (a)   Any and all services, facilities, structure, equipment or works owned
or used by the city for the purpose of the production, transmission,
distribution or regulation of natural gas, including but not limited to natural
gas main lines, service lines, regulators, meter set, valves and associated
appurtenances;
   (b)   Any and all rights, property and obligations of the city concerning
natural gas transmission and distribution facilities;
   (c)   Any and all standby or contingency equipment, facilities, devices or
materials which may be necessary to provide reliable natural gas service;
   (d)   Any and all land or sites owned or used by the city for the purpose of
measuring and regulating natural gas and/or providing natural gas service to
users, including any and all gas department facilities, easements and rights-
of-way; and
   (e)   Any and all appurtenances, extensions, improvements, additions,
alterations or replacements thereof.
Owner means the person who holds record title to the premises being served.
Service agreement means the agreement or contract between the department and
the customer pursuant to which service is supplied and taken.
Service line means a distribution line that transports natural gas from a main
line to a gas department meter set.
Service stub means that portion of the service line, which extends from the
main line to the owner's property line, or to the city's utility easement line,
whichever is appropriate.
Tamper or tampering means damaging, altering, adjusting or in any manner
interfering with or obstructing the action or operation of any regulator, meter
or related instrument provided for measuring, controlling or registering the
amount of natural gas passing through such meter.
Unauthorized metering means removing, moving, installing, connecting,
reconnecting or disconnecting any meter or metering device for natural gas
service by a person other than an authorized employee of the department.
User means any person who uses, consumes natural gas from, or is connected to,
the natural gas supply system of the city. A user may also be an owner,
customer, or neither.
Utility easement line means that portion of the service line from the owner's
property line to the gas department meter set.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, pt. 1, 10-17-2000)
ARTICLE 53-II RESPONSIBILITY OF DEPARTMENT AND OTHER AGENCIES
Sec
53-21 General Department Responsibility
Sec
53-22 Responsibility Of The Board
Sec
53-23 Adoption Of Rules And Regulations
Sec 53-21 General Department Responsibility
The gas department shall be responsible for the natural gas supply system
serving the city and such other areas as authorized by the city council.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, pt. 2, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-22 Responsibility Of The Board
   (a)   The powers and limitations of the Twin City Power and Gas Board
("board") will be the same as specified in the "Electric Distribution System
Management Operations and Maintenance Agreements" dated April 29, 1994.
   (b)   The board shall be responsible for the management of the natural gas
supply system of the city and all of the property appertaining thereto. The
board shall see that such system is properly maintained and kept in good
working order and repair and they shall ensure proper compliance with all
local, state and federal regulations concerning the distribution of natural
gas.
   (c)   The board shall perform such other duties in connection with
operations of the department as may be required by the city council.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 2.1, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-23 Adoption Of Rules And Regulations
Rules and regulations adopted by the board shall pertain to but shall not be
limited to installation, construction, operation and maintenance of the natural
gas distribution system of the city and standards, specifications, procedures
and guidelines for regulating the distribution and use of natural gas supplied
by the city. In establishing such rules and regulations, the board shall seek
to assure the safe and efficient operation of the natural gas supply system,
and the protection of such system, process, equipment and facilities
appurtenant thereto.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 2.2, 10-17-2000)
ARTICLE 53-III REGULATION OF NATURAL GAS SERVICE
Sec
53-50 Rates, Charges And Tariffs
Sec
53-51 Service Agreements
Sec
53-52 Billing And Deposits
Sec
53-53 Priority Of Regulations
Sec
53-54 Special Contract
Sec 53-50 Rates, Charges And Tariffs
   (a)   The rates, charges and regulations, including conditions for all
classes of natural gas service, for customers and users inside and outside of
the corporate limits of the city shall be determined by the city council. The
rates, charges and regulations including conditions for all classes of natural
gas service, shall be set forth in tariff sheets to be established in the
schedule of fees and penalties.
   (b)   One copy of the current effective tariff sheets for natural gas
service shall be kept on file with the city recorder and shall be open for
public inspection during regular business hours. Copies thereof may be
purchased by any person upon payment of the cost of reproduction.
   (c)   Notice of any change in the base rates or regulations shall be mailed
to all gas customers. This notice may be sent with utility bills.
   (d)   Standard for setting rates. All rates, as established by the city
council, shall be just, reasonable, sufficient and not unlawfully
discriminatory. All rates and regulations shall be designated in tariff sheets
as provided in this section and shall indicate an approval date and an
effective date to be set by the city council.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 3.1, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-51 Service Agreements
   (a)   Form and execution. Each applicant for service shall make a written
application therefor on the department's standard form, or execute a formal
contract. The department's standard application form, when signed by the
department's authorized representative as well as the customer, becomes a
binding service agreement. Receipt of natural gas service shall constitute an
agreement to abide by all provisions of the standard application form and this
chapter.
   (b)   Implied service agreement. In the absence of a signed service
agreement, the delivery of natural gas service by the department and acceptance
thereof by the customer shall be deemed to constitute an agreement by and
between the department and the customer for delivery and acceptance of natural
gas service under the terms and conditions contained in this chapter and the
applicable tariff.
   (c)   Department's right to cancel service agreement or to suspend service.
For any default or breach of the service agreement by the customer, including
failure to pay bills within the specified period, the department, in addition
to all other legal remedies, may terminate the service agreement or suspend
service at the location where such default has occurred. No such termination or
suspension, however, will be made by the department without five days' notice
to the customer, stating in what particular manner the service agreement has
been violated, except that no notice need be given in cases of theft or
unauthorized use or disposition of service by the customer, or where, in the
department's judgment, the customer is violating or threatening to violate the
natural gas service regulations or other ordinances, laws or codes or the
provisions of this chapter. Also, no notice need be given in case of emergency,
other dangerous condition on the customer's side of the gas meter, or in case
of utilization by the customer of service in such manner as to cause danger to
persons or property, or to jeopardize service to the customer or others.
Failure of the department at any time after any such default or breach either
to suspend supply of service, or to terminate the service agreement, or to
resort to any other legal remedy, or its failure to exercise on any one or more
of such remedies shall not affect the department's right to resort thereafter
to any one or more of such remedies for the same or any future default or
breach by the customer.
   (d)   Cancellation. Unless otherwise provided in the service agreement,
where the customer entirely suspends operations with the intention to
permanently abandon them, the service agreement may be cancelled by written
notice to the department not less than 30 days before the date upon which
service is to be terminated. No such cancellation shall release the customer
from his prior obligation.
   (e)   Change of address of the customer.
      (1)   When the customer changes his address, he shall give notice thereof
to the department at least three days prior to the date of change. The customer
will be held responsible for all service supplied to the vacated premises until
such notice has been received and the department has had a reasonable time, but
not less than three days, to discontinue service.
      (2)   If the customer moves to an address at which he requires natural
gas service for any purposes specified in his service agreement, and at which
address the department has such service available under the same tariff, the
notice shall be considered as the customer's request that the department
transfer such service to the new address; but if the department does not have
such service available at the new address, the old service agreement shall, at
the option of the department, either be considered cancelled or the customer
remain liable thereunder. If the department has service available at the new
address to which a different tariff applies, a new service agreement, including
the applicable tariff, will be offered to the customer. The department will
make transfers of service as promptly as reasonably possible after receipt of
notice.
   (f)   Successors and assigns. Service agreements shall inure to the benefit
of and be binding upon the respective heirs, legal representatives, or
successors by operation of law, of the parties thereto. The customer may assign
his service agreement to a third party only with the written consent of the
department. The department may, without the customer's consent, assign any
service agreement to any person or corporation, in any lawful way acquiring or
operating all or any part of the department's property used in supplying
service under such agreement.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 3.2, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-52 Billing And Deposits
   (a)   Billing periods. Bills ordinarily will be rendered regularly at
monthly intervals, but may be rendered more frequently at the department's
option. Non-receipt of bills by the customer shall not release or diminish the
obligation of the customer with respect to payment thereof.
   (b)   Minimums. When a customer receives service for less than 30 days
during the billing period, the applicable monthly minimum shall apply.
   (c)   Payment of bills. All charges due from the customer become delinquent
if not paid on or before the due date set forth on the bill. Service may be
thereafter disconnected ten days after written notice has been mailed to the
customer or delivered to the service address. When so disconnected, service
will not be restored until all sums due, including but not limited to any
expense of disconnecting and reconnecting the service, are paid. Upon becoming
delinquent, a late penalty equal to five percent of all charges not paid on the
due date of the bill in question shall be added. The protest shall be referred
to the department manager for resolution. Upon their written determination of
the amount due, the customer may appeal to the board. In the absence of such an
appeal, the determination of the department manager shall be final. If protest
is not made as herein provided, no adjustment will be made.
   (d)   Charge for restoring service. If service to the customer is
discontinued for non-payment of bill, or other violation of the service
agreement, before service is reestablished, the customer shall pay the
department a reconnect fee as per tariff, and pay the entire balance of the
customer's preexisting bill.
   (e)   Tax adjustment clause. In the event any city, municipality or other
governmental body shall impose a gross revenue, occupation or franchise tax
upon the department for natural gas supplied, then the amount of such tax shall
be billed to and paid by the customers receiving the natural gas from the
department within the city, municipality or governmental body imposing said
tax.
   (f)   Deposits; when required. The department, at the time application for
natural gas service is made or at any time thereafter, may require a cash
deposit or guarantee satisfactory to the department to secure the payment of
bills as they become due. The department may hold such deposit or guarantee in
its entirety until final settlement of the customer's account. Reasons for
deposits may include, but are not limited to: poor payment history and
indeterminate or temporary services. The amount of such deposit may be
equivalent to the estimated cost of service for 60 days, as estimated by the
department.
   (g)   Third party guarantees. Third party guarantees in lieu of a deposit
shall be permitted upon demonstration of a guarantor's satisfactory credit.
   (h)   Letter of credit. In lieu of a deposit, the department may accept a
letter of satisfactory credit from the last natural gas utility from which the
new customer has taken service.
   (i)   Refunds. Deposits shall be refunded upon the customer's request after
a satisfactory payment history of 24 months. Deposits shall be credited to the
customer's bill for natural gas service. If the customer is terminating service
and that customer's deposit balance remains greater than the customer's last
bill, the remaining balance, after crediting the bill, shall be refunded
directly to the customer.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 3.3, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-53 Priority Of Regulations
The use or connection to the natural gas supply system of the city by any
person except a public utility shall be subject to one or more of the following
as applicable:
   (a)   All ordinances and resolutions of the city;
   (b)   The provisions of the currently effective tariff sheets governing
natural gas service for the various classes, including regulations set forth
herein;
   (c)   The most current city gas department service line design and
construction specifications;
   (d)   Applicable provisions of the United States Department of
Transportation as published in the Federal Register concerning natural gas; and
   (e)   Applicable provisions of the State fuel gas code and any other
applicable codes adopted by the city council.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 3.4, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-54 Special Contract
The city may provide by special contract for the use of a connection to the
natural gas supply system of the city by institutions, plants, districts,
governments, municipal corporations or other similar users. Any connection
outside city boundaries shall be supplied by gas surplus to the needs of the
city.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 3.5, 10-17-2000)
ARTICLE 53-IV CONNECTION AND INSTALLATION OF SYSTEM
Sec
53-82 Connection To System
Sec
53-83 Unauthorized Connection Prohibited
Sec
53-84 Unauthorized Connection; Recovery Of User Charges
Sec
53-85 Main Lines Installation
Sec
53-86 Service Lines; Installation And Fitter Certification
Sec
53-87 Excavations For Service; Line Depth
Sec
53-88 Extension And Installation; Conformance With Rules And Regulations
Sec
53-89 Customer's Responsibility
Sec
53-90 Relocation Of Department Facilities At Customer's Request
Sec 53-82 Connection To System
The owner or developer of premises shall notify the department when such
premises are ready for connection to the natural gas distribution system of the
city. No premises shall be supplied with permanent natural gas from the natural
gas distribution system unless the same shall be designated by official street
name and number and such official number shall be placed and maintained
conspicuously thereon. Connection of such premises shall only be performed upon
approval by the department. The city shall not be subject to any liability for
any deficiency or defect which is not discovered by inspection nor shall the
owner or developer of such premises be absolved from liability for such
deficiency or defect and any resulting damage or from responsibility to correct
such deficiency or defect.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 4.1, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-83 Unauthorized Connection Prohibited
It shall be unlawful for any person to connect any line, pipe, hose or other
instrument, device or contrivance to the natural gas supply system or any part
thereof without the written consent of the board. Any person found in violation
of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition to any other
penalties that may be imposed, the court may order any person who is found
guilty of violating the provisions of this article to pay estimated user
charges for the period during which such violation existed.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 4.2, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-84 Unauthorized Connection; Recovery Of User Charges
In addition to other penalties set out in this chapter, estimated user charges
may be recovered by the city from any person who connects any line, pipe, hose
or other instrument, device or contrivance to the natural gas supply system or
any part thereof without the written consent of the board.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 4.3, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-85 Main Lines Installation
The board shall determine the location, type and capacity of all main lines.
Easements may be required where deemed necessary by the board to ensure the
safety or efficiency of the operation or maintenance of the natural gas supply
system. The cost of main lines shall be the responsibility of the owner or
developer requesting connection to the natural gas distribution system. All gas
main lines shall be a minimum of two feet in depth.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 4.4, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-86 Service Lines; Installation And Fitter Certification
   (a)   The board shall determine the location at which any owner service line
shall be connected to the gas distribution system of the city. Such connections
shall be made without entering upon property other than the property of the
owner so connected, unless an acceptable recorded utility easement is provided.
   (b)   The cost of service lines up to and including the meter valve shall be
the responsibility of the owner or developer requesting connection to the
natural gas distribution system. Service lines shall be a minimum of 18 inches
in depth.
   (c)   The gas service line from the property line of the premises to be
served, or the city's utility easement line, to the meter set shall be
installed for the department by a certified service line fitter or the gas
department at the expense of the owner of the premises and in accordance with
the city gas department's specifications. The gas department shall be
responsible for the inspection of all such installations. Upon inspection and
approval, the department shall be responsible for the operation and maintenance
of the service line.
   (d)   There is hereby established a service line fitter certification
process to be administered by the department. The department shall review
applications, conduct training courses, and administer exams as part of the
service line fitter certification process. The certification process shall be
conducted in accordance with the gas department's service line certification
procedures. The certification process shall be successfully completed by all
persons engaging or proposing to engage in the installation of natural gas
service lines destined to be connected to the city's natural gas supply system.
Upon successful completion of the certification process, the applicant shall be
certified as a service line fitter.
   (e)   Conditions for continued certification, re-certification, and issuance
of violations or revocation of certification shall be as set forth by the
department's service line fitter certification procedures. The department
reserves the right to revoke certification of any person determined by the
department to be inadequately qualified to install natural gas service lines.
   (f)   As a condition precedent to receiving natural gas service, the owner
of the premises being served shall grant the department permission to locate
any portion of the natural, gas supply system necessary to provide service, on
or within the boundaries of the premises; and, further, grant the department
the irrevocable right of access for the purpose of reading the meter, and
installation, removal, operation and maintenance of all such portions of the
natural gas supply system, including permission to make necessary excavation
for such purposes.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 4.5, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-87 Excavations For Service; Line Depth
   (a)   All excavations for natural gas service installation or repair shall
be performed in accordance with the city ordinances and the rules and
regulations of the department as applicable. Such excavations shall meet all
applicable safety standards, including any requirements as to barricades and
lights. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city public
works director.
   (b)   All transmission lines having a pressure of over 100 pounds shall be a
minimum of three feet in depth.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 4.6, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-88 Extension And Installation; Conformance With Rules And Regulations
All extensions of the natural gas supply system, including the installation of
new main lines and service lines, shall be in conformance with all applicable
rules and regulations of the department. The board in its discretion may refuse
to extend service to any person failing to so conform with such rules and
regulations. Line extensions done by an owner or developer shall be warranted
by said owner or developer for a period of one year after the line is completed
and charged with natural gas. The owner or developer shall be responsible for
the cost of main lines and service lines up to and including each customer's
meter valve.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 4.7, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-89 Customer's Responsibility
The customer assumes all responsibility on the customer's side of the gas meter
for service supplied or taken, as well as for the apparatus used in connection
therewith, and shall indemnify the department from and against all loss, cost,
damage or claim and claims for injury or damages to persons or property
occasioned by or in any way resulting from such service or the use thereof on
the customer's side of the gas meter. Such indemnity shall extend to cover all
expenses, including all attorney fees and court costs, incurred by the
department, with or without suit.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 4.8, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-90 Relocation Of Department Facilities At Customer's Request
When, solely for the customer's convenience, the department is requested to
relocate its facilities, the customer shall pay to the department the total
cost of making the requested change, as the department determines that cost.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 4.9, 10-17-2000)
ARTICLE 53-V GAS METERS AND REGULATIONS
Sec
53-108 Supplying And Taking Of Service
Sec
53-109 Metering
Sec
53-110 Multiple Meter Loops; Marking Required
Sec
53-111 Master Meters
Sec
53-112 Unlawful Acts
Sec
53-113 Evidence Of Violations
Sec
53-114 Interruption Of Service On Account Of Tampering, By p assing Or
Unauthorized Metering
Sec
53-115 Reconnection Charges For Tampering, By passing Or Unauthorized Metering
Sec 53-108 Supplying And Taking Of Service
   (a)   Natural gas supply. The department supplies natural gas at pressures
agreed upon between the department and the customer at time of connection.
   (b)   Supply of service. Service will be supplied only under and pursuant to
this chapter, and any modifications or additions thereto, and such applicable
rates as may from time to time be adopted. Service will be supplied under a
given tariff only at such connections as are adjacent to facilities of the
department adequate and suitable as to capacity and pressure for the service
desired. Otherwise, special agreements between the customer and the department
may be required.
   (c)   Continuity of service. The department will use reasonable diligence to
supply steady and continuous service, but does not guarantee the service
against irregularities or interruptions. The department shall not be liable to
the customer for any injury, loss, or damages occasioned by or related to
irregularities or interruptions from whatever cause, nor shall such
interruption or irregularity constitute a default in the service agreement or
on the part of the department.
   (d)   Compliance with regulations. If compliance with orders or formal
requests of any governmental agency, curtailing or diverting the department's
available natural gas resources, make it impossible for the department to
supply the full natural gas requirements of all its customers, the department
shall not be liable for any injury or loss caused by the resultant curtailment,
in whole or in part, of its supply to any customer. If any curtailment reduces
the amount of natural gas available to a customer below the minimum amount
contracted for, such a customer shall be relieved of the obligation to pay more
than the amount of natural gas from time to time made available by the
department. Such other adjustments in amounts payable by the customer will be
made as may be equitable, taking into consideration the time and extent of
curtailment. Inability on the part of the department to meet its contractual
obligations to any customer, when such inability is due to the department's
compliance with an order or formal request of a governmental agency, shall not
constitute default on the part of the department as to any contract or
agreement, and any contract or agreement affected by such compliance shall
remain in full force and effect except as necessarily modified during the
effective period of such order or formal request.
   (e)   Suspension of service for repairs and changes. When necessary to make
repairs or changes in the department's gas facilities or other property, the
department may, without incurring any liability, suspend service for such
periods as may be reasonably necessary and in such manner as not to
inconvenience the customer unnecessarily.
   (f)   Use of service. Service shall be supplied directly to the customer
through the department's own meter, and shall be used by the customer only for
the purposes specified in and in accordance with the provisions of the service
agreement. Service shall be for the customer's use only, and under no
circumstances may the customer or the customer's agent or any other individual
association or corporation install meters or other apparatus or facilities for
the purpose of remetering or reselling or otherwise disposing of service
supplied the customer to lessees, tenants or others, except in accordance with
a service agreement of the department which specifically authorizes such use of
the service. In no case shall the customer, except with the consent of the
department, extend or connect his installation to lines across or under a
street, alley, lane, court or avenue, or other public or private space in order
to obtain service from an adjacent property through one meter, even though such
adjacent property shall be owned by the customer. In case of such unauthorized
remetering, sale, extension or other disposition of service, the department may
immediately discontinue the supplying of service to the customer until such
unauthorized remetering, sale or act is discontinued and full payment is made
for all service supplied or used, billed on proper classification rate
schedules, and reimbursement in full is made to the department for all extra
expenses incurred, including attorney fees and expenses for clerical work,
testing and inspections.
   (g)   Right-of-way. Without reimbursement, the customer shall make a proper
conveyance to the department of right-of-way satisfactory to the department
across the property owned by or controlled by the customer for the department's
lines or extensions thereof necessary or incidental to the supplying of service
to the customer.
   (h)   Access to premises. The duly authorized agents of the department shall
have access at all reasonable hours to the premises of the customer for the
purpose of inspecting apparatus, removing or replacing the department's
property, reading of meter, and all other purposes incident to the supplying of
natural gas service. It shall be the responsibility of the customer to provide
access that is safe and free of obstruction at all times. In the event the
department determines, in its discretion, that the access provided is not safe
or is not free of obstruction, it shall give the customer notice that the
customer must remove the unsafe condition and/or obstruction within ten days of
the notice. In the event the customer fails to comply with the terms of the
notice, the city may do either of the following:
      (1)   The city may estimate for each month the gas consumption at the
premises and use that estimate for purposes of charging the customer for gas
consumption.
      (2)   The city may without further notice discontinue natural gas service
at the premises. If the city elects to estimate the gas consumption, that
estimate shall equal the highest monthly level of metered consumption at the
premises during the preceding 12 months, plus an additional 25 percent. The
estimate of consumption determined by the city shall be binding upon the
customer. The fact that the city estimates consumption for one or more months
shall not preclude it from subsequently electing to terminate natural gas
service if the customer has not removed the unsafe condition and/or
obstruction.
   (i)   Location of customer's service entrance conductors. The customer's
service entrance conductors shall be located at a point readily accessible to
the department's service drop, such point to be determined by the department.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 5.1, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-109 Metering
   (a)   Installation. The department will furnish and install the necessary
meters, and the customer shall provide and maintain locations for installation
thereof free of expense and satisfactory to the department.
   (b)   Evidence of service use. The registration of the department's meter
shall be accepted and received at all times and places as prima facie evidence
of the amount of natural gas supply taken by the customer.
   (c)   Connection of installation. Metering will be during time of connection
unless otherwise specified in the service agreement between the department and
customer.
   (d)   Meter tests and bill adjustments.
      (1)   When the accuracy of a meter is questioned, upon written request
from the customer, the department will test the meter by comparing with a
standard test meter. If the meter is found to be accurate within plus or minus
five percent, the customer will reimburse the department for the cost of said
test. Prior to any test, the department reserves the right to require a deposit
to cover said costs.
      (2)   If the meter being tested is found to be more than five percent
slow or fast, no charge shall be made for testing and the department will
adjust the bill in proportion to the error (either fast or slow) for the period
covered by the bill in question and until the date of installation of a new
meter, but said adjustment period, in any event, shall not exceed 90 days.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 5.2, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-110 Multiple Meter Loops; Marking Required
In the event that gas is served to more than one user at a single premises,
through a multiple meter set, the owner shall be responsible for plainly
marking each meter of the multiple meter set with a permanent brass tag or
approved plastic tag which identifies the apartment, office, room or other area
served by each meter.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 5.3, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-111 Master Meters
In the event that gas is served through a master meter system, it shall be the
responsibility of the owner of such premises to install, operate and maintain
the gas piping and facilities downstream of the meter. Master meters shall be
installed only upon the approval of the department or board. Installation and
operation of piping downstream of a master meter shall be in compliance with
the current regulations of the city gas department.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 5.4, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-112 Unlawful Acts
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install a bypass without the
express written authorization of the board.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any customer or the user at any premises
knowingly to receive natural gas service by means of a bypass which has not
been authorized in writing by the board.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with a gas meter,
regulator or related instrument without the express written authorization of
the board.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any customer or the user at any premises
knowingly to receive natural gas service by means of tampering which the board
has not authorized in writing.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in unauthorized
metering.
   (f)   It shall be unlawful for any customer or the user at any premises
knowingly to receive natural gas service by means of unauthorized metering
which has not been expressly authorized in writing by the board.
   (g)   In no case shall the customer, except with the consent of the
department, extend or connect his installation to lines across or under a
street, alley, lane, court or avenue, or other public or private space in order
to obtain service for an adjacent property through one meter, even though such
adjacent property is owned by the customer.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 5.5, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-113 Evidence Of Violations
   (a)   Proof of the existence of any bypass tampering or unauthorized
metering, as prohibited in this chapter, shall be deemed prima facie evidence
that the user at the premises where such bypass, tampering or unauthorized
metering is proved to exist had knowledge of the bypass, tampering or
unauthorized metering if it is proved that the user is an occupant of the
premises and that said user had access to the gas meter or other utility
equipment where the bypass, tampering or unauthorized metering is proved to
exist.
   (b)   Proof of the existence of any bypass, tampering or unauthorized
metering, as prohibited by this chapter, shall be deemed prima facie evidence
that the customer had knowledge of the bypass, tampering or unauthorized
metering if it is proved that said customer controlled access to the gas meter,
regulator or other related equipment where the bypass, tampering or
unauthorized metering is proved to exist.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 5.7, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-114 Interruption Of Service On Account Of Tampering, Bypassing Or
UnauthorizedMetering
Tampering, bypassing or unauthorized metering, as defined in this chapter, is
subterfuge and constitutes a safety hazard. Such tampering, bypassing or
unauthorized metering shall be grounds for immediate disconnection of service
without notice to the customer or user at such premises, and service shall not
be reconnected until any and all deficiencies in piping, connections, meters
and/or other natural gas facilities of the premises have been repaired,
corrected or otherwise altered to conform to the requirements of all applicable
ordinances, rules and regulations, and until the requirements of this chapter
are met.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 5.8, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-115 Reconnection Charges For Tampering, Bypassing Or Unauthorized
Metering
In order for gas service to be reconnected to premises where tampering,
bypassing or unauthorized metering has occurred, the customer or user at the
premises shall pay the following charges to the city prior to the reconnection:
   (a)   A service charge calculated to compensate the city for all reasonable
expenses incurred on account of the tampering, bypassing or unauthorized
metering, including, but not limited to, costs of investigation, disconnection,
reconnection and service calls, but in no event less than the amount specified
in the schedule of fees and penalties;
   (b)   The cost of repairing or replacing any damaged utility equipment; and
   (c)   The actual or estimated user charges not previously billed to the
customer as a result of the tampering, bypassing or unauthorized metering.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 5.9, 10-17-2000)
ARTICLE 53-VI CONTROL AND PROTECTION OF NATURAL GAS SYSTEM
Sec
53-146 Unlawful To Damage System
Sec
53-147 Prosecution; Restitution
Sec
53-148 Disconnection For Unsafe Condition
Sec
53-149 Liability Of City ; Exclusion Of
Sec 53-146 Unlawful To Damage System
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere or tamper in any
manner with any transmission or distribution line, service stub, service line,
meter set or any appurtenance thereof connected to or part of the natural gas
system without prior written permission obtained from the board.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, impair or deface any
part, appliance or appurtenance of the natural gas distribution system of the
city.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to excavate, obstruct or
disconnect any transmission or distribution facility of the city, or to do any
act or thing to divert, damage or otherwise impede or hinder, or tend to impede
or hinder, the flow of natural gas through the natural gas distribution system
of the city.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any person to excavate with other than hand
tools within 18 inches of any underground natural gas pipeline or facility.
Excavation near such facilities shall be in combination with careful probing.
For the purpose of this subsection, the term "hand tools" shall include only
non-motorized tools.
   (e)   It shall be unlawful for any person to excavate on a premises located
within the city's certified natural gas service area which is served by natural
gas, or within a street right-of-way or utility easement which contains natural
gas facilities owned by the city without first requesting utility locations
from the city's central locating unit at least two working days prior to
beginning the excavation.
   (f)   In the event that piping or equipment attached to or part of the
city's gas distribution system is exposed or damaged, it shall be the
responsibility of the party causing exposure or damage to immediately notify
the gas department of such exposure or damage, and, further, to provide for the
continued exposure of said facilities until the city can appropriately inspect
or repair its facilities.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 6.1, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-147 Prosecution; Restitution
In case of such unauthorized re-metering, sale, extension, or other unlawful
acts of this chapter, the department may immediately discontinue the supplying
of service to the customer until such unauthorized re-metering, sale, or act is
discontinued and full payment is made for all service supplied or used, billed
on proper classification and tariff sheets, and reimbursement in full is made
to the department for all extra expenses incurred, including attorney fees,
expenses for clerical work, testing and inspections plus the cost of repairing
or replacing any damaged utility equipment, and any other costs incurred by the
city related to the violation, including but not limited to costs of
investigation, disconnection, reconnection and service calls. Anyone found
guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 6.2, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-148 Disconnection For Unsafe Condition
The owner of the premises served by the gas distribution system of the city
shall maintain all natural gas piping downstream of the meter set to the end
use at the premises and shall keep other gas equipment and facilities of such
premises in safe condition in accordance with all ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city; provided, however, that all the natural gas supply
systems installed, owned or operated by the gas department shall be maintained
by the department. In the event that the board determines that any gas piping
or other natural gas equipment or facility on a premises is unsafe, service to
such premises may be disconnected and shall not be reconnected until the owner
of such premises has corrected the unsafe condition and such correction is
approved by the department.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 6.3, 10-17-2000)
Sec 53-149 Liability Of City ; Exclusion Of
The city shall not be liable to any person for failure to maintain gas service
during repairs or extensions to the gas supply system, nor shall the city be
liable where such failure is caused by or results from a strike, an act of God,
an unavoidable accident or other contingency beyond the control of the city.
(Ord. No. 10-00-1, § 6.4, 10-17-2000)
CHAPTER 54 STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY
ARTICLE 54-I STREET AND SIDEWALK ENCROACHMENTS, EXCAVATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS
ARTICLE 54-II SIDEWALK REPAIRS
ARTICLE 54-III STREET TREES
ARTICLE 54-IV MISCELLANEOUS
ARTICLE 54-V CITY CEMETERY
State Law reference— General authority relative to streets, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-
8-8 et seq.
ARTICLE 54-I STREET AND SIDEWALK ENCROACHMENTS, EXCAVATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS
Sec
54-1 Street Work; Survey Requirements
Sec
54-2 Encroachments; Removal
Sec
54-3 Same; Notice To Remove
Sec
54-4 Excavations Within Public Rights-Of-Way ; Permits Required
Sec
54-5 Excavations; Obstructions; Public Safety Measures
Sec
54-6 Obstruction Of Sidewalks; Permission Required
Sec
54-7 Obstruction Of Sidewalks And Streets
Sec
54-8 Playing Games In Streets Prohibited
Sec
54-9 Gate Construction Adjacent To Sidewalks
Sec
54-10 Barbed-Wire Fencing Adjacent To Sidewalks
Sec 54-1 Street Work; Survey Requirements
It is unlawful for any person to erect or construct, or to commence the
erection or construction of, any building, fence or other structure or to make
an excavation upon the line of any street, alley or other public way, without
first obtaining any required permit from the city zoning administrator and
providing a survey of such premises showing the property lines upon which the
building, fence or other structure is to be constructed or such excavation is
to be made, unless such fence lines have been heretofore established and are
correctly marked and designated.
Sec 54-2 Encroachments; Removal
If any street, public right-of-way, or easements are encroached upon by a
fence, building or otherwise, the city shall, in writing, require the
encroachments to be removed.
Sec 54-3 Same; Notice To Remove
Notice must be given to the occupant or owner of the land, or person causing or
owning the encroachments, or be left at his place of residence, if he resides
in the city; if not, it must be posted on the encroachment, specifying the
place and extent of the encroachments, and requiring him to remove such
encroachment within a reasonable time.
Sec 54-4 Excavations Within Public Rights-Of-Way ; Permits Required
   (a)   No person shall make, or cause to be made, an excavation in a public
right-of-way, street, sidewalk, or easement for any purpose whatever without
first obtaining an excavation permit from the city public works director, which
permit shall be subject to such regulations as the city council may prescribe.
Every application for a permit shall be made in writing and signed by the
applicant and shall set forth the dimensions of the proposed excavation and the
purpose for which it is to be used. Such permit shall be limited to the
excavation stated in the application and may for good cause be revoked by the
public works director.
   (b)   No cuts shall be made in street pavement during the first year after
hard surfacing except in an emergency case where public health or safety is at
risk and thereafter only after receiving written permission from the city
public works director and then only upon payment of the amount set forth in the
then-existing governing fee schedule and pursuant to and in compliance with the
requirements set forth in the most recent city council resolution that sets
forth the conditions under which an excavation and street cut permit will be
issued. In such cases the city public works director may require, with respect
to a new street, such additional extraordinary measures in restoring so as to
maintain the overall integrity and appearance of the street surface.
Sec 54-5 Excavations; Obstructions; Public Safety Measures
Whoever is permitted to occupy a part of the street while making an excavation,
or for any other purpose, shall provide a safe and convenient passage for
public travel around or over the obstruction so caused, shall use appropriate
signage per the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD) and shall be
responsible to the city for all injuries sustained in consequence of excavation
neglect.
Sec 54-6 Obstruction Of Sidewalks; Permission Required
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to obstruct, in any way or manner, any
sidewalk or any portion thereof within the city, without first obtaining
permission to do so from the city council or chief of police. The city council
or chief of police shall grant permission for such obstruction unless the city
council or the chief of police determines that the proposed obstruction will
measurably increase pedestrian or motor vehicle traffic congestion in the area
of the obstruction or that the proposed obstruction will present any danger to
life or limb or create an appearance of clutter or disturb the orderly and
aesthetic appearance of the community or neighborhood. The city council or
chief of police may condition permission upon compliance with specified
measures designed to reduce or eliminate traffic and safety hazards.
   (b)   The public works director may allow temporary obstructions of
sidewalks for construction or other purposes provided appropriate signs and
barriers are erected to warn and protect the public.
Sec 54-7 Obstruction Of Sidewalks And Streets
   (a)   No person shall put, place or cause to be put or placed anywhere upon
a public street or sidewalk, and no person owning or occupying or having
control of any premises, shall, after reasonable notice by any police officer,
suffer to be or remain in front thereof, upon the sidewalk or the half of the
street next to his premises:
      (1)   Any broken ware, glass, filth, ashes, rubbish, dirt, gravel, or
refuse matter.
      (2)   Any lumber, wood, boxes, fencing, building material, merchandise,
or other things which obstruct the public streets or sidewalks, or any part
thereof, or the free use and enjoyment thereof, or the free passage over and
upon the same or any part thereof, without the permission of the city council.
      (3)   Any goods, wares or merchandise for sale or show or otherwise,
beyond three feet of the front line of the lot where such goods, wares or
merchandise may be exposed.
   (b)   No person receiving or delivering goods, wares or merchandise in the
city shall place or keep upon, or suffer to be placed or kept upon any sidewalk
in the city, any goods, wares or merchandise which he may be receiving or
delivering for a longer period than two hours.
Sec 54-8 Playing Games In Streets Prohibited
All persons are forbidden to obstruct the sidewalk or street by games of any
kind.
Sec 54-9 Gate Construction Adjacent To Sidewalks
All gates, except such as swing on self-closing hinges, adjacent to sidewalks,
shall be constructed so as to prevent them from opening outward upon the
sidewalks.
Sec 54-10 Barbed-Wire Fencing Adjacent To Sidewalks
It is unlawful for any person to maintain a barbed-wire fence within two feet
of any public sidewalk or adjacent or contiguous to city-owned property without
a fence permit issued by the zoning administrator. Fences installed prior to
the adoption of this Code may continue until a change of use of the property
occurs.
ARTICLE 54-II SIDEWALK REPAIRS
Sec
54-39 Responsibility For Costs
Sec 54-39 Responsibility For Costs
Whenever a sidewalk is out of repair by reason of the act or omission of any
property owner, the same shall be repaired by the property owner at the
property owner's expense. Upon failure of the property owner to do so within a
reasonable time after notice to do so is issued by the city, the repair may be
made at the property owner's expense by the public works director.
ARTICLE 54-III STREET TREES
Sec
54-67 Establishment
Sec
54-68 Definitions
Sec
54-69 City Tree Board; Created
Sec
54-70 Same; Duties And Responsibilities
Sec
54-71 Tree Species To Be Planted
Sec
54-72 Spacing
Sec
54-73 Distance From Curb And Sidewalk
Sec
54-74 Distance From Street Corners And Fire Hydrants
Sec
54-75 Utilities
Sec
54-76 Public Tree Care
Sec
54-77 Pruning And Corner Clearance
Sec
54-78 Dead Or Diseased Tree Removal On Private Property
Sec
54-79 Removal Of Stumps
Sec
54-80 Protection Of Trees
Sec
54-81 Interference With City Tree Board
Sec
54-82 Arborists' License And Bond
Sec
54-83 Right-Of-Way Landscaping
State Law reference— General authority relative to trees in streets, parks and
public grounds, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-8-10.
Sec 54-67 Establishment
When required, the city engineer and/or planning office shall, where the same
has not already been defined, cause a measurement to be made defining the
outside limits of the control curbs and sidewalks on any street of the city and
establish the line for all street trees thereon. All street trees shall be
planted pursuant to the provisions of this article.
Sec 54-68 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Park trees means trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
Street trees means trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on
land lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or
ways within the city.
Sec 54-69 City Tree Board; Created
There is hereby created and established a tree board for the city. The planning
commission or, at the option of the council, the public works advisory board,
shall serve as the city tree board. The planning office, with advisement from
the city engineer, police chief, and public works director, shall serve as
advisory staff for the city tree board, and these departments shall coordinate
in the administration of the provisions and duties of this article.
Sec 54-70 Same; Duties And Responsibilities
   (a)   Based on perceived need or when requested by the city council, the
city tree board shall develop and recommend a written plan for the care,
preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public areas.
   (b)   The city tree board shall be responsible to develop an active tree
inventory of street and park trees based on perceived need or when requested by
the city council.
   (c)   The city tree board, when requested by the city council, shall
consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special
matter or question coming within the scope of its work.
   (d)   The city tree board shall periodically review this article and
recommend updates and revisions to the city council.
   (e)   The city tree board shall develop, maintain, and recommend revisions
as necessary to the list of desirable trees in section
54-71 for planting street trees along streets in three size classes based on
mature height: small (zero to 30 feet), medium (30 to 60 feet) and large (over
60 feet). Efforts shall be made to ensure a sufficient diversity of tree
species. Lists of trees not suitable for planting will also be created by the
tree board. Fruitless varieties of trees shall be planted when available.
Planning staff may approve the planting of a street tree not on the approved
planting list, provided the proposed tree is not on the prohibited street tree
list and does not have the undesirable attributes listed in section
54-71(d).
Sec 54-71 Tree Species To Be Planted
   (a)   Small trees. Small trees are appropriate in locations with four-foot
planter strips or larger or in locations near utility lines.
      (1)   Paperbark maple ( Acer griseum ).
      (2)   Eastern redbud ( Cercis canadensis ).
      (3)   Tatarian maple ( Acer tataricum ).
      (4)   Japanese tree lilac ( Syringa reticulata ).
      (5)   Washington hawthorn ( Crataegus phaenopyrum ).
      (6)   Kwanzan flowering cherry ( Prunus serrulata ).
      (7)   Lavalle hawthorn ( Crataegus x lavallei ) [thornless variety].
      (8)   Amur maple ( Acer ginnala ).
      (9)   Cockspur hawthorn ( Crataegus crus-galli ).
      (10)   English hawthorn ( Crataegus laevigata ).
      (11)   Smooth sumac ( Rhus glabra ).
      (12)   Staghorn sumac ( Rhus typhina ).
      (13)   Trident maple ( Acer buergeranum ).
      (14)   Flowering chokecherry ( Prunus virginiana ).
   (b)   Medium trees. Medium trees are appropriate in locations with six-foot
planter strips or larger or in locations where utility lines are less of an
issue due to height or location of the lines.
      (1)   Autumn purple ash ( Fraxinus americana ).
      (2)   Hedge maple ( Acer campestre ).
      (3)   Fruitless white mulberry ( Morus alba ).
      (4)   Bigtooth maple ( Acer grandidentatum ).
      (5)   Japanese pagoda ( Sophora japonica ).
      (6)   European hornbeam ( Carpinus betulus ).
      (7)   European alder ( Alnus glutinosa ).
      (8)   Littleleaf linden ( Tilia cordata ).
      (9)   Crimean linden ( Tilia x euchlora ).
      (10)   Goldenrain tree ( Koelreuteria paniculata ).
      (11)   Amur chokecherry, fruitless ( Prunus maackii ).
      (12)   Flowering pear ( Pyrus calleryana ).
   (c)   Large trees. Large trees are appropriate in locations with eight-foot
planter strips or larger and where utility lines are underground or out of the
way of the tree's growth.
      (1)   Norway maple ( Acer platanoides ).
      (2)   Swamp white oak ( Quercus bicolor ).
      (3)   English oak ( Quercus robur ).
      (4)   Silver linden ( Tilia tomentosa ).
      (5)   Red oak ( Quercus rubra ).
      (6)   Green ash ( Fraxinus pennsylvanica ).
      (7)   Autumn Blaze maple ( Acer x freemanii ).
      (8)   Ginkgo/Maidenhair tree ( Ginkgo biloba ), male.
      (9)   Thornless Honeylocust ( Gleditsia triacanthos var. inermis ).
      (10)   Kentucky coffeetree ( Gymnocladus dioicus ).
      (11)   American linden ( Tilia americana ).
      (12)   Sycamore maple ( Acer pseudoplatanus ).
      (13)   London plane tree ( Platanus acerifolia ).
      (14)   Japanese zelkova ( Zelkova serrata ).
   (d)   Prohibited street trees. The following trees are prohibited street
trees. These trees are prohibited either because they grow too large and
threaten the integrity of street improvements, have shallow root systems which
threaten utilities, have nuisance fruit, seeds or thorns, are prone to
sprouting, are declared noxious weeds, will not survive the harsh climate zone,
or are disease-prone species.
      (1)   Evergreen and conifer trees, all species, including but not limited
to fir, juniper, spruce, pine, etc.
      (2)   Siberian elm ( Ulmus pumilla ).
      (3)   Chinese elm ( Ulmus parvifolia ).
      (4)   Silver maple ( Acer saccharinum ).
      (5)   Cottonwood ( Populus fremontii ).
      (6)   Quaking aspen ( Populus tremuloides ).
      (7)   Box elder ( Acer negundo ).
      (8)   Russian Olive ( Elaeagnaceae angustifolia ).
      (9)   Willow ( Salix ), any variety.
      (10)   American elm ( Ulmus americana ).
      (11)   Black locust ( Robinia pseudoacacia ).
      (12)   Tree of Heaven ( Ailanthus altissima ).
      (13)   Idaho locust ( Robinia idahoensis ).
      (14)   Birch ( Betula ), any variety.
      (15)   Flowering plum ( Prunus cerasifera ).
      (16)   Poplar ( Populus ).
      (17)   Orchard trees and nut-bearing trees.
      (18)   Purple robe locust ( Robinia ambigua ).
      (19)   The following thorn-bearing trees:
         a.   Sunburst honey locust ( Gleditsia triacanthos 'Sunburst' ); and
         b.   Thorned honey locust ( Gleditsia triacanthos ).
Sec 54-72 Spacing
The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species size
classes listed in section
54-71, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, 20 feet; medium trees, 30 feet; and large trees, 40 feet; except in
special plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect.
Sec 54-73 Distance From Curb And Sidewalk
The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines and sidewalks,
whether planted on public or private ground, will be in accordance with the
three species size classes listed in section
54-71 and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than two feet
for small trees, three feet for medium trees and four feet for large trees.
This placement measurement is measured from the center of the tree. Any tree
not listed as a preferred species as designated by this article, and planted on
private property, shall be set back at least four feet from any public
sidewalk.
Sec 54-74 Distance From Street Corners And Fire Hydrants
No street tree shall be planted within 35 feet of any street corner, measured
from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street tree shall
be planted within ten feet of any fire hydrant. No street tree shall be planted
any closer than 40 feet from the front face of a stop sign or traffic sign.
Sec 54-75 Utilities
No street trees other than those species accepted as small trees may be planted
under or within ten feet of any overhead utility wire or within five feet of
any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
Sec 54-76 Public Tree Care
   (a)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   (b)   The city may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or part
thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason of its nature is
injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other
public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other
pest. This section does not prohibit the planting of street trees by adjacent
property owners providing that the selection and location of said trees is in
accordance with this article.
   (c)   Citizens/property owners, occupants and their agents shall have the
following responsibilities for the protection of trees in park strips and
rights-of-way abutting their real property, except in those which are
maintained by the city:
      (1)   Periodic watering and fertilization and pruning of street trees as
necessary to maintain good health and vigor.
      (2)   Protecting street trees from damage caused by lawn mowers, weed
trimmers, snow blowers and similar equipment.
      (3)   Protecting street trees from damage caused by attachment of any
items such as signs, nails, wires, ropes and chains.
      (4)   Purchasing and planting street trees. The species and planting
locations must comply with the provisions of this article unless otherwise
approved by the tree board.
      (5)   Removing trees or limbs that have fallen upon a city street,
sidewalk or upon city property.
      (6)   Maintaining ground covers, except in those park strips maintained
by the city.
      (7)   Notifying the city of any hazard tree.
      (8)   Raking, cleaning up and properly disposing of leaves that fall from
street trees and private trees so leaf fall does not impede the stormwater
system.
Sec 54-77 Pruning And Corner Clearance
   (a)   Obstruction. Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-
of-way within the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not
severely obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any
street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of 13 feet above
the street surface or eight feet above the sidewalk surface. Said owners shall
remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which
constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The city shall have the right
to prune any tree or shrub on private or public property when it interferes
with the proper spread of light along the street from a street light, or
interferes with visibility of any traffic control device or sign or sight
triangle at a street light, or interferes with visibility of any traffic
control device or sign or sight triangle at intersections. The city will
provide reasonable notice to affected property owners prior to pruning,
planting, maintaining or removing trees on private property.
   (b)   Tree topping. It shall be unlawful as a normal practice to top any
street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property. The term "topping"
means the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in
diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree. Crown reduction by a qualified arborist may be
substituted, where appropriate. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other
pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this article at the
determination of the city.
Sec 54-78 Dead Or Diseased Tree Removal On Private Property
The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on private property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard
to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential
threat to other trees within the city. Such trees are a public nuisance and
shall be removed.
Sec 54-79 Removal Of Stumps
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground.
Sec 54-80 Protection Of Trees
   (a)   Trees of desirable species and good health shall be protected as much
as possible from damage during construction, sidewalk repair, utilities work
above and below ground, and other similar activities. The zone of protection
shall include the ground beneath the canopy of the tree.
   (b)   Removal of street trees by private citizens requires approval by the
city tree board or the planning office.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to willfully injure any street or public trees.
Sec 54-81 Interference With City Tree Board
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
city, the city tree board, or any of its agents while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street
trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this article.
Sec 54-82 Arborists' License And Bond
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business or occupation of
pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the city without
first applying for and procuring a license. The annual license fee shall be as
established in the schedule of fees and penalties in advance; provided,
however, that no license shall be required of any public service company
including electric utilities and their agents and contractors or city employee
doing such work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any
license shall be issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession
of liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $50,000.00 for bodily injury
and $100,000.00 for property damage indemnifying the city or any person injured
or damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described.
Sec 54-83 Right-Of-Way Landscaping
The area of the street right-of-way between the curbline, or the proposed
curblines as established by the city street standard, and the property line
(park strip) shall be landscaped, maintained and kept free of weeds by the
abutting property owner with any combination of lawn, shrubs, trees, flowers,
growing ground cover, small rocks, bark, and non-grouted/non-bonded pavers.
Park strips may not be hard surfaced except for approved driveways, bike
trails, equestrian trails and walk areas. No objects or plantings shall be
placed within the right-of-way which would obstruct the visibility of street
signs or which would obstruct the intersection visibility triangles. Such
objects and plantings are deemed a public nuisance.
ARTICLE 54-IV MISCELLANEOUS
Sec
54-110 Relocated Buildings
Sec 54-110 Relocated Buildings
It is unlawful for any person to move any building, shed or other structure
over, along or upon any street within the city without first obtaining a permit
to do so from the police department for the move and the intended route. Any
person moving any building, shed or other structure over, along or upon any
street, or obstructing any street with any building, shed or other structure
shall be liable for any damage done in so doing, whether with or without a
permit.
ARTICLE 54-V CITY CEMETERY
Sec
54-134 Definitions
Sec
54-135 Cemeteries Covered
Sec
54-136 Administration
Sec
54-137 Sexton; Assignment
Sec
54-138 Registrar Of Burials; Sale Of Lots
Sec
54-139 Certificate Issuance
Sec
54-140 Recordkeeping
Sec
54-141 Permit; Disinterment; Contagious Diseases
Sec
54-142 Burial Or Disinterment; Permit Required
Sec
54-143 Damage To Cemetery Property Prohibited
Sec
54-144 Only Humans To Be Buried
Sec
54-145 Vaults Required
Sec
54-146 Right To Maintain Reserved By City
Sec
54-147 Disclaimer Of City Liability For Grave Openings
Sec
54-148 Applicability Of Traffic Regulations
Sec
54-149 Animals Prohibited
Sec
54-150 Registration Of Burials And Disinterments
Sec
54-151 Prohibited Burial Days
Sec
54-152 Sexton To Protect Cemetery ; Duties Relating To Sales
Sec
54-153 Reversion Of Lots To City
Sec
54-154 Duties Of Supervisor Relating To Burials
Sec
54-155 Removal Of Grave Decorations
Sec
54-156 Sexton To Enforce Regulations
Sec
54-157 Sexton To Maintain Streets And Driveways
Sec
54-158 Additional Rules And Regulations
Sec
54-159 Private Improvement
Sec
54-160 Collection Of Prices And Fees
Sec
54-161 Lot Prices, Fees And Charges
Sec
54-162 Trust Fund Established
Sec
54-163 Work Included In Perpetual Care
Sec
54-164 Burial Of Indigents
Sec
54-165 Grave Markers And Headstone Requirements
Sec
54-166 Ownership And Responsibility
Sec
54-167 Limitation On Number Of Monuments
Sec
54-168 Permission For Burial In Lot Owned By Someone Who Is Deceased
Sec
54-169 Violation; Penalty
State Law reference— Municipal powers relative to cemeteries, U.C.A. 1953, §§
10-8-62, 10-8-63.
Sec 54-134 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Cemetery means any cemetery owned or maintained by the city for the purpose of
receiving the remains of deceased humans.
Lot means a plot of ground covering eight gravesites.
Lot owner or purchaser means the owner or purchaser of burial rights or
privileges, or the collateral right of use of any burial lot, evidenced by a
certificate for lot or by proved and recognized descent or devise from the
original owner.
Sec 54-135 Cemeteries Covered
All cemeteries owned or maintained by the city, or which may hereafter be
acquired by the city, wherever situated, are hereby declared subject to the
provisions of this article.
Sec 54-136 Administration
The city may purchase and pay for, or otherwise acquire, hold and control land
within or without the corporate limits for burial of the dead and shall have
and exercise police jurisdiction over all burial and cemetery grounds owned by
the city. The city may survey, plat, map, fence, ornament and otherwise improve
all city cemeteries and grounds for burial of the dead. It may contract for the
care and improvement of such cemeteries and grounds and all cemetery lots
therein and pay for such care and improvements, surveys, plats, maps, fences
and ornamentation out of the general funds of the city. It may receive deposits
from individuals under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the
city council for the care and improvement of individual lots. It may convey
cemetery lots owned by the city and pass rules and ordinances for the
protection and governing of such cemeteries and burial grounds.
Sec 54-137 Sexton; Assignment
City sexton responsibilities shall be carried out by the public works director.
Sec 54-138 Registrar Of Burials; Sale Of Lots
   (a)   The city manager shall designate a registrar of burials who is
empowered to sell lots in the city cemetery, and collect all dues arising from
such sale.
   (b)   No sale of any lot or portion shall be made thereof unless the
purchaser thereof contracts for perpetual care in accordance with the terms and
conditions as the city council may from time to time require.
   (c)   The cost schedule governing the cost of lots or burial privileges and
of perpetual care required with each lot purchased shall be as established in
the schedule of fees and penalties. Of the cost of said lots or portions
thereof, 67 percent is to be allocated to the perpetual care fund.
   (d)   All obligations payable hereunder must be paid with a minimum of
$50.00 down and $50.00 a month until paid in full. All installment payments
shall be pursuant to written contract and approved as to form from time to time
by the city council.
   (e)   Burial privileges being purchased under installments shall be retained
by the city until full and final payment.
   (f)   The investment of perpetual care funds shall be governed by the city
council. Only net income shall be used for the care and maintenance of the
cemetery except upon a vote of four-fifths of the city council. The principal
may then be invested. Net income is defined as all revenue returned from the
investment of the perpetual care fund less any costs of administering this
fund.
   (g)   The care provided for under this fund shall be furnished only insofar
as the funds from the trust fund will permit. No separation of investment shall
be made of the deposit on any individual lot, and all funds may be commingled
and utilized in the maintenance and care of the entire cemetery.
   (h)   Purchasers of lots do not obtain title to the property but only a
certificate that permits appropriate burial.
Sec 54-139 Certificate Issuance
The registrar of burials for the city shall prepare a deed for signature by the
city manager and provide such to the purchaser of any burial privileges
purchased in the city cemetery.
Sec 54-140 Recordkeeping
The city manager shall designate a registrar of burials for the city who shall
record in a book kept for that purpose, a brief description of each conveyance
so executed or made, showing the date of the instrument, the name of purchaser,
the number of the lot or fraction thereof and such other information as may be
required by order or resolution of the city council. The registrar shall also
record upon the cemetery plat the name of the purchaser, and the lot or
fraction thereof transferred at the time of making such record.
Sec 54-141 Permit; Disinterment; Contagious Diseases
   (a)   No person shall be allowed to inter their dead in the cemetery without
first obtaining a permit or certificate from the city to the lot in which they
bury such dead; provided that upon written permission from any person owning
any lot in said cemetery authorizing the burial of a deceased person therein,
such person may be interred in such lot, which said permit shall be filed with
the sexton; and no person shall disinter any body buried in the cemetery except
under the direction of the sexton.
   (b)   Before disinterment, the sexton shall require written permit or order
from the owner of the lot authorizing such removal, which said permit or order
he shall file and preserve, and all such removals shall be recorded by him in a
book kept for that purpose.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to remove a body that has died of a contagious
disease without permission of the health department, who shall personally
inspect and direct such disinterment and removal.
Sec 54-142 Burial Or Disinterment; Permit Required
The city sexton, before burying the body of any person in the city cemetery, or
before permitting the removal of the body of any person buried therein, shall
require a permit to do so from the health board or some other proper person
authorized to issue such permit, and a record thereof shall be kept by the
sexton of such burial or removal.
Sec 54-143 Damage To Cemetery Property Prohibited
It is unlawful for any person to injure or deface any headboard, tombstone,
monument, tree, shrub, plant or any other property in, upon, or around the city
cemetery, or to destroy, deface, desecrate or injure any grave, or in any
manner interfere with the same.
Sec 54-144 Only Humans To Be Buried
There shall be no interment of anything other than the remains of human bodies
in city cemeteries.
Sec 54-145 Vaults Required
It shall be unlawful for any person to be buried in a city cemetery unless the
casket is placed in a city- approved concrete or steel vault. Exceptions to the
provisions of this section may be granted for infant burials only. In such
instances, the design and construction of the burial vault shall be approved by
the city.
Sec 54-146 Right To Maintain Reserved By City
The city reserves the right to enter upon any lot to perform all work necessary
for the care and upkeep of all lots and graves in the city cemetery.
Sec 54-147 Disclaimer Of City Liability For Grave Openings
Under no circumstances will the city assume responsibility for errors in
opening graves when orders are given by telephone.
Sec 54-148 Applicability Of Traffic Regulations
The provisions of title VII relative to the operation of vehicles and conduct
of pedestrians shall be in effect in the city cemetery, except as otherwise
modified by this article.
Sec 54-149 Animals Prohibited
Except as provided in U.C.A. 1953, § 62A-5b-104, no animal shall be allowed in
any cemetery except in the confines of a vehicle. Any animal must at all times
be retained within the confines of said vehicle while the vehicle remains in
the cemetery.
Sec 54-150 Registration Of Burials And Disinterments
   (a)   The registrar of burials for the city, before burying any dead in the
city-owned cemetery, or before disinterring for transportation beyond the
corporate limits of the city the body of any person who has been buried
therein, shall require from a relative, or other persons having charge of the
body, a death certificate which shall be recorded in a record kept for that
purpose by the registrar. The statement shall include the name of the decedent,
the place of death, the date of burial and the name and address of the funeral
director or other person making the interment. This record shall be open to
public inspection.
   (b)   The sexton over the city cemetery shall have control and supervision
of the cemetery, and shall perform such duties in relation to cemeteries as may
be provided by the laws of the state and by ordinance, order or resolution of
the city council.
Sec 54-151 Prohibited Burial Days
Burials shall not occur when not approved by the city sexton.
Sec 54-152 Sexton To Protect Cemetery ; Duties Relating To Sales
The sexton shall keep in proper repair the enclosure around the city cemetery
so as to prevent entrance by animals, and, so far as practicable, prevent the
destruction or defacing of any marker placed or erected therein. He shall have
charge of a duplicate plat of the cemetery. The sexton shall, at the request of
any person wishing to purchase a lot, designate any which are for sale. Upon
the sale of any lots, or part thereof, the sexton shall notify the registrar of
the fact. The registrar shall prepare a deed after payment of the lot price to
the city.
Sec 54-153 Reversion Of Lots To City
Whenever title to purchased lots reverts to the city, the original deeds shall
be filed with the registrar, and before new deeds are issued covering the
property, the original deed shall be canceled or a quit claim deed given and
the record so changed.
Sec 54-154 Duties Of Supervisor Relating To Burials
The sexton or cemetery staff shall provide for the preparation of any grave in
the cemetery upon application to him being made by the registrar. He shall
provide supervision for every interment and shall fill up and neatly trim the
grave after depositing the coffin and shall fill up and trim all graves that
have settled or may hereafter settle.
Sec 54-155 Removal Of Grave Decorations
It shall be the responsibility of the sexton to provide for the removal of
floral pieces or displays left on any grave as he deems it necessary to the
appearance and maintenance of the cemetery, but such floral pieces or displays
shall not be removed sooner than five days after their original placement.
Sec 54-156 Sexton To Enforce Regulations
It shall be the duty of the sexton to see that the owners of lots within the
cemetery obey all orders, rules and regulations made by the city in regard to
the care of the lots and in regard to the erection of fences or other
obstructions and to enforce all other regulations herein provided.
Sec 54-157 Sexton To Maintain Streets And Driveways
The sexton shall keep the streets and driveways in the city cemetery in good
condition and unobstructed, so that access can be had to any lot.
Sec 54-158 Additional Rules And Regulations
The city may, from time to time, publish a booklet of rules and regulations for
the convenience of purchasers of lots in the city cemetery.
Sec 54-159 Private Improvement
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any fence, corner
post, coping, hedge or boundary of any kind upon any lot, street, or driveway
in the city cemetery, or grade the ground or land thereof or plant any shrubs
or tree unless the same is done under the direction and supervision of the
sexton.
Sec 54-160 Collection Of Prices And Fees
The registrar shall collect in advance prices or fees for the opening and
closing of graves, which shall include properly restoring and trimming the
graves. Fees shall also be collected for disinterring bodies and properly
restoring the earth and grounds, for recording each burial, disinterment or
removal, and for other services rendered as determined by the city.
Sec 54-161 Lot Prices, Fees And Charges
All lot prices and other fees and charges pertaining to the cemetery shall be
as determined by the schedule of fees and penalties.
Sec 54-162 Trust Fund Established
There is hereby established a perpetual care trust fund into which shall be
deposited all trust funds previously established for care of cemeteries and
that portion of the sale price designated for perpetual care of the city
cemetery or parts thereof, together with any other gifts, grants, devises or
bequests made for the purpose of assisting in the maintenance of cemeteries.
Sec 54-163 Work Included In Perpetual Care
The essential perpetual care that the city agrees to give shall consist of care
of the cemetery generally, and shall include, but is not limited to, mowing of
all lots and graves at reasonable intervals, resodding, seeding and filling in
sunken graves, sodding of the surface of the graves to the lot level, raising
sunken markers, removing dead flowers and trimming trees and shrubbery when
necessary, raking and cleaning the lots and straightening of tilting stones or
markers, but shall not include repair or replacement of markers or memorial
structures of any nature, except when the need for repair or replacement is
directly caused by the city.
Sec 54-164 Burial Of Indigents
The city may designate a portion of the city cemetery for the burial of
indigents. Whenever it is made to appear by proof submitted to the city manager
that any person who has died does not have an estate sufficient to pay the
purchase price of a lot in the city cemetery, and the nearest relative or
representative of such deceased person desires to have the body of such
deceased interred in the cemetery, the city manager may grant burial space for
such deceased person. The sexton shall communicate this decision to the
registrar. All strangers without funds or known relatives who may die in the
city may be accorded the privilege herein granted if approved by the city
manager. If the city manager is not available, the mayor shall be substituted
for said absent party.
Sec 54-165 Grave Markers And Headstone Requirements
All markers are to be installed under the direction of the sexton and in the
manner provided for in this article, and if any person neglects to comply with
this requirement, it shall be done by the sexton at the expense of the person
owning or burying in such lot. All markers shall be placed on a concrete
foundation at least six inches deep and shall be flush with the lawn.
Sec 54-166 Ownership And Responsibility
Headstones are the personal property of the owners of the lots. All monuments
within the cemetery are the property of lot owners, their heirs, or the
responsible party that ordered and placed them or their successors in interest.
All care and upkeep of the monuments is the responsibility of the owner or his
successor in interest. The cemetery is maintained by city crews who exercise
great care in keeping the ground groomed; however, the city is not responsible
for inadvertent scratches and chips that occur from routine maintenance. Such
happenings are a risk assumed by the owners of the monuments and are a
condition that go with the privilege of placing markers within the cemetery.
Sec 54-167 Limitation On Number Of Monuments
It shall be unlawful for any person to place more than one marker (monument) on
any one grave. Military markers may be placed within the confines of the
concrete border and be installed no higher than three-fourths inch above the
surface of the concrete.
Sec 54-168 Permission For Burial In Lot Owned By Someone Who Is Deceased
When a request is made to bury someone in a grave site owned by a deceased
person whose estate has not been probated, the heirs of the deceased shall
provide the city with a survivorship affidavit and indemnity agreement. If the
sexton, together with the city manager, approve the survivorship affidavit and
indemnity agreement and feel that the city is adequately protected, then they
may authorize the burial in the grave site.
Sec 54-169 Violation; Penalty
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 55 DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ORDINANCE
Sec
55-1 Title
Sec
55-2 Legislative Intent And Purpose
Sec
55-3 Definitions
Sec
55-4 Applicability
Sec
55-5 Authority For Development Impact Fees
Sec
55-6 Administration Of Development Impact Fees
Sec
55-8 Impact Fee Facilities Plan
Sec
55-9 Adoption And Modification Procedures
Sec
55-10 Collection Of Development Impact Fees
Sec
55-11 Development Impact Fee Credits And Credit Agreements
Sec
55-12 Development Agreements
Sec
55-13 Appeals
Sec
55-14 Refunds Of Development Impact Fees
Sec
55-15 Oversight Of Development Impact Fee Program
Sec 55-1 Title
This chapter shall be known as the "2015 Development Impact Fee Ordinance of
the City of Hildale" and may be cited as such.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
Sec 55-2 Legislative Intent And Purpose
This chapter is adopted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety and
general welfare of the residents of the city by:
   (a)   Requiring new development to pay its proportionate share of the costs
incurred by the city that are associated with providing necessary public
services to new development.
   (b)   Setting forth standards and procedures for creating and assessing
development impact fees consistent with the requirements of the Impact Fee Act,
U.C.A. § 11-36a-101 et seq.
   (c)   Setting forth procedures for administering the development impact fee
program, including mandatory offsets, credits, and refunds of development
impact fees. All development impact fee assessments, offsets, credits, or
refunds must be administered in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (d)   This chapter shall not affect the city's zoning authority or its
authority to adopt or amend its general plan, provided that planning and zoning
activities by the city may require amendments to development impact fees as
provided in section
55-8 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
Sec 55-3 Definitions
When used in this chapter, the terms listed below shall have the following
meanings unless the context requires otherwise. Singular terms shall include
their plural.
Applicant: A person who applies to the city for a building permit or utility
connection.
Appurtenance: Any fixed machinery or equipment, structure or other fixture,
including integrated hardware, software or other components, associated with a
capital facility that are necessary or convenient to the operation, use, or
maintenance of a capital facility, but excluding replacement of the same after
initial installation.
Building permit: Any permit issued by the city that authorizes vertical
construction, increases square footage, authorizes changes to land use, or
provides for the addition of a residential or nonresidential point of demand to
a utility system.
Capital facility: An asset having a useful life of three or more years that is
a component of one or more categories of necessary public service provided by
the city. A capital facility may include any associated purchase of real
property, architectural and engineering services leading to the design and
construction of buildings and facilities, improvements to existing facilities,
improvements to or expansions of existing facilities, and associated financing
and professional services. Wherever used herein, "infrastructure" shall have
the same meaning as "capital facilities."
Category of necessary public service: A category of necessary public services
for which the city is authorized to assess development impact fees, as further
defined in section
55-8(a)(1) of this chapter.
Credit: A reduction in an assessed development impact fee resulting from
developer contributions to, payments for, construction of, or dedications for
capital facilities included in an impact fee facilities plan pursuant to
section
55-11 of this chapter (or as otherwise permitted by this chapter).
Credit agreement: A written agreement between the city and the developer(s) of
subject development that allocates credits to the subject development pursuant
to section
55-11 of this chapter. A credit agreement may be included as part of a
development agreement pursuant to section
55-12 of this chapter.
Credit allocation: A term used to describe when credits are distributed to a
particular development or parcel of land after execution of a credit agreement,
but are not yet issued.
Credit issuance: A term used to describe when the amount of an assessed
development impact fee attributable to a particular development or parcel of
land is reduced by applying a credit allocation.
Developer: An individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation,
limited liability company, association, municipal corporation, state agency, or
other person or entity undertaking land development activity, and their
respective successors and assigns.
Development agreement: An agreement prepared in accordance with the
requirements of section
55-12 of this chapter, Impact Fee Act, U.C.A. § 11-36-101 et seq. and any
applicable requirements of the City Code.
Direct benefit: A benefit to an ERU resulting from a capital facility that:
   (a)   Addresses the need for a necessary public service created in whole or
in part by the ERU; and
   (b)   Meets either of the following criteria:
      (1)   The capital facility is located in the immediate area of the ERU
and is needed in the immediate area of the ERU to maintain the level of
service; or
      (2)   The capital facility substitutes for, or eliminates the need for a
capital facility that would have otherwise have been needed in the immediate
area of the ERU to maintain the city's level of service.
Dwelling unit: A house, apartment, mobile home or trailer, group of rooms, or
single room occupied as separate living quarters or, if vacant, intended for
occupancy as separate living quarters.
Equipment: Machinery, tools, materials, and other supplies, not including
vehicles, that are needed by a capital facility to provide the level of service
specified by the infrastructure improvement plan, but excluding replacement of
the same after initial development of the capital facility.
Equivalent residential unit (ERU): A unit of development within a particular
category of development, defined in terms of a standardized measure of the
demand that a unit of development in that category of development generates for
necessary public services in relation to the demand generated by a detached
single-family dwelling unit. For all categories of necessary public services,
the ERU factor for a detached single-family dwelling unit is one, while the ERU
factor for a unit of development within another category of development is
represented as a ratio of the demand for each category of necessary public
services typically generated by that unit as compared to the demand for such
services typically generated by a detached single-family dwelling unit. An ERU
shall also mean a "service unit".
Impact fee analysis: A written report developed pursuant to section
55-9 of this chapter that identifies the methodology for calculating the amount
of each development impact fee, explains the relationship between the
development impact fee to be assessed and the plan-based cost per ERU
calculated in the impact fee facilities plan, and which meets other
requirements set forth in "Utah State Impact Fee Act", title 11, chapter 36a,
Utah Code Annotated.
Financing or debt: Any debt, bond, note, loan, interfund loan, fund transfer,
or other debt service obligation used to finance the development or expansion
of a capital facility.
Fire protection: A category of necessary public services that includes fire
stations, fire equipment, fire vehicles and all appurtenances for fire
stations. Fire protection does not include vehicles or equipment used to
provide administrative services, or helicopters or airplanes. Fire protection
does not include any facility that is used for training firefighters from more
than one station or substation.
General plan: Refers to the overall land-use plan for the city establishing
areas of the city for different purposes, zones and activities adopted pursuant
to title 15 of this Code.
Gross impact fee: The total development impact fee to be assessed against a
subject development on a per unit basis, prior to subtraction of any credits.
Impact fee facilities plan: A document or series of documents that meet the
requirements set forth in Utah State Impact Fee Act", title 11, chapter 36,
Utah Code Annotated, including those adopted pursuant to section
55-9 of this chapter to cover necessary public services. (may also be referred
to as impact fee facilities plan.)
Land development activity: Any construction or expansion of a building,
structure, or use, any change in use of a building or structure, or any changes
in the use of land that creates additional demand and need for public
facilities.
Land use assumptions: Projections of changes in land uses, densities,
intensities and population for a service area over a period of at least ten
years as specified in section 8 of this chapter.
Level of service: A quantitative and/or qualitative measure of a necessary
public service that is to be provided by the city to development in a
particular service area, defined in terms of the relationship between service
capacity and service demand, accessibility, response times, comfort or
convenience of use, or other similar measures or combinations of measures.
Level of service may be measured differently for different categories of
necessary public services, as identified in the applicable impact fee
facilities plan.
Necessary public services: Any of the following facilities that have a life
expectancy of three or more years and that are owned and operated by or on
behalf of the municipality:
   (a)   Water facilities, including the acquisition, supply, storage,
transportation, treatment, purification and distribution of water, and any
appurtenances for those facilities.
   (b)   Wastewater facilities, sewers, lift stations, reclamation plants,
wastewater treatment plants, including collection, interception,
transportation, treatment and disposal of wastewater, and any appurtenances for
those facilities.
   (c)   Stormwater, drainage and flood control facilities, including culverts,
erosion control, stormwater detention/retention basins, tanks, pump stations
and channels necessary to provide for proper stormwater management, including
any appurtenances for those facilities.
   (d)   Street facilities located in the service area, including arterial or
collector streets or roads traffic signals, rights-of-way, and improvements
thereon, bridges, culverts, irrigation tiling, storm drains, and regional
transportation facilities.
   (e)   Public safety facilities defined in U.C.A. § 11-36a-102(17), means a
building constructed or leased to house police, fire, or other public safety
entities; or a fire suppression vehicle costing in excess of $500,000.00.
Public safety facilities do not include a jail, prison, or other place of
involuntary incarceration.
   (f)   Neighborhood parks and recreational facilities on real property up to
30 acres in area, or parks and recreational facilities larger than 30 acres if
the facilities provide a direct benefit to the development. Park and
recreational facilities do not include vehicles, equipment or that portion of
any facility that is used for amusement parks, aquariums, aquatic centers,
auditoriums, arenas, arts and cultural facilities, bandstand and orchestra
facilities, boathouses, clubhouses, community centers greater than 3,000 square
feet in floor area, environmental education centers, equestrian facilities,
golf course facilities, greenhouses, lakes, museums, theme parks, water
reclamation or riparian areas, wetlands, zoo facilities or similar recreational
facilities, and swimming pools.
Offset: An amount which is subtracted from the overall costs of providing
necessary public services to account for those capital components of
infrastructure or associated debt that have been or will be paid for by a
development through taxes, fees (except for development impact fees), and other
revenue sources, as determined by the city pursuant to section
55-8 of this chapter.
Plan-based cost per ERU: The total future capital costs listed in the impact
fee facilities plan for a category of necessary public services divided by the
total new equivalent demand units projected in a particular service area for
that category of necessary public services over the same time period.
Qualified professional: Any one of the following:
   (a)   A professional engineer, surveyor, financial analyst or planner, or
other licensed professional providing services within the scope of that
person's education or experience related to city planning, zoning, or impact
development fees and holding a license issued by an agency or political
subdivision of the State of Utah;
   (b)   A financial analyst, planner, or other non-licensed professional that
is providing services within the scope of the person's education or experience
related to city planning, zoning, or impact development fees; or
   (c)   Any other person operating under the supervision of one or more of the
above.
Service area: Any specified area within the boundaries of the city within
which:
   (a)   The city will provide a category of necessary public services to
development at a planned level of service; and
   (b)   Within which:
      (1)   A substantial nexus exists between the capital facilities to be
provided and the development to be served, or
      (2)   In the case of a park facility larger than 30 acres, a direct
benefit exists between the park facilities and the development to be served,
each as prescribed in the impact fee facilities plan.
Some or all of the capital facilities providing service to a service area may
be physically located outside of that service area provided that the required
substantial nexus or direct benefit is demonstrated to exist.
Subject development: A land area linked by a unified plan of development, which
must be contiguous unless the land area is part of a development agreement
executed in accordance with section
55-12 of this chapter.
Substantial nexus: A substantial nexus exists where the demand for necessary
public services that will be generated by an ERU can be reasonably quantified
in terms of the burden it will impose on the available capacity of existing
capital facilities, the need it will create for new or expanded capital
facilities, and/or the benefit to the development from those capital
facilities.
Useful life: The period of time in which an asset can reasonably be expected to
be used under normal conditions, whether or not the asset will continue to be
owned and operated by the city over the entirety of such period.
Vehicle: Any device, structure, or conveyance utilized for transportation in
the course of providing a particular category of necessary public services at a
specified level of service, excluding helicopters and other aircraft.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
Sec 55-4 Applicability
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided herein, from and after the effective
date, this chapter shall apply to all new development within any service area,
except for the development of any city facility.
   (b)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all of the territory
within the corporate limits of city and/or within the city's utility service
areas.
   (c)   The city manager or his/her designee is authorized to make
determinations regarding the application, administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (d)   The impact fees authorized hereby are separate from and in addition to
user fees and other charges lawfully imposed by the city, such as engineering
and inspection fees, building permit fees, review fees and other fees and costs
that may not be included as itemized component parts of the impact fee.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
Sec 55-5 Authority For Development Impact Fees
   (a)   Impact fee analysis and implementation. The city may assess and
collect a development impact fee for costs of necessary public services,
including obtaining all professional services required for the preparation or
revision of an impact fee facilities plan, impact fee analysis, development
impact fee, and required reports or audits conducted pursuant to this chapter.
Development impact fees shall be subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   The city shall develop and adopt an impact fee analysis that
analyzes and defines the development impact fees to be charged in each service
area for each capital facility category, based on the impact fee facilities
plan and the plan-based cost per ERU calculated pursuant to subsection
55-8(a)(12) of this chapter. The city shall also prepare a summary of the
impact fee analysis designed to be understood by a lay person.
      (2)   Development impact fees shall be assessed against all new
commercial, residential, and industrial developments, provided that the city
may assess different amounts of development impact fees against specific
categories of development based on the actual burdens and costs that are
associated with providing necessary public services to that category of
development. No development impact fee shall exceed the plan-based cost per ERU
for any category of development.
      (3)   No development impact fees shall be charged, or credits issued, for
any capital facility that does not fall within one of the categories of
necessary public services for which development impact fees may be assessed as
identified in subsection
55-8(a)(1) of this chapter.
      (4)   Costs for necessary public services made necessary by new
development shall be based on the same level of service provided to existing
development in the same service area. Development impact fees may not be used
to provide a higher level of service to existing development or to meet
stricter safety, efficiency, environmental, or other regulatory standards to
the extent that these are applied to existing capital facilities that are
serving existing development.
      (5)   Development impact fees may not be used to pay the city's
administrative maintenance, or other operating costs, or for any other purpose
as identified in U.A.C. § 11-36a-202.
      (6)   Projected interest charges and financing costs can only be included
in development impact fees to the extent they represent principal and/or
interest on the portion of any financing or debt used to finance the
construction or expansion of a capital facility identified in the impact fee
facilities plan.
      (7)   Except for any fees included on interim fee schedules, all
development impact fees charged by the city must be included in a "fee
schedule" prepared pursuant to this chapter and included in the impact fee
analysis; example versions of all fee schedules are provided in appendix A*.
      (8)   All development impact fees shall meet the requirements of "Utah
State Impact Fee Act", title 11, chapter 36a, Utah Code Annotated.
   (b)   Costs per ERU. The impact fee analysis shall summarize the costs of
capital facilities necessary to serve new development on a per ERU basis as
defined and calculated in the impact fee facilities plan, including all
required offsets, and shall recommend a development impact fee structure for
adoption by the city. The actual impact fees to be assessed shall be disclosed
and adopted in the form of impact fee schedules described in appendix A* to
this chapter. The city shall also prepare a summary of the impact fee analysis
designed to be understood by a lay person.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
* Appendix A herein referred to has not been codified in this chapter but is on
file in the city's offices.
Sec 55-6 Administration Of Development Impact Fees
   (a)   Separate accounts. Development impact fees collected pursuant to this
chapter shall be placed in separate, interest-bearing ledger accounts for each
capital facility category within each service area. These accounts shall be
maintained in accordance with U.A.C. § 11-36a-601.
   (b)   Limitations on use of fees. Development impact fees and any interest
thereon collected pursuant to this chapter shall be spent to provide capital
facilities associated with the same category of necessary public services in
the same service area for which they were collected, including costs of
financing or debt used by the city to finance such capital facilities and other
costs authorized by this chapter that are included in the impact fee facilities
plan. Development impact fees shall only be used to mitigate the impact of the
new development on public infrastructure, and are subject to the limitations
provided in U.A.C. § 11-36a-202.
   (c)   Time limit. Development impact fees collected shall be used within six
years of the date upon which they were collected for all categories of
necessary public services.
   (d)   Annual report. In addition to the report identified in section
55-15, at the end of each fiscal year, the city shall prepare a report on each
fund or ledger account. The report shall show:
      (1)   The source and amount of all money collected, earned, and received
by the fund or ledger account; and
      (2)   Each expenditure from the fund or ledger account.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
Sec 55-8 Impact Fee Facilities Plan
   (a)   Impact fee facilities plan contents. The impact fee facilities plan
hall be developed by qualified professionals and may be based upon or
incorporated within the city's capital improvements plan. The impact fee
facilities plan shall comply with the requirements of U.C.A. § 11-36a-302, and
shall:
      (1)   Specify the categories of necessary public services for which the
city will impose a development impact fee, which may include any or all of the
following:
         a.   Water.
         b.   Wastewater.
         c.   Stormwater, drainage, and flood control.
         d.   Street facilities.
         e.   Public safety facilities.
         f.   Parks.
      (2)   Define and provide a map of one or more service areas within which
the city will provide each category of necessary public services for which
development impact fees will be charged. Each service area must be defined in a
manner that demonstrates a substantial nexus between the capital facilities to
be provided in the service area and the ERUs to be served by those capital
facilities.
      (3)   Identify and describe the land use assumptions upon which the
impact fee facilities plan is based in each service area.
      (4)   Analyze and identify the existing level of service provided by the
city to existing ERUs for each category of necessary public services in each
service area.
      (5)   Identify the level of service to be provided by the city for each
category of necessary public services in each service area based on the
relevant land use assumptions and any established city standards or policies
related to required levels of service. If the city provides the same category
of necessary public services in more than one service area, the impact fee
facilities plan shall include a comparison of the levels of service to be
provided in each service area.
      (6)   Estimate the total number of existing and future ERUs within each
service area based on the city's land use assumptions and projected new ERUs in
each service area.
      (7)   For each category of necessary public services, analyze and
identify the projected utilization of any available excess capacity in existing
capital facilities, and all new or expanded capital facilities that will be
required to provide and maintain the planned level of service in each service
area as a result of the new projected ERUs in that service area, for a period
not to exceed ten years. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit the city
from additionally including in its impact fee facilities plan projected
utilization of, or needs for, capital facilities for a period longer than ten
years, provided that the costs of such capital facilities are excluded from the
calculation of the plan-based cost per ERU.
      (8)   For each category of necessary public services, estimate the total
cost of any available excess capacity and/or new or expanded capital facilities
that will be required to serve new ERUs, including costs of land acquisition,
improvements, engineering and architectural services, studies leading to
design, design, construction, financing, and administrative costs, as well as
projected costs of inflation. Such total costs shall not include costs for
ongoing operation and maintenance of capital facilities, nor for replacement of
capital facilities to the extent that such replacement is necessary to serve
existing ERUs. If the impact fee facilities plan includes changes or upgrades
to existing capital facilities that will be needed to achieve or maintain the
planned level of service to existing ERUs, or to meet new regulatory
requirements for services provided to existing ERUs, such costs shall be
identified and distinguished in the impact fee facilities plan.
      (9)   Forecast the revenues from taxes, fees, assessments or other
sources that will be available to fund the new or expanded capital facilities
identified in the impact fee facilities plan. The impact fee facilities plan
shall additionally estimate the time required to finance, construct and
implement the new or expanded capital facilities.
   (b)   Multiple plans. An impact fee facilities plan adopted pursuant to this
subsection may address one or more of the city's categories of necessary public
services in any or all of the city's service areas. Each capital facility shall
be subject to no more than one impact fee facilities plan at any given time.
   (c)   Reserved capacity. The city may reserve capacity in an impact fee
facilities plan to serve one or more planned future developments, including
capacity reserved through a development agreement pursuant to section
55-12 of this chapter. All reservations of existing capacity must be disclosed
in the impact fee facilities plan at the time it is adopted.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
Sec 55-9 Adoption And Modification Procedures
   (a)   Adopting or amending the impact fee facilities plan. The impact fee
facilities plan shall be adopted or amended subject to the following
procedures:
      (1)   Notice and public hearing. The adoption or amendment of an
infrastructure improvement plan shall occur at one or more public hearings
according to the following schedule, as provided in section
55-8 of this chapter:
         a.   The city shall provide written public notice of its intent to
prepare or amend its impact fee facilities plan and its impact fee analysis per
U.C.A. §§ 11-36a-501 through 11-36a-503.
         b.   Before adopting or amending its impact fee facilities plan, the
city shall hold a public hearing regarding the impact fee facilities plan. The
city shall provide public notice of the public hearing at least ten days before
the hearing date in accordance with U.C.A. §§ 11-36a-501 through 11-36a-502.
         c.   Before adopting or modifying an impact fee enactment, the city
shall give public notice of intent to adopt or modify and notice of public
hearing, according the U.C.A. § 11-36a-504.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
Sec 55-10 Collection Of Development Impact Fees
   (a)   Collection. Development impact fees, together with administrative
charges assessed pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) of this section, shall be
calculated and collected prior to issuance of permission to commence
development; specifically:
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified pursuant to a development agreement
adopted pursuant to section
55-12 of this chapter, development impact fees shall be paid prior to issuance
of a building permit according to the current development impact fee schedule
for the applicable service area(s).
      (2)   If a building permit is not required for the development, but
utility connections are required, development impact fees due shall be paid at
the time the utility service connection is purchased. If only a wastewater
connection is required, the development impact fees shall be paid prior to
approval of a connection to the sewer system.
      (3)   If the development is located in a service area with a stormwater,
drainage, and flood control development impact fee, and neither a building
permit, or utility service connection is required, the storm drainage
development impact fee due shall be paid at the time a notice is issued to the
developer.
      (4)   No building permit, water, or sewer connection, or certificate of
occupancy shall be issued if a development impact fee is not paid as directed
in the previous paragraphs.
      (5)   If the development is for a change in the type of building use, an
increase in square footage, a change to land use, or an addition to a
residential or non-residential point of demand to the utility systems, the
development impact fee shall be assessed on the additional service units
resulting from the expansion or change, and following the development impact
fee schedule applicable to any new use type. Water and gas development impact
fees shall be based on the meter size required for the development.
      (6)   To the extent that any modification does not meet the requirements
of this paragraph, the development impact fee due shall be the difference
between the development impact fee that was or would have been due on the
existing development and the development impact fee that is due on the
development as modified.
      (7)   If the development is not substantially completed, development
impact fees paid for such development can be refunded.
      (8)   If a new or renewed application for the same development is being
sought by someone other than the original applicant, the new applicant shall
pay the full development impact fees specified in the fee schedule in effect at
the time that the application is made. If the original applicant has assigned
its rights under the application to a new applicant, the new applicant shall
pay the difference between any development impact fees paid and those in the
fee schedule at the time of the new application.
   (b)   Master planned developments. Impact fees for new master planned
developments with multiple new homes shall remain unchanged for 24 months after
the first building permit is issued. During the 24-month effective period, any
building permit issued for the same development shall not be subject to any new
or modified development impact fee schedule, except that if the city reduces
the amount of an applicable development impact fee during the 24-month
effective period, the city shall assess the lower development impact fee.
      (1)   Other development. Any category of development not covered under
paragraph (1) of this subsection (b) shall pay development impact fees
according to the fee schedule that is current at the time of collection as
specified in subsection (a) of this section.
      (2)   Changes to site plans and subdivision plats. Notwithstanding the
other requirements of this subsection, if changes are made to a development's
final site plan or subdivision plat that will increase the number of service
units after the initiation of the 24-month effective period, the city may
assess any new or modified development impact fees against the additional
service units.
   (c)   Option to pursue special fee determination. Where a development is of
a type that does not closely fit within a particular category of development
appearing on an adopted development impact fee schedule, or where a development
has unique characteristics or unusual circumstances such that the actual
burdens and costs associated with providing necessary public services to that
development will differ substantially from that associated with other
developments in a specified category of development.
      (1)   The city may, sua sponte or in response to a request for
individualized impact fee review submitted pursuant to U.C.A. § 11-36a-402(1)
(c)(i)(B), adjust the standard impact fee at the time the fee is charged.
A developer may submit studies and data upon which the city may adjust the
calculation of the amount of impact fee to be imposed on a particular
development. The city shall review the submission and shall make a
determination as to the adjusted development impact fee to be charged. Such
decision shall be appealable pursuant to section
55-13 of this chapter. The city may require the applicant to pay an
administrative fee to cover the actual costs of reviewing the special fee
determination application.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
Sec 55-11 Development Impact Fee Credits And Credit Agreements
   (a)   Eligibility of capital facility. A developer, including a school
district or a charter school, shall receive a credit against or proportionate
reimbursement of an impact fee if:
      (1)   One of the following is true:
         a.   The developer dedicates land for a system improvement;
         b.   The developer builds and dedicates some or all of a system
improvement; or
         c.   The developer dedicates a public facility that the city and the
developer agree will reduce the need for a system improvement.
   (b)   Such dedication of land for, improvement to, or new construction of a
system improvement shall receive a credit if the facilities are system
improvements, or are dedicated to the public and offset the need for an
identified system improvement.
   (c)   (1)   The capital facility, land for system improvement, or the
financial contribution toward a capital facility for which a credit will be
issued:
         a.   Must be identified in an adopted impact fee facilities plan and
impact fee analysis as a capital facility for which a development impact fee
was assessed; or
         b.   The applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city
that, given the class and type of improvement, the subject capital facility
should have been included in the impact fee facilities plan and analysis in
lieu of a different capital facility that was included therein and for which a
development impact fee was assessed. If the subject capital facility is
determined to be eligible for a credit in this manner, the city shall amend the
impact fee facilities plan and analysis to:
            1.   Include the subject replacement facility; and
            2.   Delete the capital facility that will be replaced.
      (2)   Credits shall not be available for any infrastructure provided by a
developer if the cost of such infrastructure will be repaid to the developer by
the city through another agreement or mechanism. To the extent that the
developer will be paid or reimbursed by the city for any contribution, payment,
construction, or dedication from any city funding source including an agreement
to reimburse the developer with future collected development impact fees
pursuant to section
55-12 of this chapter, any credits claimed by the developer shall be:
         a.   Deducted from any amounts to be paid or reimbursed by the city;
or
         b.   Reduced by the amount of such payment or reimbursement.
   (d)   Calculation of credits. Credits will be based on that portion of the
costs for an eligible capital facility identified in the adopted impact fee
facilities plan for which a development fee was assessed pursuant to the impact
fee analysis. If the gross impact fee for a particular category of necessary
public service is adopted at an amount lower than the plan-based cost per ERU,
the amount of any credit shall be reduced in proportion to the difference
between the plan-based cost per ERU and the gross impact fee adopted. A credit
shall not exceed the actual costs the applicant incurred in providing the
eligible capital facility.
   (e)   Allocation of credits. Before any credit can be issued to a subject
development (or portion thereof), the credit must be allocated to that
development as follows:
      (1)   The developer and the city must execute a credit agreement
including all of the following:
         a.   The total amount of the credits resulting from provision of an
eligible capital facility.
         b.   The estimated number of ERUs to be served within the subject
development.
         c.   The method by which the credit values will be distributed within
the subject development.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the developer to request allocation of
development impact fee credits through an application for a credit agreement
(which may be part of a development agreement entered into pursuant to section
55-12 of this chapter).
      (3)   If a building permit is issued or a utility connection is
purchased, and a development impact fee is paid prior to execution of a credit
agreement for the subject development, no credits may be allocated
retroactively to that permit or connection. Credits may be allocated to any
remaining permits for the subject development in accordance with this chapter.
      (4)   If the entity that provides an eligible capital facility sells or
relinquishes a development (or portion thereof) that it owns or controls prior
to execution of a credit agreement or development agreement, credits resulting
from the eligible capital facility will only be allocated to the development if
the entity legally assigns such rights and responsibilities to its successor(s)
in interest for the subject development.
      (5)   If multiple entities jointly provide an eligible capital facility,
both entities must enter into a single credit agreement with the city, and any
request for the allocation of credit within the subject development(s) must be
made jointly by the entities that provided the eligible capital facility.
      (6)   Credits may only be reallocated from or within a subject
development with the city's approval of an amendment to an executed credit
agreement, subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The entity that executed the original agreement with the city, or
its legal successor in interest and the entity that currently controls the
subject development are parties to the request for reallocation.
         b.   The reallocation proposal does not change the value of any
credits already issued for the subject development.
      (7)   A credit agreement may authorize the allocation of credits to a
non-contiguous parcel only if all of the following conditions are met:
         a.   The entity that executed the original agreement with the city or
its legal successor in interest, the entity that currently controls the subject
development, and the entity that controls the non-contiguous parcel are parties
to the request for reallocation.
         b.   The reallocation proposal does not change the value of any
credits already issued for the subject development.
         c.   The non-contiguous parcel is in the same service area as that
served by the eligible capital facility.
         d.   The non-contiguous parcel receives a necessary public service
from the eligible capital facility.
         e.   The credit agreement specifically states the value of the credits
to be allocated to each parcel and/or ERU, or establishes a mechanism for
future determination of the credit values.
         f.   The credit agreement does not involve the transfer of credits to
or from any property subject to a development agreement.
   (f)   Credit agreement. Credits shall only be issued pursuant to a credit
agreement executed in accordance with subsection (d) of this section. The city
manager or authorized designee is authorized by this chapter to enter into a
credit agreement with the controlling entity of a subject development, subject
to the following:
      (1)   The developer requesting the credit agreement shall provide all
information requested by the city to allow it to determine the value of the
credit to be applied.
      (2)   An application for a credit agreement shall be submitted to the
city by the developer within one year of the date on which ownership or control
of the capital facility passes to the city.
      (3)   The developer shall submit a draft credit agreement to the city
manager or authorized designee(s) for review in the form provided to the
applicant by the city. The draft credit agreement shall include, at a minimum,
all of the following information and supporting documentation:
         a.   A legal description and map depicting the location of the subject
development for which credit is being applied. the map shall depict the
location of the capital facilities that have been or will be provided.
         b.   An estimate of the total ERUs that will be developed within the
subject development depicted on the map and described in the legal description.
         c.   A list of the capital facilities, associated physical attributes,
and the related costs as stated in the impact fee facilities plan.
         d.   Documentation showing the date(s) of acceptance by the city, if
the capital facilities have already been provided.
         e.   The total amount of credit to be applied within the subject
development and the calculations leading to the total amount of credit. f. The
credit amount to be applied to each ERU within the subject development for each
category of necessary public services.
      (4)   Upon execution of the credit agreement by the city and the
applicant, credits shall be deemed allocated to the subject development.
      (5)   Any amendment to a previously approved credit agreement must be
initiated within two years of the city's final acceptance of the eligible
capital facility for which the amendment is requested.
      (6)   Any credit agreement approved as part of a development agreement
shall be amended in accordance with the terms of the development agreement and
section
55-12 of this chapter.
   (g)   Issuance of credits. Credits allocated pursuant to subsection (d) of
this section may be issued and applied toward the gross impact fees due from a
development, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Credits issued for an eligible capital facility may only be applied
to the development impact fee due for the applicable category of necessary
public services, and may not be applied to any fee due for another category of
necessary public services.
      (2)   Credits shall only be issued when the eligible capital facility
from which the credits were derived has been accepted by the city or when
adequate security for the completion of the eligible capital facility has been
provided in accordance with all terms of an executed development agreement.
      (3)   Where credits have been issued pursuant to paragraph (2) of this
subsection (g), an impact fee due at the time a building permit is issued shall
be reduced by the credit amount stated in or calculated from the executed
credit agreement. Where credits have not yet been issued, the gross impact fee
shall be paid in full, and a refund of the credit amount shall be due when the
developer demonstrates compliance with paragraph (2) of this subsection (g) in
a written request to the city.
      (4)   Credits, once issued, may not be rescinded or reallocated to
another permit or parcel, except that credits may be released for reuse on the
same subject development if a building permit or application for which the
credits were issued has expired or been voided and is otherwise eligible for a
refund under subsection
55-14(a)(2)a. of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
Sec 55-12 Development Agreements
Development agreements containing provisions regarding development impact fees,
development impact fee credits, and/or disbursement of revenues from
development impact fee accounts shall comply with the following:
   (a)   Development agreement required. A development agreement is required to
authorize any of the following:
      (1)   To issue credits prior to the city's acceptance of an eligible
capital facility.
      (2)   To allocate credits to a parcel that is not contiguous with the
subject development and that does not meet the requirements of subparagraph (d)
(7) of section
55-11 of this chapter.
      (3)   To reimburse the developer of an eligible capital facility using
funds from development impact fee accounts.
      (4)   To allocate different credit amounts per ERU to different parcels
within a subject development.
      (5)   For a single-family residential dwelling unit, to allow development
impact fees to be paid at a later time than the issuance of a building permit
as provided in this section.
   (b)   General requirements. All development agreements shall be prepared and
executed by resolution or ordinance, state statute and any applicable
requirements of the City Code. Development agreements relating to property
located outside the incorporated area do not become operative unless annexation
proceedings are completed within the time period specified in the development
agreement. Development agreements shall be consistent with the city general
plan. Development agreements shall be recorded with the county recorder within
ten days of entering into the agreement and the effective date cannot be less
than 30 days after final approval. Except where specifically modified by this
section, all provisions of section
55-11 of this chapter shall apply to any credit agreement that is authorized as
part of a development agreement.
   (c)   Early credit issuance. A development agreement may authorize the
issuance of credits prior to acceptance of an eligible capital facility by the
city when the development agreement specifically states the form and value of
the security (i.e. bond, letter of credit, etc.) to be provided to the city
prior to issuance of any credits. The city shall determine the acceptable form
and value of the security to be provided.
   (d)   Non-contiguous credit allocation. A development agreement may
authorize the allocation of credits to a non-contiguous parcel only if all of
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The non-contiguous parcel is in the same service area as that
served by the eligible capital facility.
      (2)   The non-contiguous parcel receives a necessary public service from
the eligible capital facility.
      (3)   The development agreement specifically states the value of the
credits to be allocated to each parcel and/or ERU, or establishes a mechanism
for future determination of the credit values.
   (e)   Uneven credit allocation. The development agreement must specify how
credits will be allocated amongst different parcels on a per-ERU basis, if the
credits are not to be allocated evenly. If the development agreement is silent
on this topic, all credits will be allocated evenly amongst all parcels on a
per-ERU basis.
   (f)   Waiver of fees. If the city agrees to waive any development impact
fees assessed on development in a development agreement, the city shall
reimburse the appropriate development impact fee account for the amount that
was waived.
   (g)   No obligation. Nothing in this section obligates the city to enter
into any development agreement or to authorize any type of credit agreement
permitted by this section.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
Sec 55-13 Appeals
A development impact fee determination may be appealed in accordance with
U.C.A. §§ 11-36a-701 through 11-36a-705, and the following administrative
procedures:
   (a)   Scope. An appeal may be filed regarding the calculation of the
development impact fees for a specific development and/or permit, or a
challenge to the requirements of law or procedural enactment.
   (b)   Form of appeal. An appeal shall be initiated on such written form as
the city may prescribe, and submitted to the city manager. Impact fee appeal
forms are available to the public at the city offices.
   (c)   Department action. The city manager shall act upon the appeal within
30 calendar days of the filing of the appeal and the applicant shall be
notified of the director's decision in writing.
   (d)   Appeal to city council. The applicant may further appeal the decision
of the city manager to the city council within 14 calendar days of the
decision. Appeals from the decision of the city manager shall be on such
written form as the city may prescribe, and submitted to the mayor. Forms are
available to the public at the city offices.
   (e)   Action by city council. The city council shall act upon the appeal
within 14 calendar days of receipt of the appeal, and the applicant shall be
notified of the city council's decision in writing.
   (f)   Final decision. The city council's decision regarding the appeal is
final.
   (g)   Fees during pendency. Building permits may be issued during the
pendency of an appeal if the applicant:
      (1)   Pays the full impact fee calculated by the city at the time the
appeal is filed; or
      (2)   Provides the city with financial assurances in the form acceptable
to the city manager or authorized designee equal to the full amount of the
impact fee.
Upon final disposition of an appeal, the fee shall be adjusted in accordance
with the decision rendered, and a refund paid if warranted. If the appeal is
denied by the city, and the applicant has provided the city with financial
assurances as set forth in clause (2) above, the applicant shall deliver the
full amount of the impact fee to the city within ten days of the final decision
on the appeal. If the applicant fails to deliver the full amount of the impact
fees when required by this subsection, the city may draw upon such financial
assurance instrument(s) as necessary to recover the full amount of the impact
fees due from the applicant.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
Sec 55-14 Refunds Of Development Impact Fees
   (a)   Refunds. A refund (or partial refund) will be paid to a developer or
property owner who submits a written request to the city when:
      (1)   The developer has not proceeded with the development, the
development impact fees collected have not been expended, encumbered, or
pledged for the repayment of financing or debt, and no impact has resulted; or
      (2)   After collecting the fee to construct a capital facility the city
fails to complete construction of the capital facility within the time period
identified in the impact fee facilities plan, and the corresponding service is
otherwise unavailable to the subject real property from that capital facility
or any other infrastructure and no impact has resulted; or
      (3)   If the actual construction costs for the capital facility are less
than the construction costs projected in the impact fee facilities plan by a
factor of ten percent or more, the refund shall be the difference between the
amounts of the development impact fee charged for and attributable to such
construction cost and the amount the development impact fee would have been
calculated to be if the actual construction cost had been included in the
impact fee analysis. The refund contemplated by this subsection shall relate
only to the costs specific to the construction of the applicable capital
facility and shall not include any related design, administrative, or other
costs not directly incurred for construction of the capital facility that are
included in the development impact fee.
   (b)   Earned interest. A refund of a development impact fee shall include
any interest actually earned on the refunded portion of the development impact
fee by the city from the date of collection to the date of refund.
   (c)   Refund to government. If a development impact fee was paid by a
governmental entity, any refund shall be paid to that governmental entity.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
Sec 55-15 Oversight Of Development Impact Fee Program
   (a)   Annual report. Within 90 days of the end of each fiscal year, the city
shall file with the city recorder a report accounting for the collection and
use of the fees for each service area.
      (1)   The annual report shall identify the funds by the year in which
they were received, the project from which the funds were collected, the
capital facilities projects for which the funds were budgeted and the projected
schedule for expenditure;
      (2)   The annual report shall be in a format developed by the state
auditor, certified by the city treasurer and transmitted to the state auditor
annually.
(Ord. No. 2014-12-1, 10-10-2016)
TITLE VII TRAFFIC CODE
CHAPTER 71 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 72 PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 73 SCHOOLS
CHAPTER 74 ALL-TERRAIN AND OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
CHAPTER 71 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 71-I IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 71-II UTAH CRIMINAL AND TRAFFIC CODE
ARTICLE 71-III VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
ARTICLE 71-IV VEHICLE OPERATION
ARTICLE 71-V MISCELLANEOUS RULES
State Law reference— Traffic Code, U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-101 et seq.; local
regulation of traffic,
U.C.A. 1953, §§ 41-6a-207, 41-6a-208.
ARTICLE 71-I IN GENERAL
Sec
71-1 Violations
Sec
71-2 Traffic Control Signs, Signals And Devices
Sec
71-3 Privately Owned And Maintained Roads
Sec
71-4 Storing, Parking Dismantled Or Other Such Motor Vehicles Prohibited;
Exceptions
Sec 71-1 Violations
The violation of any provisions of this chapter, including those provisions of
state law adopted herein, shall be a Class B misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
as established in the schedule of fees and penalties or a jail term of up to
six months, or by both fine and imprisonment.
Sec 71-2 Traffic Control Signs, Signals And Devices
   (a)   It is the duty of the police department and the public works
department to make joint recommendations to the city council concerning the
appropriate location for stop signs, yield signs and other regulatory signs and
traffic control devices and to recommend appropriate speed limits within the
city. The departments shall also determine appropriate locations for pedestrian
crosswalks and safety zones and for "No Parking" zones.
   (b)   Upon designation by the city council of speed limits and the location
for stop signs and other traffic regulatory signs, the same shall have the
force of law, provided the appropriate signs are posted by the city; with the
exception of sign placement on state highways and roads.
   (c)   The city council hereby approves the stop signs, speed limit signs and
other traffic regulatory signs already existing on the adoption date of this
Code and such shall have the force of law; with the exception of signs with
placement on state highways and roads.
Sec 71-3 Privately Owned And Maintained Roads
Privately owned and maintained roads and parking areas located on or within
private developments or property are subject to the regulations of this
chapter.
Sec 71-4 Storing, Parking Dismantled Or Other Such Motor Vehicles Prohibited;
Exceptions
It shall be unlawful to park, store, or leave or permit the parking, storing,
or leaving of any licensed or unlicensed motor vehicle of any kind or part
thereof, which is in a wrecked, junked, partially dismantled, inoperative, or
abandoned condition, whether attended or not, upon any private or leased
property within the city limits for or a period of time in excess of seven
days:
   (a)   Except that not more than two such vehicles or parts thereof may be
stored if within a building, or placed behind an opaque screening fence not
located in the front or required side lot areas; and except that said vehicles
and parts may be within a junkyard or automobile wrecking yard lawfully
established pursuant to the provisions of this title; or
   (b)   Except any motor vehicle in operable condition specifically adapted or
designed for operation on drag strips or raceways or any classic vehicle so
designated and licensed by the state.
For the purposes of this title, any vehicle that has not been licensed for and
in excess of one year shall be considered inoperable.
ARTICLE 71-II UTAH CRIMINAL AND TRAFFIC CODE
Sec
71-27 Code Provisions Adopted
Sec
71-28 Interpretation Of Code Provisions
Sec 71-27 Code Provisions Adopted
The current Utah Criminal and Traffic Code book as amended from the state
department of public safety by the state highway safety office titled "Utah
Criminal and Traffic Code" is approved and adopted as the traffic code and is
made a part of this chapter as though herein fully printed.
State Law reference— Adoption of statutes, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3-711.
Sec 71-28 Interpretation Of Code Provisions
The following shall apply in the interpretation of the state code provisions
adopted in section
71-27:
   (a)   All references to the "state road commission" shall be deemed to mean
the city and its departments or agents, unless the context requires otherwise.
   (b)   All references to "local authorities" shall be deemed to mean the city
council or other authorized officials of the city.
   (c)   All references to the "state department of public safety" shall be
deemed to mean the chief law enforcement officer of the city or his agent,
unless the context requires otherwise.
   (d)   All references to "magistrate" shall mean a judge of the justice court
of the city, unless the context requires otherwise.
ARTICLE 71-III VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT
Sec
71-60 Vehicles May Be Impounded
Sec
71-61 State Impounds
Sec
71-62 Towing Companies
Sec
71-63 Impounding Not A Bar To Prosecution
State Law reference— Vehicle impoundment, U.C.A. 1953, § 4-1a-1101 et seq.
Sec 71-60 Vehicles May Be Impounded
   (a)   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances:
      (1)   Any unattended vehicle stopped, standing or parked in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Any vehicle found upon the streets or alleys of the city with
faulty or defective equipment.
      (3)   Any disabled vehicle upon a street so located as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle is by reason of
physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to provide for
its custody or removal.
      (4)   Any vehicle left unattended upon a street or alley in such a
location as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic.
      (5)   Any vehicle the driver of which has been taken into custody by the
police under such circumstances as would leave such vehicle unattended in a
street, alley, or restricted parking area.
      (6)   Any vehicle found being driven on the streets in a dangerous
condition.
      (7)   Any vehicle found so parked as to constitute a fire hazard or an
obstruction to firefighting apparatus.
      (8)   Any vehicle parked in such a manner that it interferes with street
or roadway maintenance or construction of public streets.
   (b)   Vehicles constituting a nuisance under subsection (a) of this section
may be removed or impounded by or under the direction of the police department.
Those vehicles which constitute an immediate traffic hazard or danger, or
interfere with maintenance or construction of public streets, may be impounded
without any notice to the owner thereof; provided, however, that notice shall
be given to the registered owner as soon as possible after impounding and an
opportunity for a hearing before the chief of police within ten days shall be
afforded the owner in order to determine if the vehicle was rightfully
impounded; provided that if the chief of police had ordered the vehicle
impounded the hearing shall be held before such other person as may be
designated by the council. A person requesting any such hearing shall pay to
the city the fee established by the fee schedule. Other vehicles may not be
impounded until written notice and an opportunity to be heard are given to the
owner as provided in this section.
State Law reference— Vehicle impoundment, U.C.A. 1953, § 4-1a-1101 et seq.
Sec 71-61 State Impounds
Police officers shall also have authority to impound any vehicle subject to
impounding under state law and in so doing shall use the procedure prescribed
by state law or regulation. The vehicles impounded shall be held or disposed of
pursuant to state law.
State Law reference— Vehicle impoundment, U.C.A. 1953, § 4-1a-1101 et seq.
Sec 71-62 Towing Companies
Only companies licensed by the city as a vehicle towing service shall be
authorized to tow vehicles pursuant to the provisions of this article. It is an
infraction for a towing company to impound vehicles at a location outside of
the city.
Sec 71-63 Impounding Not A Bar To Prosecution
The impounding of a vehicle shall not prevent or preclude the institution and
prosecution of criminal proceedings.
ARTICLE 71-IV VEHICLE OPERATION
Sec
71-85 Improper Lookout
Sec
71-86 Unsafe Activities Interfering With Operation
Sec
71-87 Driving While Faculties Impaired
Sec
71-88 Driving While Passenger Standing
Sec
71-89 Driving Through Private Property To Avoid Regulations
Sec
71-90 Sitting On Lap Of Driver
Sec
71-91 Towing Sleds, Etc
Sec
71-92 Use Of Compression Release Braking Systems Or "Jake Brakes" Prohibited
Sec
71-93 Prohibited Motor Vehicle Travel On Unpaved Areas
Sec 71-85 Improper Lookout
It is unlawful to drive a vehicle within the city without keeping a reasonable
and proper lookout for traffic and other objects.
Sec 71-86 Unsafe Activities Interfering With Operation
No driver shall engage in any activity that interferes with the safe control of
his vehicle while it is in motion, nor shall any passenger engage in any
activity which interferes with the safe operation of any vehicle.
Sec 71-87 Driving While Faculties Impaired
No driver shall operate a vehicle while his ability or alertness is so impaired
through fatigue, illness or any other case as to make it unsafe to drive such
vehicle.
Sec 71-88 Driving While Passenger Standing
No person shall operate any vehicle while any person is standing in the
vehicle.
Sec 71-89 Driving Through Private Property To Avoid Regulations
No driver shall drive over or upon any private property, such as a service
station, market stand, parking lot, vacant lot or similar area to avoid
obedience to any authorized traffic regulation.
Sec 71-90 Sitting On Lap Of Driver
No driver shall have on his lap any other person, adult or minor, nor any
animal, nor shall the driver be seated on the lap of any person while the
vehicle is in motion.
Sec 71-91 Towing Sleds, Etc
It is unlawful for the driver, or any other person in charge of any vehicle,
including snow machines and motorcycles, to knowingly drive or operate such
vehicle upon any of the streets of the city while any sled, toboggan, sleigh,
inner tube or similar conveyance is attached to or connected with the vehicle,
or to permit any such conveyance to be attached to or connected with the
vehicle upon any of the streets of the city. Excluded are animal-drawn sleighs,
sleds and carriages.
Sec 71-92 Use Of Compression Release Braking Systems Or "Jake Brakes"
Prohibited
It is unlawful for any person to use, operate or engage any compression release
engine braking system within the city which is designed to slow the speed of a
vehicle by turning the engine into an air compressor (commonly referred to as a
Jacobs brake, Jake brake, engine brake or compression brake) between 8:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m. However, this section shall not apply to fire engines or other
emergency vehicles.
Sec 71-93 Prohibited Motor Vehicle Travel On Unpaved Areas
It is unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in restricted access areas, including
but not limited to posted and unposted private property, community property and
common areas. This provision shall not apply to operators of police vehicles,
to operators of government service vehicles, on property owned by a
governmental entity, or on private property, to the owner of the property or
someone to whom the owner has given permission in writing to operate a motor
vehicle on the property in question and who has a copy of the written
permission in his possession.
ARTICLE 71-V MISCELLANEOUS RULES
Sec
71-115 Climbing Onto Vehicles
Sec
71-116 Parades
Sec 71-115 Climbing Onto Vehicles
It is unlawful to climb upon or into or swing upon or hold onto the outside of
any motor vehicle which is in motion. It shall also be unlawful for any driver
to knowingly permit the same.
Sec 71-116 Parades
No procession or parade except a funeral procession shall occupy, march or
proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit issued by the chief
of police or his designee. All requests for such permits shall state the time,
place of formation, proposed line of march, destination and such other
reasonable information as the chief of police or his designee may require. The
chief of police or his designee shall issue such a permit unless it is found
that public safety would be endangered thereby. Any procession or parade
proceeding in accordance with the permit issued may be authorized by the chief
of police to disregard traffic control devices, provided it may be done safely.
State Law reference— Authority to regulate parades, U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-208(2)
(d).
CHAPTER 72 PARKING REGULATIONS
Sec
72-1 Unlawful To Disobey Parking Regulations
Sec
72-2 Double Parking
Sec
72-3 Unlawful Types Of Parking
Sec
72-4 Obstructing Traffic
Sec
72-5 Trailers
Sec
72-6 Large Trucks In Residential Zones
Sec
72-7 Parking Vehicle On Vacant Lots
Sec
72-8 Requirements Of Vehicle Parked In Public
Sec
72-9 Fire Lanes
State Law reference— Stopping, standing and parking, U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-1401
et seq.; authority to regulate or prohibit stopping, standing and parking,
U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-208(2)(a).
Sec 72-1 Unlawful To Disobey Parking Regulations
   (a)   It is unlawful to disobey signs or markings placed by the city which
prohibit parking or regulate the hours thereof. It is also unlawful to park in
violation of curb markings designated by the city. Such curb markings shall
have the following meanings:
      (1)   Red: No stopping, standing or parking at any time.
      (2)   Blue: Handicapped zone.
      (3)   Green: Loading and unloading zone.
   (b)   Where lines are painted on the roadway to indicate the angle at which
a vehicle shall be parked, it is unlawful to park a vehicle except as
indicated.
   (c)   It is unlawful to erect any signs or to mark publicly owned curbs in
such a manner that prohibits parking or attempts to regulate the flow of
traffic without prior city approval.
   (d)   Exemptions include, but are not limited to, emergency vehicles,
government and city vehicles, while under an official capacity.
Sec 72-2 Double Parking
It is unlawful for any person to park or leave standing upon any street, any
vehicle, whether attended or unattended, along the side of any parked vehicle
where such vehicle is parked parallel with the curb, except that an operator
may stop temporarily provided he does not leave his vehicle, during the act of
actually loading and unloading passengers or when necessary in obedience to
traffic regulations or signals of a police officer.
Sec 72-3 Unlawful Types Of Parking
In addition to types of stopping, standing or parking declared illegal in other
sections of this chapter, it is illegal to park a motor vehicle under the
following circumstances:
   (a)   No person shall park a vehicle on the public right-of-way for more
than a consecutive 72-hour period.
   (b)   No person shall park a vehicle on any street for the principal purpose
of repairing or greasing a vehicle, except in emergency situations.
   (c)   No person shall leave or park a vehicle upon any portion of the street
improvements between the back of the curb and the sidewalk. No person shall
park a motor vehicle on a sidewalk.
   (d)   The purpose of this subsection is to preserve public safety and the
appearance of property. No person shall park a vehicle upon any street or
roadway or public property or posted private property for the principal purpose
of displaying such vehicle for sale or displaying advertising if such parking
creates a nuisance. No person shall allow a vehicle to be parked on private
property under his care, custody or control for the principal purpose of
displaying such vehicle for sale or displaying advertising if such parking
creates a nuisance.
   (e)   Trailers weighing less than 33,000 pounds when en route to city-
approved off-street parking. This exception does not apply to vehicles that
carry corrosive, flammable or radioactive material.
      (1)   The city council may grant approval for off-street parking upon a
finding that:
         a.   The use will not substantially affect the peace, safety or
residential appearance of the immediate neighborhood;
         b.   Prohibition of the parking of trailers under this chapter must
have created a substantial hardship upon the applicant or the potential user of
such off-street parking and said hardship cannot be alleviated in some other
reasonable, inexpensive and non-difficult manner;
         c.   Special circumstances exist and if not for the granting of the
privilege, the individual driver connected with the trailer would be
substantially inconvenienced; and
         d.   The parking area is not in the front yard of any lot.
      (2)   The board of adjustments may also attach reasonable conditions or
requirements to the grant of such approved off-street parking which the
applicant or user must comply with as a condition of the grant or approval in
order to preserve a safe and attractive residential environment. A time limit
of not more than two years shall be attached to the exercise of any grant of
approval, unless specifically extended by the action of city council, after the
applicant has requested such an extension, which application may not be made
sooner than 90 days before the end of the time limit set. Extensions may not
exceed two years, but additional extensions may be requested. All extensions
require the above notice, hearing and findings.
      (3)   Prior to any granting of the privileged off-street parking,
neighborhood home owners and occupants who might be affected by such action
shall be notified of the hearing so that they have an opportunity to voice
consent or protest. Notices shall be sent to at least those parties whose
property border is within 300 feet of where the trailer would be parked.
   (f)   Except when under the direction of a peace officer or authorized
traffic controller.
Sec 72-4 Obstructing Traffic
No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway
for free movement of vehicular traffic.
Sec 72-5 Trailers
It is unlawful to park or keep any trailer, unattached camper or boat on the
public right-of-way for a period of time exceeding 72 hours.
Sec 72-6 Large Trucks In Residential Zones
It shall be unlawful to park on a public street in any residential zone in the
city for more than 72 consecutive hours any vehicle or trailer having an
overall length of 20 feet or more or any combination of vehicles and trailers
having an overall combined length of 20 feet or more. This section shall not
apply, however, under the following circumstances:
   (a)   When the vehicle is a school bus and is parked solely for the purpose
of loading or unloading passengers.
   (b)   When the vehicle is being used to deliver or remove household
furniture or accessories to or from a specific residence or building.
   (c)   When the vehicle is actively involved in permitted construction,
landscaping, or other work on a specific residence or building.
   (d)   When the vehicle is a trailer being loaded or unloaded.
   (e)   When there is an emergency requiring the parking of a vehicle at a
particular location.
Sec 72-7 Parking Vehicle On Vacant Lots
It is unlawful for the owner of a motor vehicle or trailer to park it or allow
it to be parked on a vacant lot or parking lot owned by another person for the
purpose of displaying it for sale, unless the owner or lessee of the property
on which it is parked has a valid city business license to engage in the
business of selling motor vehicles or trailers at that location. It shall also
be unlawful for the owner or lessee of such property to allow another person to
park a motor vehicle or trailer on the property for the purpose of displaying
it for sale unless such owner or lessee has a valid city business license to
engage in the business of selling motor vehicles or trailers at that location.
Sec 72-8 Requirements Of Vehicle Parked In Public
Every vehicle while parked upon the public highways, streets, alleys or city-
owned parking lots in the city shall:
   (a)   Be registered in the name of the owner thereof in accordance with
state law.
   (b)   Display in the proper position valid, unexpired license (registration)
plates, according to the laws of the state in which the vehicle is registered.
   (c)   When required, have current validation of registration attached to the
rear plate and in a manner complying with the laws of the state, and such plate
shall be free from defacement, mutilation, and sight obscuring matter so as to
be plainly visible.
Sec 72-9 Fire Lanes
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to park or stop a vehicle on any
designated fire lane, regardless of whether or not the driver of the vehicle
remains with the vehicle. This section shall not apply to any emergency vehicle
being used on official business.
   (b)   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      Designated fire lane means any area in front of the entrance to a
commercial or public building, which area has been marked with a red curb, or
red writing on the pavement or signs posted which prohibit parking or designate
the area a fire lane.
   (c)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this section is hereby declared a
hazard to public safety and may be removed at the direction of the owner of the
real property or any police officer.
CHAPTER 73 SCHOOLS
Sec
73-1 Rules Adopted
Sec
73-2 Adoption Of Special Rules
Sec
73-3 Dissemination Of Rules And Regulations
Sec
73-4 Parking Upon School Property
Sec
73-5 Enforcement Authority
State Law reference— Traffic ordinances for school property, U.C.A. 1953, §
53A-3-504
Sec 73-1 Rules Adopted
The traffic rules and regulations of the city applicable upon city streets and
highways throughout the city are adopted as rules and regulations for the
control of vehicular traffic and parking upon all school property within the
corporate limits of the city, except as hereinafter provided with respect to
penalties for violations thereof, and such traffic rules and regulations shall
be interpreted, construed and applied insofar as practicable to traffic
situations arising upon school property to the same extent as though such
school property were a public street, road or highway and, for the purpose of
this chapter, such school property is declared to be and shall be considered a
public street, road or highway.
Sec 73-2 Adoption Of Special Rules
The city council may, by subsequent ordinance or resolution and after
conferring with school officials at any particular school, adopt particular
rules and regulations for the control of vehicular traffic and parking upon
school property at such school and such rules and regulations especially
prepared with reference to a particular school shall be supplemental and in
addition to the other rules and regulations hereinabove provided and enforced
in the same manner as said rules and regulations.
Sec 73-3 Dissemination Of Rules And Regulations
At the beginning of each school year, every student and faculty member shall be
given a copy of the rules and regulations adopted with respect to their
particular school, which copy shall also advise them that the traffic code of
the city is also applicable upon school property.
Sec 73-4 Parking Upon School Property
Students whose vehicles are parked on school property in violation of the
school parking policy may be issued a parking citation. (The issuing officer
may choose to issue a school parking citation or a citation to court.)
Disposition of a school parking citation shall be as set forth in the school
parking policy. Any person receiving court citations must appear as directed on
the citation.
Sec 73-5 Enforcement Authority
All such rules and regulations with respect to school property shall be
enforced by any law enforcement officer of the state, county, or city and they
are vested with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic upon
schoolhouse sites within the city.
CHAPTER 74 ALL-TERRAIN AND OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
Sec
74-1 Purpose
Sec
74-2 Definitions
Sec
74-3 Roads Designated For OHV Travel
Sec
74-4 Street Legal Registration And Licensing Requirements
Sec
74-5 Provisions For Use Of OHV
Sec
74-6 Prohibited Operation
Sec
74-7 Exceptions
Sec
74-8 Insurance
Sec
74-9 Enforcement
Sec
74-10 Penalty
State Law reference— Off-highway vehicles, U.C.A. 1953, § 41-22-1 et seq.;
local ordinance regulating off-highway vehicles, U.C.A. 1953, § 41-22-8.
Sec 74-1 Purpose
The purposes of this chapter are to adopt in part the Utah Off-Highway Vehicle
Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 41- 22-1 et seq.), and portions of the Utah Traffic Code
(U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-101 et seq.) and to designate city roads, streets or
highways open for off-highway vehicles and establish regulations related
thereto.
Sec 74-2 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Off-highway vehicle (OHV) means all-terrain Type I vehicles, and all-terrain
Type II vehicles, (ATV) as defined by U.C.A. 1953, § 41-22-2.
Operate means to ride in or on and control the operation of an off-highway
vehicle.
Operator means an individual who operates or is in actual physical control of
an off-highway vehicle.
Owner means a person, other than a lien holder, having the property in or title
to an off-highway vehicle and entitled to its use or possession.
Register means the act of assigning a registration number to an off-highway
vehicle in accordance with U.C.A. 1953, § 41-22-3 and the applicable sections
of state law as indicated in section
74-4.
Street-legal all-terrain vehicle or street-legal ATV means an all-terrain Type
I vehicle or utility type vehicle that is modified to meet the requirements of
U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-1509 to operate on highways in the state in accordance
with U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-1509.
Sec 74-3 Roads Designated For OHV Travel
Unless designated as being closed for public travel for OHVs, by signage on the
ground, all public or city roads shall be open to travel for street-legal all-
terrain vehicles or street-legal ATVs or OHVs. Operation of any non street-
legal OHV or ATV within the limits of the city is strictly prohibited.
Sec 74-4 Street Legal Registration And Licensing Requirements
   (a)   An all-terrain Type I or utility type vehicle that meets the
requirements of this section may be operated as a street-legal ATV or OHV (for
the purposes of this chapter, ATV or OHV are used interchangeably) on a street
or highway unless the highway is an interstate freeway or a limited access
highway as defined in U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-102.
   (b)   A street-legal ATV shall comply with the same requirements as:
      (1)   A motorcycle for:
         a.   Traffic rules under the Utah Traffic Code (U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-
101 et seq.);
         b.   Registration, titling, odometer statement, vehicle
identification, license plates, and registration fees under the Motor Vehicle
Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-101 et seq.);
         c.   Fees in lieu of property taxes or in lieu of fees under U.C.A.
1953, § 59-2-405.2; and
         d.   The county motor vehicle emissions inspection and maintenance
programs under U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-1642;
      (2)   A motor vehicle for:
         a.   Driver licensing under the Uniform Driver License Act (U.C.A.
1953, § 53-3-101 et seq.);
         b.   Motor vehicle insurance under the Financial Responsibility of
Motor Vehicle Owners and Operators Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 41-12a-101 et seq.);
         c.   Safety inspection requirements under the Motor Vehicle Safety
Inspection Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 53-8-201 et seq.), except that a street-legal
ATV shall be subject to a safety inspection when registered for the first time;
and
      (3)   An all-terrain Type I or Type II vehicle for off-highway vehicle
provisions under U.C.A. 1953, title 41, ch. 22 (U.C.A. 1953, § 41-22-1 et
seq.), and the Motor Vehicle Business Regulation Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 41-3-101
et seq.), unless otherwise specified in this section.
   (c)   A street-legal ATV shall be equipped with:
      (1)   One or more headlamps that meet the requirements of U.C.A. 1953, §
41-6a-1603;
      (2)   One or more tail lamps;
      (3)   A tail lamp or other lamp constructed and placed to illuminate the
registration plate with a white light;
      (4)   One or more red reflectors on the rear;
      (5)   One or more stop lamps on the rear;
      (6)   Amber or red electric turn signals, one on each side of the front
and rear;
      (7)   A braking system, other than a parking brake, that meets the
requirements of U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-1623;
      (8)   A horn or other warning device that meets the requirements of
U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a- 1625;
      (9)   A muffler and emission control system that meets the requirements
of U.C.A. 1953, § 41- 6a-1626;
      (10)   Rearview mirrors on the right and left side of the driver in
accordance with U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-1627;
      (11)   A windshield, unless the operator wears eye protection while
operating the vehicle;
      (12)   A speedometer, illuminated for nighttime operation;
      (13)   For vehicles designed by the manufacturer for carrying one or more
passengers, a seat designed for passengers, including a footrest and handhold
for each passenger;
      (14)   For vehicles with side-by-side seating, seatbelts for each vehicle
occupant; and
      (15)   Tires that:
         a.   Do not exceed 26 inches in height;
         b.   Are not larger than the tires that the all-terrain vehicle
manufacturer made available for the all-terrain vehicle model; and
         c.   Have at least 2/32 inches or greater tire tread.
   (d)   An operator of a street-legal all-terrain vehicle:
      (1)   When operating a street-legal all-terrain vehicle on a highway in
accordance with this section, may not exceed the lesser of:
         a.   The posted speed limit; or
         b.   45 miles per hour.
      (2)   When operating a street-legal all-terrain vehicle on a highway with
a posted speed limit higher than 45 miles per hour, shall:
         a.   Operate the street-legal all-terrain vehicle on the extreme
right-hand side of the roadway; and
         b.   Shall equip the street-legal all-terrain vehicle with a reflector
or reflective tape.
Sec 74-5 Provisions For Use Of OHV
Any person operating an OHV is subject to all of the provisions of the Utah
Traffic Code (U.C.A. 1953, § 41-6a-101 et seq.), which includes, but is not
limited to:
   (a)   This chapter and the permissive provisions within only apply to
"street-legal" OHVs. Only "street-legal" OHVs are permitted to be driven within
the city limits and qualify for the permissible provisions of this chapter.
Operation of any OHVs that are not street legal within the limits of city is
strictly prohibited.
   (b)   All operators 16 years of age and older must possess either a valid
and unsuspended operator's license as provided in the Uniform Driver License
Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 53-3-101 et seq.) or an OHV education certificate as issued
by the state division of parks and recreation.
   (c)   All riders of off-highway vehicles under the age of 18 years must wear
a properly-fitted Snell- or DOT-approved protective headgear designated for
motorized use.
   (d)   All users of roads, streets and highways designated for use by OHVs
must obey all traffic and other safety laws and rules as designated.
   (e)   All users of the city's designated off-highway roads, streets and
highways may not operate a vehicle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the existing conditions, giving regard to the actual and
potential hazards then existing, including when:
      (1)   Approaching and crossing an intersection or railroad grade
crossing;
      (2)   Approaching and going around a curve;
      (3)   Approaching a hill crest;
      (4)   Traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway;
      (5)   Special hazards exist due to pedestrians, other traffic, weather or
road conditions.
   (f)   Unless otherwise stated herein, even when no special hazard exists, an
operator of an OHV will not travel at a speed in excess of 25 miles per hour at
any time, upon any residential street, alley, highway, or other public ground
or place in the city. An OHV may be operated at a speed no greater than 45
miles per hour along any nonresidential city street or no faster than the
posted speed limit, whichever is more restrictive.
Sec 74-6 Prohibited Operation
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any off-highway vehicle
in the following ways or under the following circumstances, which are hereby
declared to be unsafe and a public nuisance:
   (a)   On a roadway, shoulder or inside bank or slope of any road, street or
highway, except as provided in this section.
   (b)   On direct crossing of a street or highway, unless:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing;
      (2)   The off-highway vehicle is brought to a complete stop before
crossing the shoulder or main traveled way of the highway;
      (3)   The operator yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard; and
      (4)   In crossing a divided highway or a street of more than two lanes,
the crossing is made only at an intersection of the highway with another public
street or highway controlled by a traffic signal.
   (c)   Without being equipped with at least one headlamp, one tail lamp and
brakes, all in working order, which conform to standards as prescribed by law.
   (d)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or to cause injury or damage to such person or
property.
   (e)   While under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a controlled
substance.
   (f)   Without a manufacturer-installed or equivalent muffler in good working
order and connected to the off-highway vehicle's exhaust system. Mufflers must
have a federally approved spark arrestor. Overall noise emission may not exceed
99 decibels at a distance of 20 inches. Mufflers may not be altered to increase
motor noise, or have a cutout, bypass, or similar device.
   (g)   In a direction other than the same direction as other motor vehicles.
   (h)   Within the right-of-way of any road, street or highway while towing a
sled, skid or other vehicle, unless the object towed is connected to the off-
highway vehicle by a hinged swivel and secure hitch.
   (i)   In any municipal park or recreation area, except when posted as "open"
to off-highway vehicles, and only along established paths and trails and within
the hours permitted.
   (j)   Upon private property, other than that of the off-highway vehicle
owner or operator, without express written permission of the owner.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating or accompanying a
person operating an OHV to refuse to immediately leave private land upon the
request of the owner or person in charge of such land.
      (2)   No person operating or accompanying a person operating an OHV shall
obstruct any entrance or exit to private property with an OHV, trailer or other
vehicle without the owner's permission.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to tear down, mutilate, or
destroy any sign, signboards, or other notice which regulates trespassing for
purposes of operating an OHV on land; or to tear down, deface, or destroy any
fence or other enclosure or any gate or bars belonging to any such fence or
enclosure.
   (k)   Possessing weapons such as firearms and archery equipment in violation
of state law.
Sec 74-7 Exceptions
No person may operate a non-street-legal off-highway vehicle on city roads,
streets or highways, except:
   (a)   When crossing a highway, trail, or road and the operator comes to a
complete stop before crossing; proceeds only after yielding the right-of-way to
oncoming traffic; and crosses at a right angle. Must also be in compliance with
U.C.A. 1953, § 41-22-10.3.
   (b)   When loading or unloading an OHV from a vehicle or trailer which shall
be done with due regard for safety and at the nearest practical point of
operation.
   (c)   When an emergency exists during any period of time and at those
locations when the operation of conventional motor vehicles is impractical or
when the operation is directed by a peace officer or public authority.
   (d)   Snow removal. Both non-street-legal and street-legal Type I and Type
II off-highway vehicles may be used for snow removal subject to this provision.
When using Type I and Type II off- highway vehicles, whether street legal or
not, for snow removal, such off-highway vehicle must have a mounted blade on
the off-highway vehicle. The off-highway vehicle may go from a job site to
another job site on city streets provided the operator obeys all other sections
of this chapter and the corresponding provisions of U.C.A. 1953, title 41, ch.
22 (U.C.A. 1953, § 41-22-1 et seq.).
Sec 74-8 Insurance
The provisions of U.C.A. 1953, § 41-12a-301(5) specifically state that an
owner's or operator's security is not required on off-highway vehicles
registered under U.C.A. 1953, § 41-22-3 when operated either:
   (a)   On a highway designated as open for off-highway vehicle use; or
   (b)   In the manner specifically prescribed and allowed by this chapter.
Sec 74-9 Enforcement
Only peace officers of the state and their respective duly authorized
representatives may enforce this chapter, specifically including but not
limited to police officers and county law enforcement officers.
Sec 74-10 Penalty
Unless otherwise specified, penalties for violation of this chapter shall be
punishable as a Class C misdemeanor with a minimum fine as provided in the
schedule of fees and penalties.
TITLE IX GENERAL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90 ANIMALS
CHAPTER 91 HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 90 ANIMALS
ARTICLE 90-I ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
ARTICLE 90-II DOG LICENSES
ARTICLE 90-III IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION
ARTICLE 90-IV COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
ARTICLE 90-V ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL
ARTICLE 90-VI KENNELS
ARTICLE 90-VII FEE SCHEDULE AND PENALTY
State Law reference— Animal Welfare Act, U.C.A. 1953, § 11-46-101 et seq.
ARTICLE 90-I ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Sec
90-1 Animal Control Officer; Authority
Sec
90-2 Animal Control Officer; Enforcement
Sec
90-3 Investigations; Right Of Entry
Sec
90-4 Pursuit; Right Of Entry
Sec
90-5 Interference With Officer Prohibited
Sec
90-6 Public Nuisance Declared
Sec
90-7 Definitions
Sec 90-1 Animal Control Officer; Authority
The chief of police or his designee shall serve as the animal control officer.
The animal control officer is vested with authority to perform the duties and
authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
Sec 90-2 Animal Control Officer; Enforcement
   (a)   The animal control officer or deputy thereof assigned to duties which
include the enforcement of animal control laws shall be responsible for
enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Each of the individuals referred to in this section shall have the
power to issue citations for violations of this chapter and to swear to
complaints for those violations when appropriate.
Sec 90-3 Investigations; Right Of Entry
The animal control officer, county health officer and any city police officer
may enter upon privately owned land to investigate reports of vicious or
dangerous animals, rabies or other contagious animal diseases and to
investigate violations of this chapter.
Sec 90-4 Pursuit; Right Of Entry
In the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, the animal control
officer or his deputy may enter upon the premises of any person to take
possession of registered or unregistered, fierce, dangerous or vicious animals
when in fresh pursuit of the animal at the time the animal goes onto private
property.
Sec 90-5 Interference With Officer Prohibited
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or
prevent the animal control officer from discharging his duties.
   (b)   Any person who hinders, delays, interferes with or obstructs an animal
control officer, while the officer is engaged in capturing, securing or taking
to the animal shelter any animal to be impounded, or who breaks open or in any
manner directly aids, counsels or advises in the breaking of any animal shelter
or vehicle used for holding, collecting or conveying any animals to the
shelter, shall be deemed guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
Sec 90-6 Public Nuisance Declared
   (a)   The introduction, possession or maintenance of any animal, or allowing
of any animal to be in violation of this chapter is, in addition to being a
misdemeanor, declared to be a public nuisance.
   (b)   The animal control officer and his deputy are empowered and authorized
to abate the public nuisance by any means reasonable, including, but not
limited to, the impounding of the animal in an appropriate shelter, the taking
of the animal by humane means for impoundment, or the destruction of the animal
involved.
Sec 90-7 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Animal means any animal of a species that is susceptible to rabies, except
humans.
Animal control officer means that person who is responsible for the enforcement
of the rules adopted under this chapter.
At large means being neither confined by an enclosure nor physically restrained
by a leash.
Impound means the act of taking or receiving into custody by the animal control
officer any dog or other animal for the purpose of confinement in a pound in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Impound facility means any establishment authorized by the city for the
confinement, maintenance, safekeeping and control of dogs and other animals
that come into the custody of the animal control officer.
Kennel means premises where more than four dogs are raised, housed or boarded.
Livestock means cows, other domestic bovines, horses, sheep, goats, swine,
mules and donkeys.
Vicious animal means:
   (a)   Any animal that has a propensity to bite, scratch or inflict injury to
or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings without provocation, or
that has been so declared after a hearing before the justice court judge.
   (b)   Any animal that has a propensity to approach human beings without
provocation in a menacing or terrorizing manner so as to confine the movement
of or instill fear in a reasonable person. One incident of causing injury may
be sufficient to establish a propensity.
(Ord. No. 2016-05-01, § 90-7, 8-24-2016)
ARTICLE 90-II DOG LICENSES
Sec
90-33 Required
Sec
90-34 Fees
Sec
90-35 Term
Sec 90-33 Required
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor or maintain within
the city limits, any dog which has attained the age of four months, unless and
until the dog has been duly licensed and registered as provided in this
article. All dogs must be licensed with the city, within 30 days after the dog
is brought into the city.
   (b)   Before a license is issued for any dog, the owner must present a
vaccination certificate stating the owner's name and address and giving the
dog's description, date of vaccination and type, manufacturer and serial number
of the vaccine and date revaccination is due. No dog shall be licensed unless
it is vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   Tag requirements.
      (1)   Each dog licensed under the terms of this chapter shall receive, at
the time of licensing, a tag on which is inscribed the name of the city, the
number of the license and the year in which it expires.
      (2)   The tag shall be attached to a collar or harness which shall be
worn by the dog at all times except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (3)   Whenever a dog tag is lost, a duplicate tag shall be issued upon
application by the owner and payment of a replacement fee.
      (4)   License tags and current rabies tags are not transferable from one
dog to another.
      (5)   Every owner shall be required to provide each dog with a collar or
harness to which the current license and current rabies vaccination tag are
attached.
   (d)   It is unlawful for any person to counterfeit or attempt to counterfeit
an official dog tag or remove the tag from any dog for the purpose of willful
and malicious mischief or place a dog tag upon a dog unless the tag was issued
to that dog.
Sec 90-34 Fees
The license required by section
90-33 shall be issued by the police department upon payment by the applicant of
a fee established by the schedule of fees and penalties. The license fees shall
be paid for each dog kept within the city limits.
Sec 90-35 Term
A license shall expire one year from the date of issue.
ARTICLE 90-III IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION
Sec
90-59 Relinquishing An Animal
Sec
90-60 Notification Of Owner Of Record
Sec
90-61 Release Of Animal To Owner
Sec
90-62 Holding Period; Disposition
Sec 90-59 Relinquishing An Animal
Any stray animal must be relinquished to the animal control officer within 48
hours. Any person who relinquishes an animal to the animal control officer
shall give his name, address and, if he is not the owner, the location where he
found the animal.
Sec 90-60 Notification Of Owner Of Record
Upon receipt of a lost or stray animal bearing a current tag or other
identification, the animal control officer shall notify the owner of record, by
telephone or at the address indicated on the license form, of the location of
the animal. Compliance with notice requirements of this article shall be deemed
as met if the animal control officer has spoken with the owner or owner's
representative by phone or mailed the notice to the owner of record at his
address of record.
(Ord. No. 2016-05-01, § 90-60, 8-24-2016)
Sec 90-61 Release Of Animal To Owner
The owner of an impounded animal may claim it prior to its legal disposition by
providing proper identification, meeting all legal requirements and paying the
applicable redemption fees for impoundment, board, medical care, sterilization,
vaccination and/or other costs. Such owner shall also deposit with the city an
amount established by the schedule of fees and penalties. If such owner
complies with the provisions of this chapter within 30 days of making the
deposit, the deposit shall be returned to the owner. If the owner does not so
comply, the deposit shall be forfeited to the city and shall become the
property of the city.
Sec 90-62 Holding Period; Disposition
   (a)   The animal control officer shall hold an impounded, lost or stray dog
for not less than five working days if it was not wearing a current license tag
when impounded, and for not less than five working days after notice is given
pursuant to this article if it was wearing a current license tag, so that the
owner or custodian may claim it prior to other disposition.
   (b)   The animal control officer may dispose of humanely, or transfer to a
new owner upon payment of the applicable fee, any impounded animal not claimed
by its owner or custodian within the prescribed holding time. Charitable
organizations such as animal shelters taking unwanted animals may be exempt
from fees and release agreements. Animals relinquished by their owners may be
humanely destroyed without regard to the prescribed holding time in order to
alleviate suffering or to protect other impounded animals from exposure to
contagious diseases.
   (c)   The adopting party, or the owner seeking release of his dog, must sign
an agreement to have the animal vaccinated within 30 days or before six months
of age, and deposit with the city an amount as outlined in the schedule of fees
and penalties, to ensure that the animal will be vaccinated and licensed. The
city shall refund to the adopting party any monies deposited pursuant to the
agreement if within the time provided in the agreement there is presented a
written statement signed by a licensed veterinarian that the adopted dog has
been vaccinated. If the adopting party or owner does not vaccinate the animal
and provide a receipt to the city within 30 days, the fee is forfeited to the
city and the owner may receive a citation for not having the dog licensed.
   (d)   The animal control officer may utilize the impound facility or
services of the city, the county or any other appropriate facility as needed.
   (e)   If the owner of a large animal or livestock is unknown or cannot be
located within the prescribed holding period, the animal control officer may
sell the animal at a public auction following state guidelines. At any time,
the animal control officer may transfer the animal to the state livestock
officer.
(Ord. No. 2016-05-01, § 90-62, 8-24-2016)
ARTICLE 90-IV COMMUNICABLE DISEASES
Sec
90-83 Harboring Diseased Animal Prohibited; Disposal
Sec
90-84 Rabid Animal; Reporting
Sec
90-85 Rabid Animal; Isolation
Sec
90-86 Euthanasia For Testing
Sec
90-87 Service Animal Exemption
State Law reference— Control of animal diseases, U.C.A. 1953, § 4-31-101 et
seq.
Sec 90-83 Harboring Diseased Animal Prohibited; Disposal
   (a)   No person shall knowingly harbor or keep any dog or other animal with
a serious injury or afflicted with mange, ringworm, distemper or any other
contagious disease, unless the dog or other animal is, in the opinion of the
animal control officer, or a veterinarian, being given adequate treatment for
the disease.
   (b)   The animal control officer or a veterinarian may take immediate
possession of any such animal not being treated or which is not responding to
the treatment and immediately dispose of the animal unless the owner forthwith
places the animal under the control and treatment of a licensed veterinarian.
Sec 90-84 Rabid Animal; Reporting
   (a)   Reporting of bites. All persons bitten, and the parents or guardians
of minor children bitten by a dog, cat, skunk, fox, bat, coyote, bobcat or
other animal known to constitute a serious threat of rabies shall notify the
animal control officer immediately thereafter. Physicians treating such bites
and other persons having the knowledge of the bites are also required to make
that notification.
   (b)   Reporting of suspected rabid animals. Any person who observes or has
knowledge of an animal which shows symptoms of rabies, or which acts in a
manner which would lead to a reasonable suspicion that it may have rabies,
shall notify the animal control officer and comply with appropriate laws and
regulations regarding suspected cases of rabies as directed by the county
health department.
Sec 90-85 Rabid Animal; Isolation
Upon the reasonable order of the animal control officer or public health
officer, a biting or suspected rabid animal shall be isolated, at the owner's
expense if owned, in strict confinement under proper care and under the
observation of the animal control officer or in another adequate facility in a
manner approved by the animal control officer or the county health department.
Sec 90-86 Euthanasia For Testing
   (a)   Any biting or suspected rabid animal may be humanely euthanized
immediately by the animal control officer or the department of health, and such
animal's undamaged and properly packaged and properly refrigerated head shall
be delivered promptly to an approved medical facility having the capability of
performing the fluorescent antibody test to demonstrate the presence of rabies.
   (b)   Subsection (a) of this section notwithstanding, if the biting or
suspected rabid animal is of the domesticated variety that is owned or
obviously could have an owner, that animal shall be confined as set forth in
section
90-85 for a period of five days to allow time for an attempt to locate an
owner, unless the county veterinarian or other licensed veterinarian reasonably
deems it necessary to euthanize the animal for the purpose of laboratory
examination.
Sec 90-87 Service Animal Exemption
A police service animal is exempt from quarantine or other animal control
ordinances if it bites any person while under proper police supervision or
routine veterinary care. The law enforcement agency and the animal's handler
shall make the animal available for examination at any reasonable time and
shall notify the health officer if the animal exhibits any abnormal behavior.
State Law reference— Similar provisions, U.C.A. 1953, § 76-9-306(4).
ARTICLE 90-V ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL
Sec
90-118 Conditions Of Ownership
Sec
90-119 Applicability To Non-Residents
Sec
90-120 Restraint Of Animal By Owner
Sec
90-121 Possession Of Vicious Or Dangerous Animal
Sec
90-122 Dogs Prohibited In Certain Public Places
Sec
90-123 Disturbing The Peace Prohibited
Sec
90-124 Female Dogs In Heat
Sec
90-125 Abandoning Sick Or Disabled Animals
Sec
90-126 Removal And Disposition Of Dead Animals
Sec
90-127 Rendering Assistance To Animals
Sec
90-128 Emergency Proclamation
Sec
90-129 Liability For At-Large Animals
Sec
90-130 Dogs Attacking Persons And Animals
Sec
90-131 Cruelty To Animals
Sec
90-132 Poisoning Animals
Sec
90-133 Encouraging Animals To Fight
Sec
90-134 Keeping Wild Animals And Reptiles
Sec
90-135 Animal Packs
Sec
90-136 Animal Waste
Sec 90-118 Conditions Of Ownership
Animal owners and keepers must comply with the following conditions of animal
ownership, and the animal control officer may require the owners or keepers, as
a condition of licensing, to sign a contract agreeing to comply with such
conditions:
   (a)   Animals shall be restrained or confined as required by law;
   (b)   Animals shall be humanely treated at all times;
   (c)   Vaccinations, licenses and permits shall be obtained as required by
law;
   (d)   Animal premises shall be kept sanitary and shall not constitute a fly
breeding reservoir or source of offensive odors or human or animal disease; and
   (e)   Animals and animal premises shall not be permitted to disturb the
peace or constitute a public nuisance or hazard.
State Law reference— Authority to prohibit cruelty to animals, U.C.A. 1953, §
10-8-59.
Sec 90-119 Applicability To Non-Residents
The licensing requirements of this chapter shall not be construed to affect
persons not residing in the city who visit the city for a period of less than
30 consecutive days and own a dog or any other animal; provided that the person
shall meet the other requirements of this Code, including constantly keeping
the dog or animal under his personal care and not allow the same to run at
large. Every non-resident dog must be identifiable.
(Ord. No. 2016-05-01, § 90-119, 8-24-2016)
Sec 90-120 Restraint Of Animal By Owner
Persons owning, keeping or harboring any dog, horse, cow, swine, sheep, goat,
mule or donkey or similar animal shall at all times keep the animals on leash
or within an enclosed area on their own property or private property of another
with permission of the owner thereof, and shall not permit the animal to run at
large at any time within the city, to bite or harass any person engaged in a
lawful act, to interfere with the use of another person's private property, or
to be in violation of other sections of this chapter.
Sec 90-121 Possession Of Vicious Or Dangerous Animal
   (a)   The possession of a vicious or dangerous animal is unlawful unless:
      (1)   Special permission by the city is obtained.
      (2)   The animal is restrained and confined, which means of confinement
shall include a fence around the yard where the animal is kept.
      (3)   The animal is muzzled so that it cannot bite or attack any person
or animal.
   (b)   Animals held in violation of this section shall be deemed a public
nuisance, and the continued possession or ownership shall be unlawful. The
animal control officer may impound any such animal and dispose of it in a
humane manner, after three working days, to allow for legal restraining action
by the owner. Possession of a wolf or a hybrid wolf is unlawful within the city
limits.
   (c)   Any animal control officer is authorized to kill any dangerous animal
of any kind when it is necessary for the protection of any person, animal or
property, or the animal cannot be safely impounded.
   (d)   In this section, the term "vicious animal" includes cougars, wolves,
hybrid wolves and mountain lions.
(Ord. No. 2016-05-01, § 90-121, 8-24-2016)
Sec 90-122 Dogs Prohibited In Certain Public Places
   (a)   It is unlawful for a person owning, keeping or harboring any dog to
permit the same to enter or be in any public school building while school is in
session or to enter in any place of worship or any public building without the
express written consent or permission of the appropriate authorities or
officials. The owner or custodian of a dog must restrain and control the dog at
all times when in a public park by securing the dog with a leash. The owner or
custodian of a dog is responsible for the acts and conduct of the dog at all
times.
   (b)   Service animals, including guide dogs and dogs trained to assist
individuals with disabilities, are permitted to enter a public place, provided
such animals are leashed or otherwise kept under control.
(Ord. No. 2016-05-01, § 90-122, 8-24-2016)
Sec 90-123 Disturbing The Peace Prohibited
   (a)   No person shall own or harbor any animal in such a manner that the
peace and quiet of the public is unreasonably disturbed. The peace and quiet of
the public may be disturbed, for example, by habitual barking and the like. For
the purposes of this section, the term "habitual barking" shall be defined as
barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises.
   (b)   The written affirmation by two persons having separate residences that
the violation disturbs the peace and quiet of those persons shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   (c)   It is unlawful to harbor or keep any animal or fowl which disturbs the
peace by unreasonable odors or loud noises at any time of the day or night. Any
frequent or long-continued dog barking or bellowing, between 10:00 p.m. and 6:
00 a.m., is prima facie evidence of a violation of this section whether or not
it has caused unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to any person of normal
sensitivity in the vicinity; provided, however, that nothing contained in this
section shall be construed to apply to reasonable noise emanating from legally
operated animal hospitals, pounds, farms and/or agricultural facilities or
areas where keeping of animals or fowl is authorized by a permit.
   (d)   The destruction by the animal of property other than that which
belongs to the owner of the animal shall be prima facie evidence of a violation
of this section.
(Ord. No. 2016-05-01, § 90-123, 8-24-2016)
Sec 90-124 Female Dogs In Heat
Dog owners shall securely confine their female dogs while in heat, within an
enclosure in a manner that will prevent the attraction of male dogs to the
immediate vicinity.
Sec 90-125 Abandoning Sick Or Disabled Animals
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to abandon or turn out at large any
sick, diseased or disabled animal. These animals shall, when rendered worthless
by reason of sickness or disability, be disposed of by the owner thereof as
provided in section
90-126 for the disposition of dead animals within the city.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to dispose of any
animals found running at large within the city which are worthless from
sickness, disease or other disability.
Sec 90-126 Removal And Disposition Of Dead Animals
   (a)   It is unlawful for the owner of any animal or fowl that dies or is
killed within the city to fail to remove or bury the carcass of the animal
within ten hours after its death.
   (b)   No horse, cow, ox or other large animal shall be buried within the
closely inhabited portion of the city.
Sec 90-127 Rendering Assistance To Animals
   (a)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal shall stop and render such assistance as may be reasonably possible, and
shall immediately report the injury or death to the animal's owner.
   (b)   In the event the owner cannot be located, the operator shall at once
report the accident to the appropriate law enforcement agency.
Sec 90-128 Emergency Proclamation
The mayor, upon reasonable apprehension of danger from mad or rabid dogs, may
issue a proclamation forbidding dogs of every description from running at
large, and after the proclamation has been issued for 24 hours, any dog found
running at large in the city, not securely muzzled, may be destroyed by the
animal control officer.
Sec 90-129 Liability For At-Large Animals
   (a)   It is unlawful for the owner or any person having the charge, care,
custody or control of any animal to allow the animal to be at large at any time
within the city limits.
   (b)   The owner or custodian of any animal which is at large shall be
strictly liable for a violation of this section, regardless of the precautions
taken to prevent the escape of the animal and regardless of the lack of
knowledge of the offense at the time it occurs.
   (c)   Injury to any person or damage to any property by a dog while at large
shall be the full responsibility of the dog's owner or persons responsible for
the dog when such damages were inflicted.
(Ord. No. 2016-05-01, § 90-129, 8-24-2016)
Sec 90-130 Dogs Attacking Persons And Animals
   (a)   It is unlawful for the owner or person having the charge, care,
custody or control of any dog to allow the dog to attack, chase or worry any
person, domestic animal or any domestic fowl. This subsection does not apply on
property that is in compliance with section
90-121.
   (b)   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      Worry means to harass by tearing, biting or shaking with teeth.
Sec 90-131 Cruelty To Animals
Any person who, within the city, maliciously kills, maims or wounds any animal
which is the property of another, or who maliciously or cruelly beats,
tortures, injures or harasses any animal, whether belonging to himself or
another, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
Sec 90-132 Poisoning Animals
Any person who willfully, unlawfully and maliciously administers any poison to
any animal which is the property of any other, or who maliciously exposes any
poisonous substance with intent that the same shall be taken or swallowed by
any such animal, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
Sec 90-133 Encouraging Animals To Fight
It is unlawful for any person within the city to in any manner whatever
encourage or urge dogs or any other animals or fowl to fight, or to urge them
after they commence to fight.
Sec 90-134 Keeping Wild Animals And Reptiles
Any person possessing any wild animal, reptile or wild fowl within the city
must adhere to all state regulations, and all the wild animals, reptiles or
wild fowl shall be kept under proper confinement on the premises and shall not
be allowed to run at large, and shall be maintained on the premises or private
property of the owner in such a manner as not to endanger the life or limb of
any person lawfully entering the premises.
Sec 90-135 Animal Packs
   (a)   In the event that cats, dogs or other animals shall form into a pack
as to cause a nuisance or a possible health hazard, the police department shall
be notified immediately.
   (b)   If the problem cannot be otherwise alleviated in a reasonable period
of time, then the animal control officer may cause to have the pack of animals
disposed of or humanely destroyed.
Sec 90-136 Animal Waste
The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any excreta
deposited by his animal on public walks, streets, parks, recreation areas and
other public areas, or on private property belonging to another.
ARTICLE 90-VI KENNELS
Sec
90-156 Definitions; Permit Required
Sec
90-157 Standards
Sec
90-158 Location
Sec
90-159 Permit Revocation
Sec
90-160 Inspections
Sec 90-156 Definitions; Permit Required
   (a)   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      Kennel means premises where more than four dogs are raised, housed or
boarded.
   (b)   No person shall operate or maintain a kennel without first obtaining a
permit from the police department which includes paying an annual permit fee
and meeting all other requirements of this chapter at all times. Such a permit
shall expire one year from the date of issue.
Sec 90-157 Standards
The following minimum standards shall be complied with to obtain and maintain a
kennel permit:
   (a)   Enclosures must be provided against weather extremes. Floors of
buildings and walls shall be of an appropriate material as required for the
specific breed of dog and also to permit proper cleaning and disinfecting;
   (b)   Adequate ventilation shall be maintained and an appropriate
temperature provided as required by the specific breed of dog housed therein;
   (c)   Each animal shall have sufficient space to stand up, lie down and turn
around without touching the sides or tops of cages;
   (d)   Runs shall be provided with an adequate exercise area and protection
from the weather;
   (e)   All animal quarters and runs are to be kept clean, dry and in a
sanitary condition;
   (f)   The food shall be free of contamination, palatable and of sufficient
nutritive value as to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and
size of the animal; and
   (g)   Fresh water is to be available at all times.
Sec 90-158 Location
Before the permit can be issued, the following conditions concerning the
location of the kennel must be met:
   (a)   It must be 200 feet away from any neighboring house; and
   (b)   It must be 150 feet from any road or street.
Sec 90-159 Permit Revocation
The city, acting through the animal control officer, shall have the power to
revoke the permit in the event the permit holder is convicted of any
significant or repeated violation of the city's animal control provisions. The
permit holder may appeal such revocation to the council by filing a request for
an appeal with the city council at least three days before the next scheduled
council meeting that occurs at least three days after the permit holder
received notice of permit revocation. The animal control officer shall present
a review of each permit revocation to the city council.
Sec 90-160 Inspections
The animal control officer shall have the authority to enter the premises of
any person to inspect and ensure compliance with this article. Such inspections
shall be performed during regular business hours unless specifically arranged
otherwise by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the inspecting
officer.
ARTICLE 90-VII FEE SCHEDULE AND PENALTY
Sec
90-189 Adoption Of Fee Schedule
Sec
90-190 Penalty
Sec 90-189 Adoption Of Fee Schedule
All fees specified by this chapter shall be as established in the schedule of
fees and penalties.
Sec 90-190 Penalty
   (a)   Any person who fails to comply with or violates any of these
regulations shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor or infraction unless
stated otherwise, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine
of not to exceed $750.00, imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or by both such
fine or imprisonment.
   (b)   Each day that a violation continues where there is a substantial
threat to peace, life, liberty, or property shall be a separate offense
punishable as described in subsection (a) of this section.
   (c)   The imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender from
compliance with the requirements of these regulations and provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 2016-05-01, § 90-190, 8-24-2016)
CHAPTER 91 HEALTH AND SANITATION
ARTICLE 91-I NUISANCES
ARTICLE 91-II WEED AND REFUSE ABATEMENT
ARTICLE 91-II.A IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 91-III SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE 91-IV RESTRICTIONS ON BURNING
ARTICLE 91-V MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY
ARTICLE 91-VI PUBLIC HEALTH
ARTICLE 91-VII GENERAL REGULATIONS
ARTICLE 91-I NUISANCES
Sec
91-1 Purpose
Sec
91-2 Definitions
Sec
91-3 Definition
Sec
91-4 Exceptions
Sec
91-5 Responsibility For Nuisances
Sec
91-6 Nuisance Abatement; Administration
Sec
91-7 Finding A Nuisance; Responsibility
Sec
91-8 Voluntary Correction
Sec
91-9 Administrative Citation
Sec
91-10 Other Remedies
Sec
91-11 Appeals
State Law reference— Nuisances, U.C.A. 1953, §§ 78B-6-1101 et seq., 76-10-802
et seq.; nuisance abatement, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-11-2.
Sec 91-1 Purpose
   (a)   The purpose of this article is to provide a means for the city and
individuals to identify nuisances within the city and to provide a means for
correcting or abating the nuisances.
   (b)   The city needs the ability to abate nuisances in order to protect the
health and safety of the public, to foster neighborhood stability, to preserve
the appearance, character and beauty of neighborhoods, to encourage community
pride, to preserve the value of property, and to protect the general welfare of
the city and its citizens, businesses and visitors. This article provides for
progressive enforcement measures to abate nuisances; the most aggressive forms
of enforcement are generally reserved for the most recalcitrant violators of
this article.
Sec 91-2 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Abate means to repair, replace, remove, destroy, correct or otherwise remedy a
condition which constitutes a nuisance by such means, in such a manner and to
such an extent as the city manager or his designee determines is necessary in
the interest of the general health, safety and welfare of the community.
Completion date means the date by which the responsible person must abate a
nuisance. The completion date is originally set by the city manager or his
designee in the voluntary correction agreement or in the administrative
citation. The completion date may be modified by the hearing officer.
Emergency means a situation which, in the opinion of the city manager or his
designee, requires immediate action to prevent or eliminate an immediate threat
to the health or safety of a person or property.
Hearing officer means the person designated to hear appeals pursuant to this
article. The hearing officer shall be the city manager or his designee. The
designee need not be a city employee.
Owner means any person who, alone or with others, has title or interest in any
building or premises, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.
For the purpose of giving notice, the term "owner" also includes any person in
physical possession.
Premises means a plot of ground, whether occupied or not.
Property means a building or structure, or the premises on which the building
or structure is located, or undeveloped land.
Public place means an area generally visible to the public view and includes
alleys, bridges, driveways, parking lots, parks, plazas, sidewalks, streets,
and buildings open to the general public, including those that serve food or
drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and entrances to the buildings
or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Responsible person means the person responsible for correcting or abating a
nuisance pursuant to this article. The responsible person includes the property
owner and any person who causes or permits a nuisance to occur or remain upon
property and the owner, lessor, lessee, or other person entitled to control,
use and occupy property where a nuisance occurs. In cases where there are more
than one responsible person, the city may proceed against one, some, or all of
them.
Sec 91-3 Definition
This section defines a nuisance by providing five general definitions of what
constitutes a nuisance (subsection (1) of this section), and then providing
specific examples of situations, conduct or activities that constitute
nuisances (subsection (2) of this section). The purpose of the general
definitions is to allow the city to classify an offending situation, conduct or
activity as a nuisance, even though the situation, conduct or activity may not
be listed as a nuisance in the specific examples. The first three general
definitions are taken directly from the Utah Code Annotated. The purpose of
listing the specific examples is to identify some of the specific situations,
conduct and activities that the city intends to abate as nuisances.
   (a)   General definitions of nuisance. Any activity that meets any one or
more of the five definitions set forth below shall constitute a nuisance if it
occurs within the city:
      (1)   Nuisance as defined in the Utah Code Annotated. Anything which is
injurious to health, indecent, offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to
the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property.
      (2)   Nuisance as defined in the Utah Code Annotated. Any item, thing,
manner, or condition whatsoever that it is dangerous to human life or health or
renders soil, air, water, or food impure or unwholesome.
      (3)   Nuisance as defined in the Utah Code Annotated. Unlawfully doing
any act or omitting to perform any duty, which act or omission:
         a.   Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or
safety of three or more persons;
         b.   Offends public decency;
         c.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake, stream, canal, or basin, or any public
park, square, street, or highway; or
         d.   In any way renders three or more persons insecure in life or the
use of property.
   An act which affects three or more persons in any of the ways specified in
this subsection is still a nuisance regardless of the extent to which the
annoyance or damage inflicted on individuals is unequal.
      (4)   Nuisance. A condition which:
         a.   Wrongfully annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose ,
health or safety of others;
         b.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
render dangerous for passage, any public park, square, street or highway, or
any other public place; or
         c.   In any way renders other persons insecure of life, or in the use
of property, and which affects the rights of an entire community or
neighborhood, although the extent of the damage may be unequal.
      (5)   Specific nuisances listed in subsection (2) of this section.
Anything specifically listed as a nuisance in subsection (2) of this section.
   (b)   Declaration of specific nuisances. Every situation, conduct or
activity listed below constitutes a nuisance and may be abated pursuant to this
article. The listed examples are not exhaustive; a situation, conduct or
activity not listed below, but coming within one of the general definitions of
nuisance listed below, shall also constitute a nuisance. The first six listed
nuisances are also listed as nuisances pursuant to the Utah Code Annotated.
      (1)   Drug houses. Every building or premises where the unlawful sale,
manufacture, service, storage, distribution, dispensing, or acquisition of any
controlled substance, precursor or analog specified in the Utah Controlled
Substances Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 58-37-1 et seq.) occurs.
      (2)   Gambling. Every building or premises where gambling is permitted to
be played, conducted, or dealt upon as prohibited in the Utah Criminal Code
(U.C.A. 1953, title 76) which creates the conditions of a nuisance as defined
in subsection (1) of this section.
      (3)   Gangs. Every building or premises wherein criminal activity is
committed in concert with two or more persons.
      (4)   Party houses. Every building or premises where parties occur
frequently which creates conditions of a nuisance as defined in subsection (1)
of this section.
      (5)   Prostitution. Every building or premises where prostitution or the
promotion of prostitution is carried on by one or more persons.
      (6)   Weapons. Any premises on which a violation of weapons prohibitions
in the Utah Criminal Code U.C.A. 1953, title 76) occurs.
      (7)   Unsafe condition. A condition that unreasonably or unlawfully
affects the health or safety of one or more persons.
      (8)   Fire hazard. Anything that has a potential of being a fire hazard.
      (9)   Noxious emanations. Emanation of noxious or unreasonable odors,
fumes, gas, smoke, soot or cinders.
      (10)   Noxious weeds. Noxious weeds located on vacant lots or other
property, along public sidewalks or the outer edge of any public street, or
weeds in any other location which constitute a fire hazard.
      (11)   Refuse. Keeping or storing of any refuse or waste matter which
interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of nearby property or has the
potential to be a health hazard.
      (12)   Stagnant water. Polluted or stagnant water which constitutes an
unhealthy or unsafe condition.
      (13)   Improper accumulations. Accumulation of soil, litter, debris,
plant trimmings, or trash visible from the street or an adjoining property.
      (14)   Accumulation of junk. Accumulation of used or damaged junk,
salvage materials, abandoned, discarded or used furniture, stoves, toilets,
cabinets, sinks, refrigerators, or other fixtures or equipment stored so as to
be visible from a public street or adjoining property. However, this does not
include stacked firewood for personal non-commercial use on the premises.
      (15)   Attractive nuisances. Any attractive nuisance, dangerous to
children and other persons, including, but not limited to, abandoned, broken,
or neglected household appliances, equipment and machinery, abandoned
foundations or excavations, or improperly maintained or improperly secured
pools.
      (16)   Vegetation. Dead, decayed, diseased or hazardous trees, weeds,
hedges, and overgrown or uncultivated vegetation which is in a hazardous
condition, is an obstruction to pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or which is
likely to harbor rats, vermin or other pests.
      (17)   Dust. Any premises which causes excessive dust due to lack of
landscaping, non- maintenance or another cause.
      (18)   Improper storage. The keeping, storing, depositing or accumulating
on the premises or in public right-of-way for an unreasonable period of time,
dirt, sand, gravel, concrete, or other similar materials, or maintenance of
such material on public rights-of-way. Material stored as part of an active
construction or landscaping project shall not be considered a nuisance.
      (19)   Garbage can. The leaving of any garbage can or refuse container in
the roadway, other than on collection day, for more than 24 hours after
collection day.
      (20)   Construction equipment. Construction equipment or machinery of any
type or description parked or stored on the street, except while excavation,
construction or demolition operations covered by an active building permit are
in progress on the subject property, right-of-way or street, or adjoining
property, or when the property is zoned for the storage of construction
equipment and/or machinery.
      (21)   Improper sign. Improper maintenance of a sign which advertises a
business that is no longer extant, or signs in violation of a city ordinance.
      (22)   Improper parking or storage.
         a.   Parking or storage of inoperative, unregistered, abandoned,
wrecked, or dismantled vehicles or vehicle parts, including recreational
vehicles, on a premises or in public right-of-way except as allowed by
ordinance. Storage or parking that is specifically allowed by the city's zoning
ordinance shall not be considered a nuisance.
         b.   Parking or storage of registered vehicles, trailers, or boats in
violation of a city ordinance.
      (23)   Hazardous conditions. Any wall, sign, fence, gate, hedge, or
structure maintained in such condition of deterioration or disrepair as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property.
      (24)   Graffiti. Graffiti which remains on the exterior of any building,
wall, fence, sign or other structure and is visible from a public street or
right-of-way.
      (25)   Improper maintenance. Maintenance of buildings and/or structures
in such condition as to be deemed defective or in a condition of deterioration
or disrepair, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Any building or structure which is unfit for human habitation, or
which is an unreasonable hazard to the health of people residing in the
vicinity thereof, or which presents an unreasonable fire hazard in the vicinity
where it is located;
         b.   Any building or structure set up, erected, constructed, altered,
enlarged, converted, moved or maintained contrary to the provisions of city
ordinances, or premises in violation of city ordinances;
         c.   Buildings which are abandoned, partially destroyed or left in an
unreasonable state of partial construction for a period of six months or
longer. An unreasonable state of partial construction is defined as any
unfinished building where the appearance or condition of the building or
structure does not meet the requirements for finished buildings or structures
as required by applicable city ordinances or building codes. The building or
structure shall not be considered to be a nuisance if it is under active
construction;
         d.   Buildings having dry rot, warping, termite infestation, decay,
excessive cracking, peeling, or chalking as to render the building unsightly
and/or in a state of disrepair;
         e.   Buildings with missing doors and/or windows containing broken
glass and/or no glass at all where the window is of a type which normally
contains glass;
         f.   Building exteriors, walls, fences, gates, driveways, sidewalks,
walkways, signs or ornamentation, or alleys maintained in such condition as to
render them unsightly and/or in a state of disrepair; or
         g.   Buildings or conditions which violate any building, electrical,
plumbing, fire, housing, or other code adopted by the city.
      (26)   City Code nuisances. Any violation of this Code that expressly
declares a specific situation, conduct or activity to be a nuisance.
      (27)   Alcohol. Every property or premises not licensed under applicable
state law or city ordinance where any intoxicating liquors or alcohol are kept
for unlawful use, sale or distribution.
      (28)   Inappropriate conduct. Every property or premises where there
exists an environment which causes, encourages or allows individuals or groups
of individuals to commit one or more of the following acts on the property,
premises or adjacent public place, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Illegally consuming intoxicating liquor or alcohol;
         b.   Publicly urinating or defecating;
         c.   By physical action, intentionally or knowingly causing or
attempting to cause another person to reasonably fear imminent bodily injury or
the commission of a criminal act upon their person or upon property in their
immediate possession;
         d.   Engaging in acts of violence, including fighting amongst
themselves;
         e.   Discharging a firearm or explosive in violation of city ordinance
or state law;
         f.   Creating unreasonable noise which disturbs others;
         g.   Intentionally or knowingly obstructing pedestrian or vehicular
traffic; or
         h.   Soliciting acts of prostitution.
      (29)   Dangerous conditions. Any fence, wall, shed, deck, house, garage,
building, structure or any part of any of the above listed; or any tree, pole,
or smokestack; or any excavation hole, pit, basement, cellar, sidewalk,
subspace, dock, or loading dock; or any lot, land, yard, premises or location
which on its entirety, or in any part thereof, by reason of the condition in
which the same is found or permitted to be or remain, shall or may endanger the
health, safety, life, limb or property or cause any hurt, harm, inconvenience,
discomfort, damage or injury to any one or more individuals in the city in any
one or more of the following particulars:
         a.   By reason of being a menace, threat and/or hazard to the general
health and safety of the community.
         b.   By reason of being a fire hazard.
         c.   By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, or use on, in, about or
around the before-mentioned property.
         d.   By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the
property, and/or being vacant, any of which depreciates the enjoyment and use
of the property in the immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful
to the community in which such property is situated or such condition exists.
      (30)   Illegal accessory apartments. Any violation of the city's
accessory apartment ordinance.
      (31)   Family. Keeping or allowing people at a premises in violation of
the city's single-family residence requirements.
      (32)   Parking on landscaping. Parking in an area required to be
landscaped by city ordinances.
      (33)   Banner signs. Keeping or allowing banner signs in violation of a
city ordinance.
      (34)   Required landscaping. Failure to install or maintain landscaping
required by a city ordinance.
Sec 91-4 Exceptions
No act which is done or maintained under the express authority of an
authoritative statute, ordinance or court ruling shall be declared a nuisance.
Sec 91-5 Responsibility For Nuisances
The responsible person is responsible for abating nuisances pursuant to this
article. Any person, whether owner, agent or occupant, who creates, aids in
creating, or contributes to a nuisance, or who supports, continues or retains a
nuisance is responsible for the nuisance and is therefore a responsible person
pursuant to this article. Every successive owner or tenant of a property or
premises who fails to abate a continuing nuisance upon or in the use of such
property or premises caused by a former owner or tenant is responsible therefor
in the same manner as the one who first created it.
Sec 91-6 Nuisance Abatement; Administration
This article shall be jointly administered and enforced by the police and fire
departments. This article may also be administered and enforced by the building
department.
Sec 91-7 Finding A Nuisance; Responsibility
If the city manager or his designee finds that a nuisance exists, the city
manager or his designee shall attempt to have the responsible person abate the
nuisance. Although the city manager's or his designee's first step in
correcting or abating the nuisance will always be to obtain voluntary
compliance, the city manager or his designee may pursue any remedy or
combination of remedies available pursuant to this article, state law or common
law in order to abate the nuisance. Nothing in this section shall be
interpreted to prohibit the city from engaging in its standard prosecution
practices. Therefore, the city may prosecute violators of city ordinances or
state laws without having to comply with the provisions of this article, even
though the activity or conduct prosecuted may also constitute a nuisance under
this article. Nothing in this article shall be interpreted to prevent the city
from enforcing applicable city ordinances, building codes, or the Abatement of
Dangerous Buildings Code without first treating the offending conduct,
situation or activity as a nuisance pursuant to this article.
Sec 91-8 Voluntary Correction
This section applies whenever the city manager, his designee or a peace officer
determines that a nuisance exists.
   (a)   Contact. Before taking other steps to abate the nuisance, the city
manager, his designee, or a peace officer shall make a reasonable attempt to
secure voluntary correction or abatement of the nuisance by:
      (1)   Contacting the responsible person, where and when possible;
      (2)   Explaining the nuisance;
      (3)   Requesting the responsible person to abate the nuisance; and
      (4)   Agreeing to terms with the responsible person to abate the
nuisance.
   (b)   No agreement. If the city manager or his designee and the responsible
person cannot agree to terms for correcting or abating the nuisance, the city
manager or his designee, or other peace officer, may still abate the nuisance
using one or more of the procedures set forth in this article, state law, or
common law.
   (c)   Voluntary correction agreement. If the city manager or his designee
and the responsible person agree to terms for abating the nuisance, they shall
enter into and sign a voluntary correction agreement. The voluntary correction
agreement is a contract between the city and the responsible person in which
the responsible person agrees to abate the nuisance within a specified time and
according to specified conditions. The voluntary correction agreement shall
include the following terms:
      (1)   The name and address of the responsible person;
      (2)   The street address of the nuisance, or a description sufficient to
identify the building, structure, premises, or land upon which or within which
the nuisance is occurring;
      (3)   A description of the nuisance;
      (4)   The necessary corrective action to be taken, and a date or time by
which the corrections must be completed;
      (5)   An agreement by the responsible person that the city may inspect
the premises as may be necessary to determine compliance with the voluntary
correction agreement;
      (6)   An agreement by the responsible person that the city may abate the
nuisance and recover its costs and expenses to abate the nuisance, as well as a
monetary fine pursuant to this article from the responsible person, if terms of
the voluntary correction agreement are not met;
      (7)   An agreement by the responsible person acknowledging that he waives
the right to appeal the city manager's or his designee's finding that a
nuisance exists and waives the right to appeal the specific corrective action
required in the voluntary correction agreement; and
      (8)   An agreement by the responsible person that failure to comply with
the voluntary correction agreement may be grounds for criminal prosecution.
The city manager or his designee may grant an extension of the time limit for
correcting or abating the nuisance if the responsible person has shown due
diligence and/or substantial progress in correcting or abating the nuisance but
unforeseen circumstances render abatement under the original conditions
unattainable. If the responsible person complies with the terms of the
voluntary correction agreement, the city shall take no action against the
responsible person related to the nuisance described in the voluntary
correction agreement unless the nuisance recurs.
Sec 91-9 Administrative Citation
   (a)   Issuance. When the city manager or his designee determines that a
nuisance exists, and is unable to secure voluntary correction pursuant to the
provisions of this article, the city manager or his designee may issue an
administrative citation without having attempted to secure voluntary correction
as provided in section
91-8 under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When an emergency exists; or
      (2)   When the city manager or his designee is unable to locate or
determine the identity of the responsible person.
   (b)   Contents. The administrative citation shall include the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the responsible person;
      (2)   The street address of the nuisance or a description sufficient for
identifying the building, structure, premises, or land upon or within which the
nuisance is occurring;
      (3)   A description of the nuisance;
      (4)   The required corrective action;
      (5)   The completion date and a notice that the city may abate the
nuisance and charge the responsible person for all abatement costs if the
responsible person does not correct the nuisance on or before the completion
date;
      (6)   The time for appealing the administrative citation to the hearing
officer and the procedure for filing an appeal;
      (7)   A statement indicating that no monetary fine will be assessed if
the city manager or his designee approved the completed, required corrective
action prior to the completion date; and
      (8)   A statement that the city may abate the nuisance and assess costs
and expenses of abatement and a monetary fine against the responsible person if
the correction is not completed by the responsible person and approved by the
city manager or his designee on or before the completion date.
   (c)   Service. The city manager or his designee shall serve the
administrative citation upon the responsible person, either personally or by
mailing, certified, return receipt requested, a copy of the administrative
citation to the responsible person at his last known address. If the
responsible person cannot after reasonable attempts be personally served within
the county and if an address for mailed service cannot after reasonable
attempts be ascertained, notice shall be served by posting a copy of the
administrative citation conspicuously on the affected property or structure.
Proof of service shall be made by a written declaration under penalty of
perjury executed by the person effecting the service, declaring the time and
date of service, the manner by which the service was made, and if by posting,
the facts showing that reasonable attempts were used in attempting to serve the
person personally or by mail.
   (d)   No extension. No extension of the time specified in the administrative
citation for correction of the nuisance may be granted, except by the order of
the hearing officer.
Sec 91-10 Other Remedies
The city may take one or more of the following actions against any responsible
person who fails to comply with the terms of the voluntary consent agreement,
an administrative citation or an order of the hearing officer:
   (a)   Abatement by the city.
      (1)   The city may abate a nuisance when:
         a.   The terms of a voluntary correction agreement have not been met;
         b.   The requirements of an administrative citation have not been
complied with, or, if the administrative citation is appealed to a hearing
officer and the terms of the administrative citation are amended by the hearing
officer, the terms of the hearing officer's order have not been complied with;
or
         c.   The condition is subject to summary abatement as provided in
subsection (1)b of this section.
      (2)   Whenever a nuisance is occurring which constitutes an immediate and
emergent threat to public health, safety or welfare or to the environment, the
city may summarily and without prior notice abate the condition. Notice of such
abatement, including the reason for it, shall be given to the responsible
person as soon as reasonably possible after the abatement.
      (3)   Using any lawful means, the city may enter upon the subject
property and may remove or correct the condition which is subject to abatement.
The city may seek, but is not required to seek, such judicial process as it
deems necessary to effect the removal or correction of the condition.
      (4)   The costs, including incidental expenses, of correcting or abating
the violation shall be billed to the responsible person and/or the owner,
lessor, tenant or other person entitled to control, use and/or occupy the
property and shall become due and payable to the city within ten days of the
mailing date if the bill is mailed. The term "incidental expenses" includes,
but is not limited to:
         a.   Personnel costs, both direct and indirect, including attorney
fees and costs;
         b.   Costs included in documenting the violation;
         c.   Hauling, storage and disposal expenses;
         d.   Actual expenses and costs for the city in preparing notices,
specifications and contracts, and in accomplishing and/or contracting and
inspecting the work; and
         e.   The costs of any required printing and mailing.
   (b)   Monetary fine. The responsible person shall pay the city a monetary
fine for each day the nuisance continues after the completion date. The
nuisance shall be considered to continue until the city manager or his designee
approves the responsible person's actions to correct or abate the nuisance. The
amount of the monetary fine shall be as follows:
      (1)   An amount established in the schedule of fees and penalties for
each day during their first week that the nuisance remains uncorrected or
unabated after the completion date;
      (2)   An amount established in the schedule of fees and penalties for
each day thereafter until the nuisance is corrected or abated according to the
terms set forth in the administrative citation.
The monetary fine shall be cumulative and may not be waived by the city manager
or his designee. Payment of a monetary fine pursuant to this section does not
relieve the responsible person from the duty to abate the nuisance as required
by the voluntary consent agreement or the administrative citation. The monetary
fine constitutes a personal obligation of the responsible person. Any monetary
fine assessed must be paid to the city within ten calendar days from the date
of mailing of the hearing officer's decision and order or a notice from the
city that the fine is due. The city attorney and his designee is authorized to
take appropriate action to collect the monetary fine, plus reasonable attorney
fees and costs incurred in collecting said monetary fine.
   (c)   Civil actions. Either the city or any private person directly affected
by a nuisance may bring civil action to abate or enjoin the nuisance, or for
damages for causing or maintaining the nuisance (including cost, if any, of
cleaning the subject property). The civil action may be brought pursuant to
this article or pursuant to state law.
   (d)   Criminal actions. Criminal actions may be initiated by criminal
citation from the city manager or his designee or by long form information.
      (1)   Any person who maintains or assists in maintaining a nuisance is
guilty of a Class C misdemeanor. No person shall be prosecuted under this
subsection unless the city manager or his designee first attempted to obtain
voluntary correction as provided in section
91-8.
      (2)   If the alleged nuisance is also a violation of a provision of this
Code (other than this article) or state law, the responsible person may be
charged under the specific provision of this Code or state law, even if the
city manager or his designee did not first attempt to obtain voluntary
correction as provided in section
91-8.
      (3)   Any person who knowingly obstructs, impedes, or interferes with the
city or its agents, or with the responsible person, in the performance of
duties imposed by this article, or a decision and order issued by the hearing
officer, or a voluntary correction agreement, is guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor.
   (e)   Abatement by eviction. Whenever there is reason to believe that a
nuisance under section
91-3(2)a through g is kept and maintained, or exists in the city, the city
attorney or any citizen residing in the city, in his own name, may maintain an
action in a court of competent jurisdiction to abate the nuisance and obtain an
order for the automatic eviction of the tenant of the property harboring the
nuisance. The eviction shall take place as specified in state law.
   (f)   Lien for costs. If a person fails to pay any fines or costs related to
nuisance abatement when due, the city may record a lien on the property or
premises associated with the nuisance for the full amount of unpaid fines and
costs.
   (g)   Non-exclusive remedies. The city may take any or all of the above-
mentioned remedies (administrative, civil or criminal) to abate a nuisance and/
or punish any person or entity who
creates, causes or allows a nuisance to exist. The abatement of a nuisance does
not prejudice the right of the city or any person to recover damages or
penalties for its past existence.
Sec 91-11 Appeals
   (a)   Grounds. Any person receiving an administrative citation may appeal
the administrative citation to the hearing officer. Only the following issues
may be appealed to the hearing officer:
      (1)   The person charged in the administrative citation as the
responsible person is not the responsible person as defined by this article.
      (2)   The condition described as a nuisance in the administrative
citation is not a nuisance as defined by this article.
      (3)   The method required by the administrative citation to abate the
nuisance is inappropriate or is not the most cost effective method of
effectively correcting or abating the nuisance.
      (4)   The time period given to abate the nuisance in the administrative
citation is unreasonable.
      (5)   The monetary fine set forth in the administrative citation is
unreasonable.
      (6)   The city manager or his designee refused to approve a corrective
action that met the requirements of the administrative citation.
      (7)   The responsible person claims that the requirement of the
administrative citation violates his constitutional rights.
   (b)   Filing. The person desiring to appeal must file a notice of appeal
within ten days of receipt of the administrative citation or within 15 days of
the mailing date if the administrative citation was mailed.
   (c)   Hearing. The hearing before the hearing officer shall be informal
according to rules and procedures established by the hearing officer. The
appellant may, but is not required to, bring an attorney or other
representative to assist him. The appellant and the city manager or his
designee may each call witnesses at the hearing. The hearing officer may, with
or without the parties present, visit the site of the alleged nuisance. If the
hearing officer allows parties at the site visit, both parties must be given
the opportunity to be present. The hearing shall be scheduled by the hearing
officer within 30 days of when the notice of appeal is filed with the city.
   (d)   Burden of proof. The appellant shall have the burden of proof to
demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that he had legitimate grounds
for the appeal. The determination of the city manager or his designee as to the
need for the required corrective action shall be accorded substantial weight by
the hearing officer in determining the reasonableness of the corrective action.
   (e)   Authority of the hearing officer. The hearing officer shall have the
authority to affirm or vacate the administrative citation, or to modify or
waive specific provisions of the administrative citation. If the appellant
fails to attend the hearing, the hearing officer shall affirm the
administrative citation. The hearing officer shall not vacate the
administrative citation unless he finds that no nuisance exists. The hearing
officer shall modify the administrative citation if he finds that a nuisance
exists, but that one or more of the requirements of the administrative citation
is improper or inappropriate. A requirement is improper if it is contrary to
this article. A requirement is inappropriate if the hearing officer finds that
there is a better means of resolving the problem or that the proposed solution
is inappropriate given the nature or severity of the problem. When determining
whether to waive or modify a requirement of the administrative citation, the
hearing officer may also consider:
      (1)   Whether the appellant responded to the city manager or his
designee's attempts to contact the appellant and cooperated with efforts to
correct the nuisance;
      (2)   Whether the appellant has shown due diligence and/or substantial
progress in correcting the nuisance;
      (3)   The financial ability of the appellant and the amount, if any, that
the appellant has benefitted financially by maintaining a nuisance;
      (4)   Any other relevant factors.
If the appellant appeals the city manager or his designee's refusal to approve
the appellant's corrective action, the hearing officer shall visit the site and
determine if the appellant complied with the requirements of the administrative
citation.
   (f)   Order. The hearing officer shall issue a written order to the
appellant and the city manager or his designee notifying them of his decision.
The order shall include the hearing officer's findings of fact and ultimate
decision. If the hearing officer modifies or waives provisions of the
administrative citation, the order shall specify which portions are modified
and how they are modified. The hearing officer shall mail a copy of the order
to the appellant and the city within five working days of the close of the
hearing.
ARTICLE 91-II WEED AND REFUSE ABATEMENT
Sec
91-41 Purpose
Sec
91-42 Inspection And Notice
Sec
91-43 Compliance With Notice
Sec
91-44 Appeals
Sec
91-45 Abatement By The City
Sec
91-46 Administrative Charge
State Law reference— Weed abatement, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-11-1 et seq.
Sec 91-41 Purpose
It is the purpose of this article to establish a means whereby the city may
remove or abate or cause the removal or abatement of injurious or noxious
weeds, and of garbage, refuse, or unsightly or deleterious objects or
structures pursuant to the powers granted to it by U.C.A. 1953, title 10, ch.
11 (U.C.A. 1953, § 10-11-1 et seq.), and pursuant to its general power to abate
nuisances. It is declared that the above- listed weeds, objects and structures
shall constitute a nuisance when they create a fire hazard, a source of
contamination, or pollution of water, air or property, a danger to health, a
breeding place or habitation for insects or rodents or other forms of life
deleterious to human habitations or are unsightly or deleterious to their
surroundings.
Sec 91-42 Inspection And Notice
Undeveloped, developed or parcel lots which have weeds, grass or other growth
which constitute an existing or potential fire hazard, or a nuisance, shall be
abated by the owner of the property. Weed abatement compliance shall be
accomplished by plowing or mowing weeds within four inches of the ground. The
city shall survey properties within the city and identify those needing
abatement and then serve notice in writing upon the owner or occupant of such
land in person or by mailing notice, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner or
occupant at the last-known post office address as indicated by records of the
county assessor. The notice shall require the owner or occupant, as the case
may be, to abate the weeds by a specific time, which shall not be less than ten
days from the date of service of such notice. One notice shall be deemed
sufficient on any lot or parcel of property for the entire season of weed
growth during that year. The city shall make proof of service of such notice
under oath, and file the same in the office of the county treasurer.
Sec 91-43 Compliance With Notice
The failure of any person to comply with a notice issued pursuant to this
article shall be unlawful.
Sec 91-44 Appeals
Any person aggrieved by a weed abatement decision is entitled to a hearing by
filing a request for such in the office of the chief of police within ten days
of receiving notice from the city. The hearing shall be before a hearing
officer appointed by the city manager. The hearing officer shall have authority
to uphold or overturn any decision properly before him regarding weed abatement
under this article.
Sec 91-45 Abatement By The City
If any owner or occupant of land described in the notice issued pursuant to
section
91-42 shall fail or neglect to eradicate or destroy and remove weeds, or
growth, in accordance with such notice, the city may employ the necessary
assistance and cause such weeds to be removed or destroyed. The city shall
prepare an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in their removal and
destruction, and shall mail a copy thereof to the owner demanding payment
within 30 days of the date of the mailing. The notice shall be deemed delivered
when mailed by registered mail addressed to the property owner's last-known
address. In the event the owner fails to make payment of the amount set forth
in the statement to the city treasurer within 30 days, the city may cause suit
to be brought in an appropriate court of law or may refer the matter to the
county treasurer as hereinafter provided. In the event collection of the costs
are pursued through the courts, the city may sue for and receive judgment upon
all of the costs of removal and destruction together with reasonable attorney
fees, interest and court costs. The city may execute on such judgment in the
manner provided by law. In the event the city elects to refer the matter to the
county treasurer for inclusion in the tax notice of the property owner, the
city shall make in triplicate an itemized statement of all expenses incurred in
the removal and destruction of the same, and shall deliver the three copies of
the statement within ten days after the completion of the work of removing such
weeds.
Sec 91-46 Administrative Charge
An administrative charge in the amount of itemized actual costs incurred by the
city pursuant to city abatement procedures shall be levied on all property
owners who do not abate identified problems located on their property within
the required time allotted them under this article, in cases where the problems
are subsequently abated by the city.
ARTICLE 91-II.A IN GENERAL
Sec
91-50 Purpose
Sec 91-50 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the property, health, and safety of
the citizens of the city, and to protect the environment by establishing
minimum standards for the safe and sanitary collection, storage, treatment,
transportation, processing, and disposal of municipal solid waste and
recyclable materials generated within the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
ARTICLE 91-III SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Sec
91-51 Purpose
Sec
91-52 Powers Of The City
Sec
91-53 Hours Of Collection
Sec
91-54 Definitions
Sec
91-55 Authority To Collect; Unauthorized Collection
See
91-56 Use Of Service Required; Cancellation Of Service
Sec
91-57 Responsibility For Solid Waste And Recyclables
Sec
91-58 Types Of Service
Sec
91-59 Enclosures; Right-Of-Way Permits
Sec
91-60 Unobstructed Passage In Streets And Alleys
Sec
91-61 Containers; General Requirements
Sec
91-62 City Ownership Of City-Provided Containers
Sec
91-63 Construction And Demolition Materials
Sec
91-64 Residential Collection Requirements
Sec
91-65 Automated Residential Solid Waste And Recycling Collection
Sec
91-66 Residential Bulk Waste And Brush Collection
Sec
91-67 Roll-Off Container Collection Service
Sec
91-68 Commercial Collection Requirements
Sec
91-69 Prohibited Substances, Unacceptable Materials Or Prohibited Materials
Sec
91-70 Prohibited Acts
Sec
91-71 Enforcement Authority
Sec
91-72 Collection Vehicle Requirements
Sec
91-73 Container Requirements
Sec
91-74 Seizure And Impoundment Of Containers
Sec
91-75 Municipal Solid Waste Fees
Sec
91-76 Severability
Sec
91-77 Violations And Penalties
Sec 91-51 Purpose
The purpose of this article is to protect citizens' health and safety and to
protect the environment by establishing minimum standards for the safe and
sanitary collection, storage, treatment, transportation, processing, and
disposal of municipal solid waste and recyclable materials generated within the
city.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-52 Powers Of The City
   (a)   Residential solid waste and recyclable materials within the city shall
only be collected, removed and disposed of by officers or employees of the
city.
   (b)   Commercial solid waste and recycling services may be provided by the
city or by private contracted enterprises.
   (c)   The city manager, or designee, in order to protect the health and
safety of the citizens and the environment of the city, is authorized and
directed to implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter to control the
collection, storage, treatment, transportation, processing, and disposal of
solid waste and recyclable materials generated within the city.
   (d)   Rules and regulations. The city manager, or designee, shall make such
schedules, rules and regulations concerning the collection, storage, treatment,
transportation, processing, and disposal of solid waste, recyclable materials
and other wastes by any party. These rules and regulations will include
standards for equipment, transportation process, hours of operation, as
necessary and appropriate, to operate a solid waste and/or recycling collection
program, or other similar activities or facilities or relating to the operation
of any transfer station, disposal site, recycling or waste reduction program,
that are not inconsistent with this chapter.
   (e)   Inspection. The city may conduct inspections to secure compliance with
this chapter. A code inspector or an authorized representative from the public
works department who has a reasonable basis to believe that a private premise
may not be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter shall have the
right to request consent to enter and, upon consent, to enter residential,
commercial, industrial, institutional establishments, business establishments,
and private premises, for inspection purposes.
   (f)   The city shall regulate the use of transfer station activities.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-53 Hours Of Collection
Hours of collection for solid waste or recycling services by the city and
private service providers shall be regulated by the city. In order to prohibit
the disturbance of the public peace and welfare, no person shall collect or
remove or cause, permit, facilitate, aid or abet the collection or removal of
solid waste or recyclables between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. if the
collection point or container location is within 300 feet of any residential
account, hotel or motel unless reasonable accommodations are approved in
writing by the city manager or designee.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-54 Definitions
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases shall
have the meanings defined herein, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:
Alley means a public passageway affording a secondary means of access to
abutting property for private, utility and emergency vehicles.
Animal waste means all waste from household pets, stables, kennels, pet pens,
chicken coops, veterinary establishments and other waste of a similar nature.
Ashes means any residue other than salvage from the burning of any combustible
material, specifically excluding ashes from medical waste or hazardous waste.
Brush means tree limbs and shrubbery clippings exceeding three feet in length.
Bulk waste means wooden and cardboard boxes, crates, appliances not containing
Freon, furniture, machinery, and all other nonvegetative matter, which by
reason of size and/or shape are not readily containable. Bulk waste also
includes tree trunks, branches, or limbs, regardless of length, which are ten
or more inches in diameter.
Business establishment means any public or private place, building or
enterprise utilized for the conduct of business or industry, including
nonprofit organizations, and schools specifically excluding all residential
accounts.
City means the City of Hiidale, Utah.
City manager means the city manager or the city manager's designee.
Commercial multifamily account means any structure or premises used as a
domicile, dwelling, or habitation with five or more living units. Multifamily
does not include units with four or less units; duplexes; patio homes; mobile
home parks; condominiums; town homes; apartments; trailer courts; rooming
houses; boarding houses; college dormitories; summer camps; assisted living
facilities; residential facilities providing 24-hour nonmedical services,
supervision or assistance essential for sustaining the activities of daily
living or for the protection of the individual which include shelters, board
and care facilities, halfway houses, hospice care facilities, nursing homes,
wards of juvenile court, etc.; or any complex of the foregoing.
Commercial solid waste means any solid waste produced by the operation of, or
as a by-product of, any business establishment, without regard to whether the
business establishment is licensed in the city, or whether the business
establishment's activity is conducted in a private premise, public business,
within the city, or any other location.
Contained solid waste means all solid waste placed in containers for disposal.
Contaminated materials means any materials which, when prepared for one of the
acceptable forms of collection described in this chapter, contain materials
which are not acceptable under that particular form of collection.
Construction and demolition waste means all debris, nibble, soil and excess
materials from any construction, demolition, repair or remodeling operations,
whether on private premises, public places, residential account or business
establishment, whether to the primary structure or any other structure, and
whether produced by the work or at the direction of the property owner,
contractor, subcontractor, agent, or any other party.
Director means the public works director or designee.
Fly-tight means the lid of the container must fit flush around all contact
points and prevent entry of flies or rodents.
Hazardous material and hazardous waste means any chemical, compound, mixture,
substance or article which is designated by the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or appropriate agency of the state, to be hazardous as that term is
defined by, or pursuant to, federal or state law. Hazardous material includes,
but is not limited to, medical wastes, herbicides, pesticides, explosives, and
radioactive, toxic, flammable or corrosive materials.
Household hazardous waste means any waste that would otherwise be a hazardous
waste pursuant to 40 Code of Federal Regulations. Part 261, but is excluded as
a hazardous waste because it is generated by the normal day-to-day activities
of households.
Imminent health or safety hazard means a condition of real property, solid
waste or recycling that places a person's life, health, safety or property in
high risk of peril when such condition is immediate, impending on the point of
happening and menacing.
Incipient hazard means a condition of real property, solid waste or recycling
that can become an imminent or health hazard if further deterioration occurs
that can cause unreasonable risk of death or severe personal injury.
Industrial solid waste generator means a generator of a wide variety of
nonhazardous solid waste produced as a result of any industrial operations.
Inert debris includes concrete, asphaltic pavement, brick, rock, gravel, sand,
soil, and metal, if used as reinforcement in concrete, but does not include
hazardous waste, glass or other metal.
Litter means ail solid waste, recyclables and debris not properly prepared for
collection under this Code.
Medical waste means materials defined as infectious waste by U.C.A. § 19-6-102
(13).
Metal goods means appliances, and shall include refrigerators, freezers, ovens,
stoves, air conditioners, washers, dryers and water heaters, and shall
specifically exclude smaller household appliances and electronic equipment. Any
appliance containing Freon must have a tag certifying that the unit has been
properly evacuated.
Multifamily residential account means any structure or premises used as a
domicile, dwelling, or habitation with four or less units; duplexes; patio
homes; mobile home parks; condominiums; town homes; apartments; trailer courts;
rooming houses; boarding houses; college dormitories; summer camps; assisted
living facilities; residential facilities providing 24-hour nonmedical
services, supervision or assistance essential for sustaining the activities of
daily living or for the protection of the individual which include shelters,
board and care facilities, halfway houses, hospice care facilities, nursing
homes, wards of juvenile court, etc., or any complex of the foregoing.
Person means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, institution,
trust, or other entity acting as principal, agent, officer, servant or employee
for himself or itself, or for any other individual, firm, partnership,
corporation, institution or other entity, who owns, leases, rents or occupies
any real property within the city limits.
Private premises means any land and/or structure owned by any person(s) other
than the United States, a state, a county, the city, or any political
subdivision of the United States.
Private service providers means any entity or person other than the city who
provides for the collection, storage, treatment, transportation, processing,
and disposal within the city of any solid waste of another person or entity
including recyclable materials, hazardous materials, or medical waste, or any
other types of waste, for disposal, salvage, recycling or any other purpose.
Prohibited substance means any liquid, solid, or gas with an ignition
temperature or flashpoint of less than 200 degrees Fahrenheit including, but
not limited to, gasoline, benzene, naphtha, or other flammable or explosive
substance; any material having a pH lower than five and one-half or higher than
nine or having any other corrosive property that could be injurious or
hazardous to city employees collecting any solid waste under this chapter, or
which could cause damage to equipment; any noxious or malodorous substance
offensive to the senses and depriving other properties or a considerable number
of persons of the comfortable enjoyment of life or property; or any hypodermic
needle or syringe.
Public place means any and all public streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or
other public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
Putrescible materials means solid waste which is capable of being decomposed by
microorganisms with sufficient rapidity as to cause nuisances from odors or
gases and capable of providing food for or attracting birds, insects, snakes,
rodents or animals capable of transferring a diseased bacterium or virus from
one organism to another. These materials must be bagged and securely tied for
proper disposal.
Recycling container means a container owned by the city for use as part of the
city's recycling program, if any; a recycling container provided for use by a
private service provider; or a recycling container provided by a nonprofit
organization.
Recyclable materials means solid waste that has been set aside or separated
from oilier solid waste for the purpose of being collected and recycled and
which is, at the city's discretion, acceptable recyclable material. Acceptable
recyclable material may include the following materials if clean and dry:
Paper, cardboard, chipboard, plastic containers made from polyethylene
terephthalate ("PET") or high-density polyethylene ("HDPE"), glass bottles,
steel food cans, aluminum cans, disposable aluminum bakeware, aluminum foil and
other materials determined by the city as being marketable.
Residential account means any structure or premises used as a domicile,
dwelling, or habitation including single-family dwellings; multifamily units
with four or less units; duplexes; patio homes; mobile home parks;
condominiums; town homes; apartments; trailer courts; rooming houses; boarding
houses; college dormitories; summer camps; assisted living facilities;
residential facilities providing 24-hour nonmedical services, supervision or
assistance essential for sustaining the activities of daily living or for the
protection of the individual which include shelters, board and care facilities,
halfway houses, hospice care facilities, nursing homes, wards of juvenile
court, etc.; or any complex of the foregoing that generates solid waste and
recycling.
Residential solid waste means household trash and recyclables produced by city
residents on or in their residential premises within the city, specifically
excluding:
   (a)   Construction and demolition waste, whether on or off the residential
premises or any other structures on the property,
   (b)   Commercial or industrial solid waste, whether produced at a
residential premise or at any other location.
   (c)   Hazardous materials.
   (d)   Medical waste.
   (e)   Manure.
   (f)   Large animals exceeding 50 pounds.
Responsible party means an occupant, lessor, lessee, manager, licensee, owner
or other person having control over a structure or parcel of land and, in the
case where remediation is proposed as a means of abatement, any lien holder
whose lien interest is recorded in the official records of the Washington
County Recorder's office.
Solid waste means all wastes (except medical wastes), including garbage,
rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, containable rubbish, filth,
construction and demolition waste, brush, bulk waste, metal goods or prohibited
substances when these terms are not specifically noted in this chapter.
Solid waste charge account customers means all individuals or businesses that
have established charge accounts approved by the city for transfer station
fees.
Solid waste inspector means any police officer, code enforcement officer, or
other city employee with written authorization from the city manager to inspect
public and private properties, to issue citations and to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
Transfer station means any Hiidale City transfer station as may be designated
by the city.
Vicious animal means any animal of a vicious species, or an animal of a
domesticated species, including, but not limited to, cats and dogs, which
without provocation are prone to attack persons.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-55 Authority To Collect; Unauthorized Collection
No person shall collect solid waste or recycling from a residential account
within the city contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-56 Use Of Service Required; Cancellation Of Service
   (a)   No residential account or business establishment within the city shall
be permitted to avoid or refuse to accept solid waste collection service, and
the failure of any party to accept such service shall not exempt that party
from the payment of the charges for such service.
   (b)   At such time as a business establishment or commercial multifamily
account contracts for services with a private service provider, other than
Hiidale City, authorized to provide such services as described in this chapter,
lite business establishment or commercial multi-family account shall notify the
city solid waste division of intent to cancel service.
   (c)   The Hiidale City container shall be scheduled for removal in a timely
manner, within 30 days of notification received by the solid waste division.
Charges for city service will cease on the date of container removal, prorated
at the monthly rate per day.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-57 Responsibility For Solid Waste And Recyclables
   (a)   The responsible party of any private premises or business
establishment shall be responsible for their solid waste or recyclables until
the solid waste or recyclables are collected by the city, agents of the city or
private service provider.
   (b)   The responsible party of any private premises or business
establishment shall be responsible for the sanitary condition of said private
premises or business establishment and for the proper storage, containment, and
placement for collection of all solid waste and recyclables.
   (c)   Except as provided in this chapter, no person shall bury, dump,
dispose, transport, release, or allow to be released upon any street, alley,
right-of-way or public land, any municipal solid waste or recyclables,
including construction and demolition waste and tires.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-58 Types Of Service
   (a)   Residential. Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the city shall
function as sole provider of residential solid waste collection service and
residential recycling service.
   (b)   Each residential account receiving service under this subsection shall
be provided solid waste containers for individual use and curbside collection.
Additionally, residents may request additional containers for a fee.
   (c)   Additional residential services may include household hazardous waste
collection events, annual bulk waste cleanups, and other services as approved
by council.
   (d)   The city, or private service providers, may provide commercial solid
waste collection service to business establishments as required by state,
county, this chapter, and other city regulations. If the business establishment
is serviced by a private service provider other than the city, the service
schedule shall be set by the private service provider and the business
establishment and subject to the hours of collection and other provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-59 Enclosures; Right-Of-Way Permits
   (a)   General. The city reserves the right to require business
establishments or commercial multifamily accounts to utilize city or private
service providers for solid waste and recycling collection sufficient to
properly manage the volume of solid waste and recycling generated by their
activities.
   (b)   Containers. Containers may be required to be in enclosures that shall
be designed in accordance with city Code and shall be properly accessible and
sufficiently sized to accommodate the number of containers for the volumes of
solid waste and recyclables generated. All enclosures shall have proper
drainage to prevent accumulation and stagnation of any liquid.
   (c)   Right-of-way permits. Except as provided either by this subsection or
subsection (c) of this section, no person shall place, allow to be placed,
maintain or cause to be placed or maintained, any encroachment or obstruction
in public right-of-way, including any solid waste or recycling collection
container, temporary or permanent, unless a permit has been issued by the city
pursuant to procedures contained in the city Code. The owner of each container
shall obtain a permit prior to container placement. Location of each container
is subject to approval by the city.
   (d)   Commercial solid waste right-of-way encroachment permits. Except as
provided either by this subsection or subsection (b) of this section, no
private commercial solid waste collector or recycler, or person contracting
with a private commercial solid waste collector, shall place, allow to be,
placed, maintain or cause to be placed or maintained any solid waste collection
container in public right-of-way unless the commercial solid waste collector
has obtained a permit issued by the city pursuant to procedures contained in
this chapter. The private commercial solid waste collector shall obtain a
permit prior to container placement. Location of each container is subject to
approval by the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-60 Unobstructed Passage In Streets And Alleys
   (a)   No person shall permit trees, shrubs or brush growing upon their
property to encroach on or over any public right-of-way so as to interfere with
the movement of persons or vehicles, or a safe line of sight.
   (b)   It is the responsibility of the responsible party to trim trees,
shrubs, or brush on their property and in the adjacent right-of-way back to
their property line and allow 18-foot height clearance at any location solid
waste or recyclable materials are collected.
   (c)   No person shall allow any obstruction including, but not limited to,
parked vehicles, within 15 feet of a solid waste or recycling container placed
for collection service, or to obstruct solid waste and/or recycling col lection
operations in any other manner.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-61 Containers; General Requirements
   (a)   Every person or commercial or residential solid waste generator shall
place, or cause to be placed, all solid waste and recycling accumulating on the
premises in suitable collection receptacles or containers provided by the city,
or private service providers.
   (b)   All materials prepared for collection shall be stored in a city-
approved container until removed by the city, or a private service provider,
unless those materials are properly prepared for the city's bulk waste
collection, service, if any.
   (c)   Solid waste and recyclable materials shall be properly stored,
treated, transported, processed, and disposed of in accordance with the
Southwest Public Health Department Code, Utah Department of Environmental
Quality Regulations, and this chapter.
   (d)   Any user of a city-provided solid waste and recycling container shall
be required to use and maintain the container as follows:
      (1)   Cleaning. All containers shall be used, maintained and stored in a
clean and sanitary condition. The user shall bag and securely tie all
putrescible material, thereby maintaining the container free of intense odors,
evidence of flies in any stage of development, and any other nuisance or threat
to public health or safety.
      (2)   Reporting damage or loss. The user shall store container(s) between
collection in such a way as to minimize the possibility of damage or theft. The
user shall be responsible for reporting any container damage or theft to the
city.
      (3)   Proper and safe use. The user shall not damage die container(s)
intentionally or use the container(s) for any purpose other than those
specified in this chapter. The user shall not use the container(s) in any
manner which is, in the sole determination of the city, unsafe.
      (4)   Lids or covers. The lids or covers of any container(s) shall at all
times be kept secure in such a manner to prevent intrusion of moisture,
infestation of insects, and scattering of solid waste or recyclable materials.
Covers or lids shall be kept closed except when containers are being loaded or
emptied.
   (e)   No person, unless authorized by the city, shall remove, collect or
disturb the solid waste and recyclable materials stored in such container(s) or
remove from a container any solid waste or recyclable materials set out for
collection and disposal in the city, city customers, or agents of the city, or
private service providers. This prohibition does not apply to public law
enforcement officers or city employees acting within the scope of their
official duties.
   (f)   No person shall utilize the container(s) assigned to other persons for
the disposal of solid waste or recyclable materials without their permission.
This does not apply to the solid waste or recycling collection system where
persons or responsible parties share the use of common containers. The use of
common or shared containers and the assigned residential account or business
establishment(s) using a container shall be determined by the city, or in the
ease of private service, by a private service provider.
   (g)   All boxes, cartons and crates shall be collapsed before being placed
in solid waste or recycling containers. Ashes shall be soaked with water to
extinguish any live embers and be contained in tied bags before placement in
solid waste containers.
   (h)   Explosives or flammable materials of any kind shall not be placed in
any solid waste or recycling container.
   (i)   Corrosives, reactive substances, oxidizers, lead acid batteries or any
hazardous waste shall not be disposed of in solid waste or recycling
containers.
   (j)   Pool chemicals shall be completely used, or properly disposed of,
before disposing of the container. Pool chemical containers shall be emptied
and moisture free prior to being placed in a solid waste or recycling
container.
   (k)   It is the container user's and responsible party's obligation to
properly contain solid waste or recyclable materials generated on their
premises and to keep the area around the container continuously clear and free
of all debris. If the property has alley solid waste service, the term "area"
includes the alley.
   (l)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to overload or overfill a
container, or place material in any solid waste or recycling container of a
volume or weight which prevents the collection vehicle from safely emptying
lite container or which may damage the collection vehicle or container. Maximum
weight of material placed in any residential container shall not exceed 100
pounds.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-62 City Ownership Of City-Provided Containers
   (a)   The city may place a container approved by the city at each
residential account that is required to receive residential collection service
from the city or at a business establishment that has authorized city service.
   (b)   Each person or entity which shall contract with or accept solid waste
service from the city, using a city-owned container, shall, by acceptance of
such service, recognize the right of the city to enter upon the premises of
such person or entity to retake possession of the container upon termination of
service, and shall be deemed to have extended to the city an express license to
so enter the premises for that purpose.
   (c)   The city will furnish one solid waste container for the accumulation,
storage, and collection of solid waste to residential accounts. Additionally,
residents may request additional containers for a fee, subject to the
discretion of the director. All such containers are owned by the city, and the
city may remove, repair, or replace the container without notice to the user.
   (d)   If a solid waste or recycling container is in violation of this
chapter and presents an imminent health or safety hazard, or incipient hazard,
a solid waste representative shall issue a notice of violation to the
responsible party. In the event that the violation is not corrected within a
reasonable number of days as required by such notice, die violation will be
considered a public nuisance that may be abated.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-63 Construction And Demolition Materials
   (a)   Construction and demolition waste or materials shall not be placed in
a residential account's solid waste or recycling container.
   (b)   If such construction and demolition, waste or materials are generated,
the responsible party is responsible for the removal and proper disposal.
   (c)   All construction and demolition waste or materials shall be removed
promptly and shall not be stored in any location where it may be blown or
otherwise dispersed beyond the construction site.
   (d)   In the event that the violation is not corrected, the violation will
be considered a public nuisance that may be abated.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-64 Residential Collection Requirements
   (a)   All residential solid waste generators within the city shall receive
city solid waste service, and shall, pay the applicable fees assessed for such
service. Solid waste fees shall be applied and will continue as long as city
water or sewer services are supplied.
   (b)   The city may require any residential solid waste generator regularly
generating solid waste that exceeds 65 gallons or 100 pounds within a
collection period to acquire an additional container or containers subject to
the applicable fee per additional container or volume, or any resident
regularly generating solid waste that requires special handling to schedule a
special solid waste collection subject to the applicable collection fee.
   (c)   Only properly prepared materials as described in this chapter shall be
acceptable for collection under this chapter.
   (d)   Collection days shall be as designated by the city.
   (e)   The service level required and method of collection shall be as
designated by the city.
   (f)   Only the city shall he authorized to remove any city-owned solid waste
or recycling container from its assigned location. It shall be a violation of
this chapter for any other person to remove a container from the address to
which it is assigned.
   (g)   Residential accounts receiving collection under any of the city's
collection programs are limited to one emptying of the container being serviced
per collection day. Missed collections are not eligible for fee credits.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-65 Automated Residential Solid Waste And Recycling Collection
   (a)   Generally. All residential solid waste for collection by the city's
automated residential solid waste collection equipment shall be prepared for
collection according to this section.
   (b)   Placement. Solid waste and recycling containers set out for collection
must be placed in the street in front of the house to which they are assigned,
with the wheels adjacent to the curb of the sidewalk, and the lid opening
toward the street.
      (1)   Where there is no sidewalk, the container(s) must be placed at the
edge of the street, within two feet of the pavement or improved road, as
applicable.
      (2)   Containers may not be collected from private property or when
placed within 15 feet of a vehicle, mailbox or other obstruction to safe
collection as determined by the director.
      (3)   Containers shall not be placed out for collection on a sidewalk or
be allowed to remain after collection on a sidewalk. All container placement
shall be subject to approval by the director.
      (4)   To ensure all solid waste and recycling containers are ready for
collection they may be placed at the curb after 6:00 p.m. on the day preceding
collection. Containers for street collection shall be placed at the curb for
service no later than 6:00 a.m. on the day of collection.
      (5)   Containers must be removed prior to 11:00 p.m. of the day of
collection. It shall be a violation of this chapter to place or permit
containers to remain adjacent to the curb except upon regular collection days
or scheduled day for container maintenance.
      (6)   All solid waste and recycling containers shall be stored, between
collection days, on the premises so as not to interfere with pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, and to minimize the container's visibility.
   (c)   Lids must be closed. The lids of containers set out or used for
residential solid waste or recycling collection must be entirely closed.
   (d)   Solid waste and all putrescible material must be bagged and tied. All
solid waste prepared for residential solid waste collection including grass
clippings must be bagged and securely tied to exclude flies and other pests.
   (e)   Container contents.
      (1)   The contents of the solid waste and recycling containers must be
arranged so that they fall out easily when serviced by authorized collection
vehicles.
      (2)   The city shall not be required to remove any materials which remain
in the container after the container has been serviced by the collection
vehicle.
      (3)   Loose branches and brush are not required to be bagged, under the
condition that the un-bagged contents empty readily during normal collection
conditions, and do not unduly dirty the container. Bagged material placed below
un-bagged material may allow all the contents to fall out and the container to
empty completely.
   (f)   Household medical waste and infectious waste.
      (1)   All household medical waste and infectious waste, including
lancets, syringes and hypodermic needles, must be properly prepared for
disposal in the solid waste container.
      (2)   Household medical waste and infectious waste must be placed in
plastic bags and securely tied before placing in the solid waste container, or
it shall be considered an incipient hazard, or imminent health or safety
hazard.
      (3)   Lancets, syringes and hypodermic needles must be placed in a rigid,
leak-proof and puncture resistant container with a secured and taped lid and
must be clearly labeled identifying the contents before placing in the solid
waste container.
      (4)   Depositing or disposing of household medical waste and infectious
waste or lancets, syringes and hypodermic needles in any recycling container is
prohibited.
   (g)   Prescription drugs and medicines. All discarded drugs, prescription
drugs, and medicines shall be disposed of according to the guidelines in this
chapter or as follows:
      (1)   Unless otherwise prohibited by this chapter, according to the
specific disposal instructions on the drug label or patient information form.
      (2)   Through a pharmacy or other licensed agency that provides for the
lawful disposal for such items.
      (3)   According to the procedures of the City of Hildale Police
Department's drug disposal program. This disposal method shall only be used by
individual citizens, and shall not be utilized by any doctors, hospitals,
pharmacies, or other commercial ventures.
      (4)   Consistent with the procedures prescribed by a state, federal,
county, city or other governmental law enforcement agency that administers a
program for the disposal of such items.
      (5)   Prescription drugs and medication shall not be introduced into the
city's sanitary sewer system through sinks, drains, toilets, or other means.
These materials shall not be introduced into any stormwater system or seasonal
creek, run-off system, or any tributaries.
   (h)   Recyclable materials must not be bagged and must be placed in the
recycling container in such a manner that they separate under the normal
operating procedures of the applicable materials recovery facility.
   (i)   Only recyclable materials shall be collected by the city's residential
recycling collection program. No person or customer shall contaminate
recyclables. Contamination of recyclables includes, but is not limited to,
putrescible material such as food waste, grass, any brush clippings, filth,
diapers, concrete, dirt or polystyrene.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-66 Residential Bulk Waste And Brush Collection
   (a)   All materials prepared for residential bulk waste and brush
collection, if such service is offered by the city, shall be prepared for
collection and disposed of in accordance with this chapter.
   (b)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to place bulk waste or brush
out for collection more than one week before collection is scheduled by Hildale
City.
   (c)   Bulk waste and brush shall be placed out for collection no later than
6:00 a.m. on the first day of the scheduled week of collection as determined by
the director.
   (d)   Bulk waste and brush placed out for collection shall be in neat
stacks.
   (e)   Bulk waste and brush placed out for curb side collection shall be
placed on the person's property, parallel to the street or curb. The director
may designate alternative placement and collection points. Bulk waste and brush
shall not be placed, or allowed to be placed, on the sidewalk or in the street,
behind a fence or any obstruction or barrier.
   (f)   Bulk waste and brush shall not be placed within five feet of any fixed
object, solid waste or recycling container, or in any manner which would
interfere with or be hazardous to pedestrians, bicyclists, equestrians or
motorists.
   (g)   Brush must be clipped to no more than four feet in length, and bundled
with twine or other biodegradable string in bundles weighing no more than 50
pounds per bundle.
   (h)   The amount of bulk waste and brush placed out for collection during a
bulk waste and brush collection shall not exceed a total uncompact volume of 20
cubic yards. The responsible party shall arrange for the commercial
transportation and licensed disposal for additional bulk waste over 20 cubic
yards per calendar year.
   (i)   Century plants, thorny plants, cacti, and similar plants which are
difficult to handle, or may present a danger to collection employees, shall be
contained in boxes or containers after having been cut to lengths of no more
than three feet. Any such container or box shall enable municipal collection
workers to pick up the container or box without risk of exposure to the
contents and shall weigh, when loaded, no more than 50 pounds per container.
   (j)   Items of bulk waste which are acceptable for normal residential
collection are:
      (1)   Tree limbs and branches less than four feet in length and palm
fronds.
      (2)   Metal material weighing less than 50 pounds.
      (3)   Pipe less than four feet in length and weighing less than 50
pounds.
      (4)   Household items, furniture, appliances, bicycles, and other durable
goods.
      (5)   Bagged or boxed leaves, weeds, grass, small vegetation clippings
and hedge clippings.
      (6)   Construction and demolition waste generated by a residential
account weighing less than 25 pounds.
      (7)   Cardboard boxes.
   (k)   Items of bulk waste which are not acceptable for residential
collection include:
      (1)   Tree limbs and branches more than four feet in length.
      (2)   Metal material weighing in excess of 50 pounds.
      (3)   Pipe more than four feet in length or weighing in excess of 50
pounds.
      (4)   Non-bagged or unboxed leaves, weeds, grass, small vegetation
clippings or hedge clippings.
      (5)   More than 25 pounds of construction and demolition solid waste
generated by a residential account or any amount generated by a contractor,
subcontractor or builder.
      (6)   Cement, cement blocks, brick, asphalt, stones and dirt.
      (7)   Lead acid batteries, any hazardous waste, infectious or medical
solid waste.
      (8)   Automotive parts including tires or tires of any other type.
   (l)   No person shall place, or allow to be placed, unacceptable bulk waste
items, or improperly place bulk waste items, out for collection. The person or
responsible party shall remove and dispose of all bulk waste improperly placed
and any unacceptable items of bulk waste at their own expense. The director may
require that brush and other yard waste be separated from other bulk waste for
collection in an alternative manner.
   (m)   In the event a violation is not corrected, the violation will be
considered a public nuisance that may be abated by city crews and charged lo
the residential account.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-67 Roll-Off Container Collection Service
   (a)   The city may provide foil-off container collection service for a fee
as determined by the city council.
   (b)   All roll-off placements shall be subject to approval by the city, and
shall not interfere with sidewalk or street traffic.
   (c)   A release of liability may be required before containers will be
placed or collected from private property, or when placed within 15 feet of a
vehicle, mailbox or other obstruction to safe collection.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-68 Commercial Collection Requirements
   (a)   All business establishments and commercial multifamily accounts shall
maintain alleys and the area surrounding the solid waste and recycling
containers free from solid waste, recycling and other potential hazards to the
public health, safety, or welfare. Where unusual or inordinate waste material
is generated, special collections shall be arranged with the city or other
private service providers.
   (b)   Business establishments and commercial multi-family accounts may
receive city solid waste and recycling collection services and city-owned
containers. Collection employees shall at all times have convenient
accessibility to said containers.
   (c)   Recyclable materials must not be bagged and must be placed in the
recycling container in such a manner that they separate under the normal
operating procedures of the applicable materials recovery facility.
   (d)   No person or customer shall contaminate recyclables. Contamination of
recyclables includes, but is not limited to, putrescible material such as food
waste, grass, any brush clippings, filth, diapers, concrete, dirt or
polystyrene.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-69 Prohibited Substances, Unacceptable Materials Or Prohibited Materials
   (a)   No person shall allow, deposit or cause to be deposited in any
container that is serviced by the city any prohibited substance, unacceptable
material or prohibited material as defined in this chapter.
   (b)   The city may, by special written agreement, contract to haul
prohibited substances when placed in special containers and clearly labeled.
   (c)   Unless the city has contracted by special written agreement to haul
the prohibited substances, it is the responsibility of the generator of such
substances to ensure their removal and proper disposal.
   (d)   Small quantities of construction and demolition waste, defined in this
chapter, may be placed in solid waste containers subject to weight and other
restrictions listed in this chapter.
   (e)   Removal of construction and demolition waste shall be the
responsibility of the responsible party or owner of the real property upon
which such waste is generated. Small quantities of construction and demolition
waste may be collected through the bulk waste program as per the conditions of
that program and this chapter.
   (f)   Unacceptable materials will not be collected under this chapter, may
subject the producer to a penalty under this chapter, and will be the
generator's responsibility to ensure their removal. Unacceptable material may
be removed by the city at the generator's expense as set forth in this chapter.
Unacceptable material may be collected through special collection events that
are periodically scheduled by the city.
   (g)   Prohibited materials. No person or responsible party shall set the
following prohibited materials out for collection, cause them to be set out for
collection, or allow them to be set out for collection. The following materials
are unacceptable for collection under any collection program described in this
chapter:
      (1)   Tires and other automotive parts. "Automotive parts" includes any
part, or combination of parts, of any kind of motor vehicle, including, but not
limited to, tires, batteries, seats, engines, fuel tanks, doors, auto glass,
and upholstery.
      (2)   Waste materials collected by any sidewalk or street sweeper.
      (3)   Gardening and landscape waste. No landscapes tree trimmers, lawn
maintenance businesses or similar operators may dispose of yard waste, or any
other solid waste, in solid waste containers unless the waste is generated
solely from the grounds of the property, and the property owner or manager has
approved such disposal.
      (4)   Fire hazards. Hot ashes, hot cinders, burning matter, loose
sawdust, flammable liquids, volatile liquids, or any other material which
presents a fire hazard, shall not be acceptable.
      (5)   Hazardous material.
      (6)   Medical waste.
      (7)   Contaminated materials.
      (8)   Liquid or wet material that would easily flow through a paint
filter.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-70 Prohibited Acts
   (a)   No person or responsible party shall:
      (1)   Place, allow to be placed, or cause to be placed any solid waste or
recyclables upon any public or private property not owned or under his control;
      (2)   Place, allow to be placed, or cause to be placed in a solid waste
container any solid, waste or dead animal which is not contained within a
securely fastened leak-proof plastic bag, unless otherwise exempted by this
chapter;
      (3)   Place, allow to be placed, or cause to be placed any solid waste in
a container not owned or maintained by said property owner;
      (4)   Fail to restrain any vicious animal that prevents interference with
collection employees acting in the course of their duties, or any city employee
acting within the scope of their employment under this chapter:
      (5)   Cause, permit, facilitate, allow, or aid or abet any violation of
this chapter or fail to perform any act or duty required by this chapter;
      (6)   Fail to remove construction and demolition waste. It shall be a
violation of this chapter for a generator of construction and demolition waste
to fail to remove construction and demolition waste from a premise within 30
days from the date on which it was placed upon the premises, or not later than
the final building inspection, the clearance of public utilities, or the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever comes first;
      (7)   Burn solid waste. No person shall burn solid waste except in
incinerators as may be permitted by the city, county or the state. Any burning
of solid waste must comply with the rules and regulations established by the
Utah Department of Environmental Quality, and the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency;
      (8)   Interfere with collection. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any person to interfere with authorized collection of solid waste in any
way;
      (9)   Mishandle hazardous waste. No person, responsible party, business,
contractor or private service provider shall knowingly collect, place or cause
to be placed or allow to be collected any hazardous waste or similar materials
from any container or any public or private property, except as specifically
permitted by the Utah Department of Environmental Quality or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency;
      (10)   Fail to contain and cover solid waste and recyclables in transit.
No person shall collect, transport or receive any solid waste or recyclables
within or upon any public or private streets in the city, or anywhere in the
city, except in covered leak proof containers or vehicles so constructed that
no solid waste or other wastes leak or sift through, fall out, or be blown from
such container or vehicle. Any person collecting or transporting any solid
waste or recyclables shall immediately pick up all solid waste or recyclables
which drop, spill, leak, sift through, fall out, or are blown from the
collecting or transporting container or vehicle, and shall otherwise clean the
place onto which any such solid waste or recyclables were dropped, spilled,
blown, leaked, sifted through, or fell out;
      (11)   Contaminate recyclable materials. No person shall deposit or cause
to be deposited, in any recycling container, anything other than acceptable
recyclable materials as determined by the director;
      (12)   Scavenge. No person, unless authorized by the owner of the solid
waste or recyclables, may remove, collect, or disturb solid waste or
recyclables in a container that is set out for collection for the purposes of
recycling or disposal. No person may remove, collect, or disturb recyclable
materials deposited for collection at any designated recycling drop-off and
collection center. City employees acting within the scope of their employment
are not subject to the prohibitions described in this section.
   (b)   Each day any violation of this chapter exists shall constitute a
separate violation or offense and shall be treated as such during the
enforcement process.
   (c)   The owner of the premises, as shown in the records of the Washington
County Recorder, at which a violation of this chapter exists, shall be presumed
to be a person having lawful control over any building, structure or parcel of
land. If more than one person shall be shown as the owner of the property, said
persons are jointly and severally presumed to be persons having lawful control
over the building, structure or parcel of land.
   (d)   If a responsible party served with a notice of violation or citation
by the city fails to correct the violation within the period specified, the
city may correct or abate the condition as described in the notice and, in
addition to any penalty which may be imposed for a violation of this chapter,
the responsible party shall be liable for all costs which may be assessed
pursuant to this chapter for the correction or abatement of the condition.
   (e)   If in the determination of the city the condition constitutes an
incipient hazard, or an imminent health or safety hazard, the director may
immediately abate the hazard without notice. Such abatement of an imminent
health or safety hazard shall be limited to the minimum work necessary to
remove the hazard and the customer's account shall be charged for the
abatement.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-71 Enforcement Authority
   (a)   The city is authorized to abate conditions which are an incipient
hazard, or are an imminent health and safety hazard, toward any person or
persons.
   (b)   The authority of the city to enforce provisions of this chapter is
independent of, and in addition to, the authority of other city officials to
enforce the provisions of any other city Code provisions.
   (c)   Upon request from the city manager, the marshal's office or any other
department of the city shall be authorized to assist and cooperate in the
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-72 Collection Vehicle Requirements
All vehicles used for solid waste and recycling collection and transportation
within the city must meet all applicable state and federal rules and
regulations.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-73 Container Requirements
   (a)   Private service providers shall have joint responsibility with the
business establishment or commercial multi-family account to keep and maintain
sufficient standard containers as to accommodate the solid waste and recycling
needs of the establishment being serviced.
   (b)   Private service providers shall at all times maintain their
containers, roll-off bodies and solid waste compactors in clean and sanitary
condition and good repair as may be determined by the director.
   (c)   Private service provider's containers, roll-off bodies and solid waste
compactors shall be located so as not to interfere with vehicular or pedestrian
traffic, or a safe line of sight, and to minimize visibility, and shall be in
conformance with all permits, licenses. City Code requirements, and this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-74 Seizure And Impoundment Of Containers
   (a)   In addition to any other penalties set forth in this chapter, any
solid waste or recycling container which is placed or maintained at a
residential account, business establishment, or commercial multifamily account
in violation of any city or state law may be seized and impounded by the city,
at the owner's expense.
   (b)   Prior to the seizure and impoundment of any solid waste container, the
city shall conspicuously post upon said container a notice of violation which
sets forth the specific violation and the date on which the container will be
seized if the violation has not been corrected. The notice of violations shall
be posted at least ten days prior to the seizure of the container, unless the
director determines the container creates an incipient hazard, or imminent
health or safety hazard.
   (c)   The owner of any container which is impounded pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall have 30 days to pay the city cost of seizure
and storage and to retrieve the container. If the owner of a container has
failed to pay the applicable cost or failed to retrieve the container within 30
days of the seizure, the city is authorized to dispose of the container upon
such condition and terms as determined by city.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-75 Municipal Solid Waste Fees
Fees for solid waste and recycling collection shall be established by the city
council and shall be paid monthly.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-76 Severability
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
chapter should be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, such decision
shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter, which shall remain in
full force and effect; and to this end the provisions of this chapter are
hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-77 Violations And Penalties
   (a)   The penalties set forth above shall be cumulative and nonexclusive. In
addition to those penalties set forth above, the city may institute any other
remedies available, including, but not limited to, a civil action lo seek
injunctive relief for a violation of this chapter, and the recovery of
attorney's fees for such violation.
   (b)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in
section
91-112. Each and every day any such violation continues shall be deemed and
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
ARTICLE 91-IV RESTRICTIONS ON BURNING
Sec
91-80 Purpose
Sec
91-81 Restrictions On Burning
Sec 91-80 Purpose
The purpose of this article is to protect the property and safety of the
citizens of the city, and to protect the environment by establishing minimum
standards for safe burning within the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-81 Restrictions On Burning
   (a)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire or
authorize any such tire to be kindled or maintained on or in any public street,
alley, road or other public ground without a permit or other proper
authorization.
      (2)   During construction or demolition of buildings or structures, no
waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises or
in the immediate vicinity without having obtained a permit or other proper
authorization. Authorization may be obtained by telephone,
   (b)   Locution restricted. No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or
rubbish lire or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained on any
private land, except as provided for by state law, and unless the location is
not less than 50 feet from any structure and adequate provision is made to
prevent fire from spreading to within 50 feet of any structure, or the fire is
contained in an approved waste burner located safely not less than 15 feet from
any structure.
   (c)   Attendance of open fires. Bonfires and rubbish fires shall be
constantly attended by a competent person until that fire is extinguished. This
person shall have a garden hose connected to the water supply or other fire
extinguishing equipment readily available for use.
   (d)   Chief may prohibit. The chief of the fire department may prohibit any
or all bonfires and outdoor rubbish fires when atmospheric conditions or local
circumstances make those fires hazardous.
   (e)   Kindling of fire on land of others. No person shall kindle a lire upon
the land of another without permission of the owner thereof or the occupant.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Cross reference— Penalty, §
91-112.
ARTICLE 91-V MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTY
Sec
91-85 Purpose
Sec
91-86 Definitions
Sec
91-87 Litter On Private Property
Sec
91-88 Owner To Maintain Premises, Including Sidewalks
Sec
91-89 Procedure To Compel
Sec
91-90 Notice To Comply
Sec
91-91 Service Of Notice
Sec
91-92 Appeal To Council
Sec
91-93 Work Performed By The City
Sec
91-94 Lien Assessment
Sec
91-95 Placement Of Debris
Sec 91-85 Purpose
The purpose of this article is to protect the property and safety of the
citizens of the city, and to protect the environment by establishing minimum
standards for property maintenance within the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-86 Definitions
For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
Litter. Any rubbish, trash, weeds, filth or debris which shall constitute a
hazard to public health and safety and shall include all putrescible and
nonputrescible solid wastes including garbage, trash, ashes, street cleanings,
dead animals, abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial waste; any
deposit, accumulation, pile or heap of brush, grass, debris, weeds, cans,
cloth, paper, wood, rubbish or other unsightly or unsanitary matter of any kind
whatsoever; and any growth of weeds, brush, grass or other unintended vegetable
growth to a height of over 24 inches.
Private premises. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed or
used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps or vestibules belonging
or appurtenant to the dwelling, house, building or other structures.
Public place. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-87 Litter On Private Property
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied or unoccupied private
property within the city, whether owned by that person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for refuse in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public place.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Cross reference— Penalty, § 91-112.
Sec 91-88 Owner To Maintain Premises, Including Sidewalks
   (a)   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all
times maintain the premises free of litter; provided that this section shall
not prohibit the storage of litter in suitable containers.
   (b)   Any owner or any person in control of any private property, hereafter
referred to as "owner", shall maintain the same, including abutting public
ways, up to the curb of the streets where the sidewalk and curbs are present,
in a non-dangerous condition, and shall owe this duty to the public.
   (c)   This responsibility includes areas that are public or private
property. The owner shall be charged with the responsibility to keep the
sidewalk in a good state of repair and free from defects, debris, trash and
pedestrian obstructions. The term "sidewalk" shall apply to driveway approach.
If the damage is caused by the city, such as a city tree root lifting the
sidewalk, the city shall be responsible for paying for the cost of the repair.
The owner shall remove snow from the sidewalk within 24 hours of the end of a
continuous period of snowfall.
   (d)   On any claim presented for bodily injury or property damage on the
sidewalk, due to negligent maintenance, the adjoining or abutting property
owner shall be held liable in tort for such damages to another, unless the
hazard was created by the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Cross reference— Penalty, § 91-112.
Sec 91-89 Procedure To Compel
The marshal shall enforce the provisions of sections
91-87 and
91-88 by prosecuting violators of those sections in the magistrate's court
pursuant to the criminal provisions of this Code. If the prosecution fails to
secure compliance with the provisions of those sections, or in the event of
inability to prosecute violators by reason of failure to secure jurisdiction
over their persons, the marshal shall compel the removal of litter or
maintenance by the procedure outlined in sections
91-90 through
91-94.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-90 Notice To Comply
   (a)   To compel the removal of litter or maintenance through the provisions
of this section and of sections
91-91 through
91-94, if a person owning or controlling any property fails, neglects or
refuses to remove or properly dispose of litter, located on property owned or
controlled by such person, he or she shall be given written notice by the
marshal to remove all litter or cut the weeds from the property within 30 days
from the date the notice was received by him or her, and prior to the date of
compliance on the notice.
   (b)   The notice shall he received not less than 30 days before the date set
thereon for compliance, and shall contain an estimate of the cost of removal by
the city, a statement that unless the person owning or controlling the properly
complies therewith within 30 clays from the date the written notice is received
that the city will, at the expense of the person owning or controlling the
property, perform the necessary work at a cost not to exceed the estimate given
in the notice, and that such person may appeal in writing to the council within
30 days from the date the notice is received by him or her and prior to the
date of compliance.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Penalty: See §
91-112.
Sec 91-91 Service Of Notice
Notice shall be personally served on the owner or person controlling the
property by an officer of the city in the manner provided in Rule 4(d)(1) of
the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure or mailed to the owner or person controlling
the property at his or her last known address by certified or registered mail.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-92 Appeal To Council
   (a)   Prior to the date set for compliance on the notice, the owner or
person controlling the property may appeal in writing to the council.
   (b)   The council shall, at its next regular meeting alter receiving the
appeal, hear and determine the same and the decision of the council shall be
final.
   (c)   The council may either affirm or reverse the decision of the marshal
or modify the scope of the work as required in the notice.
Sec 91-93 Work Performed By The City
   (a)   When any such person to whom notice, as aforesaid, has been given, and
on or before the date of compliance on the notice, or within such further time
as may have been granted by the council on appeal, fails, neglects or refuses
to comply, the marshal is authorized and directed to cause same to be performed
at the expense of the owner or person controlling the property.
   (b)   Upon completion of the work, the marshal shall prepare a verified
statement of account of the actual cost of the removal or abatement, the date
the work was completed, and the street address and the legal description of the
property on which the work was done, including ten percent for additional
inspection and other incidental costs in connection therewith, and shall serve
a duplicate copy of the verified statement upon the person owning or
controlling the property in the manner prescribed in section
91-91.
   (c)   The owner or person controlling the property shall have 30 days from
the date of service upon him or her to appeal in writing to the council from
the amount of the assessment as contained in the verified statement. If an
appeal is not filed with the marshal within that 30-day period, then the amount
of the assessment as determined by the marshal shall become final and binding.
If an appeal is taken, the council shall, at its next regular meeting, hear and
determine the appeal and may affirm the amount of the assessment, modify the
amount thereof or determine that no assessment at all shall be made. The
decision of the council shall be final and binding on all persons.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-94 Lien Assessment
   (a)   If no appeal is taken from the amount of the assessment, or if an
appeal is taken and the council has affirmed or modified the amount of the
assessment, the original assessment or the assessment as so modified shall be
recorded in the office of the county recorder and, from the date of its
recording, shall be a lien on the lot or tract of land until paid. Such liens
shall be subject and inferior to the lien for general taxes and to all prior
recorded mortgage and encumbrances of record.
   (b)   A sale of the property to satisfy a lien obtained under the provisions
of this section shall be made upon judgment of foreclosure or order of sale.
The city shall have the right to bring an action to enforce the lien in the
Superior Court at any time after the recording of the assessment, but failure
to enforce the lien by such action shall not affect its validity. The recorded
assessment shall be prima facie evidence of the truth of all matters recited
therein and of the regularity of all proceedings prior to the recording
thereof.
   (c)   A prior assessment for the purposes provided in this section shall not
be a bar to a subsequent assessment or assessments for such purposes, and any
number of liens on the same lot or tract of land may be enforced in the same
action.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-95 Placement Of Debris
Any person, firm or corporation who shall place any rubbish, trash, filth or
debris upon any private or public property not owned or under the control of
that person, firm or corporation, except in authorized private receptacles as
defined in section
91-46, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, in addition to any fine which may
be imposed for a violation of any provision of this section, shall be liable
for all costs which may be assessed pursuant to this subchapter for the removal
of the rubbish, trash, filth or debris.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Cross reference— Penalty, §
91-112.
ARTICLE 91-VI PUBLIC HEALTH
Sec
91-100 Purpose
Sec
91-101 Nauseous, Foul Or Offensive Conditions Prohibited
Sec
91-102 Offensive Water
Sec 91-100 Purpose
The purpose of this article is to protect the health and safety of the citizens
of the city from contaminated and offensive water, offensive odors, and other
like offenses within the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-101 Nauseous, Foul Or Offensive Conditions Prohibited
No person shall suffer or permit any premises, owned, leased, occupied,
controlled or managed by him or her, or any cellar, privy, vault, pool,
cesspool, water closet, sewer or private ditch or drain therein or thereupon,
to become nauseous, foul or offensive to the senses or prejudicial to the
public health or comfort.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Cross reference— Penalty, § 91-112.
Sec 91-102 Offensive Water
No filthy or offensive water shall at any time be poured, thrown, sprinkled or
put in or upon any street, ditch, land, court, square, alley, vacant lot or
public place within the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Cross reference— Penalty, § 91-112.
ARTICLE 91-VII GENERAL REGULATIONS
Sec
91-105 Purpose
Sec
91-106 Premises To Be Kept Properly Cleaned And Drained
Sec
91-107 Premises To Be Sanitary; Inspection Of Premises
Sec
91-108 Privy, Vault, Cesspool Or Well Prohibited
Sec
91-109 Conditions Under Which Flies Breed Prohibited
Sec
91-110 Pollution Of Ditches
Sec
91-111 Depositing Debris Or Allowing Drainage On Public Thoroughfares
Prohibited
Sec
91-112 Penalties
Sec 91-105 Purpose
The purpose of this article is to protect the property, health, and safety of
the citizens of the city by establishing minimum general standards of
maintenance within the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Sec 91-106 Premises To Be Kept Properly Cleaned And Drained
It is unlawful for any person owning, conducting, operating or managing any
business place, stand, building, establishment, machinery or equipment to fail
to keep the same, with the premises whereon the same is located, properly
cleaned and drained.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Cross reference— Penalty, § 91-112.
Sec 91-107 Premises To Be Sanitary; Inspection Of Premises
The premises upon which fowl, rodents, cattle, horses, mules, sheep or goats
are kept shall always be sanitary and subject to inspection and regulation by
the health officer or animal control officer.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Cross reference— Penalty, § 91-112.
Sec 91-108 Privy, Vault, Cesspool Or Well Prohibited
No open privy, vault, cesspool or well shall be installed or maintained within
the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Cross reference— Penalty, § 91-112.
Sec 91-109 Conditions Under Which Flies Breed Prohibited
No owner, tenant or occupant of any premises within the city shall suffer,
permit or have upon the premises any cesspool, vault, pit or the like place; or
animal manure, garbage, trash, litter, rags or any other thing in which flies
may breed or multiply, unless the same shall be protected as to prevent the
attraction, breeding and multiplying of flies.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Cross reference— Penalty, § 91-112.
Sec 91-110 Pollution Of Ditches
No person shall pollute, suffer or cause to be polluted any ditches within the
city by bathing, washing, washing clothing or any animal in or about the same;
or throwing or depositing therein any filthy matter or anything injurious to
the health or offensive to the senses or by running into the same any sewerage
matter, slops, brewery, bathhouse or kitchen wastes.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Cross reference— Penalty, § 91-112.
Sec 91-111 Depositing Debris Or Allowing Drainage On Public Thoroughfares
Prohibited
No person shall deposit in or upon or permit to drain into, any street, alley
or public place of the city from any premises owned or occupied by such person,
any refuse, slop, filth, garbage or debris of any kind or nature or any matter
or thing which is offensive to sight or smell or is derogatory to health,
except at such times and places, and under such regulations as may be made by
the council.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
Cross reference— Penalty, § 91-112.
Sec 91-112 Penalties
Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with, or violates any
section within this chapter, shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punishable by a tine as established by the schedule
of rates and fees or imprisonment for a period of not more than six months, or
by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues shall
be a separate offense punishable as herein above described. The imposition of
any sentence shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2017-12-01, 12-12-2017)
TITLE XI BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 110 GENERAL LICENSES
CHAPTER 111 SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS, VENDORS AND TRANSIENT SALESPERSONS (TRANSIENT
SALES)
CHAPTER 112 LICENSES FOR SPECIFIC BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 113 TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND TOBACCO PARAPHERNALIA
CHAPTER 110 GENERAL LICENSES
Sec
110-1 License; Required
Sec
110-2 License; Application, Issuance
Sec
110-3 Inspections For Code Compliance; Notice Of Infraction
Sec
110-4 License Denial, Suspension Or Revocation
Sec
110-5 Fees
Sec
110-6 Content Of License
Sec
110-7 Replacement Of License
State Law reference— General authority relative to licenses, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-
8-4.
Sec 110-1 License; Required
It is unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on any business, trade or
profession, or career, for the transaction or carrying on of which a license is
required, without first taking out or procuring a license for such business,
trade, profession or career.
Sec 110-2 License; Application, Issuance
   (a)   All applications for license, except as otherwise provided in this
Code, shall be made on a license application form provided by the city.
   (b)   All licenses shall be approved by the city manager or his designee and
signed by the recorder, mayor or presiding officer of the city council under
the seal of the city. The recorder shall file all applications for license with
accompanying statements, including a statement as to the nature of the
business, trade, profession or career being licensed, and bonds, and shall keep
an alphabetical list of licenses issued, stating the number, name, time, place
and kind of business and the amount paid, with such remarks as may be
considered necessary.
Sec 110-3 Inspections For Code Compliance; Notice Of Infraction
Prior to the issuance of a business license for a business not previously
licensed at that location, or a business with a change of location, the
applicant shall permit inspection of the prospective place of business to
ensure compliance with building, fire, safety and health codes, and shall
comply with such orders of the city manager or his designee and requirements of
said codes. Businesses licensed, or to be licensed, within the city shall
comply with international building, fire, safety and health codes. Businesses
licensed, or to be licensed, within the city may be inspected periodically for
compliance with building, fire, and health codes by any appropriate department
of the city or other governmental agency to ensure compliance with building,
fire, health and safety codes. No business license shall be granted without all
such required inspections and approval of the city manager or his designee. No
business license shall be granted without providing evidence of a certificate
of occupancy for all habitable and occupiable space within the building with
the exception of multitenant commercial buildings where evidence of a
certificate of occupancy for the space intended to be used for the business is
provided.
Sec 110-4 License Denial, Suspension Or Revocation
The city may deny, suspend or revoke a license if the applicant:
   (a)   Has obtained a license by fraud or deceit;
   (b)   Has failed to pay personal property taxes or other required taxes or
fees imposed by the city;
   (c)   Has violated the laws of the state, the United States government, or
the ordinances of the city governing operation of the business for which the
applicant is applying for the license; or
   (d)   Has failed to comply with the provisions of local, state or federal
statutes, codes or laws related to the licensed business, trade, profession or
career.
Sec 110-5 Fees
   (a)   A license shall not be issued to any person until the amount required
by the schedule of fees and penalties for the license shall have been first
paid to the city treasurer. Upon presentation of the treasurer's receipt to the
city officer authorized to issue licenses, and upon complying with the
provisions of this chapter in reference to such license, the license shall be
issued to the applicant. Licenses shall be due and payable at the office of the
city treasurer on or before January 1. A penalty shall be assessed on all
delinquent licenses. The city council shall establish from time to time a
schedule of bond amounts, penalties for delinquencies and license fees for all
business activities for the carrying on of which it shall determine a license
shall be required. It may also require as a condition to issuance of such
license that the applicant furnish a bond, financial statement, liability
insurance or take other reasonable steps for the protection of the city or its
inhabitants.
   (b)   If any person shall furnish such evidence as shall satisfy the city
council that he, by reason of misfortune, physical infirmity or other
reasonable or meritorious cause, merits exemption from the payment of any
license fee herein required, the mayor may waive such license fee upon
recommendation of a majority of the city council.
   (c)   In any action brought under or arising out of the provisions of this
chapter, the fact that a person representing himself as engaged in any business
or career for the transaction of which a license is by ordinance required, or
that such person exhibited a sign indicating such business or career, shall be
prima facie evidence of the ability of such person to pay for a license.
Sec 110-6 Content Of License
Every license issued shall specify, by name, the person to whom it is issued
and shall designate the particular place at which the business is to be carried
on. No license granted or issued under any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be in any manner assignable or transferable, or authorize any other
person than is therein mentioned and named to do business, or authorize any
other business than is therein mentioned or named to be done or transacted, or
the business therein mentioned or named to be done or transacted at any place
other than is therein mentioned or named, unless specifically authorized
herein.
Sec 110-7 Replacement Of License
No rebate shall be allowed upon any license unless the business premises of the
licensee has been damaged by fire or other unavoidable accident, or unless in
case of affliction, poverty or other meritorious cause. In all such cases the
city council shall have discretionary power as to what, if any, amount shall be
rebated.
CHAPTER 111 SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS, VENDORS AND TRANSIENT SALESPERSONS (TRANSIENT
SALES)
Sec
111-1 Purpose
Sec
111-2 No Other City License Or Approval Required
Sec
111-3 Definitions
Sec
111-4 Exemptions From Chapter
Sec
111-5 Solicitation Prohibited
Sec
111-6 Registration Of Solicitors
Sec
111-7 Application Form
Sec
111-8 Written Disclosures
Sec
111-9 When Registration Begins
Sec
111-10 Issuance Of Certificates
Sec
111-11 Form Of Certificate And Identification Badge
Sec
111-12 Maintenance Of Registry
Sec
111-13 Nontransferability Of Certificates
Sec
111-14 Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of A Certificate Of Registration
Sec
111-15 Appeal
Sec
111-16 Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited
Sec
111-17 "No Solicitation" Notice
Sec
111-18 Duties Of Solicitors
Sec
111-19 Time Of Day Restrictions
Sec
111-20 Buyer's Right To Cancel
Sec
111-21 Penalty
Sec 111-1 Purpose
   (a)   Residents of the city have an inalienable interest in their personal
safety, well-being and privacy in their residences, as well as their ability to
provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief, political
or charitable activities, and goods and services lawfully in commerce. The city
has a substantial interest in protecting the well-being, tranquility, personal
safety and privacy of its citizens, which includes the ability to protect
citizens from unwanted intrusions upon residential property. The city also has
a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud or otherwise unfair
consumer sales practices as well as criminal activity.
   (b)   There must be a balance between these substantial interests of the
city and its citizens, and the effect of the regulations in this chapter on the
rights of those who are regulated. Based on the collective experiences of city
officials derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and
property from criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens
regarding door-to-door solicitation, the experience of its law enforcement
officers and those affected by door-to-door canvassing and solicitation, as
well as judicial decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional
protections afforded and denied persons seeking to engage in door-to-door
solicitation, the city adopts this chapter to promote the city's substantial
interests in:
      (1)   Respecting citizens' decisions regarding privacy in their
residences;
      (2)   Protecting persons from criminal conduct;
      (3)   Providing equal opportunity to advocate for and against religious
belief, political position, or charitable activities; and
      (4)   Permitting truthful and non-misleading door-to-door solicitation
regarding lawful goods or services in intrastate or interstate commerce.
The city finds that the procedures, rules and regulations set forth in this
chapter are narrowly tailored to preserve and protect the city interests
referred to herein while at the same time balancing the rights of those
regulated.
Sec 111-2 No Other City License Or Approval Required
   (a)   Registered solicitors and persons exempt from registration need not
apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit or registration from the city
to engage in door-to-door solicitation.
   (b)   Any business licensed by the city under another city ordinance that
uses employees, independent contractors or agents for door-to-door solicitation
in an effort to provide any tangible or intangible benefit to the business
shall be required to have such solicitors obtain a certificate, unless
otherwise exempt from registration.
   (c)   Those responsible persons or entities associated with registered
solicitors need not apply for, nor obtain, any other license, permit or
registration from the city, provided they do not establish a temporary or fixed
place of business in the city.
   (d)   Nothing herein is intended to interfere with or supplant any other
requirement of federal, state, or other local government law regarding any
license, permit or certificate that a registered solicitor is otherwise
required to have or maintain.
Sec 111-3 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Advocating means speech or conduct intended to inform, promote, or support
religious belief, political position, or charitable activities.
Appeals officer means the city council or a designee of the city responsible
for receiving the information from the city and appellant regarding the denial
or suspension of a certificate and issuing a decision as required by this
chapter.
Appellant means the person or entity appealing the denial or suspension of a
certificate, either personally as an applicant or registered solicitor, or on
behalf of the applicant or registered solicitor.
Applicant means an individual who is at least 16 years of age and not a
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other lawful entity who
applies for a certificate permitting door-to-door solicitation.
Application form means a standardized form provided by the city to an applicant
to be completed and submitted as part of registration.
BCI means an original or copy, dated no older than 180 days prior to the date
of the application, of either a state department of public safety bureau of
criminal identification verified criminal history report personal to the
applicant; or verification by the state department of public safety bureau of
criminal identification that no criminal history rising to the level of a
disqualifying status exists for the applicant.
Business means a commercial enterprise licensed by the city as a person or
entity under this chapter, having a fixed or temporary physical location within
the city.
Certificate means a temporary, annual, or renewal certificate permitting door-
to-door solicitation in the city applied for or issued pursuant to the terms of
this chapter.
Charitable activities means advocating by persons or entities that either are,
or support, a charitable organization. Charitable organization means any
person, joint venture, partnership, limited liability company, corporation,
association, group, or other entity:
   (a)   That is:
      (1)   A benevolent, educational, voluntary, health, philanthropic,
humane, patriotic, religious, social welfare or advocacy, public health,
environmental or conservation or civic organization;
      (2)   For the benefit of a public safety, law enforcement, or firefighter
fraternal association; or
      (3)   Established for any charitable purpose; and
   (b)   That is tax exempt under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, and qualified to solicit and receive tax deductible
contributions from the public for charitable purposes.
The term "charitable organization" includes a chapter, branch, area, office, or
similar affiliate or any person soliciting contributions within the state for a
charitable organization that has its principal place of business outside the
city or state.
Competent individual means a person claiming or appearing to be at least 18
years of age and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage in
rational thought, conversation, and conduct.
Completed application means a fully completed application form, a BCI, two
copies of the original identification relied on by the applicant to establish
proof of identity and the tendering of fees.
Criminally convicted means the final entry of a conviction, whether by a plea
of no contest, guilty, or an entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt,
which has not been set aside on appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus.
The criminal conviction is that offense of which the applicant or registered
solicitor was convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge
after completion of conditions of probation or parole, and charges dismissed
under a plea in abeyance or diversion agreement.
Disqualifying status means anything specifically defined in this chapter as
requiring the denial or suspension of a certificate, and any of the following:
   (a)   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted
of:
      (1)   Felony homicide;
      (2)   Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor;
      (3)   The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
      (4)   Sexual assault of any kind;
   (b)   Criminal charges currently pending against the applicant or registered
solicitor for:
      (1)   Felony homicide;
      (2)   Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor;
      (3)   The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
      (4)   Sexual assault of any kind;
   (c)   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a felony within the last ten years;
   (d)   The applicant or registered solicitor has been incarcerated in a
federal or state prison within the past five years;
   (e)   The applicant or registered solicitor has been criminally convicted of
a misdemeanor within the past five years involving a crime of:
      (1)   Moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
   (f)   A final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant or
registered solicitor within the last five years indicating that:
      (1)   The applicant or registered solicitor had either engaged in fraud,
or intentional misrepresentation, or
      (2)   That a debt of the applicant or registered solicitor was non-
dischargeable in bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or
(a)(19);
   (g)   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently on parole or
probation to any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including
being under house arrest or subject to a tracking device;
   (h)   The applicant or registered solicitor has an outstanding arrest
warrant from any jurisdiction; or
   (i)   The applicant or registered solicitor is currently subject to a
protective order based on physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
Door-to-door solicitation means the practice of engaging in or attempting to
engage in conversation with any person at a residence, whether or not that
person is a competent individual, while making or seeking to make or facilitate
a home solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and/or
services.
Entity means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other
lawful entity, organization, society or association.
Fees means the cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for the
issuance of a certificate and/or identification badge, which shall not exceed
the reasonable costs of processing the application and issuing the certificate
and/or identification badge.
Final civil judgment means a civil judgment that would be recognized under
state law as a judgment to which collateral estoppel would apply.
Goods means one or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise,
perishables of any kind, subscriptions, or manufactured products offered,
provided, or sold.
Home solicitation sale means to make or attempt to make a sale of goods or
services by a solicitor at a residence by means of door-to-door solicitation,
regardless of:
   (a)   The means of payment or consideration used for the purchase;
   (b)   The time of delivery of the goods or services; or
   (c)   The previous or present classification of the solicitor as a
solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, or similar designation.
Licensing officer means the city employee or agent responsible for receiving
from an applicant or registered solicitor the completed application and either
granting, suspending, or denying the applicant's certificate.
"No Solicitation" sign means a reasonably visible and legible sign that states
"No Soliciting," "No Solicitors," "No Salespersons," "No Trespassing," or words
of similar import.
Political position means any actually held belief, or information for, against,
or in conjunction with any political, social, environmental, or humanitarian
belief or practice.
Registered solicitor means any person who has been issued a current certificate
by the city.
Registration means the process used by the licensing officer to accept a
completed application and determine whether or not a certificate will be
denied, granted or suspended.
Religious belief means any sincerely held belief, or information for, against,
or in conjunction with, any theistic, agnostic, or atheistic assumption,
presumption or position, or religious doctrine, dogma, or practice regardless
of whether or not the belief or information is endorsed by any other person or
public or private entity.
Residence means any living unit contained within any building or structure that
is occupied by any person as a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of the
city, together with the lot or other real property on which the living unit is
located. The term "residence" does not include the sidewalk, public street or
public rights-of-way.
Responsible person or entity means that person or entity responsible to provide
the following to an applicant, registered solicitor, and the competent
individual in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or
attempted to be made by means of a home solicitation sale:
   (a)   Maintaining a state sales tax number, a special events sales tax
number, computing the sales taxes owing from any sale of goods or services,
paying the sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;
   (b)   Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire to
cancel the sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law; and
   (c)   Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those
persons who timely rescind any sale pursuant to applicable contractual rights
or law.
Sale of goods or services means the conduct and agreement of a solicitor and
the competent individual in a residence regarding a particular good or service
that entitles the consumer to rescind the same within three days under any
applicable federal, state, or local law.
Services means those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided or
sold to a competent individual of a residence.
Soliciting or solicit or solicitation means any of the following activities:
   (a)   Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares,
merchandise or perishables of any kind, for any kind of remuneration or
consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought;
   (b)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase
insurance, subscriptions to publications or publications;
   (c)   Seeking to obtain contributions of money or any other thing of value
for the benefit of any person or entity;
   (d)   Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or
services;
   (e)   Seeking to engage an individual in conversation at a residence for the
purpose of promoting or facilitating the receipt of information regarding
religious belief, political position, charitable conduct, or a home
solicitation sale; or
   (f)   Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of
soliciting, such as hawking or peddling.
Solicitor or solicitors means a person engaged in door-to-door solicitation.
Submitted in writing means the information for an appeal of a denial or
suspension of a certificate, submitted in any type of written statement to the
city offices by certified, registered, priority, overnight or delivery
confirmation mail, facsimile or hand delivery.
Substantiated report means an oral, written, or electronic report:
   (a)   That is submitted to and documented by the city by any of the
following:
      (1)   A competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement or
other city employees with publicly available identification of their name,
address, and any other reliable means of contact;
      (2)   City law enforcement or licensing officer; or
      (3)   Any other regularly established law enforcement agency at any level
of government.
   (b)   That provides any of the following information regarding a registered
solicitor:
      (1)   Documented verification of a previously undisclosed disqualifying
status of a registered solicitor;
      (2)   Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a
disqualifying status which has not yet been determined to be a disqualifying
status;
      (3)   Documented, eyewitness accounts that the registered solicitor has
engaged in repeated patterns of behavior that demonstrates failure by the
registered solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this chapter; or
      (4)   Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered solicitor
creates exigent circumstances that threaten the health, safety, or welfare of
any individuals or entities within the city.
Waiver means the written form provided to the applicant by the city wherein the
applicant agrees that the city may obtain a name/date of birth BCI background
check on the applicant for licensing purposes under this chapter, and which
contains the applicant's notarized signature.
Sec 111-4 Exemptions From Chapter
The following are exempt from registration under this chapter:
   (a)   Persons specifically invited to a residence by a competent individual
prior to the time of the person's arrival at the residence;
   (b)   Persons whose license, permit, certificate or registration with the
state permits them to engage in door-to-door solicitation to offer goods or
services to an occupant of the residence, and such state permit that
specifically articulates that requiring a city permit of license is unlawful;
   (c)   Persons delivering goods to a residence pursuant to a previously made
order, or persons providing services at a residence pursuant to a previously
made request by a competent individual;
   (d)   Persons advocating or disseminating information concerning any
religious belief, or political position regardless of whether goods, services,
or any other consideration is offered or given, with or without any form of
commitment, contribution, donation, pledge or purchase; and
   (e)   Persons representing a charitable organization. The charitable
exemption shall apply to students soliciting contributions to finance
extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs,
provided that the solicitation has been approved in writing by the school
administration, and that such student solicitors carry and exhibit upon their
persons a current picture student identification from the educational
institution for which they are soliciting.
Those persons exempt from registration are not exempt from the duties and
prohibitions outlined in sections
111-18,
111-19 and
111-20 while advocating or soliciting.
Sec 111-5 Solicitation Prohibited
Unless otherwise authorized, permitted or exempted pursuant to the terms and
provisions of this chapter, the practice of being in and upon a private
residence within the city by solicitors, for the purpose of home solicitation
sales or to provide goods or services, is prohibited and is punishable as set
forth in section
111-21.
Sec 111-6 Registration Of Solicitors
Unless otherwise exempt under this chapter, all persons desiring to engage in
door-to-door solicitation within the city, prior to doing so, shall submit a
completed application to the licensing officer and obtain a certificate.
Sec 111-7 Application Form
The licensing officer shall provide a standard application form for use for the
registration of solicitors. Upon request to the licensing officer, or as
otherwise provided, any person or entity may obtain in person, by mail or
facsimile, a copy of this application form. Each application form shall require
disclosure and reporting by the applicant of the following information,
documentation, and fee:
   (a)   Review of written disclosures. An affirmation that the applicant has
received and reviewed the disclosure information required by this chapter.
   (b)   Contact information.
      (1)   The applicant's true, correct and legal name, including any former
names or aliases used during the last ten years;
      (2)   The applicant's telephone number, home address and mailing address,
if different;
      (3)   If different from the applicant, the name, address, and telephone
number of the responsible person or entity; and
      (4)   The address by which all notices to the applicant required under
this chapter are to be sent.
   (c)   Proof of identity. An in-person verification by the licensing officer
of the applicant's true identity by use of any one of the following which bear
a photograph of said applicant:
      (1)   A valid driver's license issued by any state;
      (2)   A valid passport issued by the United States;
      (3)   A valid identification card issued by any state; or
      (4)   A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States
military.
Upon verification of identity, the original identification submitted to
establish proof of identity shall be returned to the applicant.
   (d)   Proof of registration with department of commerce. The applicant shall
provide proof that either the applicant, or the responsible person or entity,
has registered with the state department of commerce.
   (e)   Special events sales tax number. The applicant shall provide a special
events sales tax number for either the applicant, or for the responsible person
or entity for which the applicant will be soliciting.
   (f)   Marketing information.
      (1)   The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any
commonly known, registered or trademarked names; and
      (2)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits,
registrations, or other qualifications required by federal or state law to
promote, provide, or render advice regarding the offered goods or services.
   (g)   BCI background check. The applicant shall provide:
      (1)   An original or a copy of a BCI background check; and
      (2)   A signed copy of a waiver whereby the applicant agrees to allow the
city to obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on the applicant for
purposes of enforcement of this chapter.
   (h)   Responses to questions regarding a disqualifying status. The applicant
shall be required to affirm or deny each of the following statements on the
application form:
      (1)   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of:
         a.   Felony homicide;
         b.   Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor;
         c.   The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
         d.   Sexual assault of any kind;
      (2)   Are any criminal charges currently pending against the applicant
for:
         a.   Felony homicide;
         b.   Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor;
         c.   The sale or distribution of controlled substances; or
         d.   Sexual assault of any kind;
      (3)   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a felony within the
last ten years;
      (4)   Has the applicant been incarcerated in a federal or state prison
within the past five years;
      (5)   Has the applicant been criminally convicted of a misdemeanor within
the past five years involving a crime of:
         a.   Moral turpitude; or
         b.   Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
      (6)   Has a final civil judgment been entered against the applicant
within the last five years indicating that:
         a.   The applicant had either engaged in fraud or intentional
misrepresentation; or
         b.   That a debt of the applicant was non-dischargeable in bankruptcy
pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19);
      (7)   Is the applicant currently on parole or probation to any court,
penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under house arrest
or subject to a tracking device;
      (8)   Does the applicant have an outstanding arrest warrant from any
jurisdiction; or
      (9)   Is the applicant currently subject to a protective order based on
physical or sexual abuse issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (i)   Fee. The applicant shall pay such fees as determined applicable by the
city, which shall not exceed the reasonable cost of processing the application
and issuing the certificate and/or identification badge. Fees shall be as
established by the schedule of fees and penalties.
   (j)   Execution of application. The applicant shall execute the application
form, stating upon oath or affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that based on
the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the information provided is
complete, truthful and accurate.
Sec 111-8 Written Disclosures
The application form shall be accompanied by written disclosures notifying the
applicant of the following:
   (a)   The applicant's submission of the application authorizes the city to
verify information submitted with the completed application, including:
      (1)   The applicant's address;
      (2)   The applicant's and/or responsible person's or entity's state tax
identification and special use tax numbers, if any; or
      (3)   The validity of the applicant's proof of identity and a copy of the
applicant's federal identification or tax identification number.
   (b)   The city may consult any publicly available sources for information on
the applicant, including but not limited to databases for any outstanding
warrants, protective orders, or civil judgments. Establishing proof of identity
is required before registration is allowed.
   (c)   Identification of the fee amount that must be submitted by the
applicant with a completed application.
   (d)   The applicant must submit a BCI background check with a completed
application.
   (e)   To the extent permitted by state and/or federal law, the applicant's
BCI background check shall remain a confidential, protected, private record not
available for public inspection.
   (f)   The city will maintain copies of the applicant's application form,
proof of identity and identification badge. These copies will become public
records available for inspection on demand at the city offices whether or not a
certificate is denied, granted or renewed.
   (g)   The criteria for disqualifying status, denial or suspension of a
certificate under the provisions of this chapter.
   (h)   That a request for a temporary certificate will be granted or denied
the same business day that a completed application is submitted, as long as
said application is received before 3:00 p.m. that same day.
Sec 111-9 When Registration Begins
The licensing officer shall not begin the registration process unless the
applicant has submitted a completed application. The original identification
submitted to establish proof of identity shall be returned after the licensing
officer verifies the applicant's identity. A copy of the identification may be
retained by the licensing officer. If an original BCI background check is
submitted by the applicant, the licensing officer shall make a copy of the BCI
background check and return the original to the applicant.
Sec 111-10 Issuance Of Certificates
The licensing officer shall review the completed application submitted by the
applicant and issue a certificate in accordance with the following:
   (a)   Temporary certificate.
      (1)   A temporary certificate shall be issued allowing the applicant to
immediately begin door- to-door solicitation upon the following conditions:
         a.   Applicant's submission of a completed application;
         b.   Applicant's submission of the required fee established by the
schedule of fees and penalties;
         c.   Applicant establishes proof of identity;
         d.   The applicant's representations on the application form do not
affirmatively show a disqualifying status;
         e.   The BCI does not affirmatively show a disqualifying status; and
         f.   The applicant has not previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.
      (2)   A temporary certificate will automatically expire after 25 calendar
days from issuance, or upon grant or denial of an annual certificate, whichever
period is shorter.
   (b)   Annual certificate. Within 25 calendar days of the issuance of a
temporary certificate, the city shall:
      (1)   Take any and all actions it deems appropriate to verify the
truthfulness and completeness of the information submitted by the applicant,
including but not limited to that disclosed with the application form.
      (2)   Issue written notice to the applicant and the responsible person or
entity, if any, that the applicant either:
         a.   Will be issued an annual certificate, eligible for renewal one
year from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate; or
         b.   Will not be issued an annual certificate for reasons cited in
section
111-14.
   (c)   Renewal certificate. An annual certificate shall be valid for one year
from the date of issuance of the temporary certificate and shall expire at 12:
00 midnight on the anniversary date of issuance. Any annual certificate that is
not suspended, revoked, or expired may be renewed upon the request of the
registered solicitor and the submission of a new completed application and
payment of the fee established by the schedule of fees and penalties, unless
any of the conditions for the denial, suspension or revocation of a certificate
are present as set forth in section
111-14, or a disqualifying status is present.
Sec 111-11 Form Of Certificate And Identification Badge
   (a)   Certificate form. Should the licensing officer determine that the
applicant is entitled to a certificate, the licensing officer shall issue a
certificate to the applicant. The certificate shall list the name of the
registered solicitor and the responsible person or entity, if any, and the date
on which the certificate expires. The certificate shall be dated and signed by
the licensing officer. The certificate shall be carried by the registered
solicitor at all times while soliciting in the city.
   (b)   Identification badge. With both the temporary and annual certificates,
the city shall issue each registered solicitor an identification badge that
shall be worn prominently on his person while soliciting in the city. The
identification badge shall bear the name of the city and shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the registered solicitor;
      (2)   The address and phone number of the registered solicitor, or the
name, address, and phone number of the responsible person or entity as
provided;
      (3)   A recent photograph of the registered solicitor; and
      (4)   The date on which the certificate expires.
Sec 111-12 Maintenance Of Registry
The licensing officer shall maintain and make available for public inspection a
copy or record of every completed application received and the certificate or
written denial issued by the city. The applicant's BCI background check shall
remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for public
inspection. The licensing officer may furnish to the head of the city's law
enforcement agency a listing of all applicants, those denied, and those issued
a certificate.
Sec 111-13 Nontransferability Of Certificates
Certificates shall be issued only in the name of the applicant and shall list
the responsible party or entity, if any. The certificate shall be
nontransferable. A registered solicitor desiring to facilitate or attempt to
facilitate home solicitation sales with different goods or services, or
responsible person or entity, from those designated in the originally submitted
completed application, shall submit a written change request to the licensing
officer. A new certificate based on the amended information shall be issued for
the balance of time remaining on the solicitor's previous certificate before
the amendment was filed. Before the new certificate is given to the registered
solicitor, the registered solicitor shall obtain a revised identification badge
from the city, after payment of the fee established by the schedule of fees and
penalties for the identification badge.
Sec 111-14 Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of A Certificate Of Registration
   (a)   Denial. Upon review, the licensing officer shall refuse to issue a
certificate to an applicant for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Denial of temporary certificate. The city may deny a temporary
certificate for any of the following reasons:
         a.   The application form is not complete;
         b.   The applicant fails to:
            1.   Establish proof of identity;
            2.   Provide a BCI; or
            3.   Pay the fees;
         c.   The completed application or BCI indicates that the applicant has
a disqualifying status;
         d.   The applicant has previously been denied a certificate by the
city, or has had a certificate revoked for grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter; or
         e.   Violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Denial of annual certificate. The city may deny an annual
certificate for any of the following reasons:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant at the time of the
granting of the temporary certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the completed application, the applicant
is subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application, the city has received a
substantiated report regarding the past or present conduct of the applicant;
         e.   Since the submission of the application, the city or other
governmental entity has either criminally convicted or obtained a civil
injunction against the applicant for violating this chapter or similar federal,
state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to the level of a disqualifying
status;
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that:
            1.   The applicant had either engaged in fraud, or intentional
misrepresentation; or
            2.   That a debt of the applicant was non-dischargeable in
bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19); or
         g.   Violation of this chapter.
      (3)   Denial of annual certificate renewal. The city may deny an annual
certificate renewal for any of the following reasons:
         a.   The information submitted by the applicant when seeking renewal
of a certificate is found to be incomplete or incorrect;
         b.   Since the submission of the renewal application, the applicant is
subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status;
         c.   Failure to complete payment of the fees;
         d.   Since the submission of the application or granting of a
certificate, the city has received a substantiated report regarding the past or
present conduct of the solicitor;
         e.   The city or other governmental entity has either criminally
convicted or obtained a civil injunction against the applicant for violating
this chapter or similar federal, state, or municipal laws in a manner rising to
the level of a disqualifying status;
         f.   Since the submission of the application, a final civil judgment
has been entered against the applicant indicating that:
            1.   The applicant had either engaged in fraud, or intentional
misrepresentation; or
            2.   That a debt of the applicant was non-dischargeable in
bankruptcy pursuant to 11 USC 523(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(6), or (a)(19); or
         g.   Violation of this chapter.
   (b)   Suspension or revocation. The city shall either suspend or revoke a
certificate when any of the reasons warranting the denial of a certificate
occur.
   (c)   Notice of denial or suspension. Upon determination of the licensing
officer to deny an applicant's completed application or to suspend a registered
solicitor's certificate, the city shall cause written notice to be sent to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the method indicated in the completed
application. The notice shall specify the grounds for the denial or suspension,
the documentation or information the city relied on to make the decision, the
availability of the documentation for review by the applicant upon one business
day of notice to the city, and the date upon which the denial or suspension of
the certificate shall take effect. It shall further state that the applicant or
registered solicitor shall have 14 business days from the date of mailing from
the city of the notice of denial or suspension to appeal the same. The denial
or suspension of the certificate shall be effective no sooner than two calendar
days from the date the notice is sent, unless that suspension is because of
exigent circumstances outlined in subsection (2)d of the definition of
"substantiated report" in section
111-3, in which case the suspension is effective immediately. The denial or
suspension shall remain effective unless and until the order is rescinded,
overturned on appeal, or determined by a court to be contrary to equity or law.
Failure to appeal the suspension of a certificate automatically results in its
revocation.
Sec 111-15 Appeal
An applicant or registered solicitor whose certificate has been denied or
suspended shall have the right to appeal to the city council or its designee.
Any appeal must be submitted by either the applicant, the responsible person or
entity, or legal counsel for either who documents the relationship with the
applicant or responsible person or entity, or is licensed or authorized by the
state to do so, and makes the assertion of an agency relationship. The
following procedures and requirements shall apply:
   (a)   Any appeal must be submitted in writing to the city recorder with a
copy to the licensing officer within ten business days of the decision from
which the appeal is taken. Such appeal shall describe in detail the nature of
the appeal, the action complained of and the grounds for appeal.
   (b)   Upon request of the applicant or registered solicitor, within one
business day, the city will make available any information upon which it relied
in making the determination to either deny or suspend the certificate.
   (c)   The appeals officer shall review, de novo, all written information
submitted by the applicant or registered solicitor to the licensing officer,
any additional information relied upon by the licensing officer as the basis
for denial, suspension or revocation, and any additional information supplied
by the city, applicant or registered solicitor. Any additional information
submitted by any party to the appeal to the appeals officer shall be
simultaneously submitted to the opposing party. If desired, any party shall
have three business days to submit rebuttal documentation to the appeals
officer regarding the additional information submitted by the opposing party.
   (d)   The appeals officer will render a decision no later than 15 calendar
days from the date the appeal was received by the city, unless an extension of
time is agreed upon by the parties. In the event that any party to the appeal
submits rebuttal information as allowed in subsection (3) of this section, the
15 calendar days shall be extended to include the additional three days for
rebuttal.
   (e)   The denial or suspension of the certificate shall be reversed by the
appeals officer if upon review of the written appeal and information submitted,
the appeals officer finds that the licensing officer made a material mistake of
law or fact in denying or suspending the applicant or registered solicitor's
certificate.
   (f)   If the written appeal and information submitted indicates that the
licensing officer properly denied or suspended the certificate of the applicant
or registered solicitor, the denial or suspension of the certificate shall be
affirmed and constitute a determination that the suspended certificate is
revoked.
   (g)   The decision of the appeals officer shall be delivered to the
applicant or registered solicitor by the means designated in the completed
application, or as otherwise agreed upon when the appeal was filed.
   (h)   After the ruling of the appeals officer, the applicant or solicitor is
deemed to have exhausted all administrative remedies with the city.
   (i)   Nothing herein shall impede or interfere with the applicant's,
solicitor's, or city's right to seek relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
Sec 111-16 Deceptive Soliciting Practices Prohibited
   (a)   No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially false or
fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
   (b)   A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the consumer during face-to-
face solicitation:
      (1)   The name of the solicitor;
      (2)   The name and address of the entity with whom the solicitor is
associated; and
      (3)   The purpose of the solicitor's contact with the person and/or
competent individual. This requirement may be satisfied through the use of the
badge and an informational flyer.
   (c)   No solicitor shall use a fictitious name, an alias, or any name other
than his true and correct name.
   (d)   No solicitor shall represent directly or by implication that the
granting of a certificate of registration implies any endorsement by the city
of the solicitor's goods or services or of the individual solicitor.
Sec 111-17 "No Solicitation" Notice
   (a)   Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to refuse
solicitors by displaying a "No Solicitation" sign which shall be posted on or
near the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to the
sidewalk leading to the residence.
   (b)   The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed to constitute
notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of the residence does not desire to
receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
   (c)   It shall be the responsibility of the solicitor to check each
residence for the presence of any such notice.
   (d)   The provisions of this section shall apply also to solicitors who are
exempt from registration pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
Sec 111-18 Duties Of Solicitors
   (a)   Every person soliciting or advocating shall check each residence for
any "No Soliciting" sign or placard or any other notice or sign notifying a
solicitor not to solicit on the premises, such as, but not limited to, "No
Solicitation" signs. If such sign or placard is posted such solicitor shall
desist from any efforts to solicit at the residence or dwelling and shall
immediately depart from such property. Possession of a certificate of
registration does not in any way relieve any solicitor of this duty.
   (b)   It is a violation of this chapter for any person soliciting or
advocating to knock on the door, ring the doorbell, or in any other manner
attempt to attract the attention of an occupant of a residence that bears a "No
Solicitation" sign or similar sign or placard for the purpose of engaging in or
attempting to engage in advocating, a home solicitation sale, door-to-door
soliciting, or soliciting.
   (c)   It is a violation of this chapter for any solicitor through ruse,
deception, or fraudulent concealment of a purpose to solicit, to take action
calculated to secure an audience with an occupant at a residence.
   (d)   Any solicitor who is at any time asked by an occupant of a residence
or dwelling to leave shall immediately and peacefully depart.
   (e)   The solicitor shall not intentionally or recklessly make any physical
contact with or touch another person without the person's consent.
   (f)   The solicitor shall not follow a person into a residence without their
explicit consent.
   (g)   The solicitor shall not continue repeated soliciting after a person
and/or competent individual has communicated clearly and unequivocally their
lack of interest in the subject, goods or services of the solicitor.
   (h)   The solicitor shall not use obscene language or gestures.
Sec 111-19 Time Of Day Restrictions
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed or not, to solicit at a
residence between 8:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. unless the solicitor has express
prior permission from the resident to do so.
Sec 111-20 Buyer's Right To Cancel
In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to
provide goods or services without delay in an emergency, the seller or
solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain the buyer's signature to a
written statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel within the
third business day after signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of
"buyer's right to cancel" shall be in the form required by U.C.A. 1953, § 70C-
5-103, or a current version thereof or any state or federal law modifying or
amending such provision.
Sec 111-21 Penalty
Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine o as established in
the schedule of fees and penalties and/or a jail sentence not to exceed six
months. Additionally, the city may refuse any subsequent applications of the
solicitor who has violated this chapter, or had criminal action taken against
him pursuant to these provisions.
CHAPTER 112 LICENSES FOR SPECIFIC BUSINESSES
ARTICLE 112-I IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 112-II ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
ARTICLE 112-I IN GENERAL
Sec
112-1 Temporary Business Licenses For Retail Sales
Sec
112-2 Special Sales Events Or Promotions
Sec
112-3 Non-Profit Special Events
Sec
112-4 Seasonal Businesses
Sec
112-5 Motorized Street Vendors
Sec 112-1 Temporary Business Licenses For Retail Sales
   (a)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Temporary business for retail sales means any type of business using a
temporary or portable structure which is set up for short-term retail sales.
   (b)   License required. No person shall operate a temporary business without
a temporary business license. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of 18 years to engage in operating or be employed by a temporary business,
unless directly supervised by an adult over 18 years old. Applicants for said
temporary license will be subject to a background investigation and possess a
valid driver's license. Each temporary business shall display the license in a
conspicuous location. The city may deny, suspend or revoke a license if the
applicant or licensee:
      (1)   Has violated any provision of this section or the business license
requirements;
      (2)   Has been convicted of a felony or has served a sentence for a
felony conviction within five years, or a misdemeanor within the last three
years involving controlled substances, alcohol, sex crimes, contributing to the
delinquency of a minor, theft, possession of stolen property or any other
criminal act which might relate to the operation of the business.
   (c)   Application. Application must be made at least 48 hours prior to
conducting the temporary business.
   (d)   License term of operation. No person shall be granted a temporary
business license to exceed six days within any 12-month period. The license
shall state the dates the temporary business may operate.
   (e)   License fee. The license fee shall be as provided in the schedule of
fees and penalties.
   (f)   Background check. A background check is required and a license
application is not complete without such background check.
   (g)   Dates of operation. It is unlawful to operate a temporary business on
dates other than those covered by the license.
   (h)   Temporary businesses.
      (1)   Temporary businesses must be conducted from a temporary structure
consisting of at least three walls and a roof having no more than 400 square
feet of floor space.
      (2)   Temporary businesses must be serviced by an approved electrical
hookup if electricity is to be used in connection with said operation.
Extension cords from other structures will not be approved. Electrical hookups
must conform to the currently adopted electrical code and must be inspected and
approved by the city manager or his designee prior to the conducting of any
business from business premises.
      (3)   Temporary businesses must set back at least 25 feet from the back
of the curb or, where curb and gutter does not exist, must be set back to a
distance approved by a police officer.
      (4)   Temporary businesses must be operated in a manner so as not to
block traffic into or out of adjacent businesses or structures.
      (5)   Temporary businesses are limited to the use of one sign of 15
square feet or less. No other means of advertising such as flashing lights,
loudspeakers, or calling out are permitted.
      (6)   Temporary businesses must meet all local and state health and
safety requirements applicable to the type of business being carried on.
      (7)   Temporary businesses must remove the temporary structure within 24
hours after the temporary business license expires. Application for a temporary
business license shall constitute authority to so remove the structure and an
agreement to reimburse the city for removal and storage fees.
      (8)   Before a license is issued, the applicant for a temporary business
must:
         a.   Provide written evidence that restroom facilities for employees
will be provided by another business within 300 feet of the temporary
structure;
         b.   Provide written evidence that the owner of the premises upon
which the portable structure is to be placed has given his consent for the
placement of the structure and has approved the type of business to be
conducted; and
         c.   Provide a temporary sales tax license number.
Sec 112-2 Special Sales Events Or Promotions
   (a)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Special sales event or promotion, hereby referred to as a "sales event," means
a commercial activity conducted by businesses currently operating within the
city They may be conducted on or off-premises, on the public sidewalk, or on
private or publicly owned parking lots.
   (b)   License required. No person shall operate a sales event without the
required license.
   (c)   Application. Application must be made at least 48 hours prior to the
sales event and a license application is not complete without a background
check.
   (d)   License period of operation. The license shall state the dates of the
event sale. The sales event shall not extend for more than three consecutive
working days nor more than four times a year.
   (e)   License fee. None.
   (f)   Sales event.
      (1)   If extension cords are utilized, they must be outdoor rated and
placed in a manner so as not to create a hazard.
      (2)   The sales event must be operated in a manner so as not to block
traffic into or out of adjacent businesses or structures. Trucks and trailers
may be used for storage of merchandise or inventory but may not be entered by
the customer.
      (3)   Sales events are limited to use of one sign of 15 square feet or
less. No other means of advertising such as flashing lights, loudspeakers, or
calling out are permitted. Permanent signs on trucks or semi-truck trailers are
not considered part of the signage.
      (4)   If the event is off-premises from the original business location,
the applicant must, before a license is issued, provide written evidence that
restroom facilities for employees will be provided by another business within
300 feet and provide evidence that the owner of the premises upon which the
event will be conducted has given approval to do so.
Sec 112-3 Non-Profit Special Events
   (a)   Non-profit sponsoring units of special events may apply for a special
events permit to conduct business and have concession stands in connection with
a requested event. If the event and the activities comply with all local and
state ordinances, laws, and regulations, a permit will be issued.
   (b)   The sponsoring unit will be assessed a permit fee in the amount
established by the schedule of fees and penalties. Additionally, the sponsoring
unit must provide evidence from the IRS of non- profit status and ensure that
all businesses and concession stands have a temporary sales tax number and
collect the appropriate sales tax. All business activities in connection with
said event shall be at locations approved by both the sponsoring unit and the
city administrative officer assigned by the mayor to overview the special
event. The permit issued shall entitle each individual business or concession
to operate without acquiring an independent license, but the duration of the
business activity shall not exceed seven calendar days.
Sec 112-4 Seasonal Businesses
   (a)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Seasonal businesses means Christmas tree sales, fireworks stands, shaved ice
stands, nurseries, florists and produce stands, and other seasonal uses as
determined by staff.
   (b)   License required. No person shall operate a seasonal business without
a license.
   (c)   Application. Application must be made at least 48 hours prior to
operation of the seasonal business. A license application is not complete
without a background check. The application must conform to all applicable laws
and ordinances applicable to the business type.
   (d)   License period of operation. The license shall state the period of
operation, up to six months in any calendar year, which may be renewed yearly.
   (e)   License fees. The license fee and fire inspection fee shall be as
established in the schedule of fees and penalties. Any seasonal business
engaged in the selling of Class C fireworks shall pay an additional fee in the
amount established in the schedule of fees and penalties plus have commercial
general liability insurance including premises and operations liability and
products and completed operations liability in the amount of $1,000,000.00 per
occurrence and
$1,000,000.00 for products and completed operations aggregate.
   (f)   Dates of operation. It is unlawful to operate a seasonal business on
days other than those covered by the license.
   (g)   Seasonal sales.
      (1)   Shaved ice stands and fireworks stands must be conducted from a
temporary structure consisting of at least three walls and a roof and having no
more than 400 square feet of floor space.
      (2)   Seasonal sales stands must be conducted in a commercial zone.
      (3)   Seasonal sales stands must be serviced by an approved electrical
hookup if electricity is to be used in connection with said operation.
Extension cords from other structures will not be approved. Electrical hookups
must conform to the currently adopted electrical code and must be inspected and
approved by the city building department prior to the conducting of any
business from business premises.
      (4)   Seasonal sales stands must be set back at least 25 feet from the
back of the curb or, where curb and gutter does not exist, must be set back to
a distance approved by a police officer.
      (5)   Seasonal sales stands must be operated in a manner so as not to
block traffic into or out of adjacent businesses or structures.
      (6)   Seasonal sales stands are limited to the use of one sign of 15
square feet or less. No other means of advertising such as flashing lights,
loudspeakers, or calling out are permitted.
      (7)   Seasonal sales stands must meet all local and state health and
safety requirements applicable to the type of business being carried on.
      (8)   The licensee must remove the temporary structure within five days
after the seasonal business license expires. If the structure is not removed
within the specified period of time, the licensee will be guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor and the city will be authorized to remove the structure and charge
the licensee for the cost of removal plus storage expenses. Application for a
seasonal business license shall constitute authority to so remove the structure
and an agreement to reimburse the city for removal and storage fees.
      (9)   Before a license is issued, the applicant must:
         a.   Provide written evidence that restroom facilities for employees
will be provided by another business within 300 feet of the seasonal structure;
         b.   Provide written evidence that the owner of the premises upon
which the portable structure is to be placed has given his consent for the
placement of the structure and has approved the type of business to be
conducted; and
         c.   Provide a sales tax license number.
Sec 112-5 Motorized Street Vendors
   (a)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Motorized street vendor means the selling of merchandise or solicitation for
sales primarily from a motorized vehicle parked in the public street. These
vendors carry merchandise, goods, and services for sale and consumption
immediately from the vehicle. Examples include ice cream vendors, both
individual servings and packaged servings, frozen goods vendors, produce, dairy
products, hot food sales, yard care services, and health services.
   (b)   License required. No person shall sell merchandise from a motorized
vehicle without obtaining a motorized street vendor business license. It shall
be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to engage in a motorized
street vendor business. Each person selling, offering to sell, or displaying of
sale retail merchandise from or on motorized vehicles on public streets or
private property shall obtain a city business license prior to beginning
operation. Applicants for said license will be subject to a BCI background
investigation and possess a valid driver's license. Each party engaged in such
a business shall display the business license in a conspicuous location at the
point of sale on the lower left (driver) side of the windshield of the vehicle.
The city may deny, suspend, or revoke a license if the applicant or licensee:
      (1)   Has violated any provision of this section or the business license
requirements;
      (2)   Has been convicted of a felony or has served a sentence for a
felony conviction within the last five years, or a misdemeanor within the last
three years involving controlled substances, alcohol, sex crimes, contributing
to the delinquency of a minor, theft, possession of stolen property or any
other criminal act which might relate to the operation of the business.
   (c)   Application. Application must be made at least 48 hours prior to
operation of the business.
   (d)   License. The license shall be for a one-year period and renewed
annually. The license shall run from January 1 of the year to December 31.
   (e)   License fees. The fee shall be as established in the schedule of fees
and penalties.
   (f)   Conditions and requirements for motorized street vendors. Motorized
street vendors shall comply with the following:
      (1)   Have a clearly audible backup warning device that activates
whenever the vehicle is shifted into reverse gear.
      (2)   Have a convex mirror mounted on the front of the vehicle so that
the driver, in a normal driving position, can see the area in front of the
vehicle that is obscured by the hood.
      (3)   Have a flashing yellow beacon on the roof of the vehicle that is
visible from all sides of the vehicle. This beacon shall be activated whenever
the merchandise is being sold, offered for sale or displayed for sale.
      (4)   Be prohibited from pulling any type of trailer during business
operation.
      (5)   The vehicle shall be inspected by the health department if the
merchandise includes any item intended for human consumption.
      (6)   Hours of operation shall be between 10:00 a.m. and sunset. Sunrise
and sunset shall be determined on any particular day by the times listed that
day in any major newspaper circulated in the county.
      (7)   The operator of the motorized vehicle shall not sell to any person
standing in the roadway.
      (8)   The operator of the motorized vehicle shall sell, offer to sell or
display for sale retail merchandise only when the vehicle is completely stopped
and lawfully parked, and shall sell only from the rear or side of the vehicle
nearest to the curb or edge of the roadway.
      (9)   To reach a point of sale, the motorized vehicle shall not be moved
backwards in order to sell, offer to sell or display for sale retail
merchandise.
      (10)   Each applicant for a license or renewal under this section shall
submit with his application evidence of general liability insurance in an
amount not less than $500,000.00. The applicant must submit to the city a
certificate of insurance that provides that the policy cannot be canceled prior
to giving the city at least ten days' written notice of cancellation.
      (11)   The motorized vehicle and operator must comply with all other
requirements of this section and any other requirements of this Code or state
statute that may be applicable.
      (12)   The volume of any audio equipment used to advertise for the
business must be approved by the police department.
      (13)   The applicant shall provide a sales tax license number.
      (14)   The business shall be subject to the nuisance regulations of
chapter 91, article I.
   (g)   Lawful advertising and business markings; exception. The prohibitions
of this section shall not be construed to prohibit vehicles from carrying
business markings or advertising not otherwise prohibited by law, nor shall
they prohibit delivery of merchandise which was not sold or purchased on public
streets.
   (h)   Sales on private property. Sales on private property shall be made
only with the permission of the property owner or occupant.
ARTICLE 112-II ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Sec
112-29 Application Of Article
Sec
112-30 Alcohol License Required
Sec
112-31 Grounds For Granting, Denying, Suspending, Or Revoking License
Sec
112-32 Application Requirements
Sec
112-33 Restrictions On Location
Sec
112-34 License Restrictions
Sec
112-35 Separation Required
Sec
112-36 Approval Expiration
Sec
112-37 Standards For Facilities With On-Site Consumption Of Alcohol
Sec
112-38 Bond; Amounts Designated
Sec
112-39 Licenses Nontransferable
Sec
112-40 Expiration Of Licenses
Sec
112-41 Emergencies
State Law reference— Alcoholic Beverage Control Act, U.C.A. 1953, § 32B-1-101
et seq.
Sec 112-29 Application Of Article
The city adopts the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 32B-1-101 et
seq.) (ABC) in its entirety, as amended from time to time and supplemented by
these ordinances. It is the responsibility of any applicant for an alcoholic
beverage license, consent or permit to be in compliance with identified
conditions and requirements of state law and local ordinances prior to making
application with the city for any license (including any license, consent or
permit, as the specific licensing designation may be). It is the obligation of
each applicant and licensee (including any licensee, consentee or permittee) to
stay in compliance with state law and local ordinances regardless of changes to
those laws and ordinances.
Sec 112-30 Alcohol License Required
It is unlawful for any person to engage in the sale of any kind of beer,
liquor, or wine at retail or wholesale within the corporate limits of the city
without first having procured a license therefor from the city, as provided in
this article, and obtained a license from the state department of alcoholic
beverage control. A separate license shall be required for each place of sale
which must be on display in a conspicuous place within the business.
Sec 112-31 Grounds For Granting, Denying, Suspending, Or Revoking License
   (a)   The following are grounds for revocation or suspension of any alcohol
license or local consent:
      (1)   The licensee has failed to comply with the requirements of the
Alcohol Beverage Control Act as currently in force or amended in the future, or
the requirements of this article;
      (2)   The licensee or employees of the licensee have been convicted or
plead guilty to violations occurring to this article or any city, county, state
or federal law or ordinance and said violations occurred on the licensed
premises, not including violations by patrons;
      (3)   The licensee has attempted to transfer the license to another in
violation of this article;
      (4)   The licensee has become ineligible to hold a license by failing to
meet the standards for licensees listed in this article;
      (5)   The licensee or his agents or employees, with the knowledge of the
license holder, have been engaged in the sale, distribution or delivery of
controlled substances, as defined by state statute, on or from the licensed
premises; or
      (6)   The licensee has been denied a license by the state under the
Alcoholic Beverage Control Act as required by this article or has had said
state license revoked or suspended.
   (b)   The following shall be considered in granting or denying a license:
      (1)   Previous business or personal record, either within or outside of
the city;
      (2)   Criminal record of the applicant. No person shall be granted a
retail license unless he qualifies as provided in the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 32B-1-101 et seq.). The city may not grant any
alcohol license or consent to any person who has been convicted of:
         a.   A felony under any federal or state law;
         b.   Any violation of any federal or state law or local ordinance
concerning the sale, manufacture, distribution, warehousing, adulteration, or
transportation of alcoholic beverages;
         c.   Any crime involving moral turpitude; or
         d.   On two or more occasions within the five years before the day on
which the license is granted, driving under the influence of alcohol, any drug,
or the combined influence of alcohol and any drug;
      (3)   Location of the facility in relation to the community; and
      (4)   No licenses, permits or consents provided for in this article shall
be issued to any applicant who is in arrears in the payment to the city of
business license fees, or is otherwise indebted to the city for past due
payments owing.
Sec 112-32 Application Requirements
   (a)   Each person seeking an alcohol license or consent under this article
shall request approval from the city council. The applicant shall file a
written application to appear before the city council with the city recorder
and include the following:
      (1)   A description of the proposed establishment and alcohol license
requested;
      (2)   A copy of a plat map from the county recorder's office showing the
proposed facility and properties within 600 feet of the proposed facility;
      (3)   A signed consent form granting an irrevocable license to the city
permitting any authorized representative of the city or any law enforcement
officer unrestricted right to enter and inspect the premises;
      (4)   Any other documents and evidence the city may require by rule or
policy to allow complete evaluation of the application; and
      (5)   A certified original background check of the applicant by the
bureau of criminal investigation current within 30 days.
   (b)   Each application shall be signed and verified by oath or affirmation
by an executive officer or any person specifically authorized by the
corporation or association to sign the application, to which shall be attached
written evidence of said authority.
   (c)   Prior to operating under the authority of this article and as part of
the annual renewal process, each approved applicant must obtain and provide to
the business license administrator proof of:
      (1)   Respective state licensure immediately upon state approval (not
more than one year from approval of the original local consent);
      (2)   Evidence of the surety compliance bond, in the amount required by
section
112-38; and
      (3)   A certified original background check conducted by the bureau of
criminal investigation current within 30 days.
Sec 112-33 Restrictions On Location
   (a)   No alcohol license shall be granted to any facility for on-premises
consumption of alcohol if such facility is located within 600 feet of any
public or private school, church, public library, public playground, or park,
as measured from the nearest entrance of the facility by following the shortest
route of ordinary pedestrian travel to the property boundary of the public or
private school, church, public library, public playground, or park.
   (b)   No alcohol license shall be granted to any facility for on-premises
consumption of alcohol if such facility is located within 200 feet of any
public or private school, church, public library, public playground, or park,
measured in a straight line from the nearest entrance of the facility to the
nearest property boundary of the public or private school, church, public
library, public playground, or park.
   (c)   The city council may consider the proximity of the facility to any
educational, religious, and recreational facility, including nursery schools,
infant day care centers, trade and technical schools, and teen/youth facilities
or other relevant factors in reaching a decision on whether to issue an alcohol
license for on-premises or off-premises consumption.
Sec 112-34 License Restrictions
The city council may issue consent or license approval for the sale of alcohol
upon meeting the license classifications and regulations contained within the
Alcohol and Beverage Control Act, pursuant to the following additional
restrictions:
   (a)   Restaurant license and limited restaurant license.
      (1)   The city council may grant its approval for restaurant licenses for
the purpose of establishing restaurant outlets at places and in numbers the
state liquor control commission considers proper for the storage, sale, and
consumption of liquor on premises operated as public restaurants.
      (2)   A variance to the siting provisions of section
112-33 may be granted by the city council for a restaurant or limited
restaurant, upon the city council making the following findings:
         a.   The proposed location does not front upon the same side of the
street, share access or parking with, or adjoin property lines with a church,
school, library, park or playground;
         b.   The proposed location does not pose a threat to the health,
peace, safety, and welfare of surrounding land uses;
         c.   The proposed location will not create an undue concentration of
alcohol dispensing establishments;
         d.   The proposed location will not create an undue burden in
controlling and policing illegal activities in the vicinity; and
         e.   The proposed facility will not create a nuisance to the
community.
      (3)   The city council may approve seasonal restaurant liquor licenses
established in areas and for periods it considers necessary. A seasonal
restaurant liquor license may not be operated for a period longer than nine
consecutive months and is subject to the following restrictions:
         a.   Licenses issued for operation during summer time periods are
known as "Seasonal A" restaurant licenses. The period of operation for a
"Seasonal A" restaurant license may begin as early as April 1 and may continue
until October 31.
         b.   Licenses issued for operation during winter time periods are
known as "Seasonal B" restaurant licenses. The period of operation for a
"Seasonal B" restaurant license may begin as early as September 1 and may
continue until May 31.
   (b)   Off-premises beer retailer's license. An off-premises beer retailer's
license holder may sell beer at retail in the original containers to go. Such
license shall not permit consumption upon the premises.
      (1)   All store managers are subject to a criminal background check
pursuant to the standards set forth in section
112-31(b)(2).
      (2)   Beer shall not be disbursed under any license within the city
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
      (3)   Beer shall not be sold by any licensee to any person under the
influence of intoxicating liquor, beverage or drugs.
      (4)   No licensee shall sell, give away, dispense or deliver beer to any
person under the age of 21 years.
      (5)   No licensee, employee or other person shall sell or dispense beer
within the city unless he is 21 years of age or older unless the licensee's
sales are restricted to the selling of beer for off-premises use in its
original container in which case the licensee, employee, or other person
selling the beer need only be 18 years of age, except any such 18-, 19-, or 20-
year-old must be supervised by a person 21 years of age or older who is on the
premises.
      (6)   All licensees shall be strictly responsible for the compliance with
all rules and regulations governing the sale of beer as adopted by the city
council.
      (7)   The beer license of any licensee charged with the violation of this
article may be suspended by order of the mayor, pending disposition of the
charges.
      (8)   Tap beer shall not be sold by off-premises beer retailers.
      (9)   No person shall be granted a license to operate or maintain a
trade, profession or calling, the transaction or carrying on of which requires
a license within the city, if such person operates an establishment which, as
part of its business, serves alcoholic beverages, as defined in U.C.A. 1953, §
32B-1-102, to the public for consumption on the premises, unless that person
shall show by certificate granted by the state department of alcoholic beverage
control, or by adequate proof of the existence of such certificate, that each
employee of the business engaging in the serving, selling or furnishing of such
alcohol on the premises has completed the alcohol training and education
seminar, as required in the Alcohol Training and Education Act (U.C.A. 1953, §
32B-4-401 et seq.).
      (10)   Every new employee, hired after the licensee has been licensed in
compliance with subsection (1) of this section, who is required to complete the
alcohol training and education seminar shall complete the seminar within six
months of commencing employment.
      (11)   Violation of this section shall result in revocation of the
license granted under this article, unless compliance with this section is
completed within two months of the time that licensee first became aware that
such violation occurred.
   (c)   Tavern license.
      (1)   The number of tavern licenses authorized in the city:
         a.   Shall be limited by the population. The initial ratio shall be
one license per each 2,000 population or portion thereof.
         b.   Shall be reviewed and fixed from time to time by resolution of
the city council. If the council finds that the number of such licenses issued
creates an unusual law enforcement problem, the council has the right to adjust
the ratio of population to licenses issued.
      (2)   Taverns must front upon a street designated as an arterial or
collector within the Master Facilities Plan, or be within a building the main
entrance of which building fronts on a collector or arterial street.
   (d)   Private club license.
      (1)   Class A and Class C private clubs. Class A and Class C private
clubs in a bona fide county club within an approved golf course are eligible
for a private club license.
      (2)   Class B, C, and D private clubs.
         a.   Class B private clubs must front upon a street designated as an
arterial or collector within the Master Facilities Plan, or be within a
building the main entrance of which building fronts on a collector or arterial
street.
         b.   Class B private clubs must provide a copy of its bylaws and
policies for review by the city council upon requesting local consent.
   (e)   State stores. State stores should be located along a collector or
arterial street.
   (f)   Package agencies.
      (1)   Type 1—5 package agencies must front upon a street designated as an
arterial or collector within the Master Facilities Plan, or be within a
building the main entrance of which building fronts on a collector or arterial
street.
      (2)   Type 3 package agencies must be separated from taverns and private
clubs by a distance of 400 feet as measured from property line to property
line.
   (g)   On-premises banquet license. On-premises banquet licenses may be
approved for a sports center, convention center, or hotel, within approved
accommodations for groups or gatherings of persons.
   (h)   Special use permits.
   (i)   Single event permits.
      (1)   A single event permit shall entitle a bona fide corporation,
church, political organization, or incorporated association or a subordinate
lodge, chapter, or other local unit thereof that is conducting a convention,
civic, or community enterprise to sell beer at such event.
      (2)   Single event permits may not exceed 72 consecutive hours (three
days).
      (3)   No more than four single event beer permits may be granted to any
entity in one calendar year.
      (4)   The application for the single event permit shall specify the days
of operation and the location of the alcohol sales.
      (5)   A variance to the current provisions of this section and sections
112-33 and
130-88 may be granted by the city council for a single event, upon compliance
with the following, and the city council making the following findings:
         a.   The proposed single event's location does not front upon the same
side of the street, share access or parking with, or adjoin property lines with
a church, school, library, or playground;
         b.   The proposed single event does not pose a threat to the health,
peace, safety, and welfare of surrounding land uses;
         c.   The proposed single event will not create an undue concentration
of alcohol dispensing establishments;
         d.   The proposed single event will not create an undue burden in
controlling and policing illegal activities in the vicinity;
         e.   The proposed single event will not create a nuisance to the
community;
         f.   The proposed single event provides a significant revenue benefit
to the community;
         g.   The proposed single event shall comply with all provisions and
restrictions contained in the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (U.C.A. 1953, §
32B-1-101 et seq.);
         h.   No outdoor single event shall continue after 11:00 p.m., unless
such event is located in a public park; in such case, the event shall not
continue after 9:00 p.m.;
         i.   The proposed single event shall comply with all provisions of
subsection (9) of this section;
         j.   The applicant for a single event must have been in existence as a
bona fide organization for at least one year prior to the date of application;
         k.   The proposed single event must be at least 150 feet from any
public playground, measured in a straight line from the nearest entrance of the
boundaries of the specific playground sandlot.
      (6)   Beer garden in public parks, limited. The city council has deemed
it advisable to allow and license limited public sale at retail and consumption
on the sale premises of cereal malt beverages in specific areas of the public
parks of the city, and during community- wide celebrations, on certain other
public grounds. Such sale shall be by responsible person otherwise duly
licensed under this Code, and shall be allowed for limited periods of time, as
hereinafter specifically provided.
         a.   License created. There is hereby created a license, to be
denominated a Class A limited beer garden license. A person to whom the city
has issued a current valid beer garden license will hereinafter be referred to
as a Class A beer garden licensee.
         b.   Area designated. A Class A beer garden license shall designate
specifically an area in a city park, or, alternatively, other public grounds in
the central business district in the city, which area shall be used for the
purposes of the license, and which area will hereinafter be referred to as a
beer garden.
         c.   Hours of operation. The hours of operation for any beer garden in
a public park shall not begin before 10:00 a.m. and continue past 9:00 p.m.
         d.   No other area to be used. No cereal malt beverage may be sold at
retail or consumed in any city park, or on any other public grounds of the
city, whether in the central business district or otherwise, except that a
Class A beer garden licensee may use the beer garden designated on the beer
garden license for purposes of retail sale, and consumption by adult consumers
of cereal malt beverages on the premises of the beer garden; and provided
further:
            1.   That such sale and consumption shall be limited to the
designated beer garden;
            2.   The licensee must comply with all applicable laws and
ordinances;
            3.   The licensee must have all of the qualifications set out in
city ordinances and state statutes for a liquor dealer's license;
            4.   The licensee must pay a license fee for each beer garden
location in accordance with the schedule of fees and penalties; and
            5.   The licensee must hold a current valid license from the city
for the sale of alcoholic liquor or beer at retail for consumption on the
premises.
         e.   Area. The beer garden shall not exceed 3,750 square feet in area,
shall be contiguous, and shall have its boundaries clearly marked.
         f.   Parks and central business district. No beer garden license shall
be issued for premises other than in a city park, except in the city's central
business district. No beer garden license shall be issued for public grounds in
the city's central business district except during community-wide public
celebrations or holidays.
         g.   Duration. The duration of a beer garden license shall not exceed
two days. No person shall be issued more than three beer garden licenses during
any calendar year. No beer garden license shall be transferred from the beer
garden licensee to whom it was originally issued.
         h.   Compliance with other regulations. Each Class A beer garden,
while in operation, shall comply with all of the requirements of the ordinance
relating to dealers in alcoholic liquor, provided that no additional permit
shall be required and no additional fee shall be required.
   (j)   Manufacturers and wholesale facilities. Alcohol manufacturing and
wholesale facilities shall be located within the I-1, BMP, or CMP zones.
   (k)   Liquor warehousing license.
   (l)   Temporary special event beer permits.
      (1)   A special event temporary beer license shall entitle a bona fide
corporation, church, political organization, or incorporated association or a
subordinate lodge, chapter, or other local unit thereof that is conducting a
convention, civic, or community enterprise to sell beer at such event.
      (2)   Special event permits shall last no longer than three days.
      (3)   No more than four special event beer permits may be granted to any
entity in one calendar year.
      (4)   The application for the special event permit shall specify the days
of operation and the location of the beer sales.
   (m)   On-premises beer retailer licenses. The holder of an on-premises beer
retailer license may only sell beer at retail for consumption upon the
premises. The term "premises," as used in this subsection, is limited to the
open room area surrounding the restaurant facilities and shall not include any
isolated areas or other areas segregated by partitions, walls, or other
barriers. On- premises beer retailer licenses will only be issued to a holder
of and in connection with a valid restaurant license.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2020-010 on 9/2/2020
Sec 112-35 Separation Required
Only one tavern or private club may be located on either side of a street
between the intersections of two streets. Beyond the extent of the lot and
block system of the city, there shall be only one tavern or private club on
either side of a street for a distance of 400 feet along the street right-of-
way, as measured from property line to property line.
Sec 112-36 Approval Expiration
Any alcohol license that is issued or approved by the city will expire if the
same has not been put to use at the location approved within six months after
the license was authorized by the city council. The term "put to use" as used
herein means that the facility must be operating as a full-time business
establishment. In the event an alcohol dispensing facility in possession of a
valid alcohol license ceases to operate as a full-time alcohol dispensing
facility for a period of 30 days, the license shall expire. Any license that so
expires is not subject to renewal and any rights connected therewith shall
terminate as of the date of expiration.
Sec 112-37 Standards For Facilities With On-Site Consumption Of Alcohol
All facilities within the city providing for on-site consumption of any alcohol
product shall comply with the following:
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any closed booths to exist on premises
licensed for the retail sale or consumption of beer or liquor. This provision
shall not prevent the use and operation of private dining or conference rooms
as a part of the licensed premises.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any object or sign to cover more than 25
percent of the window surface area along the front of the building.
Sec 112-38 Bond; Amounts Designated
Every licensee shall be required to post a cash bond or a corporate bond with a
surety acceptable to the city in the amount established by the schedule of fees
and penalties, which sum shall be forfeited to the city upon the violation of
this article by the licensee.
Sec 112-39 Licenses Nontransferable
Licenses issued under this article shall not be transferable and the license
fees shall be forfeited to the city upon revocation.
Sec 112-40 Expiration Of Licenses
All licenses issued under this article shall expire on December 31 of each
year.
Sec 112-41 Emergencies
   (a)   Upon the declaration of a state of emergency, as defined by U.C.A.
1953, § 52-2a-101, all alcohol beverage licenses are automatically suspended,
which suspension may be lifted by the city council at any time.
   (b)   It is unlawful for the holder of any license issued under this article
or the holder's agent, employee, manager or representative to sell or serve
beer and/or liquor during the period of temporary suspension.
   (c)   The city council may revoke or suspend any license or consent issued
under this article for any violation of local, state, or federal law by the
licensee or consentee.
   (d)   Alcohol licenses issued under this article may be suspended by the
chief of police or his designee without prior hearing, provided that there is
probable cause to believe that violations of this article or state law are
occurring, and the conditions are such that the public health and safety are
endangered. Such temporary suspension shall occur only if the management or the
licensee fails to remedy the situation within 15 minutes of notification by the
chief of police or his designee that a suspension will occur if the conditions
complained of are not remedied in a manner that eliminates the immediate danger
to public health and safety. No emergency suspension by the chief of police or
his designee shall be lifted until the emergency is remedied.
CHAPTER 113 TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND TOBACCO PARAPHERNALIA
Sec
113-1 Applicability ; Sale Of Tobacco Products And Tobacco Paraphernalia
Restricted
Sec
113-2 Definitions
Sec
113-3 Tobacco Sales Business License Required
Sec
113-4 Retail Tobacco Specialty Business Not Permitted
Sec
113-5 Revocation Of A Tobacco Sales Business License
Sec
113-6 Penalty
Sec 113-1 Applicability ; Sale Of Tobacco Products And Tobacco Paraphernalia
Restricted
No individual, entity or organization shall:
   (a)   Conduct or operate a retail tobacco specialty business; or
   (b)   Sell, furnish, or otherwise distribute tobacco products or "tobacco
paraphernalia", as defined in this chapter, unless it satisfies the
requirements set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2016-12-01, § I, 3-14-2017)
Sec 113-2 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Retail tobacco specialty business: A commercial establishment in which:
   (a)   The sale of tobacco products and tobacco paraphernalia accounts for
more than 35 percent of the total annual gross receipts for the establishment;
   (b)   Food and beverage products, excluding gasoline sales, is less than 45
percent of the total annual gross receipts for the establishment; and
   (c)   The establishment is not licensed as a pharmacy under U.C.A. title 58,
chapter 17b, Pharmacy Practice Act.
Tobacco paraphernalia: Does not include matches or lighters, and means any
equipment, product, or material of any kind which is used, intended for use, or
designed for use to package, repackage, store, contain, conceal, ingest,
inhale, or otherwise introduce a cigar, cigarette, or tobacco in any form into
the human body, including, but not limited to:
   (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with
or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
   (b)   Water pipes;
   (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
   (d)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
   (e)   Roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning material, such as a
cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the hand;
   (f)   Chamber pipes;
   (g)   Carburetor pipes;
   (h)   Electric pipes;
   (i)   Air driven pipes;
   (j)   Chillums;
   (k)   Bongs; and
   (l)   Ice pipes or chillers.
Tobacco product: Any cigar, cigarette, or electronic cigarette as defined in
Utah Code; a tobacco product as defined in Utah Code, including chewing
tobacco; any substitute for a tobacco product, including flavoring or additives
to tobacco.
Tobacco sales business license: A business license issued by the city which
permits the licensee to sell tobacco products and tobacco paraphernalia from
its validly licensed business.
(Ord. No. 2016-12-01, § I, 3-14-2017)
Sec 113-3 Tobacco Sales Business License Required
   (a)   Tobacco products and tobacco paraphernalia. No individual, entity,
organization, or business shall sell tobacco products or tobacco paraphernalia
unless it has obtained a tobacco sales business license. A tobacco sales
business license shall only be issued as a secondary license to a business
license for one of the following:
      (1)   A business that is primarily engaged in the sale of food and
beverage products and is located in a building which is 10,000 square feet or
larger;
      (2)   A business that is primarily engaged in the sale of gasoline or
diesel fuel and is located in a building which is 2,000 square feet or larger;
      (3)   An on premises alcoholic beverage sales license;
      (4)   A business license for a pharmacy under Utah Code and is located in
a building which is 10,000 square feet or larger; or
      (5)   A business license for any business that was lawfully selling
tobacco products and tobacco paraphernalia under that license prior to May 3,
2012.
   (b)   Application for license.
      (1)   An application for a license shall be made in writing on the form
provided by the licensing officer. The form must be completed in its entirety.
The application must be accompanied by:
         a.   The business license required in this chapter;
         b.   Documentation showing the square footage of the building;
         c.   Proof of the operation of a business specified in subsection (a)
(1) or (a)(2) of this section, if the application is to qualify as such a
business; and
         d.   If seeking to qualify under subsection (a)(5) of this section,
proof of:
            1.   The lawful sales of tobacco products and tobacco paraphernalia
prior to May 3, 2012; and
            2.   The percentage of tobacco products and tobacco paraphernalia
sold as compared to the total annual gross receipts for the business.
(Ord. No. 2016-12-01, § I, 3-14-2017)
Sec 113-4 Retail Tobacco Specialty Business Not Permitted
The operation of a retail tobacco specialty business is prohibited. (Ord. No.
2016-12-01, § I, 3-14-2017)
Sec 113-5 Revocation Of A Tobacco Sales Business License
   (a)   The city may suspend, revoke, or terminate the business license of a
business which is operating as a tobacco sales business if:
      (1)   The licensee, owner, or operator:
         a.   Engages in a pattern of unlawful activity as outlined in U.C.A. §
76-10-1601 et seq., or its amendment; or
         b.   Violates any alcohol or drug related offenses, regulations
restricting the sale and distribution of tobacco products or tobacco
paraphernalia, or any felony offenses under any provision of federal, state, or
local law.
      (2)   While on the business premises, an employee violates:
         a.   Any laws or regulations related to alcohol or controlled
substances;
         b.   Any laws or regulations restricting the sale and distribution of
tobacco products or tobacco paraphernalia; or
         c.   Any provision of federal, state, or local law which would be a
felony level offense.
      (3)   The tobacco sales business does not maintain the right to operate
under the terms of other applicable laws, including zoning ordinances, building
codes, and the business license.
   (b)   In addition to the provisions outlined in subsection A of this
section, a business licensed under subsection
113-3(a)(5) of this chapter may have their tobacco sales business license
permanently revoked if:
      (1)   The tobacco sales business license is not renewed continuously
without relapse or revocation;
      (2)   The tobacco sales business is closed for business or otherwise
suspends the sale of tobacco products or tobacco paraphernalia for more than 60
consecutive days; or
      (3)   The tobacco sales business substantially changes the business
premises or its business operation.
(Ord. No. 2016-12-01, § I, 3-14-2017)
Sec 113-6 Penalty
Any violation of this chapter is a class B misdemeanor and punishable by a fine
of $1,000.00, not including any mandatory fees and surcharges imposed by law or
a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 2016-12-01, § I, 3-14-2017)
TITLE XIII GENERAL OFFENSES 
CHAPTER 130 OFFENSES
CHAPTER 131 ALARM SYSTEMS
CHAPTER 130 OFFENSES
ARTICLE 130-I IN GENERAL
ARTICLE 130-II UTAH CRIMINAL CODE AND TRAFFIC CODE
ARTICLE 130-III PUBLIC PEACE, ORDER AND DECENCY
ARTICLE 130-IV MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 130-V SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA AND INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES
ARTICLE 130-VI OFFENSES BY OR AGAINST MINORS
ARTICLE 130-VII HANDBILLS
ARTICLE 130-I IN GENERAL
Sec
130-1 Persons Responsible; Principals
Sec 130-1 Persons Responsible; Principals
All persons involved in the commission of an offense as defined in this chapter
or any of the provisions thereof, whether they directly commit the offense, or
who aid, abet, counsel, advise or encourage its commission, and all persons who
by fraud, contrivance or force occasions the drunkenness of another for the
purpose of causing a person to commit any offense, or not being present have
advised and encouraged its commission, or who by threat, menace, command or
coercion compels another to commit any offense, or not being present have
advised and encouraged its commission, and all persons counseling its
commission, and all persons counseling, advising or encouraging children under
the age of 14 years, lunatics or idiots to commit any offense, are principals
in any offense committed.
(Ord. No. 2017-02-01, § 1, 2-14-2017)
ARTICLE 130-II UTAH CRIMINAL CODE AND TRAFFIC CODE
Sec
130-21 Adoption Of State Misdemeanor Penal Code
Sec
130-22 Local Conditions; Ordinances That Supersede
Sec
130-23 Penalties For Violation
Sec
130-24 Copies Of Code To Be Filed For Use By Public
Sec 130-21 Adoption Of State Misdemeanor Penal Code
The Class C and Class B misdemeanor and infraction offenses of the Utah
Criminal Code and Traffic Code as compiled, prepared and published in code book
form for the state department of public safety by the state highway safety
office is approved and adopted in full as a Criminal Code.
(Ord. No. 2017-02-01, § 1, 2-14-2017)
State Law reference— Adoption of statutes, U.C.A. 1953, § 10-3-711.
Sec 130-22 Local Conditions; Ordinances That Supersede
In the event present or future ordinances specifically address local conditions
concerning public offenses, such ordinances shall supersede section
130-21.
(Ord. No. 2017-02-01, § 1, 2-14-2017)
Sec 130-23 Penalties For Violation
With respect to Class B and Class C misdemeanors and infractions as established
by this chapter, the provisions of U.C.A. 1953, §§ 76-3-204, 76-3-205 and 76-3-
301 shall be controlling in lieu of section
4-2 and as to all other city ordinances the penalty for violations shall be
under the provisions of said section.
(Ord. No. 2017-02-01, § 1, 2-14-2017)
Sec 130-24 Copies Of Code To Be Filed For Use By Public
Three copies of the Utah Criminal and Traffic Code adopted by reference shall
be filed for use and examination by the public in the office of the city
recorder.
(Ord. No. 2017-02-01, § 1, 2-14-2017)
ARTICLE 130-III PUBLIC PEACE, ORDER AND DECENCY
Sec
130-52 Befouling Public Places
Sec
130-53 Disturbing The Peace
Sec
130-54 Public Indecency
Sec
130-55 Soliciting An Unlawful Sex Act
Sec
130-56 Riding Skateboards, Roller Skates, Roller Blades, Scooters Or Bicycles
Sec
130-57 Weapons
Sec 130-52 Befouling Public Places
It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in any public place or on
private property where the act is open to public view.
(Ord. No. 2017-02-01, § 1, 2-14-2017)
Sec 130-53 Disturbing The Peace
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to maliciously or willfully disturb the
peace and quiet of another by loud or unusual noise or music or by tumultuous
conduct or by threatening or yelling in a manner likely to incite another to
violence or confrontation.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person to cause noise that constitutes a public
disturbance after once being requested to stop or cease making the noise, or
music or tumultuous conduct. It is also unlawful for any person in possession
of real property to allow to originate from the property noise, or music or
tumultuous conduct that constitutes a public disturbance after once being
requested to stop permitting the noise, or music or tumultuous conduct. For
purposes of this section, public disturbance is sound which reasonably disturbs
or interferes with the peace, comfort or repose of owners or possessors of real
property and which emanates from any of the following sound sources:
      (1)   Music, stereo or sound systems.
      (2)   Loud arguing or boisterous conduct.
      (3)   The repetitive or continuous starting, testing or operation of a
motor vehicle, including a motorcycle, chainsaw or motorized equipment in a
residential zone.
   (c)   For purposes of subsections (a) and (b) of this section, sounds are
assumed to be in violation if they can be heard within 100 feet or between the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. in residential areas.
   (d)   Government sponsored or sanctioned special events are exempt from
these restrictions.
   (e)   Disturbing the peace is a Class C misdemeanor if the offense continues
after a request by a person to desist or cease. Otherwise, it is an infraction.
(Ord. No. 2017-02-01, § 1, 2-14-2017)
Sec 130-54 Public Indecency
   (a)   A person is guilty of public indecency if the person knowingly and
intentionally, in a public place, or a place where there is no reasonable
expectation of privacy, appears in a state of nudity or fondles the genitals of
himself or another person.
   (b)   Public indecency is a Class B misdemeanor.
   (c)   It is a defense to prosecution when it is a female nursing an infant
or small child.
(Ord. No. 2017-02-01, § 1, 2-14-2017)
Sec 130-55 Soliciting An Unlawful Sex Act
It is unlawful for any person, in a public place, to solicit another to engage
in any unlawful sexual conduct. A violation of this section is a Class B
misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 2017-02-01, § 1, 2-14-2017)
Sec 130-56 Riding Skateboards, Roller Skates, Roller Blades, Scooters Or
Bicycles
   (a)   The intent of this section is to protect public and private property
and to maintain order.
   (b)   Without prior permission from the owner or other person authorized to
grant permission, it is unlawful for anyone to ride or use a skateboard, roller
skates, roller blades, scooters or similar devices on private property.
   (c)   Violation of this section may be treated as a Class C misdemeanor.
   (d)   It is not a defense to the law that the property is not posted as "No
Trespassing" or "No Skateboarding or Bicycles" or in any other similar manner.
(Ord. No. 2017-02-01, § 1, 2-14-2017)
Sec 130-57 Weapons
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any firearm, BB
gun, air gun, pellet gun, gas- operated gun or other similar gun or instrument
within city limits, except:
      (1)   On a properly supervised range: or
      (2)   By special permit of the chief of police of the city for the use of
the gun or instrument for a valid and proper purpose, and for use in a manner
not likely to harm any person, animal, or property.
   (b)   Any person carrying a weapon, as defined by U.C.A § 76-10-501(6),
other than a peace officer on duty, upon entering any public place or attending
a public event, may be required by the operator of the establishment or the
sponsor of the event to remove his or her weapon and place it in the custody of
the operator of the establishment or the sponsor of the event for the duration
of the event.
   (c)   It is unlawful for any person to sell or give to a minor under the age
of 18 years, without written consent of the minor's parent or legal guardian, a
weapon, ammunition, or toy pistol by which dangerous and explosive substances
may be discharged.
   (d)   Justification as defense when allowed pursuant to the provisions of
U.C.A. § 76-2-4.
   (e)   Violation of this section may be treated as a Class C misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 2017-02-01, § 1, 2-14-2017)
ARTICLE 130-IV MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec
130-86 Fraud; Petty Larceny
Sec
130-87 Swindling
Sec
130-88 Public Consumption Of Liquor
Sec
130-89 Unauthorized Use Of Water
Sec
130-90 Injury To Utility Appurtenances
Sec
130-91 Parks Closed After Dark
Sec
130-92 Car Stereo Systems
Sec
130-93 Screening Of Swimming Pools
Sec 130-86 Fraud; Petty Larceny
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly and designedly, by false or
fraudulent representations or pretenses, obtain from any person, entity or
corporation, any property, money, goods, wares, chattel, services, effects or
other items of value with intent to cheat or defraud any person of the same, if
the value of the property from $0.01 to and including $300.00. Violation of
this act is punishable as a Class B misdemeanor.
State Law reference— Fraud, U.C.A. 1953, § 76-6-501 et seq.; theft, U.C.A.
1953, § 76-6-401 et seq.
Sec 130-87 Swindling
It is unlawful for any person to practice any game, trick or device of any kind
with intent to swindle another person, entity or corporation within the limits
of the city.
Sec 130-88 Public Consumption Of Liquor
It is unlawful for any person to drink liquor as defined in U.C.A. 1953, § 32B-
1-102 or have an open liquor container, or be under the influence of an
alcoholic beverage in any public place in the city. Except as otherwise
approved pursuant to and in accordance with section
112-34(9), it shall be unlawful for any person to consume any liquor as defined
in U.C.A. 1953, § 32B-1-102, or have an open liquor container, or to be under
the influence of an alcoholic beverage in any public park or its premises to
include buildings on its premises and adjoining park parking lots and parking
stalls.
Sec 130-89 Unauthorized Use Of Water
Every person who, with intent to defraud or injure, opens or causes to be
opened, or draws water from any stopcock, or faucet by which the flow of water
is controlled, after having been notified that the same has been closed or shut
for any specific cause, by order of competent authority, or who takes or uses
any water from any hydrant or other source of supply without first paying
thereof and/or obtaining permission to do so is guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor.
Sec 130-90 Injury To Utility Appurtenances
Every person who willfully breaks, digs up, obstructs or injures any pipe or
main for conducting gas, water or any works erected for supplying buildings
with gas, electricity, wastewater or water or any appurtenances or appendages
thereof or therewith connected is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
Sec 130-91 Parks Closed After Dark
It is unlawful for any person to remain in, on or upon any public park or its
premises, including adjacent parking lot or parking stalls after dark without
having first obtained a permit from the city manager or designee. A violation
of this section shall constitute a Class C misdemeanor.
Sec 130-92 Car Stereo Systems
   (a)   Purpose. Vehicle sound amplification systems which disturb the peace
and tranquility of persons and neighborhoods within the vicinity of the sound
and create traffic hazards. Excessively loud music and sounds distract other
drivers and interfere with the sounds of police and other emergency vehicles.
Noise from sound amplification systems in vehicles cannot be practically
regulated by imposing decibel limits as decibel measurements are difficult to
obtain from moving vehicles.
   (b)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Sound amplification system means any device, system, whether electrical or
mechanical or otherwise for amplifying sound or for producing or reproducing
sound; including but not limited to any radio, stereo, musical instrument,
compact disc or cassette.
      (1)   Except as authorized by law, no person shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system in or on a vehicle in such a manner
or with such a high volume as to disturb or annoy the quiet, peace, comfort or
repose of any person or neighborhood in the vicinity.
      (2)   Except as authorized by law, no person shall operate or permit the
operation of any sound amplification system in or on a vehicle which can be
heard at a distance with 100 feet.
   (c)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Amplification systems being operated to request assistance of an
emergency nature or to warn of a hazardous situation;
      (2)   Authorized emergency vehicle while being used in an emergency;
      (3)   Vehicles operated by utility companies while being used for
legitimate utility business;
      (4)   Vehicles used in parades, concerts, festivals, fairs or similar
activities;
      (5)   Amplification systems in vehicles which are operated on private
property with the permission of the owner and which are not audible beyond the
property line.
   (d)   Violations. Violations of this section are a Class C misdemeanor.
Sec 130-93 Screening Of Swimming Pools
All swimming pools shall be screened or fenced in a manner that the pool is
obscured from view by persons on public property.
ARTICLE 130-V SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA AND INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES
Sec
130-115 Definitions
Sec
130-116 Abuse Of Intoxicating Chemical Substance
Sec
130-117 Possession Of Synthetic Marijuana
Sec 130-115 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Intoxicating chemical substance means any substance not regulated by the
provisions of the Utah Controlled Substances Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 58-37-1 et
seq.), the provisions of title 32B, Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (U.C.A.
1953, title 32B) or the provisions of U.C.A. 1953, title 76, ch. 10, pt. 1
(U.C.A. 1953, § 76-10-101 et seq.) which:
   (a)   Is listed in the definition of "synthetic marijuana" set forth in this
section; or
   (b)   Is capable of causing a condition of intoxication, inebriation,
stupefaction, or the dulling of the brain or nervous system as a result of the
inhalation of the fumes or vapors of, or ingestion of, such chemical substance.
Synthetic marijuana means:
   (a)   Salvia Divinorum or Salvinorum A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as Salvia Divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
   (b)   Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-018);
   (c)   (6ar,10ar)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetrahydrobenzo[c] chromen-1-ol (also known as HU-210 or 1,1-
dimethylheptyl-11-hydroxy- delta8-tetrahydrocannabinol);
   (d)   2-(3-hydroxycyclohexyl)-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl) phenol(also known as
CP- 47,497), and the dimethylhexyl, dimethyloctyl and dimethylnonyl homologues
of CP-47,497;
   (e)   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-073);
   (f)   1-(2-(4-(morpholinyl)ethyl))-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as
JWH-200);
   (g)   1-Pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole (also known as JWH-250);
   (h)   1-Hexyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-019);
   (i)   1-Pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-398);
   (j)   N-benzylpiperazine (also known as BZP);
   (k)   1-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl) piperazine (also known as TFMPP);
   (l)   Any similar structural analogs of the above chemical compounds;
   (m)   Since nomenclature of these substances is not internationally
standardized, compounds of these structures, regardless of numerical
designation of atomic positions;
   (n)   Any other synthetic cannabinoids.
Sec 130-116 Abuse Of Intoxicating Chemical Substance
   (a)   A person is guilty of abuse of intoxicating chemical substances if:
      (1)   For the purpose of causing a condition of intoxication,
inebriation, stupefaction, or the dulling of his brain or nervous system, he
intentionally smells or inhales the fumes of any intoxicating chemical
substance; or
      (2)   The person offers, sells, or provides an intoxicating chemical
substance to another person, knowing or under circumstances which the person
should know that the other person or a third party intends to use that
intoxicating chemical substance in violation of subsection (a)(1) of this
section.
   (b)   Violation of subsection (a)(1) of this section is a Class B
misdemeanor with a minimum fine as provided in the schedule of fees and
penalties.
   (c)   Violation of subsection (a)(2) of this section is a Class B
misdemeanor with a minimum fine as provided in the schedule of fees and
penalties.
   (d)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to the lawfully prescribed use,
distribution, or sale of any substances for medical or dental purposes.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to include any
controlled substance regulated by the provisions of the Utah Controlled
Substances Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 58-37-1 et seq.).
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to include any substance
regulated by the provisions of the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (U.C.A.
1953, title 32B).
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to include any substance
regulated by the provisions of U.C.A. 1953, title 76, ch. 10, pt. 1 (U.C.A.
1953, § 76-10-101 et seq.).
Sec 130-117 Possession Of Synthetic Marijuana
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, including a corporation or other
entity, to manufacture, distribute, or possess any synthetic marijuana,
including their salts, isomers, homologues and salts of their isomers and
homologues.
   (b)   Violation of subsection (a) of this section is a Class B misdemeanor
with a minimum fine as provided in the schedule of fees and penalties.
   (c)   If any law enforcement officials have probable cause that a substance
is synthetic marijuana, including their salts, isomers, homologues and salts of
their isomers and homologues, it may be confiscated and destroyed by those law
enforcement officials.
   (d)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to the lawfully prescribed use,
distribution, or sale of any substances for medical or dental purposes.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to include any
controlled substance regulated by the provisions of the Utah Controlled
Substances Act (U.C.A. 1953, § 58-37-1 et seq.).
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to include any substance
regulated by the provisions of the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act (U.C.A.
1953, § 32B-1-101 et seq.).
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to include any substance
regulated by the provisions of U.C.A. 1953, title 76, ch. 10, pt. 1 (U.C.A.
1953, § 76-10-101 et seq.).
      (5)   It is not an offense under subsection (a) of this section if the
person was acting at the direction of an authorized law enforcement official to
enforce or ensure compliance with this article.
ARTICLE 130-VI OFFENSES BY OR AGAINST MINORS
Sec
130-148 Definitions
Sec
130-149 Penalty
Sec
130-150 Contributing To Delinquency
Sec
130-151 Detaining A Child
Sec
130-152 Unlawful Acts In Or About School Grounds
Sec
130-153 Leaving Children In Vehicle
Sec
130-154 Curfew Specifications
Sec 130-148 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Adult means a person 18 years of age or older, or a legally emancipated
juvenile.
Care and custody means the legal authority of a parent or guardian to supervise
or otherwise be responsible for a minor, or the express authority given from
such parent or legal guardian of a minor to a responsible adult to supervise or
otherwise be responsible for the activities and care of a minor.
Child and juvenile mean a person less than 18 years of age who is not legally
emancipated.
Delinquent child means:
   (a)   A child who has violated any state law or ordinance or regulation of a
subdivision of the state;
   (b)   A child who by reason of being wayward, habitually disobedient or is
uncontrolled by his parent, guardian or custodian;
   (c)   A child who so deports himself as to injure or endanger the morals or
health of himself or others;
   (d)   A child who is habitually truant from school or home.
Emergency errand means any errand or travel undertaken to directly and
immediately seek to prevent or reduce the consequences of an illness or injury,
criminal or potential criminal activity, or fire or other accident and shall
include seeking of aid and assistance from medical or emergency response
personnel or the purchase of medications.
Minor means any person under the age of 21 years.
Public place means any place open to the public or a substantial group of the
public, whether or not privately owned, including but not limited to parking
lots, interiors and exteriors of commercial establishments such as restaurants,
stores or places of entertainment, and the common areas of apartment houses,
condominium projects and business offices.
Sec 130-149 Penalty
Unless stated otherwise, violations of this article are a Class C misdemeanor.
Sec 130-150 Contributing To Delinquency
Any person 18 years of age or older who by any act, words or conduct, or by the
omission to do something required by law to be done, induces any child or
juvenile to do or to perform any act or to follow any course of conduct or to
deport himself in any manner that would cause or manifestly intend to cause
such juvenile to become or to remain delinquent, or who does any act tending to
cause a child to become or remain delinquent, or who aides, abets, encourages,
contributes to, or becomes responsible for the dependency, neglect or
delinquency of any juvenile is guilty of an offense.
Sec 130-151 Detaining A Child
Every state peace officer is hereby authorized to detain any such minor
willfully violating the provisions of this article until the parent or guardian
of the child shall take him into custody; but such officer shall immediately,
upon taking into custody of the child, make a reasonable effort to communicate
with the parent or guardian.
Sec 130-152 Unlawful Acts In Or About School Grounds
   (a)   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally disturb or prevent or
attempt to prevent the orderly conducting of activities, administration or
classes of any elementary, middle school, junior high, high school or college,
be it public or private, in the city.
   (b)   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally assault or molest any
student or employee of any elementary, middle school, junior high, high school
or college, be it public or private, on such school premises in the city.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, idle, wander, stroll or
play in, about or on any elementary, middle school, junior high or high school
grounds or buildings, either on foot, in or on any vehicle without having some
lawful business therein, or thereabouts, or in connection with such elementary,
middle school, junior high or high school or the employees thereon within the
city.
   (d)   It is unlawful for any person, except the natural parents or guardians
of any student, to go upon any of the grounds of any elementary, middle, junior
high or high school or in of the buildings thereon for the purpose of inducing
any student to miss classes.
   (e)   It is unlawful for any person to park or to move a vehicle in the
immediate vicinity of, or in the grounds of any elementary, middle, junior
high, high school or college in the city for the purpose of annoying or
molesting the students thereof, or to induce, entice or invite students or
employees into or on the vehicle for any unlawful purpose.
Sec 130-153 Leaving Children In Vehicle
It shall be unlawful for any person having in his custody, care or control or
under his guidance any child under six years of age to leave such child
unattended in any automobile, truck, trailer, or other vehicle upon a public
street, alley or parking lot open to the public. A child is unattended within
the meaning of this section if he is left in a vehicle alone or if not alone,
the oldest person with the child is under ten years of age. Exceptions to this
section are in the event of an emergency.
Sec 130-154 Curfew Specifications
It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age (hereafter referred to as a
"minor") to idle or loiter upon the streets or public places of the town
between the hours of 9:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.. It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of such minor to
encourage or allow such minor to idle or loiter upon the streets or public
place between the hours specified in this section unless accompanied by such
parent or guardian. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section
that the minor was:
   (a)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
   (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (e)   Involved in an emergency errand;
   (f)   Attending an official school, religious or recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a governmental, educational or religious
institution, civic organization or other similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor; or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, any such official government, school, religious or recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a governmental, educational or
religious institution, civic organization or other similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
   (g)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
   (h)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in
accordance with law.
(Ord. No. 091685-1, § 1, 9-16-1985)
ARTICLE 130-VII HANDBILLS
Sec
130-183 Definitions
Sec
130-184 Violations
Sec
130-185 Throwing Or Distributing In Public Places
Sec
130-186 Depositing On Uninhabited Or Vacant Private Premises
Sec
130-187 Distribution Prohibited Where Signs Posted
Sec
130-188 Distributing At Inhabited Private Premises
Sec 130-183 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Commercial handbill means any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed
matter which:
   (a)   Advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or thing;
   (b)   Directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
   (c)   While containing reading matter other than advertising matter, is
predominantly and essentially an advertisement and is distributed or circulated
for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of any person so
engaged as advertiser or distributor.
Noncommercial handbill means any printed or written matter, any sample or
device, dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other
printed matter not included in the definition of a commercial handbill as set
out in this section.
Private premises means any dwelling, house, building or other structure,
designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes,
whether inhabited temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and
includes any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling house, building or other structure.
Public place means any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
Sec 130-184 Violations
A violation of any of the provisions of this article are an infraction.
Sec 130-185 Throwing Or Distributing In Public Places
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or
upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the city; nor shall any
person hand out or distribute or sell any handbill in any public place;
provided, however, that it is not unlawful on any sidewalk, street or other
public place within the city for any person to hand out or distribute, without
charge to the receiver thereof, any handbill to any person willing to accept
it.
Sec 130-186 Depositing On Uninhabited Or Vacant Private Premises
No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or
upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or
vacant.
Sec 130-187 Distribution Prohibited Where Signs Posted
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill upon any private premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do
so, or if there is placed on said premises in a conspicuous position near the
entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words, "No Trespassing," "No Peddlers or
Agents," "No Advertisement," or any similar notice, indicating in any manner
that the occupants of said premises do not desire to be molested or have their
right of privacy disturbed, or to have any such handbills left upon such
premises.
Sec 130-188 Distributing At Inhabited Private Premises
No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill in or upon private premises which are inhabited, except by handing or
transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner, occupant or other person
then present in or upon such private premises; provided, however, that in case
of inhabited private premises which are not posted, as provided in this
article, such person, unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to do
so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private
premises, if such handbill is so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent
such handbill from being blown or drifted about such premises or sidewalks,
streets, or other public places, and except that mailboxes may not be so used
when so prohibited by federal postal law or regulations. The provisions of this
section shall not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor
to newspapers, except that newspapers shall be placed on private property in
such a manner as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property.
CHAPTER 131 ALARM SYSTEMS
Sec
131-1 Declaration
Sec
131-2 Definitions
Sec
131-3 False Alarms
Sec
131-4 Deliberate False Alarms
Sec
131-5 City Liability Limitations
Sec
131-6 Violation; Penalty
Sec 131-1 Declaration
It is hereby declared that the occurrence of false alarms at premises protected
by emergency alarm systems constitutes both a nuisance and a hazard to life and
property. In light of:
   (a)   The traffic danger inherent in the emergency response of police, fire
and emergency response vehicles and personnel;
   (b)   The danger caused by possible decreased caution on the part of
emergency personnel responding to a location where previous false alarms have
occurred; and
   (c)   The cost of money and manpower to respond where no actual emergency
exists; the city finds it necessary to the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens to enact the following provisions governing alarm systems.
Sec 131-2 Definitions
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Alarm system means any mechanism, equipment or device which is designed to
detect an unauthorized entry into any building or onto any property, or to
direct attention to a fire, robbery, burglary or other emergency in progress,
and to signal the above occurrences either by a local or audible alarm or by
silent or remote alarm. The following devices shall not constitute an alarm
system within the meaning of this definition:
   (a)   Devices which do not register alarms that are audible, visible or
perceptible outside the protected premises;
   (b)   Devices which are not installed, operated or used for the purpose of
reporting an emergency to the emergency response personnel;
   (c)   Alarm devices affixed to motor vehicles; and
   (d)   Alarm devices installed on a temporary basis by the emergency response
personnel.
Alarm user means the person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind in control of any building, structure or
facility or portion thereof wherein an alarm system is maintained.
Emergency means the existence of a fire, medical emergency or the commission or
attempted commission of a robbery, burglary or other criminal action.
Emergency personnel means peace officers, firefighters, paramedics and
emergency medical technicians.
False alarm means the activation of an alarm system which results in a response
by emergency personnel where an actual emergency does not exist and for which
no evidence or indication of criminal activity, fire or other hazard is
discovered. The term "false alarm" shall include negligently or accidentally
activated signals; signs which are the result of faulty, malfunctioning or
improperly installed or maintained equipment; signals which are purposely
activated to summon emergency personnel to non-emergency situations; and alarms
for which the actual cause is not determined. The term "false alarm" also
includes an alarm signal caused by conditions of nature which are normal for
that area. The term "false alarm" does not include an alarm signal caused by
extraordinarily violent conditions of nature which cannot be reasonably
anticipated by the alarm user.
Sec 131-3 False Alarms
   (a)   For each false alarm to which emergency personnel respond in any
calendar year, the alarm user shall be issued a warning or shall pay an
administrative service fee to the city as provided in the schedule of fees and
penalties.
   (b)   All administrative service fees assessed under this chapter shall be
paid to the city treasurer within 30 days of the date that notice of the
assessment of the service fee is mailed to the alarm user. If any service fee
is not paid within the time set forth in this subsection, late penalties shall
be assessed against the alarm user according to the schedule of fees and
penalties.
   (c)   The city shall use all available legal remedies to collect delinquent
service fees and late penalties. If the delinquent service fee is owed by a
business, payment of the fee and late penalties may be required prior to the
renewal of the alarm user's business license or alcoholic beverage license.
Sec 131-4 Deliberate False Alarms
No person shall cause any alarm to be transmitted to the department of public
safety knowing the same to be false or without basis in fact. Central stations
shall not request emergency personnel to respond to alarm scenes when
monitoring equipment indicates an alarm system malfunction signal. A first
violation of this section shall be a Class C misdemeanor and shall carry a
minimum penalty as established in the schedule of fees and penalties. Any
violation of this section which occurs within three years of a prior conviction
of this section shall be a Class B misdemeanor.
Sec 131-5 City Liability Limitations
Nothing in this chapter shall create or be construed to create a duty upon
emergency response personnel or the city to respond to any alarm whether or not
the alarm is false. An alarm, like any other request for service from emergency
personnel, may be responded to within the resources of emergency response
personnel in light of other responses required by emergency response personnel
at the time of the alarm.
Sec 131-6 Violation; Penalty
Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the failure of any person to comply
with the requirements of this chapter shall constitute a Class C misdemeanor.
TITLE XV LAND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
CHAPTER 2 PLANNING DOCUMENTS
CHAPTER 3 DEFINITIONS
CHAPTER 6 DECISION MAKING BODIES AND OFFICIALS
CHAPTER 7 ADMINISTRATIVE AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES
CHAPTER 8 NON-COMPLYING STRUCTURES, NON-CONFORMING USES AND LOTS
CHAPTER 9 ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 11 ZONES ESTABLISHED
CHAPTER 12 AGRICULTURAL ZONES
CHAPTER 13 RESIDENTIAL ZONES
CHAPTER 14 RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURE ZONES
CHAPTER 15 COMMERCIAL ZONES
CHAPTER 16 BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
CHAPTER 17 OPEN SPACE AND PUBLIC FACILITY ZONES
CHAPTER 21 AGRICULTURE PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE
CHAPTER 22 HISTORIC AREA OVERLAY ZONE (Reserved)
CHAPTER 23 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE
CHAPTER 24 SENSITIVE LANDS
CHAPTER 26 RECREATION RESORT ZONE
CHAPTER 27 EXTRACTION INDUSTRIES OVERLAY ZONE
CHAPTER 28 DEVELOPMENT IN AREAS OF SPECIAL CONSIDERATION
CHAPTER 31 NATURAL RESOURCE INVENTORY (Reserved)
CHAPTER 32 LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING
CHAPTER 33 DESIGN AND COMPATIBILITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 34 OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
CHAPTER 35 MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS
CHAPTER 36 SIGNS
CHAPTER 37 SUPPLEMENTARY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
CHAPTER 38 TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS (Reserved)
CHAPTER 39 SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 40 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 41 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
CHAPTER 42 HOME BASED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 43 MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 45 PUBLIC UTILITY SUBSTATIONS
CHAPTER 46 RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY PERSONS AND PERSONS WITH
ADISABILITY
CHAPTER 47 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES^1
CHAPTER 48 TEMPORARY USES
CHAPTER 49 USES IN HISTORIC BUILDINGS
CHAPTER 50 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 51 BED AND BREAKFAST AND RESIDENTIAL HOSTING FACILITIES
CHAPTER 52 CAMPING HOSTING FACILITIES
CHAPTER 1 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
Sec
152-1-1 Short Title
Sec
152-1-2 Authority
Sec
152-1-3 Purpose
Sec
152-1-4 Scope
Sec
152-1-5 Applicable Provisions Not In This Chapter
Sec
152-1-6 Organization Of Title
Sec
152-1-7 Licenses And Permits To Conform
Sec
152-1-8 Construction And Use To Conform To Plans
Sec
152-1-9 Certificate Of Occupancy
Sec
152-1-10 Conflicting Provisions
Sec
152-1-11 Transition Rules
Sec
152-1-12 Vested Rights
Sec 152-1-1 Short Title
This chapter shall be known as the LAND USE ORDINANCE OF HILDALE CITY and may
be so cited and pleaded and may be cited as the "Land Use Code" wherever
referenced in this chapter.
Sec 152-1-2 Authority
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the Utah Municipal Land Use, Development,
and Management Act, found at Section 10-9a-101 et seq. of the Utah Code, and
the police power delegated to local governments by the State of Utah.
Sec 152-1-3 Purpose
This chapter is designed and enacted to provide for the health, safety, and
welfare, and promote the prosperity, improve the morals, peace and good order,
comfort, convenience, and aesthetics of Hildale City and its present and future
inhabitants and businesses, to protect the tax base, to secure economy in
governmental expenditures, to foster the City’s agricultural and other
industries, to protect both urban and nonurban development, to protect and
ensure access to sunlight for solar energy devices, to provide fundamental
fairness in land use regulation, and to protect property values.
Sec 152-1-4 Scope
This chapter shall apply to all property within the corporate limits of the
city except property expressly exempted therefrom by the provisions of this
chapter or other lawful exemption.
Sec 152-1-5 Applicable Provisions Not In This Chapter
Provisions of the Land Use Code not found in this chapter which are applicable
to the use and development of land include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   (a)   Title 5, chapter 55, "Impact Fees", of the Hildale City Code.
   (b)   Title 15, chapter 151, "Building Regulations", of the Hildale City
Code.
   (c)   Title 15, Chapter 156, “Development Standards”, of the Hildale City
Code.
Sec 152-1-6 Organization Of Title
This section describes the basic organizational scheme used in this Land Use
Code and the types of regulations found herein. It is intended to be
informational only. Failure to follow the format described in this section
shall not be a basis for invalidating any action taken pursuant to this
chapter.
   (a)   Organizational Structure: the Land Use Code consists of six (6)
articles, as follows:
      (1)   Article I - General Provisions.
      (2)   Article II - Administration And Enforcement.
      (3)   Article III - Base Zones.
      (4)   Article IV - Special Purpose And Overlay Zones.
      (5)   Article V - Regulations Of General Applicability.
      (6)   Article VI - Regulations For Specific Uses.
   (b)   General Provisions:
The powers and duties of decision making bodies and officials, public hearing
and land use application review procedures, appeals, and variances. Enforcement
provisions set forth remedies available to the city to enforce violations of
this Land Use Code.
   (c)   Administration And Enforcement:
Administration and enforcement provisions in Article II of the Land Use
Codedescribe the powers and duties of decision making bodies and officials,
public hearing and land use application review procedures, appeals, and
variances. Enforcement provisions set forth remedies available to the city to
enforce violations of this chapter.
   (d)   Types Of Zones:
This Land Use Code establishes three (3) types of zones (also called "zoning
districts"): base zones, special purpose zones, and overlay zones.
      (1)   Base zones establish regulations and development standards
governing land uses allowed in each zone. Base zones are grouped into five (5)
general categories: Planning and Zoning Ordinances for Hildale City: Version 2
16 agricultural, residential, commercial, business and industrial, and open
space and public facilities.
      (2)   Special purpose zones consist of regulations that apply only in
limited instances or to special circumstances.
      (3)   Overlay zones address specific circumstances that apply to specific
geographic areas and which may traverse the boundaries of a number of base
zones. Overlay zone regulations apply in addition to base zone regulations.
   (e)   Types Of Regulations:
This Land Use Code includes the following kinds of regulations and development
standards:
      (1)   Base zone regulations, set forth in Article III of the Land Use
Code, specify land uses allowed as of right or allowed after issuance of a
conditional use permit. These regulations may be modified by overlay or special
purpose zone regulations, set forth in Article IV of this chapter, or augmented
by regulations for specific uses set forth in Article VI of this chapter. Base
zone and overlay regulations are further augmented by regulations of general
applicability set forth in Article V of this chapter.
      (2)   Development standards include fixed dimensional standards and
performance standards. Development standards control the height, size, location
and other particular aspects of structures and uses on sites intended for
development. These standards also prescribe setback and buffering requirements
between zones and between potentially incompatible uses. Fixed dimensional
standards are numerical maximum or minimum conditions which govern development
on a site. Performance standards establish certain criteria which must be met,
but allow flexibility as to the method of meeting the standard. In the event of
a conflict between any other provisions of this code and the Land Use Code, the
provisions of the Land Use Code shall apply.
Sec 152-1-7 Licenses And Permits To Conform
All departments, officials, and employees of the city vested with the duty or
authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the provisions of this
chapter and shall issue no permit or license for a use, building, or purpose
where the same would conflict with the provisions of this chapter. It shall be
a violation of this chapter for any person to perform, or order the performance
of, any act which is contrary to the provisions of this chapter or to fail to
perform any act which is required by the provisions of this chapter. Any permit
or license issued in violation of this chapter shall be null and void.
   (a)   Permits Required:
No building or structure shall be constructed, reconstructed, altered, or
moved, nor shall the use or status of land be changed except after the issuance
of valid permits which conform to the requirements of this chapter, unless no
permit is required by this chapter or by the construction codes adopted by the
city.
   (b)   Utility Service:
No electrical, sewer, telephone, water, or other utility line shall be
installed to serve any premises if such installation is or will be in violation
of this chapter.
Sec 152-1-8 Construction And Use To Conform To Plans
Building and other permits and certificates of occupancy issued by the city
authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth in the approved
plans and applications, and no other use, arrangement or construction. Use,
arrangement, or construction at variance with that shown on approved plans and
specifications shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
Sec 152-1-9 Certificate Of Occupancy
   (a)   Certificate Of Occupancy Required:
No land shall be used or occupied and no building hereafter structurally
altered or erected shall be used, until a certificate of occupancy has been
issued stating that the building or the proposed use thereof, or the use of the
land, complies with the provisions of this chapter or for renewing, changing or
extending of a non-conforming use, structure, lot, or other nonconformity. A
certificate of occupancy either for the whole or part of a building or
structure shall be applied for coincidentally with the application for a
building permit, and shall be issued after the erection or structural
alteration of such building or structure, or part thereof, has been completed
in conformity with the provisions of this title and the building code.
   (b)   Unlawful To Use Or Occupy:
It is unlawful, after 3 years from the effective date of this chapter, to use
or occupy or to permit the use or occupancy of any building or structure unless
a certificate of occupancy has been issued for such building or premises. It is
unlawful to use or occupy, or to allow to be used or occupied, any building or
structure with a use or occupancy that is different than specifically provided
for in a certificate of occupancy.
   (c)   Failure To Obtain Certificate Of Occupancy:
Failure to obtain a certificate of occupancy, within 3 years from the effective
date of this chapter, shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (d)   Nuisance:
The use or occupancy of any building for which a certificate of occupancy has
not been issued, after 3 years from the effective date of this chapter, is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be abated as such. It shall
also be a public nuisance for any building or structure to be used or occupied
in a manner different than authorized by a certificate of occupancy.
Sec 152-1-10 Conflicting Provisions
This chapter shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants,
agreements, other ordinances or laws, but shall prevail notwithstanding such
provisions which are less restrictive. In cases where provisions within this
chapter conflict, the most restrictive provision shall apply over the less
restrictive one unless the less restrictive provision specifically provides
otherwise.
Sec 152-1-11 Transition Rules
Nothing in this chapter shall require a change in any plans, construction, or
designated use of any building or structure if a complete application for the
same was submitted prior to the effective date of this chapter, unless such
application, or a permit issued thereunder, expires. If an application or
permit expires, any new permit shall conform to the requirements of this
chapter.
Sec 152-1-12 Vested Rights
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person who submits a complete
application pursuant to the provisions of this chapter is entitled to have such
application considered on the basis of provisions in effect when the
application is submitted.
   (a)   Complete Application:
An application shall be deemed "complete" when all materials required for the
application have been submitted, as set forth in this chapter.
   (b)   Substantial Action On Application:
If within one year after an application has been submitted the applicant has
not taken substantial action to pursue approval of the application, the
application shall expire and any vested rights thereunder shall terminate.
   (c)   Pending Ordinance Amendments:
If a zoning map or text amendment to this chapter which may affect an
application is pending when the application is submitted, the applicant shall
not be entitled to rely on such provisions but may be required to comply with
newly enacted provisions, as set forth below:
      (1)   A proposed amendment shall be deemed "pending" when the amendment
proposal first appears on a duly noticed planning commission or city council
agenda, whichever is sooner.
      (2)   An application affected by a pending amendment shall be subject to
the following requirements:
         a.   The application shall not be acted upon until six (6) months from
the date when the pending amendment was first noticed on a planning commission
or city council agenda unless:
            1.   The applicant voluntarily agrees to amend his or her
application to conform to the requirements of the proposed amendment; or
            2.   The proposed amendment is sooner enacted or defeated, as the
case may be.
         b.   If a pending amendment is enacted within six (6) months after
being noticed on a planning commission or city council agenda, an affected
application which was filed while the amendment was pending shall conform to
the enacted amendment.
         c.   If a pending amendment to this chapter is not enacted within six
(6) months after being noticed on a planning commission or city council agenda,
the amendment shall no longer be considered pending and any affected
application may be considered without regard to the previously pending
amendment.
   (d)   Preservation Of A Vested Right:
      (1)   An applicant who has a vested right under this chapter shall
proceed with reasonable diligence to exercise development rights authorized by
an approved application. Failure to proceed with reasonable diligence on an
approved application prior to the expiration date of such application, as set
forth in this chapter, shall terminate vested rights associated with such
application.
      (2)   An applicant with vested rights shall continually conform to all
conditions of approval of an application. An applicant's failure to do so shall
constitute the applicant's knowing and willful waiver of the applicant's vested
rights under such application.
   (e)   Extent Of Vested Rights:
An application approved under this chapter only authorizes the thing applied
for under the application.
   (f)   Termination Of A Vested Right:
A vested right may be voided if the land use authority, on the record, finds
that a compelling, countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by
recognition of the vested right.
   (g)   Applicability Of Generally Applicable Ordinances:
Generally applicable provisions of this chapter and other city ordinances and
regulations shall apply to all property, notwithstanding the establishment of a
vested right.
CHAPTER 2 PLANNING DOCUMENTS
Sec
152-2-1 Purpose
Sec
152-2-2 General Plan
Sec
152-2-3 Road Master Plan And Official Map Sec 152-2-4 Capital Facilities Plan
Sec 152-2-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to identify planning documents which provide the
policy foundation for this chapter and to set forth the basis for preparing and
adopting such plans.
Sec 152-2-2 General Plan
   (a)   Purpose:
In order to accomplish the purposes set forth in Article I of this chapter the
city will prepare and adopt a comprehensive, long range general plan for
present and future needs of the city, and growth and development of the land
within the city. The plan may provide for:
      (1)   Health, general welfare, safety, energy conservation,
transportation, prosperity, civic activities, aesthetics, and recreational,
educational, and cultural opportunities.
      (2)   Reduction of the waste of physical, financial, or human resources
that result from either excessive congestion or excessive scattering of
population.
      (3)   Efficient and economical use, conservation, and production of the
supply of food and water, and drainage, sanitary, and other facilities and
resources.
      (4)   Use of energy conservation and solar and renewable energy
resources.
      (5)   Protection of urban development.
      (6)   Protection and promotion of air quality.
      (7)   An official map, pursuant to title 72, chapter 5, part 4,
transportation corridor preservation, of the Utah Code.
      (8)   The protection or promotion of moderate income housing.
   (b)   Plan Preparation:
The planning commission shall make and recommend to the city council a proposed
general plan for areas within the city. The plan may include areas outside the
boundaries of the city.
   (c)   Scope:
The general plan shall show the city's recommendations for development of the
territory covered by the plan, and may consist of text, maps, plats, charts,
and descriptive and explanatory matter. The city council shall determine the
comprehensiveness, extent, and format of the general plan.
      (1)   The general plan shall include a plan for moderate income housing
as required by section 152-9a-408 of the Utah Code, as amended.
      (2)   The general plan may include, among other things:
         a.   A land use element that:
            1.   Designates the proposed general distribution and location and
extent of uses of land for housing, business, industry, agriculture,
recreation, education, public buildings and grounds, open space, and other
categories of public and private uses of land as appropriate; and
            2.   Includes a statement of the standards of population density
and building intensity recommended for the various land use categories covered
by the plan.
         b.   A transportation and circulation element consisting of the
general location and extent of existing and proposed freeways, arterial and
collector streets, mass transit, and any other modes of transportation that are
appropriate, all correlated with the land use element of the plan.
         c.   An environmental element that addresses:
            1.   The protection, conservation, development, and use of natural
resources, including the quality of air, forests, soils, rivers and other
waters, wildlife, minerals, and other natural resources; and
            2.   The reclamation of land, flood control, prevention and control
of the pollution of streams and other waters, regulation of the use of land on
hillsides, stream channels and other environmentally sensitive areas, the
prevention, control, and correction of the erosion of soils, protection of
watersheds and wetlands, and the mapping of known geologic hazards.
         d.   A public services and facilities element showing general plans
for sewage, waste disposal, drainage, local utilities, rights of way,
easements, and facilities for them, police and fire protection, and other
public services.
         e.   A rehabilitation, redevelopment, and conservation element
consisting of plans and programs for:
            1.   Historic preservation;
            2.   Elimination of blight; and
            3.   Redevelopment, including housing sites, business and
industrial sites, and public building sites.
         f.   An economic element composed of appropriate studies and an
economic development plan that may include review of municipal revenue and
expenditures, revenue sources, identification of base industry, primary and
secondary market areas, employment, and retail sales activity.
         g.   A parks, trails, and open space element that establishes a
comprehensive plan for the development of parks and trails, and preservation of
open space.
         h.   Recommendations for implementing the general plan, including the
use of land use and subdivision regulations, capital improvement plans, and
other appropriate actions.
         i.   Any other element the city considers appropriate.
   (d)   Notice Of Intent:
Notice of intent to prepare a general plan or comprehensive general plan
amendment.
      (1)   Before preparing a proposed general plan or a comprehensive general
plan amendment, the city shall provide ten (10) calendar days' notice of its
intent to prepare a proposed general plan or a comprehensive general plan
amendment to:
         a.   Each affected entity;
         b.   The automated geographic reference center created in section 63F-
1-506;
         c.   The association of governments, established pursuant to an
interlocal agreement under title 11, chapter 13, interlocal cooperation act, of
which the municipality is a member; and
         d.   The state planning coordinator appointed under section 63J-4-202.
      (2)   Each notice under subsection D1 of this section shall:
         a.   Indicate that the municipality intends to prepare a general plan
or a comprehensive general plan amendment, as the case may be;
         b.   Describe or provide a map of geographic area that will be
affected by the general plan or amendment;
         c.   Be sent by mail, e-mail, or other effective means;
         d.   Invite the affected entities to provide information for the
municipality to consider in the process of preparing, adopting, and
implementing a general plan or amendment concerning:
            1.   Impacts that the use of land proposed in the proposed general
plan or amendment may have; and
            2.   Uses of land within the municipality that the affected entity
is considering that may conflict with the proposed general plan or amendment;
and
         e.   Include the address of an internet website, if the municipality
has one, and the name and telephone number of a person where more information
can be obtained concerning the municipality's proposed general plan or
amendment.
   (e)   Plan Adoption By Planning Commission:
After completing a proposed general plan for all or part of the area within the
city, the planning commission shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the
proposed plan as provided in section
152-7-4 of this chapter at least ten (10) days before the date of the hearing.
After the public hearing, the planning commission may make changes to the
proposed general plan. The planning commission shall then forward the proposed
general plan to the city council.
   (f)   Plan Adoption By City Council:
The city council shall schedule and hold a public hearing on the proposed
general plan recommended to it by the planning commission as provided in
section
152-7-4 of this chapter at least ten (10) days before the date of the hearing.
After the public hearing, the city council may make any modifications to the
proposed general plan that it considers appropriate. The city council may adopt
the proposed general plan without amendment; amend the proposed general plan
and adopt or reject it as amended; or reject the proposed general plan.
   (g)   Legal Status Of Plan:
The general plan shall be considered only as an advisory guide for growth and
development of the land within the city.
   (h)   Amendment Of Plan:
The general plan may be amended by following the procedures set forth in
subsections E and F of this section. General plan amendments shall be subject
to the following requirements:
      (1)   Persons wishing to propose a general plan amendment shall file
their proposals and shall pay the fee established by the fee schedule adopted
by the city council. Proposed general plan amendments will be considered by the
planning commission twice a year, at the February and August meetings.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city council or planning commission may, at
any time by majority vote, authorize preparation and consideration of proposed
general plan amendments.
      (2)   Persons proposing general plan amendments shall do the survey and
analysis work necessary to justify the proposed amendment. To ensure the
planning commission and city council have sufficient information to evaluate
each proposal, an applicant shall submit the following information:
         a.   For map amendments:
            1.   Eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") map
showing the area of the proposed amendment;
            2.   Current copy of county assessor's parcel map showing the area
of the proposed amendment;
            3.   Mapped inventory of existing land uses within the area of the
proposed amendment and extending one-half (1/2) mile beyond such area;
            4.   Correct property addresses of parcels included within the area
of the proposed amendment;
            5.   Written statement specifying the potential use of property
within the area of the proposed amendment;
            6.   Written statement explaining why the existing general plan
designation for the area is no longer appropriate or feasible;
            7.   Analysis of the potential impacts of the proposed amendment on
existing infrastructure and public services such as traffic, streets,
intersections, water and sewer, storm drains, electrical power, fire
protection, garbage collection, etc.; and
            8.   As part of the general plan map amendment process, the
applicant shall attempt to collect the signature of the property owner or
authorized agent or, in the case of amendments affecting multiple properties,
the signatures of a majority of the persons who own property within the area
proposed for the general plan map amendment.
         b.   For text amendments:
            1.   Written statement showing the desired language change;
            2.   Written statement explaining why existing general plan
language is no longer appropriate or feasible;
            3.   Analysis of the potential impacts of the proposed amendment;
and
            4.   Map showing affected areas if text changes will affect
specific geographic areas.
   (i)   Effect Of Plan On Public Uses:
After the city council has adopted a general plan or any amendments to the
general plan, no street, park, or other public way, ground, place, or space, no
publicly owned building or structure, and no public utility, whether publicly
or privately owned, may be constructed or authorized until and unless it
conforms to the plan, or it has been considered by the planning commission and,
after receiving the advice of the planning commission, the city council
approves it as an amendment to the general plan.
Sec 152-2-3 Road Master Plan And Official Map
   (a)   Adoption:
The planning commission has recommended and the city council has adopted as
part of the general plan a future land use map which shows existing and
proposed roads at various right of way widths. Such roads as shown on the
future land use map shall be known as the road master plan. The road master
plan shall serve as the basis for any official adopted map, pursuant to title
72, chapter 5, part 4, transportation corridor preservation, of the Utah Code.
   (b)   Amendments:
Amendments to the road master plan may be made in accordance with the
procedures set forth in section
152-2-2 of this chapter.
   (c)   Effect Of Official Map:
      (1)   An official map does not:
         a.   Require a landowner to dedicate and construct a street as a
condition of development approval, except under circumstances set forth in
subsection C2 of this section; or
         b.   Require the city to immediately acquire property it has
designated for eventual use as a public street.
      (2)   This subsection C shall not prohibit the city from:
         a.   Requiring a landowner to take into account the proposed streets
in the planning of a development proposal;
         b.   Acquiring property through purchase, gift, voluntary dedication,
or eminent domain; or
         c.   Requiring the dedication and improvement of a street if the
street is found necessary by the city because of a proposed development.
      (3)   The official map of the city shall not be used to
unconstitutionally prohibit the development of property designated for eventual
use as a public street.
      (4)   The official map shall be available for public inspection upon
request.
Sec 152-2-4 Capital Facilities Plan
   (a)   Capital Facilities Availability:
In the event capital facilities are unavailable to serve a proposed development
project subject to the requirements of this chapter, the capital facilities
plan adopted pursuant to title 5, chapter 55 of this code shall be used as a
guide to determine when needed capital facilities may be available.
   (b)   Capital Facilities Plan Preparation:
The capital facilities plan shall be prepared as provided in section 11-36-201
of the Utah Code.
CHAPTER 3 DEFINITIONS
Sec
152-3-1 Purpose
Sec
152-3-2 Scope
Sec
152-3-3 Rules Of Construction
Sec
152-3-4 Definitions Of Words And Phrases
Sec 152-3-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to provide rules of construction, and
definitions so that the provisions of this chapter may be readily understood
and consistently administered.
Sec 152-3-2 Scope
The rules of construction, and definitions contained in this chapter shall
apply to the entirety of this chapter.
Sec 152-3-3 Rules Of Construction
   (a)   General:
All provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this chapter shall
be liberally construed to accomplish the purposes of this chapter.
   (b)   Computation Of Time:
The time within which an act is to be done shall be computed as by excluding
the first day and including the last day. If the last day is a Saturday,
Sunday, or holiday, then the last day shall be the next following business day.
In computing the time required for public hearing notice, the day of the
hearing shall be excluded.
   (c)   Conjunctions:
Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, conjunctions shall be
interpreted as follows:
      (1)   "And" indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events shall apply.
      (2)   "Or" indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply.
      (3)   "Either . . . or" indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
   (d)   Mandatory And Discretionary Terms:
The word "shall" is always mandatory. The word "should" means the matter
described ought to be accomplished if reasonable and possible under the
circumstances. The word "may" is permissive.
   (e)   Nontechnical And Technical Words:
Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common use and
understanding of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others
as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be
construed and understood according to such meaning.
   (f)   Tense, Number, And Gender:
Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as the past
or present unless the context clearly indicates the contrary. The singular
shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular as the
context and application of this chapter may reasonably suggest. Words of one
gender shall apply to any person, natural or fictitious, regardless of gender,
as the context and application of this chapter may reasonably suggest.
   (g)   Fractional Numbers:
In determining compliance with the numerical requirements of this chapter, any
computation or measurement resulting in a fractional number, except for acres,
shall be rounded to the nearest whole number.
   (h)   Public Officials, Bodies And Agencies:
All public officials, bodies, and agencies to which reference is made are those
of the City of Hildale, Utah, unless otherwise indicated.
   (i)   Delegation Of Authority:
Whenever a provision appears requiring the city manager, head of a department,
or some other officer or employee to do some act or perform some duty, it shall
be construed to authorize the city manager, head of the department, or other
officer to designate, delegate, and authorize professional level subordinates
to perform the required act or duty unless the terms of the provision or
section specify otherwise.
Sec 152-3-4 Definitions Of Words And Phrases
As used in this chapter, the words and phrases defined in this section shall
have the following meanings unless the context clearly indicates a contrary
meaning. Words not included herein but defined in the building code shall be
construed as defined therein.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A detached subordinate building located on the same lot
with a main building, the use of which is customarily incidental to that
permitted in the main building, or to the land upon which the main building is
located.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT: A subordinate residential living area created within a
single-family dwelling or on the same residential lot as a single-family
dwelling which meets the requirements of Article XLI of this chapter.
ACCESSORY USE: See definition of Use, Accessory.
ADJACENT LANDOWNERS: A property owner of record, according to the records of
the county recorder, whose property abuts all or part of property proposed for
development.
AFFECTED ENTITY: A county, municipality, independent special district under
title 17A, chapter 2, independent special districts, local district under title
17B, chapter 2, local districts, school district, interlocal cooperation entity
established under title 11, chapter 13, interlocal cooperation act, specified
public utility, or the Utah Department of Transportation, if:
   (a)   The entity's services or facilities are likely to require expansion or
significant modification because of an intended use of land;
   (b)   The entity has filed with the municipality a copy of the entity's
general or long range plan; or
   (c)   The entity's boundaries or facilities are within one mile of land
which is the subject of a general plan amendment or land use ordinance change.
AGRICULTURAL BUSINESS: The conduct of agricultural activity involving the
keeping, grazing and pasturing of domestic animals or growing and harvesting of
crops for commercial gain. Typical uses include the raising of animals for food
or for the production of food in excess of that required for a household and
the boarding or stabling of animals other than those owned and used by
household members.
AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRY: An industry or business involving agricultural products
in packaging, treatment, sales, intensive feeding, or storage and the initial
processing of agricultural products that is reasonably required to take place
in close proximity to the site where they are produced. Typical uses include
packinghouses, commercial feed yards, fur farms, commercial milk production,
food packaging or processing plants, and commercial poultry or egg production.
Slaughterhouses and intensive animal feeding operations are specifically
excluded from this definition.
AGRICULTURAL SALES AND SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in the sale
or rental of farm tools and implements, feed and grain, tack, animal care
products, anhydrous ammonia, farm supplies and the like, and including
accessory food sales and machinery repair services. This definition shall also
include greenhouses which are used for wholesale and/or retail purposes.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of soil, raising of crops, horticultural activities,
gardening, keeping or grazing of domestic animals and noncommercial feed yards,
but not including any agricultural business or industry.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare less than twenty six feet (26') wide for the use
of pedestrians and vehicles providing a secondary means of access to the rear
of abutting properties.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: A building where small animals or pets are given medical or
surgical treatment and are cared for during the time of such treatment. "Animal
hospital" does not include use of the premises as a kennel or a place where
animals or pets are boarded for remuneration except when incidental to a
principal use.
ANIMAL SPECIALTIES: The production of small animals and associated products.
Typical uses include chicken, turkey, and rabbit raising, egg production,
apiaries, and aviaries.
ANIMAL UNIT: The number of animals equivalent to one mature beef cow, based on
the daily output (in pounds) of manure.
ANIMALS AND FOWL FOR RECREATION AND FAMILY FOOD PRODUCTION: The keeping of
animals on a lot for exclusive use by persons residing thereon so long as the
animals and fowl are not used for commercial purposes.
APARTMENT COURT: Any building or group of buildings which contain dwelling
units. See definition of Dwelling, Group.
APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple-Family.
APPEAL AUTHORITY: The person, board, commission, agency or other body
designated by ordinance to decide an appeal of a decision of a land use
application or a variance.
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: See section
152-46-3 of this chapter.
AUDITORIUM OR STADIUM: An open, partially enclosed or fully enclosed facility
used or intended to be used primarily for spectator sports, entertainment
events, expositions and other public gatherings. Typical uses include
convention and exhibition halls, sports arenas and amphitheaters.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any lot, land or area used for the storage, keeping,
dismantling or salvaging of three (3) or more unlicensed automobiles or parts
thereof.
BAIL BOND SERVICE: An establishment which provides sureties to procure the
release of persons under arrest by becoming financially responsible for their
appearance at the time and place designated.
BANK OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: An organization involved in deposit banking,
finance, investment, mortgages, trusts, and the like. Typical uses include
commercial banks, credit unions, finance companies, and savings institutions.
BASE DENSITY: The number of dwelling units allowed in a planned development
calculated pursuant to the provisions of chapter 24 of this chapter.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building that is partly or completely below grade
plane. A basement shall not be considered as a story above grade plane where
the finished surface of the floor above the basement is:
   (a)   More than six feet (6') above grade plane;
   (b)   More than six feet (6') above the finished ground level for more than
fifty percent (50%) of the total building perimeter; or
   (c)   More than twelve feet (12') above the finished ground level at any
point.
BED AND BREAKFAST, HOME: A limited commercial activity within an owner occupied
residential structure where not more than three (3) sleeping rooms may be
rented to paying guests on a nightly basis and the breakfast meal is provided
for in the rental rate pursuant to the requirements of chapter 51 of this
chapter.
BED AND BREAKFAST INN: A commercial activity within a residential structure
where not less than four (4) nor more than ten (10) rooms may be rented to
paying guests on a nightly basis and the breakfast meal is provided for in the
rental rate pursuant to the requirements of chapter 51 of this chapter.
BERM: A mound of earth, generally two (2) to six feet (6') high, used to
shield, screen, and buffer undesirable views and to separate land uses.
BILLBOARD: See chapter 36 of this chapter.
BLOCK: Land surrounded by streets and other rights of way other than an alley,
or land which is designated as a block on any recorded subdivision plat.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guestrooms, where, for
compensation, meals are provided for not more than fifteen (15) persons.
BUILDABLE AREA: The area of a lot within front, rear and side yard setback
lines where a main building may be constructed.
BUILDING: A permanently located structure having a roof supported by columns or
walls for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any person, animal, article, or
chattel.
BUILDING AREA: The area included within the surrounding exterior walls (or
exterior walls and firewalls) exclusive of vent shafts and courts. Areas of a
building not provided with surrounding walls shall be included in the building
area if such areas are included within the horizontal projection of the roof or
floor above.
BUILDING FACADE: Any exterior wall of a building including windows, doors, and
mansard, but not including a pitched roof.
BUILDING, HISTORIC: Any building listed in the national register of historic
places, the Utah state register of historic sites, or the Hildale City historic
landmarks register.
BUILDING LINE, FRONT: A line parallel to the front lot line and at a distance
therefrom equal to the required depth of the front yard and extending across
the entire width of the lot.
BUILDING LINE, REAR: A line parallel to the rear lot line and at a distance
therefrom equal to the required depth of the rear yard and extending across the
entire width of the lot.
BUILDING LINE, SIDE: A line parallel to the side lot line and at a distance
therefrom equal to the required depth of the side yard and extending between
the front and rear building lines.
BUILDING, MAIN: The principal building or one of the principal buildings
located on a lot designed or used to accommodate the primary use to which the
premises are devoted. Where a permissible use involves more than one structure
designed or used for the primary purpose, as in the case of apartment groups,
each such permitted building on one "lot" as defined herein shall be deemed a
main building.
BUILDING OR STRUCTURE HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the grade plane to the
average height of the highest roof surface.
BUILDING, PUBLIC: A building owned and operated or owned and intended to be
operated by a public agency of the United States of America, of the State of
Utah or any of its Subdivisions.
BUS TERMINAL: A building or premises for the transient housing or parking of
commercial motor vehicles and for the pick up and discharge of fare paying
intercity passengers. Accessory uses may include ticket offices, luggage
checking facilities, and similar uses.
BUSINESS EQUIPMENT RENTAL AND SUPPLIES: An establishment primarily engaged in
the display, storage, and sale of goods or services used by office,
professional and service establishments. Includes the sale, rental or repair of
equipment and supplies used by office, professional, and service
establishments, but excludes automotive, construction and farm equipment.
Typical uses include office equipment and supply firms, small business machine
repair shops and hotel equipment and supply firms.
CAPITAL FACILITIES: Any or all of the following facilities that have a life
expectancy of ten (10) or more years: water rights and water supply, treatment,
and distribution facilities; wastewater collection and treatment facilities;
stormwater, drainage, and flood control facilities; roadway facilities; parks
and recreation facilities, open space and trails; and public safety facilities.
CAPITAL FACILITIES PLAN: That plan required by section 11-36-201 of the Utah
Code for public facilities, including, but not limited to, water, stormwater,
parks, open space, and transportation, as the same may be amended from time to
time.
CAR WASH: An establishment primarily engaged in cleaning or detailing motor
vehicles, whether self-service, automatic or by hand.
CARPORT: A covered automobile parking space with at least two (2) sides open.
For the purposes of this chapter a carport shall be subject to all of the
regulations prescribed for a private Garage.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead, whether
human or animal, including crematoriums and mausoleums.
CHILD CARE CENTER: Child care provided in a non-residential setting on a
regular schedule. The number of children allowed will be determined by the
facility's total square footage. Excludes the following:
   (a)   Kindergartens or nursery schools or other daytime programs operated by
public or private elementary or secondary schools or institutions of higher
learning;
   (b)   Facilities operated in connection with a fitness center, shopping
center or other activity where children are cared for temporarily while parents
or custodians of the children are occupied on the premises or are in the
immediate vicinity and readily available; or
   (c)   Special activities or programs, including athletics, crafts
instruction and similar activities, conducted on a periodic basis by civic,
charitable, private, or governmental organizations.
CHURCH OR PLACE OF WORSHIP: Any structure or site such as a church, synagogue,
chapel, sanctuary or cathedral, used primarily for collective or individual
involvement with a religious activity, such as rites, rituals, ceremonies,
prayers and discussions, and for church related activities.
CITY: The City of Hildale, Utah, a Municipal corporation.
CITY ENGINEER: A registered civil engineer so appointed or employed by the
City.
CLEAR VIEW AREA: Areas at intersecting streets and driveways where unobstructed
vision is maintained as required by this chapter. See subsection
152-37-9E of this chapter.
CLINIC: See definition of medical service.
CLUB OR SERVICE ORGANIZATION: An establishment or organization providing
meeting, recreational or social facilities for a private or nonprofit
association, except a private club as defined herein. Typical uses include
lodges, meeting halls, recreation centers, and areas operated by social clubs,
fraternal and service organizations.
CLUB, PRIVATE: Any nonprofit corporation operating as a social club,
recreational, fraternal, or athletic association, or kindred association which
allows the consumption of liquor on its premises pursuant to a license granted
by the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission.
COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY: An institution of higher education offering
undergraduate or graduate degrees and including, but not limited to, such
accessory uses as dormitories, museums, stadiums, and theaters.
CONDITIONAL USE: See definition of Use, Conditional.
CONDOMINIUM: The ownership of a single unit in a multi-unit project together
with an undivided interest in common in the common areas and facilities of the
property created pursuant to the Utah condominium ownership act.
CONDOMINIUM DECLARATION: See definition of Declaration.
CONDOMINIUM PROJECT: A real estate plan, project, or property where two (2) or
more units, whether contained in existing or proposed apartments, commercial,
or industrial buildings or structures or otherwise, are separately offered or
proposed to be offered for sale pursuant to the Utah condominium ownership act.
CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING: A governmental action that results in a taking of
private property so that compensation to the owner of the property is required
by the fifth or fourteenth amendment of the Constitution of the United States
or article I, section 22 of the Utah Constitution. CONSTRUCTION: The materials,
architecture, assembly, and installation of a building or structure.
CONSTRUCTION SALES AND SERVICE: An establishment engaged in the retail or
wholesale sale of materials and services used in the construction of buildings
or other structures, as well as the outdoor storage of construction equipment
or materials on lots other than construction sites. Typical uses include
lumberyards, home improvement centers, lawn and garden supply stores,
construction equipment sales and rental, electrical, plumbing, air conditioning
and heating supply stores, swimming pool sales, construction and trade
contractors' offices and storage yards, and public utility corporation storage
yards.
CONVALESCENT CARE FACILITY: An establishment providing bed care and inpatient
services for persons needing regular medical attention but excluding a facility
providing surgical or emergency medical services or providing care for mental
illness or communicable disease. Typical uses include nursing homes and rest
homes.
CONVENIENCE STORE: An establishment, not exceeding five thousand (5,000) square
feet of gross floor area, serving a limited market area and engaged in the
retail sale or rental, from the premises, of food, beverages and other
frequently or recurrently needed items for household use, excluding gasoline
sales.
CONVERTIBLE LAND: A building site which is a portion of the common areas and
facilities described by metes and bounds, within which additional units or
limited common areas and facilities may be created pursuant to the Utah
condominium ownership act.
CORRECTIONAL FACILITY: A facility providing housing and care for individuals
legally confined for violations of law.
COURT: A space, open and unobstructed to the sky, located at or above grade
level on a lot and bounded on three (3) or more sides by walls of a building or
group of buildings.
CULINARY WATER AUTHORITY: The department, agency, or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water
system and sources for the subject Property.
CULTURAL SERVICE: A library, museum or similar public or registered nonprofit
organizational use displaying, preserving, and exhibiting objects of community
and cultural interest in one or more of the arts and sciences.
DECIBEL (dB): A unit of measure used to express intensity of noise.
DECLARATION: The legal instrument by which property is subjected to the
provisions of the Utah condominium ownership act.
DEDICATION: The setting aside of land by an owner for any general and/or public
uses, reserving for himself no other rights than such as are compatible with
the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which the property is
devoted.
DENSITY, BASE: The number of dwelling units per acre allowed in a planned
development as determined pursuant to the yield plan method set forth in
subsection
152-23-8B of this chapter.
DENSITY BONUS: The number of additional dwelling units per acre allowed in a
planned development pursuant to subsection
152-23-8C of this chapter.
DENSITY, GROSS: The number of dwelling units per acre within a subdivision or
other development based on the total tract area whether developable or not,
including streets, water areas, and open space conservation areas.
ENSITY, NET: The number of dwelling units per acre within a subdivision or
other development, not including public streets and other public property.
DEVELOPABLE LAND: Land under thirty percent (30%) slope which is capable of
being improved, subject to the requirements of this code.
DEVELOPER: The person, association or corporation developing or causing to be
developed the property subject to the provisions of this chapter.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL: Any written authorization from the city that authorizes
the commencement of development activity.
DEVELOPMENT OR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY:
Any of the following:
   (a)   Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate, including,
but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling,
grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   (b)   Any construction, reconstruction, or expansion of a building,
structure, or use.
   (c)   Any change in the use of a building or structure.
   (d)   The total area of a lot on which a building permit is to be issued or
the total area of property being improved.
   (e)   Any change in the use of land that creates additional demand and need
for capital facilities.
   (f)   The property being developed and/or subdivided.
   (g)   The act, process or result of developing.
Not to include; any remodeling of a dwelling that does not increase the square
footage of any structure. DISABILITY: See section
152-46-3 of this chapter.
DISTRICT: See definition of Zone.
DUPLEX: See definition of Dwelling, Two-Family.
DWELLING: Any building, or portion thereof, having one or more dwelling units
occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or
more families as permitted by this chapter, but not including hotels, motels,
boarding houses, or other facilities offering transient lodging facilities.
DWELLING, EARTH SHELTERED: An engineered dwelling unit located primarily
underground for the purpose of energy conservation.
DWELLING, GROUP: Two (2) or more dwellings which occupy the same lot and have
yards and open space in common.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A dwelling having three (3) or more dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by one
(1) family and having only one (1) dwelling unit.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY WITH ACCESSORY APARTMENT: A building having only one
(1) dwelling unit and one (1) accessory apartment.
DWELLING, TEMPORARY: A manufactured/mobile home used for temporary residential
purposes as provided in chapter 43 of this chapter.
DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE: A dwelling unit in a row of at least three (3) such units
where each unit has its own front and rear exterior access, no unit is located
above or below another unit, and each unit is separated from any other unit by
one (1) or more vertical common fire resistant walls.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two (2)
families and having only two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING UNIT: One (1) or more rooms in a dwelling designed for or occupied as
separate living quarters which provide sleeping and sanitary facilities and
which includes kitchen facilities, all for exclusive use by a single family
maintaining a household.
ELDERLY PERSON: See section
152-46-3 of this chapter.
EXTERNAL ILLUMINATION: Lighting which illuminates a building or structure from
a remote position or from outside of the building or structure.
FAMILY: Any one (1) of the following who occupies a dwelling unit:
   (a)   One (1) person living alone.
   (b)   Two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption, or other
legal relationship living together as a single housekeeping unit; and up to two
(2) other unrelated persons residing on the same premises where the
housekeeping unit is located.
   (c)   Two (2) unrelated persons and the children of either of them.
   (d)   Five (5), or fewer, unrelated individuals living together as a single
housekeeping unit.
FARMERS' MARKET: An establishment or premises where farm products from local
farmers are sold at retail from covered or open air areas designated for
individual retailers.
FENCE: A structure serving as an enclosure, barrier, or boundary, which defines
an outdoor space.
FENCE, SIGHT OBSCURING: A fence that permits vision through not more than ten
percent (10%) of each square foot of fencing.
FINAL PLAT: The final drawing of a subdivision and dedication prepared for
filing with the County Recorder which complies with applicable requirements set
forth in this chapter, other titles of this Code, and the Utah Code.
FLOOR AREA, TOTAL: See definition of gross floor area.
FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or area in which freight brought by motor trucks
or rail is assembled and/or stored for routing in intrastate or interstate
shipment by motor truck or rail.
FRONTAGE: All property fronting on one (1) side of the street between
intersecting or intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way,
waterway, end of a dead end street, or political subdivision boundary, measured
along the street line. An intercepting street shall determine only the boundary
of the frontage on the side of the street which it intercepts.
FUNERAL HOME: An establishment engaged in preparing human deceased for burial
and conducting funerals.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building designed or used for the storage of
automobiles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is
accessory.
GARDEN CENTER: An establishment primarily engaged in the retail sales of
horticultural specialties, such as flowers, shrubs and trees, intended for
ornamental or landscaping purposes.
GAS AND FUEL, STORAGE AND SALES: An establishment or site used for bulk storage
and wholesale distribution of flammable liquid, gas or solid fuel, excluding
below ground storage that is ancillary to an allowed principal use on the site.
GASOLINE SERVICE STATION: An establishment engaged in the retail sales of
gasoline and petroleum products, including gasoline sales conducted as part of
a convenience store.
GENERAL PLAN: A document adopted by the City Council that sets forth general
guidelines for proposed future development of the land within the City as set
forth in section
152-2-2 of this chapter.
GOLF COURSE: A facility providing private or public golf recreation services
and support facilities, but excluding miniature golf facilities.
GOVERNMENT SERVICE: Any building or facility used, owned or operated by a
government entity which provides services for the public, excluding utilities
and recreational services. Typical uses include administrative offices of
government agencies and utility billing offices.
GRADE PLANE: A reference plane representing the average of finished ground
level adjoining the building at exterior walls. Where finished ground level
slopes away from an exterior wall, the reference plane shall be established by
the lowest point within the area between the building and the lot line or,
where the lot line is more than six feet (6') from the building, between the
building and a point six feet (6') from the building.
GROSS FLOOR AREA: The total floor area of a building expressed in square feet
measured from the exterior of outside walls.
GUESTHOUSE OR CASITA: A secondary dwelling unit, with or without kitchen
facilities, located on a lot with one or more main dwelling units which is:
   (a)   Used for housing of guests without compensation, and
   (b)   Not rented, leased or sold separately from the rental, lease or sale
of the main dwelling unit(s) on the lot and encumbered by a recorded agreement
which provides notice of these conditions.
HEAVY INDUSTRY: An establishment engaged in basic processing and manufacturing
of materials or products predominantly from extracted or raw materials; or a
use engaged in manufacturing processes utilizing flammable or explosive
materials; or manufacturing processes which potentially involve hazardous or
commonly recognized offensive conditions. Typical uses include chemical
manufacturing and warehousing, dry ice manufacturing, fat rendering plants,
fertilizer manufacturing, fireworks and explosives manufacturing and
warehousing, petroleum refineries, pulp processing and paper products
manufacturing, radioactive materials manufacture or use, slaughterhouses,
steelworks and tanneries.
HEIGHT, BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: See definition of Building Or Structure Height.
HEIGHT, STORY: The vertical distance from top to top of two (2) successive
finished floor surfaces; and, for the topmost story, from the top of the floor
finish to the top of the ceiling joists or, where there is not a ceiling, to
the top of the roof rafters.
HOME BASED BUSINESS: A commercial or other nonresidential use conducted within
a dwelling unit that is incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling
unit for residential purposes as provided in chapter 42 of this chapter.
HOMELESS SHELTER: A place of temporary abode for persons who have no residence.
HOSPITAL: A facility that:
   (a)   Offers services more intensive than those required for room, board,
personal services and general nursing care;
   (b)   Offers facilities and beds for use beyond twenty four (24) hours by
individuals requiring diagnosis, treatment, or care for illness, injury,
deformity, infirmity, abnormality, disease or pregnancy; or
   (c)   Regularly makes available at least clinical laboratory services,
diagnostic X-ray services and treatment facilities for surgery or obstetrical
care or other definitive medical treatment of similar extent; and
   (d)   Any accessory use such as offices for medical and dental personnel and
central service facilities such as pharmacies, medical laboratories, and other
related uses.
HOSTEL: An establishment in which people are lodged for a single night or less
than a week at a time, but excluding bed and breakfast, home; bed and breakfast
inn; hotel; or motel.
HOTEL: An establishment with or without fixed cooking facilities in individual
rooms offering transient lodging accommodations to the general public, and
which may provide additional services such as restaurants and meeting rooms.
HOUSEHOLD: A family living together in a one-dwelling unit with common access
to and common use of all living and eating areas and facilities for the
preparation and serving of food within the dwelling unit.
HOUSEHOLD PET: Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in a house and kept for
company or pleasure, not profit, such as dogs, cats, pigeons, or rabbits, but
not including:
   (a)   Chickens, ducks, geese, pigs or other domestic farm variety animals
nor any animals which are likely to inflict harm or endanger the health, safety
or welfare of any person or property; and
   (b)   A sufficient number of dogs to constitute a commercial kennel.
IMPACT FEE: A payment of money imposed upon development activity as a condition
of development approval as provided in title 5, chapter 55 of this code.
JUNK OR SALVAGE YARD: Any place, establishment, or part of a lot maintained,
used, or operated for collection, storage, keeping, or abandonment of
wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or discard material, including dismantling,
demolition of machinery or parts thereof, but excluding an automobile wrecking
yard and any use which is clearly accessory and incidental to a permitted or
conditional use.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: A commercial establishment having three (3) or more dogs
over the age of four (4) months for the purpose of boarding, breeding, buying,
selling, grooming, letting for hire, or training for a fee.
KENNEL, RESIDENTIAL: The keeping or maintaining of more than two (2), but no
more than four (4) dogs, in connection with the occupation of any dwelling for
residential purposes.
KIOSK: A small structure, typically located within a pedestrian walkway or
similar circulation area, intended for use as a small shop, or for use as a
display space for posters, notices and Exhibits.
KITCHEN: An area within a dwelling unit which contains a sink, fixed cooking
appliances, and refrigeration facilities.
LAND USE APPLICATION: An application required by any land use ordinance or
regulation.
LAND USE AUTHORITY: A person, board, commission, agency or other body
designated by the city council to act upon a land use application.
LAUNDRY OR DRY CLEANING, LIMITED: An establishment providing household laundry
and dry cleaning services, classified as low hazard in applicable codes, with
customer drop off and pick up; or an establishment providing home type washing,
drying, and/or ironing machines for hire to be used by customers on the
premises. The term excludes large scale dry cleaning activities permitted under
the definition of "laundry services".
LAUNDRY SERVICES: An establishment primarily engaged in the large scale
cleaning of laundry or that includes dry cleaning activities other than those
classified as low hazard in applicable codes, but excluding laundry or dry
cleaning, limited.
LEGALLY EXISTED: For the structures built before September 5, 2018, in addition
to the term’s meaning at common law, legally existed means that the land owner/
occupant has a Certificate of Occupancy from the building department, or is in
the (3) year grace period provided for in Section
152-1-9(B) without a permit.
LICENSED FAMILY CHILD CARE: Child care provided in a private home for up to
sixteen (16) children. Two (2) qualified caregivers are required when there are
more than eight (8) children in care, or when there are more than two (2)
children under the age of two (2) in care. With two (2) caregivers, a licensed
family provider can care for up to (but not more than) four (4) children under
the age of two (2).
LIGHT SOURCE: Neon, fluorescent or similar tube lighting, an incandescent bulb,
including the light producing elements therein, and any reflecting surface
that, by reason of its construction or placement, becomes a light source.
LIQUOR STORE: An establishment licensed by the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control
Commission for the sale of alcoholic beverages for off site consumption.
LOT: A separately delineated parcel of real property having a number and
designation shown on a recorded subdivision plat, or a contiguous quantity of
real property defined in a deed by metes and bounds which has a separate
property identification number according to the records of the County Recorder
and is not shown on a recorded subdivision plat.
LOT AREA: The total land area of a lot measured on a horizontal plane.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting two (2) intersecting or intercepting streets where
the interior angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred
thirty five degrees (135°).
LOT COVERAGE: The total horizontal area of a lot covered by any building or
structure which extends above the surface of the ground level, including any
covered parking spaces.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance from a front lot line to a rear lot
line.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot abutting two (2) parallel or approximately parallel
streets.
LOT, FLAG: A lot located to the rear of another lot, the main body of which
does not front on a street and is accessed by a narrow corridor.
LOT FRONTAGE: The distance, measured along the front lot line, that a lot
adjoins a street.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE: A line of record bounding a lot that divides one lot from another or
from a street.
LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: The relocation of a lot line between two (2) adjoining
lots with the consent of the owners of record and which does not create a new
lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: A lot line separating a lot from an existing street or, where
a new street is proposed, the proposed street right-of-way line as shown on the
road master plan. For an interior lot, the lot line adjoining the street; for a
double frontage lot, a lot line adjoining one (1) of the streets as elected by
the City.
LOT LINE, REAR: The lot line generally opposite and most distant from the front
lot line, except in the case of a triangular or gore shaped lot, a
"constructive" line ten feet (10') in length within the lot, parallel to the
front lot line which intercepts the side lot lines at points most distant from
the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any lot line that is not a front lot line or rear lot line. A
side lot line separating one lot from another is an interior side lot line.
LOT, NON-CONFORMING: A lot that because of subsequent zoning changes, does not
conform with the lot size or other dimensional or property development
standards applicable in the zone where the lot is located, and that:
   (a)   Legally existed (See definition for “Legally Existed”) before its
current zoning designation; or
   (b)   Has been shown continuously on the records of the County Recorder as
an independent parcel prior to annexation.
LOT WIDTH: The distance between side lot lines, measured at the required front
yard setback line as required by the zone in which the lot is located.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A transportable factory built dwelling unit constructed on
or after June 15, 1976, according to the federal home construction and safety
standards act of 1974 (HUD code), in one or more sections, which:
   (a)   In the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or
forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is four
hundred (400) or more square feet;
   (b)   Is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities;
   (c)   Includes plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems;
and
   (d)   Is identified by the manufacturer's data plate bearing the date the
unit was manufactured and a HUD label attached to the exterior of the home
certifying the home was manufactured to HUD standards.
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME: A manufactured home or mobile home.
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME LOT: A plot of ground within a manufactured/mobile
home park or subdivision designed for the accommodation of one manufactured
home or mobile home.
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK: A lot (or contiguous lots) under single
ownership or control designed and planned to accommodate the placement of
manufactured/mobile homes on leased or rented spaces pursuant to the
requirements of chapter 43 of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A platted and recorded subdivision zoned
and designed for manufactured/mobile home use pursuant to the requirements of
chapter 43 of this chapter where such homes may be placed on permanent
foundations.
MANUFACTURING, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: a liquor manufacturing establishment
operated by a person in compliance with a current license issued by the State
of Utah pursuant to Part 3, Part 4, or Part 5 of Title 32B, Chapter 11 of the
Utah Code, as amended.
MANUFACTURING, GENERAL: An establishment engaged in the manufacture of finished
products or parts, predominantly from previously prepared materials, including
processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment and packaging, and incidental
storage, sales and/or distribution of such products, but excluding basic
industrial processing and manufacturing activities.
MANUFACTURING, LIMITED: An establishment engaged in the limited processing,
fabrication, assembly and/or packaging of products utilizing processes that:
   (a)   Have no noise, odor, vibration, or other impacts discernible outside a
building, and
   (b)   Do not violate any applicable noise ordinance.
MASONRY: Stone, brick, dyed block or split faced concrete block.
MEDIA SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of
broadcasting and other information relay services accomplished through the use
of electronic and telephonic mechanisms, including radio, television, film or
sound recording studios.
MEDICAL OR DENTAL LABORATORY: An establishment that conducts basic medical or
dental research and analysis, but excluding a facility providing any type of
in-house patient services typically provided by hospitals and clinics.
MEDICAL SERVICE: An establishment providing therapeutic, preventive, or
corrective personal treatment services on an outpatient basis by physicians,
dentists, and other practitioners of the medical or healing arts, as well as
the provision of medical testing and analysis services. Typical uses include
medical and dental offices and clinics, blood banks and medical or dental
laboratories.
MINERAL EXTRACTION: Removal of sand, gravel, dirt, or other materials by
grading or excavating.
MIXED USE CENTER: See definition of Planned Center.
MOBILE HOME: A transportable factory built dwelling unit built prior to June
15, 1976, in accordance with a state mobile home code which existed prior to
the federal manufactured housing and safety standards act (HUD code).
MOBILE HOME PARK: See definition of Manufactured/Mobile Home Park.
MODERATE INCOME HOUSING: Housing occupied or reserved for occupancy by
households with a gross household income equal to or less than eighty percent
(80%) of the median gross income for households of the same size in Washington
County.
MODERATE INCOME HOUSING PLAN: A written document conforming to the requirements
of the Utah Code.
MODULAR HOME: A dwelling unit designed for long term occupancy built on a
permanent foundation from component elements manufactured off site in
accordance with the construction standards adopted pursuant to section 58-56-
4 of the Utah Code and transported to the building site.
MORTUARY: See definition of Funeral Home.
MOTEL: Any building or group of buildings containing sleeping rooms, with or
without fixed cooking facilities, designed for temporary occupancy by tourists
or transients, with a garage attached or parking space conveniently located to
each unit.
MOTOR HOME: A motor vehicle built on a truck or bus chassis and designed to
serve as self-contained living quarters for recreational travel and use.
NATURAL FEATURES: Non-manmade land characteristics, including drainage swales,
wetlands, rock outcroppings, streams, and concentrated native stands of large
shrubs or trees.
NATURAL STATE: Land which has not been subjected to grading, removal of
vegetation or building development.
NATURAL WATERWAY: Those areas, varying in width, along streams, creeks,
gullies, springs, or washes which are natural drainage channels.
NON-COMPLYING STRUCTURE: A structure that:
   (a)   Legally existed before its current zoning designation; and
   (b)   Because of subsequent zoning changes, does not conform with the
setback, height restrictions, or other regulations that govern the structure.
NON-CONFORMING LOT: See definition of Lot, non-conforming.
NON-CONFORMING USE: See definition of Use, non-conforming.
NONCONFORMITY, OTHER: See definition of Other Nonconformity.
OFFICE, GENERAL: A building, room or department where executive, management,
administrative or professional services are provided, except medical services,
and excluding the sale of merchandise, except as incidental to a principal use.
Typical uses include real estate brokers, insurance agencies, credit reporting
agencies, property management firms, investment firms, employment agencies,
travel agencies, advertising agencies, secretarial services, data processing,
telephone answering, telephone marketing, paging and beeper services and
facsimile transmission services; post offices and express mail offices,
excluding major mail processing and distribution; offices for utility bill
collection; professional or consulting services in the fields of law,
architecture, design, engineering, accounting and similar professions; interior
decorating consulting services; and business offices of private companies,
utility companies, public agencies, trade associations, unions and nonprofit
organizations.
OFFICIAL MAP: A map drawn by municipal authorities and recorded in a county
recorder's office that:
   (a)   Shows actual and proposed rights of way, centerline alignments, and
setbacks for highways and other transportation facilities;
   (b)   Provides a basis for restricting development in designated rights of
way or between designated setbacks to allow the government authorities time to
purchase or otherwise reserve the land; and
   (c)   Has been adopted as an element of the municipality's general plan.
OPEN SPACE: Generally unobstructed land such as, but not limited to, landscaped
buffers and yards, parks, trails, meadows, forested areas, pastures, and farm
fields.
OPERATIONS CENTER: A maintenance, repair, or service facility operated by a
local, state, or federal government agency.
OTHER NONCONFORMITY: A situation other than a non-conforming lot, use, or non-
complying structure that:
   (a)   Legally existed before the current zoning designation of the lot where
the nonconformity is located; and
   (b)   Because of subsequent zoning changes, does not conform with applicable
requirements of this chapter.
OWNER: Any person who alone, jointly or severally with others, or in a
representative capacity (including, without limitation, an authorized agent,
executor or trustee) has legal or equitable title to any property.
PARK: A playground or other area or open space providing opportunities for
active or passive recreational or leisure activities. Excludes areas for
motocross, drag racing, shooting and similar activities.
PARK MODEL DEVELOPMENT: Any site, tract, or parcel of land on which facilities
have been developed to accommodate two (2) or more park model trailers or RVs
as temporary living quarters pursuant to the requirements of chapter 43 of this
chapter.
PARK MODEL RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A unit that:
   (a)   Is designed and marketed as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use;
   (b)   Requires a special highway movement permit for transit; and
   (c)   Is built on a single chassis mounted on wheels with a gross trailer
area not exceeding four hundred (400) square feet in the setup mode; and
   (d)   Is not self-contained, requiring outside water, power, and sewer
connections.
PARK MODEL TRAILER: A transportable dwelling unit built on a single chassis
which:
   (a)   In the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width and not
more than forty (40) body feet in length, or when is erected on site, has a
gross area of at least three hundred twenty (320) square feet and less than
four hundred (400) square feet;
   (b)   Is designed to be connected to utilities necessary for operation of
installed fixtures and appliances; and
   (c)   Meets the standards set forth in ANSI A-119.5 or its successor.
PARK STRIP: The area located between a street right of way line and the edge of
asphalt or curb, but not including driveways, sidewalks, or trails.
PARKING BAY: A parking area within a parking lot consisting of one or two (2)
rows of parking spaces and the aisle from which motor vehicles may enter and
exit parking spaces.
PARKING GARAGE, PUBLIC: A structure, or portion thereof, used for parking and
storage of more than four (4) motor vehicles.
PARKING LOT, PUBLIC: A paved, open area other than a street, alley, or
driveway, used for temporary parking of more than four (4) motor vehicles and
available for public use, whether free, for compensation, or as an
accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: An area designated within a building, parking lot, or other
parking area for the parking or storage of one motor vehicle.
PARKING, TANDEM: A secondary parking space located directly to the rear of a
primary parking space, and which when occupied, restricts access to the primary
parking space.
PAWNSHOP: Any person or establishment engaged in any of the following:
   (a)   Lending money on deposit of personal property.
   (b)   Dealing in the purchase, exchange, or possession of personal property
on condition of selling the same back again to the pledgor or depositor.
   (c)   Lending or advancing of money on personal property by taking chattel
mortgage security thereon and taking or receiving possession of such personal
property.
   (d)   Selling unredeemed pledged personal property together with such new
merchandise as will facilitate the sale of such property.
PERIMETER BUILDING PAD: A separate building location, usually along the street
frontage, developed or designated in connection with a larger commercial site.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or governmental entity, including a trustee, receiver,
assignee or similar representative of any of the foregoing.
PERSONAL CARE SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of
frequently or recurrently needed services of a personal nature. Typical uses
include beauty and barber shops, custom tailoring and seamstress shops,
electrolysis studios, licensed massage therapists, portrait studios, shoe
repair shops, tailors, tanning and nail salons, and weight loss centers, but
excludes tattoo establishments.
PERSONAL INSTRUCTION SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in the
provision of informational, instructional, personal improvement and similar
services of a nonprofessional nature. Typical uses include art and music
schools, driving and computer instruction, gymnastic and dance studios,
handicraft or hobby instruction, health and fitness studios, martial arts
training, and swimming clubs.
PLAN FOR MODERATE INCOME HOUSING: A written document adopted by the city
council that includes:
   (a)   An estimate of the existing supply of moderate income housing located
within the city;
   (b)   An estimate of the need for moderate income housing in the city for
the next five (5) years as revised biennially;
   (c)   A survey of total residential land use;
   (d)   An evaluation of how existing land uses and zones affect opportunities
for moderate income housing; and
   (e)   A description of the city's program to encourage an adequate supply of
moderate income housing.
PLANNED CENTER: A development comprised of a variety of uses where landscaping,
parking and other improvements are provided in a comprehensive and integrated
fashion.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Planning Commission of Hildale City, Utah.
PLAT: A map or depiction of a subdivision showing thereon the division of a
tract or parcel of land into lots, blocks, and streets.
PLOT PLAN: A schematic scaled drawing of a building lot or a development which:
   (a)   Is less detailed than a site plan, and
   (b)   Indicates, as may be required by this chapter, the placement and
location of yards, property lines, adjacent parcels, utilities, topography,
waterways, irrigation, drainage, landscaping, parking areas, driveways,
buildings, trash containers, open storage, streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters,
signs, lighting, fences and other features of existing or proposed construction
or land use.
POST OFFICE: A facility or structure owned or leased by the U.S. postal service
and used for collecting, sorting or distributing mail within one or more zip
code areas, or providing limited retail services for the general public, such
as the sale of stamps, postcards, postal insurance, and related items.
PRINTING AND COPYING, LIMITED: A business establishment engaged in retail
photocopying, reproduction, photo developing or blueprinting services.
PRINTING, GENERAL: The production of books, magazines, newspapers and other
printed matter, as well as publishing, engraving and photoengraving, but
excluding printing and copying, limited.
PRODUCE STAND: A booth, stall or other area located on agricultural property
where produce is sold to the general public.
PROTECTIVE HOUSING FACILITY: See section
152-46-3 of this chapter.
PROTECTIVE SERVICE: A facility providing public safety and emergency services,
including fire and police protection services and emergency medical and
ambulance services.
PUBLIC: That which is under the ownership or control of the United States
government, the State of Utah or any subdivision thereof, Washington County, or
the city (or any departments or agencies thereof).
PUBLIC ENTRANCE: An entrance to a building or premises customarily used or
intended for use by the general public but excluding fire exits, special
employee entrances, and loading dock entrances not generally used by the
public.
PUBLIC HEARING: A hearing at which members of the public are provided a
reasonable opportunity to comment on the subject of the hearing.
PUBLIC MEETING: A meeting that is required to be open to the public under title
52, chapter 4, open and public meetings, of the Utah Code.
PUBLIC UTILITY SUBSTATION: Any aboveground device of a water, irrigation,
sewer, natural gas, electrical, telecommunications (including, but not limited
to, radio, telephone and cellular telephone), cable television, or other public
or private utility system intended to regulate the function of a utility line
or which receives or transmits a signal. Excluded from this definition are:
   (a)   Conventional utility poles, features or equipment to be placed on such
a pole, light poles;
   (b)   Features or equipment whose primary benefit is limited to the building
or land use where the feature or equipment is located; and
   (c)   Features or equipment with maximum horizontal and vertical dimensions
of three feet (3').
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION: See section
152-46-3 of this chapter.
RECEPTION CENTER: A facility rented for private social gatherings.
RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT, INDOOR: An establishment offering recreation,
entertainment or games of skill to the general public that is wholly enclosed
in a building. Typical uses include bowling alleys, indoor theaters, bingo
parlors, pool halls, billiard parlors, video game arcades, racquetball and
handball courts, and amusement rides.
RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT, OUTDOOR: An establishment offering recreation,
entertainment or games of skill to the general public or members wherein any
portion of the activity takes place in the open. Typical uses include archery
ranges, batting cages, golf driving ranges, drive- in theaters, miniature golf
courses, tennis courts, and amusement rides. No use involving aircraft of any
type is included in this definition.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular unit designed as temporary living quarters
for travel, recreation, and vacation use which is either self-propelled or is
mounted on or pulled by another vehicle, including, but not limited to, a
camping trailer, travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, truck camper, or motor
home. A recreational vehicle is self-contained, not requiring outside
connection to water, sewer, or power, though connection may be possible.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Any site, tract, or parcel of land on which
facilities have been developed to accommodate two (2) or more recreational
vehicles as temporary living quarters pursuant to the requirements of chapter
43 of this chapter.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE: A plot of ground within a recreational vehicle park
designed for the accommodation of one (1) recreational vehicle.
REHABILITATION/TREATMENT FACILITY: See section
152-46-3 of this chapter.
REPAIR SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in providing repair
services, but excluding vehicle and equipment repair. Typical uses include
appliance repair shops, computer and other electronic equipment repair,
furniture repair and upholstery shops, watch or jewelry repair shops, and
musical instrument repair shops.
RESEARCH SERVICE: An establishment engaged in industrial, medical, or
scientific inquiries.
RESIDENCE: See section 152-46-3 of this chapter.
RESIDENTIAL CERTIFICATE CHILD CARE: Child care provided in a private home for
up to eight (8) children. This can include up to (but not more than) two (2)
children under the age of two (2).
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS: See section
152-46-3 of this chapter.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY: See section
152-46-3 of this chapter.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR TROUBLED YOUTH: See section 5-4-2 of this Code.
RESIDENTIAL HOSTING: A limited commercial activity within an owner occupied
residential structure where not more than eight (8) sleeping rooms may be
rented to paying guests on a nightly basis and meals are not customarily
provided pursuant to the requirements of chapter 51 of this chapter.
RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD: An establishment that sells ready to eat food and
beverages quickly and which has one or more of the following characteristics:
   (a)   Food and beverage orders are not taken at the customer's table;
   (b)   Food and beverages are generally served in disposable wrapping or
containers; or
   (c)   Food and beverages are offered directly to the customer in a motor
vehicle from a "drive-up" service window.
RESTAURANT, GENERAL: An establishment that derives not less than fifty percent
(50%) of its gross receipts from the sale of food and beverages for consumption
on the premises and which has one or more of the following characteristics:
   (a)   Food and beverage orders are taken at the customer's table from an
individually provided menu;
   (b)   Food and beverages are served in nondisposable containers by a
restaurant employee at the same table or counter where said items are consumed;
   (c)   Food and beverages are generally self-served in nondisposable
containers and consumed on the premises; or
   (d)   A restaurant having some characteristics of a fast food restaurant,
other than drive-up service, which is located exclusively within a shopping
center, shares common parking facilities with other businesses within the
center, and has access to a common interior pedestrian accessway.
RETAIL, GENERAL: An establishment that rents or sells goods to the public, but
excluding uses specifically classified in another definition herein. Typical
uses include apparel stores, antique shops, art and hobby supply stores,
bicycle shops, bookstores, clothing rental stores, department stores, discount
stores, drugstores, electronic appliance stores, florists, food stores,
furniture and appliance stores, gift and novelty shops, glass and mirror shops,
hardware stores, jewelry stores, medical supply stores, music stores, optical
retail sales, paint stores, pet stores, photocopying and blueprinting shops,
photography supply stores, record, tape and video stores, sporting goods
stores, toy stores and variety stores.
ROAD MASTER PLAN: The roads shown on the future land use map adopted by the
city council as part of the city's general plan.
ROOFLINE: The highest point on any building where an exterior wall encloses
usable floor space (including roof areas for housing mechanical equipment) and
the highest point on any parapet wall if the parapet wall extends around the
entire perimeter of the building.
SANITARY SEWER AUTHORITY: The department, agency, or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services
or on site wastewater systems.
SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY, MIDDLE, OR HIGH: Any building or group of buildings or
premises approved by the state of Utah for public or private elementary or
secondary instruction.
SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL: An establishment, for profit or not, offering regularly
scheduled instruction in technical, commercial or trade skills, such as, but
not limited to, business, real estate, building and construction trades,
electronics, computer programming and technology, automotive and aircraft
mechanics and technology, and similar types of instruction.
SECONDHAND STORE: A retail establishment that engages in the purchase and
resale of used goods such as clothing, furniture, appliances, books, and other
household items.
SENIOR CENTER: A facility sponsored or administered by a public or private
entity which provides residences or other services for senior citizens.
SENSITIVE LAND: Any land area whose destruction or disturbance could affect the
health, safety, or welfare of city residents, including wetlands, steep slopes,
floodplains, and unstable soils.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: See section
152-47-2 of this chapter.
SHOPPING CENTER: A group of three (3) or more commercial establishments that is
planned, developed, and managed as a unit with common areas for off street
parking and landscaping provided on the property.
SHORT TERM RENTAL OR VACATION RENTAL: To rent, lease, loan, let or otherwise
hire out any rental dwelling unit for a period of thirty (30) days or less.
SIGN: See definition in section
152-36-2 of this chapter.
SITE PLAN: A schematic, scaled drawing of a building lot or location which
indicates, as may be required by this chapter, the placement and location of
yards, property lines, adjacent parcels, utilities, topography, waterways,
irrigation, drainage, landscaping, parking areas, driveways, buildings, trash
containers, open storage, streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, signs, lighting,
fences and other features of existing or proposed construction or land use.
SPECIFIED PUBLIC UTILITY: An electrical corporation, gas corporation, or
telephone corporation, as those terms are defined in section 54-2-1 of the Utah
Code.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses, the
majority of which are owned by the occupants of the premises.
STABLE, PUBLIC: A commercial establishment that boards, breeds, trains, raises,
or rents horses for riding or other equestrian activities.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: The issuance date of a building permit, provided that
construction, repair, reconstruction, placement, or other improvement begins
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. "Begins" means either
the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as
the pouring of a slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction
of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. "Begins" does not include:
   (a)   Land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling;
   (b)   Installation of streets and/or walkways;
   (c)   Excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; or
   (d)   Installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages
or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a floor
and the upper surface of the floor or roof next above.
STREET: A public or private right of way, including avenues, highways,
boulevards, parkways, roads, lanes, walks, alleys, viaducts, subways, tunnels,
bridges, public easements, and other ways, that provides access to adjoining
property, and including the street definitions set forth in chapter 39 of this
chapter.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change in supporting members of a building or
structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Any building, shelter, sign, wall, fence, pole or other improvement
with a fixed location on the ground or attached to something having a location
on the ground.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person who undertakes to create a subdivision.
SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be divided
into two (2) or more lots, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for
the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or
development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms, and conditions. Subdivision includes:
   (a)   The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds
description, devise and testacy, lease, map, plat, or other recorded
instrument, and
   (b)   Except as provided in the exceptions below, a division of land for all
residential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for
commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes.
Subdivision does not include:
   (a)   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purpose
of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of
unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable
provision of this chapter.
   (b)   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties adjusting
their mutual boundaries if no new lot is created and the adjustment does not
result in a violation of applicable requirements of this chapter; or
   (c)   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising the
legal descriptions of more than one contiguous parcel of property into one
legal description encompassing all such parcels of property
   (d)   The joining of a subdivided lot to an unsubdivided lot does not
constitute a subdivision as to the unsubdivided lot.
SUBSTANTIAL ACTION: Action taken in good faith to exercise development rights
authorized pursuant to a development approval given under the authority of this
chapter.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
building or structure, the total cost of which equals or exceeds, or, if before
completion, is estimated to equal or exceed, fifty percent (50%) of the market
value of the structure either before the improvement or repair is started, or
if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage
occurred. Substantial improvement includes the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building or structure.
TAKEOFF AND LANDING OF AIRCRAFT: Any method of propulsion allowing aircraft to
leave the ground or land on the ground, including, but not limited to,
helicopters, airplanes, gliders, ultralights, or other aircraft.
TANDEM PARKING: See definition of Parking, Tandem.
TATTOO ESTABLISHMENT: Any location, place, area, structure, or business used
for the practice of affixing a permanent mark or design on or under the skin by
a process of cutting for the purpose of scarring or pricking or ingraining an
indelible pigment, dye, or ink in the skin, or instruction for such a practice.
TAVERN: An establishment licensed by the Utah alcoholic beverage control
commission for serving liquor by the drink to the general public.
TEMPORARY DWELLING: See definition of Dwelling, Temporary.
TEMPORARY TRAILER: A temporary trailer or structure utilized solely by a
builder during construction of a project for purposes incidental to the
construction work on the property.
TRANSITIONAL HOUSING FACILITY: See section
152-46-3 of this chapter.
TRANSPORTATION SERVICE: An establishment that moves people or goods and
services. Typical uses include taxicab service, passenger autos for rent with
drivers, ambulance service, and parcel delivery service.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicular unit without motive power which:
   (a)   In the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or less in width and
forty (40) body feet or less in length, or when erected on site, is not more
than three hundred twenty (320) square feet; and
   (b)   Is designed as temporary living quarters for travel, recreation, and
vacation use.
USE: The purpose or activity for which land, a lot, or building or structure
thereon, is designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or
maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate use customarily incidental to a permitted or
conditional use and located on the same lot as such use.
USE, CONDITIONAL: A main use that, because of its unique characteristics or
potential impact on the city, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent land uses, may
not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible only if certain conditions
are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.
USE, ILLEGAL: A use that is not allowed where located as a permitted use,
conditional use, accessory use, or non-conforming use.
USE, INCOMPATIBLE: A use which is different in activity, intensity, or
utilization which is or will be in conflict with uses on adjoining lots.
USE, MAIN: The primary purpose for which a lot or structure is designed,
arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained as allowed by
the provisions of this chapter.
USE, NON-CONFORMING: A use of land that:
   (a)   Legally existed before the current zoning designation of the land
where the use is located;
   (b)   Has been maintained continuously since the time the zoning designation
governing the land changed; and
   (c)   Because of subsequent zoning changes, does not conform with the zoning
regulations that now govern the land.
USE, PERMITTED: A main use of a building, structure, or land allowed in one or
more of the respective zones set forth in this chapter and which may be
lawfully established provided it conforms with applicable provisions of this
chapter.
USE, TEMPORARY: A use not allowed as a permitted, conditional or accessory use
where located and which is established for a limited time with the intent to
discontinue the use upon expiration of the time period authorized by a
temporary use permit.
UTILITY, MAJOR: A facility, other than collection or distribution lines or
supporting structures thereto, of any agency which, under public franchise or
ownership, provides the general public with electricity, gas, heat, steam,
communication, rail transportation, water, sewage collection or other similar
service. Excludes corporate or general offices, storage or service buildings or
yards, gas or oil processing, manufacturing or storage facilities or postal
facilities, or other uses defined in this section. Typical uses include
commercial radio, television and microwave communication towers, electric
generation plants or substations, railroad switching yards, reservoirs,
sanitary landfills and water and wastewater treatment plants.
UTILITY, MINOR: A facility of any agency under public franchise or ownership to
provide services deemed necessary to support development which involve only
minor structures, such as poles and lines, but not including utility
substations.
VARIANCE: A waiver or modification granted to a height, bulk, area, width,
setback, separation, or other numerical or quantitative requirement of this
chapter.
VEHICLE: A properly licensed automobile, truck, trailer, boat or other device
in which a person or thing is or can be transported from one place to another.
VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT RENTAL OR SALE: An establishment engaged in the sale or
rental, from the premises, of motor vehicles or equipment, along with
incidental service or maintenance. Typical uses include new and used automobile
and truck sales, automobile rental, boat sales, motorcycle sales, construction
equipment rental yards, moving trailer rental and farm equipment and machinery
sales and rental.
VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT REPAIR, GENERAL: An establishment primarily engaged in
the major repair or painting of motor vehicles or heavy equipment, including
auto body repairs, installation of major accessories and transmission and
engine rebuilding services. Typical uses include major automobile repair
garages, farm equipment repair and paint and body shops.
VEHICLE REPAIR, LIMITED: An establishment providing motor vehicle repair or
maintenance services within completely enclosed buildings, but not including
paint and body shops or other general vehicle repair services. Typical uses
include businesses engaged in the following activities: electronic tune ups,
brake repairs (including drum turning), air conditioning repairs, generator and
starter repairs, tire repairs, front end alignments, battery recharging,
lubrication, and sales, repair and installation of minor parts and accessories
such as tires, batteries, windshield wipers, hoses, windows, etc.
VETERINARY SERVICE: An establishment providing medical care and treatment for
large and small animals, which may include accessory grooming or boarding
services. Veterinary service does not include an animal hospital.
VICINITY PLAN: A drawing showing the relationship of proposed real property
development to adjoining property.
VIOLATION: The act of disregarding, disobeying, neglecting, omitting or
refusing to comply with the requirements or enforcement of this chapter.
WAREHOUSE, SELF-SERVICE STORAGE: An enclosed storage facility of a commercial
nature containing independent, fully enclosed bays which are leased to persons
exclusively for storage of their household goods or personal property.
WHOLESALE AND WAREHOUSING, GENERAL: An establishment that is primarily engaged
in the storage and sale of goods to other firms for resale, as well as
activities involving significant movement and storage of products or equipment.
Uses include major mail distribution centers, frozen food lockers, moving and
storage firms, and warehousing and storage facilities.
WHOLESALE AND WAREHOUSING, LIMITED: An establishment that is engaged in the
small scale storage and sale of goods to other businesses for resale, excluding
self-storage warehouses, major distribution centers, motor freight terminals,
moving and storage firms and similar high volume, high turnover facilities.
Limited wholesale and warehouse area will generally be under fifty thousand
(50,000) square feet in area and operate during conventional business hours.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: See section
152-50-4 of this chapter.
YARD: An open space located between a front, rear, or side building line and an
adjoining lot line which is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward
by any portion of a building or structure, except as specifically provided in
this chapter.
YARD DEPTH: The least horizontal distance between a lot line and a building
line.
YARD, FRONT: A space on the same lot extending across the full width of the lot
between the front building line and the front lot line. The depth of the front
yard is the minimum distance required by this chapter between the front lot
line and the front building line.
YARD, REAR: A space on the same lot extending across the full width of the lot
between the rear building line and rear lot line. The depth of the rear yard is
the minimum distance required by this chapter between the rear lot line and
rear building line.
YARD, SIDE: A space on the same lot extending from the front building line to
the rear building line between the side building line and the side lot line.
The width of a side yard is the minimum distance required by this chapter
between the side building line and the side lot line.
ZONE: An area of the incorporated territory of the City as shown on the
official zoning map which has been given a designation which regulates and
restricts the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use
of buildings or structures, or the use of land all as set forth in this
chapter.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The person charged with principal responsibility for
interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2020-013 on 10/28/2020
CHAPTER 6 DECISION MAKING BODIES AND OFFICIALS
Sec
152-6-1 Purpose
Sec
152-6-2 Scope
Sec
152-6-3 City Council
Sec
152-6-4 Planning Commission
Sec
152-6-5 Hearing Officer
Sec
152-6-6 Historic Preservation Commission
Sec
152-6-7 Staff Referral By Planning Commission
Sec
152-6-8 Zoning Administrator
Sec
152-6-9 Final Plat Approval Staff
Sec 152-6-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to set forth the authority of the decision
making bodies and officials responsible for administering the provisions of
this chapter.
Sec 152-6-2 Scope
The authority of the decision making bodies and officials set forth in this
chapter shall apply to the entirety of this chapter, subject to its various
provisions.
Sec 152-6-3 City Council
   (a)   Powers Not Enumerated In this chapter:
See City Council powers and duties set forth in Title 3, Chapter 30 of this
Code.
   (b)   Powers And Duties Related To this chapter:
In administering this chapter, the City Council shall have the power and
authority to act on the matters set forth below. All such power and authority
shall be exercised pursuant to the procedural and other applicable provisions
of this chapter.
      (1)   Final adoption, modification or rejection of a proposed General
Plan or any amendment thereto for all or part of the City and its surroundings.
      (2)   Final adoption, approval, modification or rejection of any
amendments to the text of this chapter and to the land use map, including any
application for a zone change.
      (3)   Any preliminary plat application for the subdivision of property
into more than two (2) lots.
      (4)   Approval, denial, or modification of a request for annexation into
the City.
      (5)   Hear and decide appeals from administrative decisions as designated
in Section
152-7-19.
      (6)   Establishment of a fee schedule for applications required by the
provisions of this chapter.
Sec 152-6-4 Planning Commission
   (a)   Established:
A Planning Commission, consisting of seven (7) members, is hereby established
to exercise the powers and duties specified herein. Members of the Planning
Commission shall receive a stipend for each regularly scheduled commission
meeting attended, as set by the city council, and reasonable expenses incurred
in performing their duties as members of the commission.
   (b)   Appointment And Terms Of Office:
      (1)   Planning Commission members shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the advice and consent of the City Council.
         a.   The terms of Planning Commission members shall be staggered. Each
member of the Planning Commission shall serve for a term of four (4) years and
until a successor is appointed; provided, that the term of the first members
shall be such that the terms of two (2) members shall expire each year.
         b.   Terms of Planning Commission members shall begin on or before the
first Monday in February of each year.
         c.   Planning Commission members may be reappointed for successive
terms.
         d.   The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, may
remove any member of the planning commission for cause if written charges are
filed against the member with the mayor; provided, that the member shall be
afforded a public hearing if one is requested.
         e.   A vacancy occurring on the planning commission by reason of
death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other reason shall be
promptly filled by a replacement appointed in the same manner as the original
appointment for the remainder of the unexpired term of the replaced member.
      (2)   Members and alternate members of the planning commission shall be
deemed "volunteers" for purposes of city ordinances, rules, regulations and
policies concerning personnel; provided, however, they shall be included in the
definition of "employee" for purposes of the Utah governmental immunity act as
set forth in section 63G-7-102 et seq., of the Utah Code, as amended.
   (c)   Organization And Procedure:
The planning commission shall be organized and exercise its powers and duties
as follows:
      (1)   Members of the planning commission shall select one of its members
as chairperson to oversee the proceedings and activities of the planning
commission, and shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and the
conduct of its proceedings.
         a.   The chairperson shall serve for a term of one year.
         b.   The chairperson, with the advice and consent of the planning
commission, shall appoint one of the planning commission members as alternate
chairperson to act in the absence of the chairperson. The chairperson and
alternate chairperson may be reelected for successive terms.
      (2)   The planning commission may adopt reasonable policies and
procedures, consistent with the provisions of this chapter, to govern the
conduct of its meetings, the processing of applications, and for any other
purposes considered necessary for the functioning of the planning commission.
      (3)   The planning commission shall meet on a regular date each month, as
determined by the planning commission, and at such other times as the planning
commission may determine. All meetings shall be properly noticed and held in
accordance with the open meetings law set forth in title 52, chapter 4, of the
Utah Code, as amended.
      (4)   No official business shall be conducted by the planning commission
unless a quorum of its members is present. Three (3) members of the planning
commission shall constitute a quorum. The minimum number of yes votes required
for the planning commission to take any action shall be the majority of members
present, unless otherwise prescribed by law.
      (5)   Decisions of the planning commission shall become effective at the
meeting or hearing in which the decision is made, unless a different time is
designated in the commission's rules or at the time the decision is made.
      (6)   The planning commission shall keep written minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating that fact, and keep records of its examinations
and other official actions. The planning commission may, but is not required
to, have its proceedings contemporaneously transcribed by a court reporter or a
tape recorder.
         a.   The planning commission shall transmit reports of its official
acts and recommendations to the city council. Any member of the commission may
also make a concurring or dissenting report or recommendation to the city
council.
         b.   The minutes of all meetings of the planning commission shall be
prepared and filed in the office of the planning commission. All records in the
office of the planning commission are public records and shall be available for
public review and access in accordance with title 1, chapter 5, "Government
Records Access and Management", of this code.
   (d)   Powers And Duties:
      (1)   The planning commission is hereby designated as the land use
authority to hear and decide the applications set forth below:
         a.   Applications for conditional use permits provided for in Section
152-7-9(B)(1).
         b.   Applications to determine the existence, expansion or
modification of a non- conforming use or non-complying structure, as provided
in Section
152-7-14.
      (2)   The planning commission is hereby designated as the appeal
authority to hear and decide appeals of administrative decisions as designated
in Section
152-7-19.
      (3)   In addition, the planning commission shall make a recommendation to
the city council for:
         a.   A general plan and amendments to the general plan, as provided in
section
152-7-6 of this chapter;
         b.   Land use ordinances, zoning maps, official maps, and amendments,
as provided in section
152-7-7 of this chapter;
         c.   An appropriate delegation of power to at least one designated
land use authority to hear and act on a land use application;
         d.   An appropriate delegation of power to at least one appeal
authority to hear and act on an appeal from a decision of the land use
authority;
         e.   Application processes that:
            1.   may include a designation of routine land use matters that,
upon application and proper notice, will receive informal streamlined review
and action if the application is uncontested; and
            2.   shall protect the right of each:
               i.   Applicant and third party to require formal consideration
of any application by a land use authority;
               ii.   Applicant, adversely affected party, or municipal officer
or employee to appeal a land use authority's decision to a separate appeal
authority; and
               iii.   Participant to be heard in each public hearing on a
contested application.
   (e)   Examinations And Surveys:
The planning commission and its authorized agents may enter upon any land at
reasonable times to make examinations and surveys as necessary to enable it to
perform its function to promote city planning and development.
   (f)   Appeals:
Any person aggrieved of a final decision of the planning commission may appeal
that decision according to the procedures set forth in Section
152-7-19.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2019-002 on 3/6/2019
Sec 152-6-5 Hearing Officer
   (a)   Established:
In order to provide for just and fair treatment in the administration of this
chapter, and to ensure that substantial justice is done, a Hearing Officer is
hereby established to exercise the powers and duties specified herein.
   (b)   (Reserved)
   (c)   (Reserved)
   (d)   Powers And Duties:
The Hearing Officer is hereby designated as the appeal authority to hear and
decide the following matters: a. Appeals of administrative decisions as
designated in Section
152-7-19; b. Applications for a variance from the terms of this chapter, as
provided in section
152-7-12 of this chapter;
Sec 152-6-6 Historic Preservation Commission
   (a)   Established:
In order to identify, preserve, protect and enhance historic areas and
structures lying within the boundaries of the city, a historic preservation
commission, consisting of five (5) members, is hereby established to exercise
the powers and duties specified herein. Members of the commission shall serve
without compensation, except for reasonable expenses incurred in performing
their duties as members of the commission. It is the intent of this section
that the city shall have the power to identify, preserve, protect and enhance
historic areas and structures lying within the boundaries of the city, through
the establishment of a historic preservation commission and a historic district
as provided in section 17A-3-1301 et seq., of the Utah Code, as amended.
   (b)   Purpose:
The purpose of the historic district is to:
      (1)   Preserve buildings and related structures of historic and
architectural significance; and
      (2)   Allow improvements to existing structures or new construction to be
conducted without destroying or damaging the historic character of said
district or neighborhood.
   (c)   Appointment And Terms Of Office:
      (1)   Historic preservation commission members shall be appointed by the
mayor with the advice and consent of the city council.
         a.   Members of the historic preservation commission shall have a
demonstrated interest, competence or knowledge in or of historic preservation.
To the extent available in the city, two (2) commission members shall be
professionals, as defined by the national park service regulations, from the
disciplines of history, architecture or architectural history.
         b.   The terms of historic preservation commission members shall be
staggered. Each member of the historic preservation commission shall serve for
a term of not less than two (2) nor more than four (4) years, as determined by
the city council, and until a successor is appointed; provided, that the term
of the first members shall be such that the term of one member shall expire
each year.
         c.   Terms of historic preservation commission members shall begin on
or before the first Monday in February of each year.
         d.   Historic preservation commission members may be reappointed for
successive terms.
         e.   The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, may
remove any member of the historic preservation commission for cause if written
charges are filed against the member with the city manager; provided, that the
member shall be afforded a public hearing if one is requested.
         f.   A vacancy occurring on the historic preservation commission by
reason of death, resignation, removal, disqualification or any other reason
shall be promptly filled by a replacement appointed in the same manner as the
original appointment for the remainder of the unexpired term of the replaced
member.
      (2)   Members and alternate members of the historic preservation
commission shall be deemed "volunteers" for purposes of city ordinances, rules,
regulations and policies concerning personnel; provided, however, they shall be
included in the definition of "employee" for purposes of the Utah governmental
immunity act as set forth in section 63G-7-102 et seq., of the Utah Code, as
amended.
   (d)   Organization And Procedure:
The historic preservation commission shall be organized and exercise its powers
and duties as follows:
      (1)   Members of the historic preservation commission shall select one of
its members as chairperson to oversee the proceedings and activities of the
commission, and shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and the
conduct of its proceedings.
         a.   The chairperson shall serve for a term of one year.
         b.   The chairperson, with the advice and consent of the historic
preservation commission shall appoint one of the commission members as
alternate chairperson to act in the absence of the chairperson. The chairperson
and alternate chairperson may be reelected for successive terms.
      (2)   The historic preservation commission may adopt reasonable policies
and procedures, consistent with the provisions of this chapter, to govern the
conduct of its meetings, the processing of applications, and for any other
purposes considered necessary for the functioning of the historic preservation
commission.
      (3)   The historic preservation commission shall meet at least twice each
year. All meetings shall be properly noticed and held in accordance with the
open meetings law set forth in title 52, chapter 4 of the Utah Code, as
amended.
      (4)   No official business shall be conducted by the historic
preservation commission unless a quorum of its members is present. Three (3)
members of the commission shall constitute a quorum.
      (5)   Decisions of the commission shall become effective at the meeting
or hearing in which the decision is made, unless a different time is designated
in the commission's rules or at the time the decision is made.
      (6)   The historic preservation commission shall keep written minutes of
its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if
absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact, and keep records of its
examinations and other official actions.
         a.   The historic preservation commission shall transmit reports of
its official acts and recommendations to the city council. Any member of the
commission may also make a concurring or dissenting report or recommendation to
the city council.
         b.   The minutes of all meetings of the historic preservation
commission shall be prepared and filed in the office of the commission. All
records in the office of the historic preservation commission are public
records and shall be available for public review and access in accordance with
title 1, chapter 5, "Government Records Access and Management", of this code.
   (e)   Powers And Duties: The historic preservation commission shall have all
the powers and duties, explicit or implied, given such commissions by Utah
state law, including, but not limited to, the following. Each of such powers
and duties shall be exercised pursuant to the procedural and other provisions
of this chapter.
      (1)   The commission shall conduct or cause to be conducted a survey of
the historic, architectural and archaeological resources within the city. The
survey shall be compatible with the Utah State Inventory of Historic and
Archaeological Sites. Survey and inventory documents shall be maintained and
open to the public. The survey shall be updated as deemed appropriate by the
commission.
      (2)   The commission shall review and comment to the Utah historic
preservation officer on all proposed national register nominations for
properties within the boundaries of the city. When the historic preservation
commission considers a national register nomination which is normally evaluated
by professionals in a specific discipline and that discipline is not
represented on the commission, the commission shall seek expertise in this area
before rendering its decision.
      (3)   The historic preservation commission shall act in an advisory
capacity to the city council, planning commission and all other officials and
departments of the city, with respect to the identification and protection of
local historic and archaeological resources.
      (4)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall work toward the
continuing education of citizens regarding historic preservation and the City's
history.
      (5)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall identify an area or
areas containing significant historic buildings or structures to be known as
the Hildale Historic District, which district shall be established by an
overlay zone to this chapter. The commission shall also propose for adoption by
the City Council by subsequent ordinance rules and regulations pertaining to
new construction within the Historic District, as well as alterations, repairs
or demolition of existing buildings within said district deemed to be of
significant historical value. When such rules or regulations have been adopted
by ordinance by the City Council, the Historic Preservation Commission shall
assist in enforcing said rules and regulations.
      (6)   The commission shall further support the enforcement of all State
laws relating to historic preservation, including, but not limited to, sections
17A-3-1301 et seq., 9-8-201 et seq., and 9-8-401 et seq., of the Utah Code, as
amended.
Sec 152-6-7 Staff Referral By Planning Commission
   (a)   Staff Referral:
The Planning Commission may direct that any matter over which it has
jurisdiction be referred to the staff of the Planning Commission for review and
preparation of recommendations. Such action shall be taken either by motion of
the Planning Commission or pursuant to duly adopted bylaws of the Planning
Commission. The authority for such referrals may be revoked at any time by
motion of the Planning Commission or amendment of its bylaws, as the case may
be.
   (b)   Appointment Of Hearing Officer:
In the event a matter is referred to the Planning Commission staff which
requires a public hearing, the City Manager shall appoint a Hearing Officer to
conduct the hearing in accordance with applicable requirements of this chapter.
   (c)   Review And Recommendation:
If a matter is referred to the Planning Commission staff as permitted by this
section, the staff shall conform to any instructions or limitations contained
in the referral, and subject thereto shall review the referred matter, conduct
any necessary hearings, and prepare written recommendations for the Planning
Commission.
   (d)   Decision:
Unless the Planning Commission shall otherwise direct, any person who has
applied for authorization to develop property under the terms of this chapter
may in writing consent to the staff recommendation and waive further action by
the Planning Commission. If the applicant waives further action by the Planning
Commission, the staff recommendation shall be considered approved by the
Planning Commission. Thereafter necessary permits may be issued subject to the
terms of this chapter and any applicable conditions of approval.
   (e)   Limitation:
This section shall not apply to any action with respect to which the Planning
Commission is required by law to take direct action.
Sec 152-6-8 Zoning Administrator
   (a)   Appointment:
The City Manager shall designate a staff person who shall be primarily
responsible for administering and enforcing this chapter. Such person shall be
known as the Zoning Administrator.
   (b)   Interpretation:
The Zoning Administrator shall interpret the ordinance to members of the
public, City departments, and to other branches of government, subject to
general and specific policies established by the Planning Commission and City
Council. Upon request, the Zoning Administrator shall make a written
interpretation of the text of this chapter pursuant to section
152-7-18 of this chapter.
   (c)   Administrative Duties:
The Zoning Administrator shall accomplish or cause to be accomplished all
administrative actions required by this chapter, including the giving of
notice, holding of hearings, preparation of staff reports and receiving and
processing of appeals.
   (d)   Negotiation And Advice:
The Zoning Administrator may negotiate with and advise all persons making
application for any project which requires approval by the Planning Commission
or City Council.
Sec 152-6-9 Final Plat Approval Staff
   (a)   The City planning, public works, legal, and engineering staff and/or
contract employees are hereby designated to approve subdivision final plats.
CHAPTER 7 ADMINISTRATIVE AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES
Sec
152-7-1 Purpose
Sec
152-7-2 Scope
Sec
152-7-3 General Requirements
Sec
152-7-4 Public Hearings And Meetings
Sec
152-7-5 General Decision Making StandardsSec 152-7-6 General Plan Amendment
Sec
152-7-7 Zoning Map And Text AmendmentsSec 152-7-8 Permitted Use Review
Sec
152-7-9 Conditional Use PermitSec 152-7-10 Site Plan Review
Sec
152-7-12 Variance
Sec
152-7-13 Building Permit
Sec
152-7-14 Non-Conforming UseSec 152-7-15 Sign Permit
Sec
152-7-16 Temporary Use Permit
Sec
152-7-17 Routine And Uncontested MattersSec 152-7-18 Administrative
Interpretation
Sec
152-7-19 Appeal Of Administrative DecisionSec 152-7-20 Temporary Regulations
Sec
152-7-21 Review Of Constitutional Taking IssuesSec 152-7-22 Procedural
Irregularities
Sec
152-7-23 Grading Permit By Exception
Sec 152-7-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to set forth procedures and standards for
considering various types of land use and development applications to assure
that applications of the same type will be processed on a uniform basis
consistent with applicable law.
Sec 152-7-2 Scope
Any proposed land use or development which is subject to a procedure set forth
in this chapter shall be submitted, reviewed and acted upon as provided in this
chapter.
Sec 152-7-3 General Requirements
The following requirements shall apply to any application required by this
chapter:
   (a)   Application Forms:
Applications shall be submitted on forms provided by the zoning administrator
and in such numbers as reasonably required by the zoning administrator for a
particular type of application.
   (b)   City Initiated Applications:
The planning commission or city council may initiate any action under this
chapter without an application from a property owner. Notice, hearing and other
procedural requirements of this chapter shall apply to an application initiated
by the city.
   (c)   Development Review Sequence:
No subdivision, site plan or other development application shall be considered
unless:
      (1)   The approval which is requested in the application is allowed by
the zone existing on the subject property; or
      (2)   Where permitted by this chapter, the application is submitted
simultaneously with a proposed zoning map amendment that would allow the
proposal.
   (d)   Accurate Information:
All documents, plans, reports, studies and information provided to the city by
an applicant in accordance with the requirements of this chapter shall be
accurate and complete.
   (e)   Determination Of Complete Application:
After receipt of an application, the zoning administrator shall determine
whether the application is complete. If the application is not complete, the
zoning administrator shall notify the applicant in writing and shall:
      (1)   Specify the deficiencies of the application;
      (2)   State the additional information which must be supplied; and
      (3)   Advise the applicant that no further action will be taken on the
application until the deficiencies are corrected.
   (f)   Fees:
When an application is filed the applicant shall pay to the city the fee
associated with such application as provided in the fee schedule adopted by the
city council. Any application not accompanied by a required fee shall be
returned to the applicant as incomplete.
      (1)   Fees shall be nonrefundable except as provided in subsection G of
this section.
      (2)   Fees shall not be required for applications initiated by the city.
   (g)   Remedy Of Deficiencies:
If an applicant fails to correct specified deficiencies within thirty (30) days
after notification thereof the city may deem the application to be withdrawn.
If the application is deemed withdrawn, the application and any associated fee
shall be returned to the applicant upon request; provided, however, the city
may deduct from the application fee the cost of determining completeness of the
application.
   (h)   Decision Date:
The effective date of a decision or recommendation made under the provisions of
this chapter shall be the date of the meeting or hearing in which the decision
or recommendation is made by the decision making body or official.
   (i)   Extensions Of Time:
Unless otherwise prohibited by this chapter, upon written request and for good
cause shown, any decision making body or official having authority to grant
approval of an application may, without any notice or hearing, grant extensions
of any time limit imposed by this chapter on such application, its approval, or
the applicant. The total period of time granted by any such extension or
extensions shall not exceed twice the length of the original time period.
Sec 152-7-4 Public Hearings And Meetings
Any public hearing or meeting required under this chapter, as the case may be,
shall be scheduled and held subject to the requirements of this section.
   (a)   Scheduling A Public Hearing Or Meeting:
An application requiring a public hearing or meeting shall be scheduled within
a reasonable time following receipt of a complete application. The amount of
time between receipt of an application and holding a public hearing or meeting
shall be considered in light of:
      (1)   The complexity of the application submitted;
      (2)   The number of other applications received which require a public
hearing or meeting;
      (3)   Available staff resources; and
      (4)   Applicable public notice requirements.
   (b)   Notice Requirements:
The notice required by this land use ordinance shall be satisfied by actual
notice or the notice specified as follows:
      (1)   Applicant Notice: For each land use application or appeal, the city
shall notify the applicant of the date, time, and place of each public hearing
and public meeting to consider the application or appeal and of any final
action thereon. In an appeal, the same notice shall be given to each party in
interest to the action appealed from.
      (2)   Re-Zone Applications: In addition to all other noticing
requirements of this chapter and of Utah Code 10-9a-101, all adjacent property
owners will be notified by mail post marked ten (10) days before the approval
of any re-zone application.
      (3)   Notice Of Public Hearings And Public Meetings To Consider General
Plan Or Modifications:
         a.   The city shall provide:
            1.   Notice of the date, time, and place of the first public
hearing to consider the original adoption or any modification of all or any
portion of a general plan; and
            2.   Notice of each public meeting on the subject.
         b.   Each notice of a public meeting under subsection B2a(2) of this
section shall be at least ten (10) calendar days before the public hearing and
shall be:
            1.   Published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area;
            2.   Mailed to each affected entity; and
            3.   Posted in at least three (3) public locations within the city
or on the city's official website.
         c.   Each notice of a public meeting under subsection B2a(2) of this
section shall be posted at least twenty four (24) hours before the meeting and
shall be posted in at least three (3) public locations within the city or on
the city's official website.
      (4)   Notice On Adoption Of Modification: Notice of public hearings and
public meetings on adoption of modification of the land use ordinance.
      (1)   The city shall give:
         a.   Notice of the date, time, and place of the first public hearing
to consider the adoption of any modification of a land use ordinance; and
         b.   Notice of each public meeting on the subject.
      (2)   Each notice of a public hearing under subsection B3a(2) of this
section shall be:
         a.   Mailed to each affected entity at least ten (10) calendar days
before the public hearing;
         b.   Posted in at least three (3) public locations within the city or
on the city's official website; and
         c.   Published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area at
least ten (10) calendar days before the public hearing; or mailed at least
three (3) days before the public hearing to:
            1.   Each property owner whose land is directly affected by the
land use ordinance change; and
            2.   Each adjacent property owner within the parameters specified
by this chapter.
            3.   Each notice of a public meeting under subsection B3a(2) of
this section shall be at least twenty four (24) hours before the meeting and
shall be posted in at least three (3) public locations within the city or on
the city's official website.
   (c)   Challenge Of Notice:
If notice required by this section is not challenged in accordance with
applicable appeal procedures within thirty (30) days from the date of the
hearing or meeting for which notice was given, the notice shall be considered
adequate and proper.
   (d)   Examination And Copying Of Application And Other Documents:
Upon reasonable request, and during normal business hours, any person may
examine an application and materials submitted in support of or in opposition
to an application in the appropriate city office. Copies of such materials
shall be made available at reasonable cost.
   (e)   Public Hearing And Meeting Procedures:
An application shall be considered pursuant to policies and procedures
established by the decision making body or official for the conduct of its
meetings.
   (f)   Withdrawal Of Application:
An applicant may withdraw an application at any time prior to action on the
application by the decision making body or official. Application fees shall not
be refundable if prior to withdrawal:
      (1)   A staff review of the application has been undertaken; or
      (2)   Notice for a public hearing or meeting on the application has been
mailed, posted or published.
   (g)   Record Of Public Hearing Or Meeting:
      (1)   Written minutes or a digital or tape recording shall be kept of all
public hearings or meetings. Such minutes or a digital or tape recording shall
include:
         a.   The date, time, and place of the meeting;
         b.   The names of members present and absent;
         c.   The substance of all matters proposed, discussed, or decided, and
a record, by individual member, of votes taken;
         d.   The names of all citizens who appeared and the substance in brief
of their testimony; and
         e.   Any other information that any member requests be entered in the
minutes.
      (2)   The minutes, tape recordings, all applications, exhibits, papers
and reports submitted in any proceeding before the decision making body or
official, and the decision of the decision making body or official, shall
constitute the record thereof. The record shall be made available for public
examination as provided in subsection D of this section.
   (h)   Notification:
Notice of a decision by the decision making body or official shall be provided
to an applicant within a reasonable time.
Sec 152-7-5 General Decision Making Standards
The decision making standards set forth in this section are based on the
fundamental distinction between legislative and administrative proceedings:
Legislative proceedings establish public law and policy applicable generally,
while administrative proceedings apply such law and policy to factually
distinct, individual circumstances.
   (a)   Legislative Proceedings:
      (1)   The following types of applications are hereby declared to be
legislative proceedings:
         a.   General plan amendment;
         b.   Zoning map amendment;
         c.   Land use text amendment; and
         d.   Temporary regulations.
      (2)   Decisions regarding a legislative application shall be based on the
"reasonably debatable" standard, as follows:
         a.   The decision making authority shall determine what action, in its
judgment, will reasonably promote the public interest, conserve the values of
other properties, avoid incompatible development, encourage appropriate use and
development, and promote the general welfare.
         b.   In making such determination, the decision making authority may
consider the following:
            1.   Testimony presented at a public hearing or meeting; and
            2.   Personal knowledge of various conditions and activities
bearing on the issue at hand, such as, but not limited to, the location of
businesses, schools, roads and traffic conditions; growth in population and
housing; the capacity of utilities; the zoning of surrounding property; and the
effect that a particular proposal may have on such conditions and activities,
the values of other properties, and upon the general orderly development of the
city.
      (3)   The decision making body should state on the record the basis for
its decision.
      (4)   The Planning and Zoning Administrator should make a suitable form
available to guide the public in providing additional information and comments
in relation to a requested legislative change.
   (b)   Administrative Proceedings:
      (1)   The following types of applications are hereby declared to be
administrative proceedings:
         a.   Permitted use review;
         b.   Conditional use permit;
         c.   Site plan review;
         d.   Variance;
         e.   Building permit;
         f.   Nonconformities;
         g.   Sign permit;
         h.   Temporary use permit;
         i.   Routine and uncontested matter;
         j.   Administrative interpretation; and
         k.   Appeal of administrative decision.
      (2)   Decisions regarding an administrative application shall be based on
the "substantial evidence" standard and shall include at least the following
elements:
         a.   A statement of the standards for approval applicable to the
application;
         b.   A summary of evidence presented to the decision making body or
official;
         c.   A statement of findings of fact or other factors considered,
including the basis upon which such facts were determined and specific
references to applicable standards set forth in this chapter or other
provisions of this code; and
         d.   A statement of approval, approval with conditions, or
disapproval, as the case may be.
Sec 152-7-6 General Plan Amendment
The general plan and any of its elements may be amended as provided in
subsection
152-2-2H of this chapter.
Sec 152-7-7 Zoning Map And Text Amendments
   (a)   Purpose:
This section sets forth procedures for amending the provisions of this chapter
and the zoning map.
   (b)   Authority:
The city council may from time to time amend the text of this chapter and the
zoning map as provided in this section. Amendments may include changes in the
number, shape, boundaries, or area of any zoning district, zoning district
regulations or any other provision of this chapter. The provisions set forth
herein shall not apply to temporary land use regulations which may be enacted
without public hearing in accordance with section
152-7-20 of this chapter.
   (c)   Initiation:
Proposed amendments to the text of this chapter and the zoning map may be
initiated by the city council, planning commission or a property owner affected
by a proposed amendment as provided in subsection D1 of this section.
   (d)   Procedure:
Zoning text and map amendments shall be considered and processed as provided in
this subsection.
      (1)   An application shall be submitted to the zoning administrator in a
form established by the administrator along with any fee established by the
city's schedule of fees. The application shall include at least the following
information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any;
         b.   The name and address of every person or company the applicant
represents;
         c.   The requested amendment and reasons supporting the request; and
         d.   If the proposed amendment requires a change in the zoning map,
the application shall include:
            1.   An accurate property map showing present and proposed zoning
classifications;
            2.   All abutting properties showing present zoning
classifications; and
            3.   An accurate legal description and an approximate common
address of the area proposed to be rezoned.
         e.   If the proposed amendment requires a change in the text of this
chapter, the application shall include chapter and section references and a
draft of the proposed text.
      (2)   After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
administrator shall prepare a staff report evaluating the application.
      (3)   The planning commission shall hold a public hearing on the
application as provided in section
152-7-4 of this chapter. Following a public hearing the planning commission may
recommend for approval, approval with modifications, or denial thereof to the
city council.
      (4)   Following receipt of a recommendation from the planning commission,
the city council shall hold a public meeting on the application as provided in
section
152-7-4 of this chapter. The city council may approve, approve with
modifications, or deny the proposed amendment.
   (e)   Approval Standards:
A decision to amend the text of this chapter or the zoning map is a matter
within the legislative discretion of the city council as described in
subsection
152-7-5A of this chapter. In making an amendment, the following factors should
be considered:
      (1)   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with goals, objectives
and policies of the city's general plan;
      (2)   Whether the proposed amendment is harmonious with the overall
character of existing development in the vicinity of the subject property;
      (3)   The extent to which the proposed amendment may adversely affect
adjacent property; and
      (4)   The adequacy of facilities and services intended to serve the
subject property, including, but not limited to, roadways, parks and recreation
facilities, police and fire protection, schools, stormwater drainage systems,
water supplies, and wastewater and refuse collection.
   (f)   Appeal Of Decision:
Any party adversely affected by a decision of the city council to amend the
text of this chapter or the zoning map may, within thirty (30) days after such
decision, appeal to the district court as provided in section 10-9a-801 of the
Utah Code, as amended.
   (g)   Effect Of Approval:
Approval of an application to amend the provisions of this chapter or the
zoning map shall not be deemed an approval of any conditional use permit, site
plan or other permit. Approval of such permits shall be obtained in accordance
with applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (h)   Effect Of Disapproval:
City council denial of an application to amend the provisions of this chapter
or the zoning map shall preclude the filing of another application covering
substantially the same subject or property, or any portion thereof, for one
year from the date of the disapproval, except as follows:
      (1)   Another application may be sooner considered if:
         a.   The planning commission determines a substantial change in
circumstances has occurred to merit consideration of the application.
Substantial change may include:
            1.   A significant change in the affected land area;
            2.   An agreement with the applicant reducing overall density and
incorporating significant design changes including reduced building height,
increased setbacks, or other changes resulting in reduced impact on adjacent
land uses;
            3.   Changes in the neighborhood including recent zone changes or
land use amendments and/or new roads or other infrastructure to serve the area
proposed for the change.
         b.   The application is for a change to a different zone.
      (2)   The city council or planning commission may propose any text or
zoning map amendment at any time.
Sec 152-7-8 Permitted Use Review
   (a)   Purpose:
This section sets forth procedures for reviewing permitted uses in public
facility, commercial, business and industrial zones to determine compliance
with applicable requirements of this chapter. Such review is not required for
uses in agricultural, residential, and open space zones.
   (b)   Authority:
The zoning administrator is authorized to review and approve applications for
permitted uses in public facility, commercial, business and industrial zones as
set forth in this section.
   (c)   Initiation:
A property owner, the owner's agent, or a lessee may request a permitted use
review as provided in subsection D1 of this section.
   (d)   Procedure:
Permitted use applications shall be considered and processed as provided in
this subsection.
      (1)   A complete application shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any fee
established by the city's schedule of fees. The application shall include at
least the following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any;
         b.   The address and parcel identification of the subject property;
         c.   The zone, zone boundaries and present use of the subject
property;
         d.   A description of the proposed use;
         e.   A plot plan showing the following; and
            1.   Applicant's name;
            2.   Site address;
            3.   Property boundaries and dimensions;
            4.   Layout of existing and proposed buildings, parking,
landscaping, and utilities; and
            5.   Adjoining property lines and uses within one hundred feet
(100') of the subject property.
         f.   Other information needed to demonstrate the permitted use
conforms to applicable provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   After an application is determined to be complete, the Zoning
Administrator shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application
pursuant to the standards set forth in subsection E of this section. Any
conditions of approval shall be limited to conditions needed to conform the
permitted use to approval standards.
      (3)   After making a decision, the Zoning Administrator shall give the
applicant written notice of the decision.
      (4)   A record of all permitted use reviews shall be maintained in the
Office of the Zoning Administrator.
   (e)   Approval Standards:
The following standards shall apply to approval of a permitted use. A permitted
use shall:
      (1)   Be allowed as a permitted use in the applicable zone;
      (2)   Conform to development standards of the applicable zone;
      (3)   Conform to applicable regulations of general applicability and
regulations for specific uses set forth in this chapter; and
      (4)   Conform to any other applicable requirements of this Code.
   (f)   Appeal Of Decision:
Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Zoning Administrator
regarding a permitted use review may appeal the decision in accordance with the
provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
   (g)   Effect Of Approval:
Approval of a permitted use shall authorize an applicant to engage in the
permitted use subject to any conditions of approval. Approval of a permitted
use shall not be deemed an approval of any conditional use permit, site plan or
other permit. Approval of such permits shall be obtained in accordance with
applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (h)   Amendments:
The procedure for amending any permitted use approval shall be the same as the
original procedure set forth in this section.
   (i)   Revocation:
A permitted use approval may be revoked as provided in section
152-9-6 of this chapter.
   (j)   Expiration:
A permitted use approval shall expire and have no further force or effect if
the building, activity, construction or occupancy authorized by the approval is
not commenced within twelve (12) months after approval.
Sec 152-7-9 Conditional Use Permit
   (a)   Purpose:
This section sets forth procedures for considering and approving conditional
use permits.
   (b)   Authority:
      (1)   The Planning Commission is authorized to issue conditional use
permits for the following uses:
         Agricultural industry Agricultural Sales and Service Assisted living
facility Automobile wrecking yard Dwelling, multi-family Dwelling, single-
family Dwelling, temporary
         Dwelling, two-family Kennel, Commercial
         Gas and fuel, storage and sales
         Greater heights and size than permitted by the Code. Guesthouse or
casita without direct access to main dwelling unit Metal buildings in
commercial and residential zones
         Off Road Recreational Vehicle Rental Public stable
         Licensed family child care Reception center
         Recreation and entertainment, outdoor Residential facility for
troubled youth
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue conditional use
permits for the following uses:
         Animals and fowl for recreation and family food production Guesthouse
or casita without direct access to main dwelling unit Dwelling, multi-family
         Dwelling, single-family Dwelling, temporary Dwelling, two-family
   (c)   Initiation:
A property owner, or the owner's agent, may request a conditional use permit as
provided in subsection D1 of this section.
   (d)   Procedure:
An application for a conditional use permit shall be considered and processed
as provided in this subsection.
      (1)   A complete application shall be submitted to the Office of the
Zoning Administrator in a form established by the Administrator along with any
fee established by the City's schedule of fees. The application shall include
at least the following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any;
         b.   The address and parcel identification of the subject property;
         c.   The zone, zone boundaries and present use of the subject
property;
         d.   A description of the proposed conditional use;
         e.   A plot plan showing the following:
            1.   Applicant's name;
            2.   Site address;
            3.   Property boundaries and dimensions;
            4.   Layout of existing and proposed buildings, parking,
landscaping, and utilities; and
            5.   Adjoining property lines and uses within one hundred feet
(100') of the subject property;
         f.   Traffic impact analysis, if required by the City Engineer or the
Planning Commission;
         g.   A statement by the applicant demonstrating how the conditional
use permit request meets the approval standards for the conditional use
desired; and
         h.   Such other and further information or documentation as the Zoning
Administrator may deem necessary for proper consideration and disposition of a
particular application.
      (2)   After the application is determined to be complete, the Zoning
Administrator shall schedule a public meeting before the Planning Commission as
provided in section
152-7-4 of this chapter or shall review the application to determine if it
meets the standards for an administrative conditional use permit.
      (3)   A staff report evaluating the application shall be prepared by the
Zoning Administrator for a conditional use permit that will be reviewed by the
Planning Commission.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public meeting and shall
thereafter approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application pursuant
to the standards set forth in subsection E of this section. A conditional use
shall be approved if reasonable conditions are proposed or can be imposed to
mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in
accordance with applicable standards. If the reasonably anticipated detrimental
effects of a proposed conditional use cannot be substantially mitigated by the
proposal or the imposition of reasonable conditions to achieve compliance with
the applicable standards, the conditional use may be denied.
      (5)   After the Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator makes a
decision, the Zoning Administrator shall give the applicant written notice of
the decision.
      (6)   A record of all conditional use permits shall be maintained in the
Office of the Zoning Administrator.
   (e)   Approval Standards:
The following standards shall apply to the issuance of a conditional use
permit:
      (1)   A conditional use permit may be issued only when the proposed use
is shown as conditional in the zone where the conditional use will be located,
or by another provision of this chapter.
      (2)   Standards for each use must be reviewed. Specific standards are set
forth for each use in subsections E2a through E2o of this section:
         a.   Standards for agricultural industry:
            1.   Adequate fencing and/or enclosures must be provided to ensure
animals and fowl are confined safely and in conformance with acceptable animal
husbandry standards.
            2.   Applicant must provide a plan for how manure will be handled
to prevent it becoming a nuisance and must follow the plan.
            3.   Evidence must be provided on how the applicant will maintain
control of flies and vermin.
         b.   Standards for agricultural sales and service:
            1.   Adequate safeguards must be provided to ensure safe storage
and handling of agricultural chemicals.
            2.   Evidence must be provided on how the applicant will maintain
control of vermin.
            3.   All outdoor storage areas for agricultural sales and service
uses, and all areas to be used for servicing implements shall be enclosed by a
sight- obscuring fence. Aesthetically pleasing landscaping shall be provided
around the perimeter of the fence.
            4.   No more than five percent of retail shelf, floor, counter and
overhead display space may be devoted to the sale of grocery or other non-
agricultural products, and there shall be no exterior advertisement of the
availability of such products.
         c.   Standards for assisted living facility:
            1.   The facility shall comply with building, safety, and health
regulations applicable to similar structures.
            2.   The facility shall be licensed by the State of Utah.
            3.   A site plan shall be approved for the facility to ensure
adequate parking and landscaping are installed.
         d.   Standards for automobile wrecking yard:
            1.   All storage areas for vehicles, parts, materials or junk shall
be enclosed by a sight-obscuring fence not less than six feet high, and in any
event of sufficient height that all such stored items will be obscured from
view. Aesthetically pleasing landscaping shall be provided around the perimeter
of the fence.
            2.   A concrete slab, equipped with appropriate equipment to
collect and contain hazardous materials, shall be provided for all dismantling
operations.
            3.   Any "crusher" operation must be during the hours of 8 a.m. to
5 p.m. Monday through Friday with no holiday operations.
            4.   There shall be multiple entrances with aisles wide enough to
accommodate access by the appropriate emergency vehicles. No aisles shall dead
end into another aisle, fence or building.
         e.   Standards for dwelling, multi-family; dwelling, single-family;
dwelling, temporary; dwelling, two-family:
            1.   A two-family dwelling, or a multi-family dwelling contained
within a standalone structure shall be governed by the development standards of
the RM-2 zone, to the extent that such standards are inconsistent with the
development standards of the applicable zone.
            2.   A single-family dwelling shall be governed by the development
standards of the R-1-8 zone, to the extent that such standards are inconsistent
with the development standards of the applicable zone.
            3.   A conditional use permit shall be valid for a period not to
exceed thirty years.
         f.   Standards for kennel, commercial;
            1.   Adequate fencing and/or enclosures must be provided to ensure
dogs are confined safely and in conformance with acceptable animal husbandry
standards.
            2.   Applicant must provide a plan for how excrement will be
handled to prevent it becoming a nuisance and must follow the plan.
            3.   Evidence must be provided on how the applicant will maintain
control of flies and vermin.
            4.   A minimum parcel size of 1 acre will be required.
            5.   Kennels shall not be constructed closer than 100 feet from any
dwelling on adjacent parcels.
            6.   A sign shall be provided identifying the operator of the
kennel and a 24- hour emergency phone number.
            7.   If breeding or whelping operations will be conducted on the
property, the applicant must provide a plan to staff the kennel a minimum of
eighteen hours per day.
            8.   No more than six dogs over the age of four months shall be
allowed per acre of lot area.
         g.   Standards for greater heights and size than permitted by the
Code:
            1.   The height may not be greater than two (2) stories or 1.5
times the average height of the immediately adjacent buildings, whichever is
greater.
            2.   The greater size building desired must be of compatible
architecture with immediately adjacent buildings, must leave at least thirty
five percent (35%) of the lot on which it is located as a pervious surface, and
must be for a use permitted in the zone in which it is located.
         h.   Standards for guesthouse or casita without direct access to main
dwelling unit:
            1.   Applicant must be willing to sign a restrictive notice that
will be recorded in the Office of the Washington County Recorder limiting the
use of the guesthouse or casita to family members or nonpaying guests unless
the casita meets the development standards for a rental unit.
            2.   Guesthouse or casita must meet size, setback, and height
restrictions for the zone in which it is located.
            3.   Guesthouse or casita must be served by the same utility
connections as the main structure on the site.
         i.   Standards for metal buildings in commercial and residential
zones:
            1.   In Residential (R-1) Zones the height and size may not be
greater than permitted in the zone.
            2.   The building must meet the following design standards:
               i.   Exterior building materials shall be durable, require low
maintenance, and be of the same or higher quality as surrounding developments.
               ii.   Details of proposed colors and materials, including color
chips, samples, and colored building elevations, shall be shown on building
plans when a development project application is submitted. Colors shall be
compatible with surrounding structures.
               iii.   Reflective surfaces or colors which may produce excessive
reflections or glare that may create a potential safety problem are prohibited.
               iv.   In a commercial zone the faces of the building visible
from nearby streets must include architectural relief items of non-metal
materials including wood, stone, or stucco.
         j.   Standards for public stable:
            1.   Adequate fencing and/or enclosures must be provided to ensure
horses are confined safely and in conformance with acceptable animal husbandry
standards.
            2.   Applicant must provide a plan for how manure will be handled
to prevent it becoming a nuisance and must follow the plan.
            3.   Evidence must be provided on how the applicant will maintain
control of flies and vermin.
            4.   Site must contain adequate off street parking for customers.
All trailers must be contained on site.
         k.   Standards for licensed family child care:
            1.   Applicant must obtain and maintain compliance with all
required licenses/approvals from applicable agencies and all regulations
applicable to licensed family child care.
            2.   Child care activities shall be clearly incidental to the
dwelling or residential use.
            3.   Signage shall be limited to one nonilluminated nameplate sign
that does not exceed twelve square feet in area.
            4.   Alterations shall not be made to the dwelling or the yard area
that change the residential character.
            5.   There must be no more than one employee that does not reside
on the premises.
            6.   Any vehicles associated with the child care use that are
regularly parked on-site must have a gross vehicle weight rating of ten
thousand pounds or less, and have no more than two axles.
         l.   Standards for a reception center:
            1.   Hours of operation must be compatible with adjoining uses and
comply with Hildale City noise regulations.
            2.   Parking must be provided.
            3.   The use of on street parking to provide up to forty percent
(40%) of the required parking may be permitted if adjoining uses are not
residential uses and the street is fully Improved.
            4.   The center must have an approved site plan.
            5.   If beer, wine, or other alcoholic beverages are served, the
center must be licensed by the State Alcohol Control Board
         m.   Standards for recreation and entertainment, outdoor:
            1.   Any structure established in connection with the use shall
have a setback of not less than 100 feet from any lot line, except that where
such lot line abuts a street, the front setback from the development standards
for the applicable zone shall apply.
         n.   Standards for residential facility troubled youth:
            1.   The operator must be willing to enter into a non-disclosure
agreement with the City and confidentially share information about occupants as
necessary to make a decision regarding or to enforce a conditional use permit.
            2.   The operator must adopt and enforce a policy that the facility
may not be occupied by any youth who has previously been found guilty of a
crime of moral turpitude or a sex-related offense.
            3.   The facility must be supervised 24 hours a day by a qualified
adult at least ten years older than the oldest youth resident.
            4.   The facility must not be located within one-half mile of
another existing residential facility for troubled youth, a public or private
school, a public library, a public park or playground, measured in a straight
line between the nearest property boundaries.
            5.   Alterations shall not be made to the dwelling or the yard area
that change the residential character.
            6.   There must be no more than one employee that does not reside
on the premises.
            7.   Any vehicles associated with the residential facility use that
are regularly parked on-site must have a gross vehicle weight rating of ten
thousand pounds or less, and have no more than two axles.
         o.   Standards for animals and fowl for recreation and family food
production:
            1.   Adequate fencing must be provided to ensure animals and fowl
are confined safely.
            2.   Applicant must provide a plan for how manure will be handled
to prevent it becoming a nuisance and must follow the plan.
            3.   Evidence must be provided on how the applicant will maintain
control of flies and vermin.
            4.   The number of fowl will be limited by the point system used in
section
152-37-15 of this chapter.
            5.   Livestock numbers may be limited at the Administrator's
discretion based on the size of the lot and the facilities available to contain
and protect the animals.
         p.   Standards for off-highway vehicle rentals:
            1.   Applicant must be operating a bed and breakfast or residential
hosting facility on the same property in conformity with this chapter.
            2.   Applicant must have a valid Hildale City business license for
off-highway vehicle rentals.
            3.   Off-highway vehicles may only be rented to guests of the bed
and breakfast or residential hosting facility.
            4.   Only one off-highway vehicle may be rented per guest room.
   (f)   Appeal Of Decision:
Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Planning Commission
regarding the transfer, issuance, or denial of a conditional use permit may
appeal the decision in accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
   (g)   Effect Of Approval:
A conditional use permit shall not relieve an applicant from obtaining any
other authorization or permit required under this chapter or any other title of
this Code.
      (1)   A conditional use permit may be transferred so long as the use
conducted thereunder conforms to the terms of the permit.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified by the Planning Commission and subject
to the provisions relating to amendment, revocation or expiration of a
conditional use permit, a conditional use permit shall be of indefinite
duration and shall run with the land.
   (h)   Amendment:
The procedure for amending any conditional use permit shall be the same as the
original procedure set forth in this section.
   (i)   Revocation:
A conditional use permit may be revoked as provided in section
152-9-6 of this chapter.
      (1)   In addition to the grounds set forth in section
152-9-6 of this chapter, any of the following shall be grounds for revocation:
         a.   The use for which a permit was granted has ceased for one year or
more;
         b.   The holder or user of a permit has failed to comply with the
conditions of approval or any City, State, or Federal law governing the conduct
of the use;
         c.   The holder or user of the permit has failed to construct or
maintain the site as shown on the approved site plan, map, or other approval
materials; or
         d.   The operation of the use or the character of the site has been
found to be a nuisance or a public nuisance by a court of competent
jurisdiction in any civil or criminal proceeding.
      (2)   No conditional use permit shall be revoked against the wishes of
the holder or user of the permit without first giving such person an
opportunity to appear before the Planning Commission and show cause as to why
the permit should not be revoked or the conditions amended. Revocation of a
permit shall not limit the City's ability to initiate or complete other legal
proceedings against the holder or user of the permit.
   (j)   Expiration:
A conditional use permit shall expire and have no further force or effect if
the building, activity, construction, or occupancy authorized by the permit is
not commenced within one year after approval.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-011 on 9/1/2021
Sec 152-7-10 Site Plan Review
   (a)   Purpose:
This section sets forth procedures for considering and approving preliminary
site plans and site plans. These procedures are established to encourage
adequate advanced planning and assure a good quality environment for the City.
Such procedure is intended to provide for orderly, harmonious, safe, and
functionally efficient development consistent with priorities, values, and
guidelines stated in the various elements of the Hildale City General Plan,
this chapter, and the general welfare of the community.
   (b)   Authority:
The Planning Commission is authorized to approve preliminary site plans and
site plans as provided in this section.
   (c)   Initiation:
A property owner, or the owner's agent, may request approval of a preliminary
site plan and/or site plan as provided in subsection D of this section.
      (1)   A site plan shall be required for any of the following uses unless
expressly exempted from such requirement by another provision of this chapter:
         a.   Any multiple-family residential use;
         b.   Any public or civic use;
         c.   Any commercial use; or
         d.   Any industrial use.
      (2)   When site plan approval is required, no building permit for the
construction of any building, structure, or other improvement to the site shall
be issued prior to approval of a site plan. No cleaning, grubbing, drainage
work, parking lot construction, or other site improvement shall be undertaken
prior to site plan approval.
   (d)   Procedure:
The Zoning Administrator shall determine if the scope of the project requires
both preliminary site plan and site plan approvals, or solely site plan
approval. Both preliminary site plan approval and site plan approval shall be
required for zone changes to planned development overlay or changes to an
approved planned development overlay. An application for preliminary site plan
approval and/or site plan approval shall be considered and processed as
provided in this subsection.
      (1)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that the scope of the
project is limited to construction within a structure that was substantially
completed prior to November 20, 2018, then the subsections D4(d), D4e1(v), D4e3
(iii), D4e(4), and D4e(5) shall not apply.
      (2)   A complete application shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator in a form established by the Administrator along with any fee
established by the City's schedule of fees.
      (3)   A preliminary site plan shall be drawn to scale and shall show a
realistic layout reflecting how property reasonably could be developed
considering existing and envisioned conditions on the subject property and
adjoining property, and the development standards of the zone in which the
property is located.
         a.   A preliminary site plan shall include at least the following
information:
            1.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and
the applicant's agent, if any;
            2.   Location, topography showing two foot (2') contours,
identification of thirty percent (30%) or greater slopes, and layout of
proposed uses;
            3.   Location of open space;
            4.   Proposed access to the property and traffic circulation
patterns;
            5.   Preliminary utility plan, including water, sewer, and storm
drainage plans, and including access points to utilities;
            6.   Proposed reservations for parks, playgrounds, schools, and
other public facility sites, if any;
            7.   Adjoining properties and uses;
            8.   Tables showing the number of acres in the proposed development
and a land use summary;
            9.   A phased development plan if applicable.
         b.   A preliminary site plan is not intended to permit actual
development of property pursuant to such plan but shall be prepared merely to
represent how the property could be developed. Submittal, review, and approval
of an application for a preliminary site plan shall not create any vested
rights to development.
      (4)   Subject to subsection D(1), a site plan application shall include
at least the following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any;
         b.   The uses for which site plan approval is requested;
         c.   A set of development plans showing the information required in
subsections D4c(1) to D4c(5) of this section. The information required by each
subsection shall be shown on separate sheets. Plans shall be drawn at a scale
no smaller than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100').
         d.   Except for the landscaping plan, the plans shall be prepared,
stamped and signed by a professional engineer licensed by the state of Utah.
The zoning administrator shall reasonably determine the number of sets of plans
required to undertake the review required by this section. One set of plans,
reduced to fit on eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") paper, shall be
provided
         e.   .Subject to subsection D(1), development plans shall include:
            1.   Site plan showing the following:
               i.   All facilities related to the project located within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the site boundary;
               ii.   Layout, dimensions, and names of existing and future road
rights of way;
               iii.   Project name;
               iv.   North arrow;
               v.   Tie to a section monument;
               vi.   The boundary lines of the project site with bearings and
distances;
               vii.   Layout and dimensions of existing and proposed streets,
buildings, parking areas, and landscape areas;
               viii.   Location, dimensions, and labeling of other existing and
proposed features such as bicycle racks, dumpsters, trash cans, fences,
signage, mechanical equipment;
               ix.   Location of manmade features including irrigation
facilities, bridges, railroad tracks, and buildings;
               x.   A tabulation table, showing total gross acreage, square
footage of street rights of way, square footage of building footprint, square
footage of total building floor area, square footage of landscaping, number of
parking spaces, and if any, the number and type of dwellings, and the
percentage devoted to each dwelling type and overall dwelling unit density; and
               xi.   Identification of property, if any, not proposed for
development.
            2.   Grading and drainage plan showing the following:
               i.   North arrow, scale, and site plan underlay;
               ii.   Topography contours at two foot (2') intervals;
               iii.   Areas of substantial earth moving with an erosion control
plan;
               iv.   Location of existing watercourses, canals, ditches,
springs, wells, culverts, and storm drains, and proposed method of dealing with
all irrigation and waste water;
               v.   Location of any designated floodplain and/or wetland
boundaries;
               vi.   Direction of stormwater flows, catch basins, inlets,
outlets, waterways, culverts, detention basins, orifice plates, outlets to off
site facilities, and off site drainage facilities when necessary based on
adopted city requirements; and
            3.   Utility plan showing the following:
               i.   North arrow, scale, and site plan underlay;
               ii.   All existing and proposed utilities including, but not
limited to: sewer, culinary water, secondary water, fire hydrants, storm
drains, subsurface drains, gas lines, power lines, communications lines, cable
television lines, and streetlights;
               iii.   Minimum fire flow required by the uniform fire code for
the proposed structures, and fire flow calculations at all hydrant locations;
               iv.   Location and dimensions of all utility easements; and
               v.   A letter from sewer and water providers, addressing the
feasibility and their requirements to serve the project.
            4.   Landscaping plan, consistent with the requirements of chapter
32 of this chapter.
            5.   Building elevations for all buildings showing the following:
               i.   Accurate front, rear, and side elevations drawn to scale;
               ii.   Exterior surfacing materials and colors, including roofing
material and color;
               iii.   Outdoor lighting, furnishings and architectural accents;
and
               iv.   Location and dimensions of signs proposed to be attached
to the building or structure.
         f.   Where one or more conditions of unusual soil, vegetation, geology
or slope exist, resulting in increased fire, flood or erosion hazards, traffic
circulation problems, sewage disposal problems and potential property damage
from extensive soil slippage and subsidence, an applicant shall, upon request
of the planning commission or city engineer, provide contour and drainage
plans, cut and fill specifications, and soil and geologic reports. The required
details of such reports and plans may vary depending on the severity of the
unusual conditions, but in any event such plans and reports shall be reviewed
and approved by the city prior to final approval of a development project.
         g.   Any necessary agreements with adjacent property owners regarding
storm drainage or other pertinent matters.
         h.   Evidence of compliance with applicable federal, state, and local
laws and regulations, if requested by the zoning administrator.
         i.   A traffic impact analysis, if requested by the city engineer or
the planning commission.
         j.   Warranty deed or preliminary title report or other document
showing the applicant has control of the property, if requested by the zoning
administrator.
         k.   Parcel map(s) from the county recorder's office showing the
subject property and all property located within four hundred feet (400')
thereof, if requested by the zoning administrator.
      (5)   After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
administrator shall schedule a public meeting before the planning commission as
provided in section
152-7-4 of this chapter.
      (6)   Prior to Planning Commission consideration of a site plan the
Zoning Admistrator shall seek the input of the department heads and Joint
Utility Committe and provide any comments received to the Planning Commission.
      (7)   The planning commission shall hold a public meeting and thereafter
shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application pursuant to the
standards set forth in subsection E of this section. Any conditions of approval
shall be limited to conditions needed to conform the site plan to approval
standards.
         a.   In the case of a preliminary site plan for a planned development,
planning commission approval shall not be effective unless and until a
corresponding planned development overlay zone is approved by the city council.
   (e)   
   (f)   Standards For Approval:
The following standards shall apply to the approval of a site plan:
      (1)   Site Development: The entire site shall be developed at one time
unless a phased development plan is approved.
      (2)   Compliance With Standards: A site plan shall conform to applicable
standards set forth in this chapter and other applicable provisions of the Land
Use Code. Conditions may be imposed as necessary to achieve compliance with
applicable Code requirements.
      (3)   Agreement; Letter Of Credit: In order to assure that the
development will be constructed to completion in an acceptable manner, the City
may require the applicant to enter into an agreement and provide a satisfactory
letter of credit or escrow deposit. The agreement and letter of credit or
escrow deposit shall assure timely construction and installation of
improvements required by a site plan approval.
      (4)   Planned Center Uses: In a planned center, individual uses shall be
subject to the following requirements:
         a.   The overall planned center shall have been approved as a
conditional use which shall include an overall site plan, development
guidelines and a list of uses allowed in the center.
         b.   Development guidelines for a planned center shall, at a minimum,
address the following topics:
            1.   General site engineering (e.g., storm drainage, provision of
utilities, erosion control, etc.);
            2.   Architectural guidelines, including building setbacks, height,
massing and scale, site coverage by buildings, materials, and colors;
            3.   Landscaping and open space standards
            4.   Signage;
            5.   Exterior lighting;
            6.   Parking, pedestrian and vehicular circulation, and access to
the site;
            7.   Rights of access within the center (use of cross easements,
etc.);
            8.   Development phasing and improvements/amenities to be completed
with each phase;
            9.   Outdoor sales, storage and equipment;
            10.   Fencing and walls; and
            11.   Maintenance standards and responsibilities.
         c.   After approval of a planned center, individual uses therein may
be approved pursuant to a building permit. Building permits for individual uses
with an approved planned center shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator
for compliance of the proposed use to the overall site plan, development
guidelines and approved use list for the planned center. The Zoning
Administrator shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the permit based
on compliance with applicable conditions of the site plan and provisions of
this chapter.
   (g)   Appeal Of Decision:
Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Planning Commission or
Zoning Administrator regarding approval or denial of a site plan approval may
appeal the decision in accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
   (h)   Effect Of Approval:
Every site for which a site plan has been approved shall conform to such plan.
      (1)   A building permit shall not be issued for any building or
structure, external alterations thereto, or any sign or advertising structure
until the provisions of this section have been met.
No structures or improvements may be constructed unless shown on an approved
site plan or required by law.
      (2)   Approval of a site plan shall not be deemed an approval of any
conditional use permit or other permit. Approval of such permits shall be
obtained in accordance with applicable provisions of this chapter. However, the
Zoning Administrator may allow the application for a conditional use permit to
be considered concurrently with the site plan application.
   (i)   Amendments:
Except as may be provided for elsewhere in this chapter, no element of an
approved site plan shall be changed or modified without first obtaining
approval of an amended site plan as follows:
      (1)   Alteration or expansion of an approved site plan may be permitted
by the Zoning Administrator upon making the following findings:
         a.   Any proposed use is consistent with uses permitted on the site;
         b.   Existing uses were permitted when the site plan was approved, or
have received a conditional use permit;
         c.   The proposed use and site will conform to applicable requirements
of the Land Use Code;
         d.   The proposed alteration or expansion meets the approval standards
of subsection E of this section;
         e.   The architecture of the proposed alteration or expansion, and
landscaping, site design and parking layout are compatible with facilities
existing on the site; and
         f.   The site can accommodate any change in the number of employees on
the site or any change in impact on surrounding infrastructure.
      (2)   If the Zoning Administrator cannot make the findings required in
the foregoing subsection, a conditional use permit or amended site plan, as the
case may be, shall be approved before any alteration or expansion occurs.
      (3)   The procedure for approval of an amended site plan shall be the
same as the procedure for approval of an original site plan as set forth in
this section.
   (j)   Revocation:
A site plan approval may be revoked as provided in section
152-9-6 of this chapter.
   (k)   Expiration:
A site plan approval shall expire and have no further force or effect if the
building, activity, construction or occupancy authorized by the approval is not
commenced within one year.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2020-009 on 9/2/2020
Sec 152-7-12 Variance
   (a)   Purpose:
This section sets forth procedures for considering and approving a variance to
the provisions of this chapter. Variance procedures are intended to provide a
narrowly circumscribed means by which relief may be granted from particular
unforeseen applications of the provisions of this chapter that create
unreasonable hardships.
   (b)   Authority:
The Hearing Officer is authorized to hear and decide variances to the
provisions of this chapter as provided in this section.
   (c)   Initiation:
A property owner, lessee, or holder of a beneficial interest in property, or
the agent thereof, may request a variance to the provisions of this chapter as
provided in subsection D1 of this section. All such applications shall be
signed by the owner of property for which the variance is sought.
   (d)   Procedure:
An application for a variance shall be considered and processed as provided in
this subsection.
      (1)   A complete application shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any fee
established by the city's schedule of fees. The application shall include at
least the following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any;
         b.   The address and parcel identification of the subject property;
         c.   The specific feature or features of the proposed use,
construction or development that require a variance;
         d.   The specific provision of this chapter from which a variance is
sought;
         e.   A statement of the characteristics of the subject property that
prevent compliance with the provisions of this chapter and result in
unnecessary hardship;
         f.   A statement of the amount of variation needed to permit the
proposed use, construction or development;
         g.   An explanation of how the application satisfies the variance
standards set forth in subsection E of this section;
         h.   A plot plan showing the following:
            1.   Applicant's name;
            2.   Site address;
            3.   Property boundaries and dimensions;
            4.   Layout of existing and proposed buildings, parking,
landscaping, and utilities; and
            5.   Adjoining property lines and uses within one hundred feet
(100') of the subject property;
         i.   An elevation plan drawn to scale showing elevations of existing
and proposed structures;
         j.   When the variance involves building height, a streetscape plan
showing the height of all buildings within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the
subject property;
         k.   When a variance involves grade changes, a topographical drawing
prepared by a licensed surveyor or civil engineer, showing existing topography
in dashed lines at two foot (2') intervals and showing the proposed grade in
solid lines at two foot (2') intervals;
         l.   When a variance involves retaining walls, a plan showing all
retaining walls, including their height relative to proposed grades; and
         m.   Any other information reasonably determined by the zoning
administrator to be pertinent to a requested variance.
      (2)   After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
administrator shall schedule a public meeting before the Hearing Officer as
provided in section
152-7-4 of this chapter.
      (3)   A staff report evaluating the application shall be prepared by the
zoning administrator.
      (4)   The Hearing Officer shall hold a public meeting and thereafter
shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the application pursuant to the
standards set forth in subsection E of this section. Any conditions of approval
shall be limited to conditions needed to conform the variance to approval
standards.
      (5)   After the Hearing Officer makes a decision, the zoning
administrator shall give the applicant written notice of the decision.
      (6)   A record of all variances shall be maintained in the office of the
zoning administrator.
   (e)   Approval Standards:
The following standards shall apply to a variance:
      (1)   The Hearing Officer may grant a variance only if:
         a.   Literal enforcement of this chapter would cause an unreasonable
hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general
purpose of this chapter;
         b.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do
not generally apply to other properties in the same zoning district;
         c.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a
substantial property right possessed by other property in the same zoning
district;
         d.   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and
will not be contrary to the public interest; and
         e.   The spirit of this chapter is observed and substantial justice
done.
      (2)   The Hearing Officer may find an unreasonable hardship exists only
if the alleged hardship is located on or associated with the property for which
the variance is sought and comes from circumstances peculiar to the property,
not from conditions that are general to the neighborhood. The Hearing Officer
may not find an unreasonable hardship exists if the hardship is self-imposed or
economic.
      (3)   The Hearing Officer may find that special circumstances are
attached to the property and exist only if the special circumstances relate to
the hardship complained of and deprive the property of privileges granted to
other properties in the same zoning district.
      (4)   An applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the
conditions justifying a variance have been met.
      (5)   A use variance may not be granted.
      (6)   In granting a variance, the Hearing Officer may impose additional
requirements on an applicant that will mitigate any harmful effects of the
variance, or serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or
modified.
      (7)   A variance more restrictive than that requested by an applicant may
be authorized when the record supports the applicant's right to some relief but
not to the extent requested.
      (8)   A variance shall not be granted to a lot in a proposed subdivision
that would reduce the lot area below the minimum lot area required in the zone
in which the subdivision is located.
   (f)   Appeal Of Decision:
Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Hearing Officer regarding a
variance may, within thirty (30) days after such decision, appeal to the
district court as provided in section 10-9a-801 of the Utah Code, as amended.
   (g)   Effect Of Approval:
A variance shall not authorize the establishment of any use nor the
development, construction, reconstruction, alteration, or moving of any
building or structure, but shall merely authorize the preparation, filing, and
processing of applications for any approvals or permits that may be required by
this chapter or other applicable provisions of this code.
   (h)   Amendments:
The procedure for amending any variance decision shall be the same as the
original procedure set forth in this section.
   (i)   Expiration:
Variances shall not expire but shall run with the land.
Sec 152-7-13 Building Permit
   (a)   Purpose:
This section sets forth procedures for determining zoning compliance of a
building permit application.
   (b)   Authority:
The zoning administrator is authorized to review building permits for zoning
compliance as provided in this section.
   (c)   Initiation:
Any person may apply for a building permit as provided in the building codes
adopted by the city.
   (d)   Procedure:
A building permit application shall be reviewed for zoning compliance as
provided in this subsection.
      (1)   A complete building permit application shall be submitted to the
building official in a form established by the building official along with any
fee established by the city's schedule of fees. The application shall include
at least the following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any; and
         b.   A plot plan showing the following:
            1.   Applicant's name;
            2.   Site address;
            3.   Property boundaries and dimensions;
            4.   Layout of existing and proposed buildings, parking,
landscaping, and utilities; and
            5.   Adjoining property lines and uses within one hundred feet
(100') of the subject property.
      (2)   After the application is determined to be complete, the building
official shall transmit the application to the zoning administrator. The zoning
administrator shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the zoning
compliance request pursuant to the standards set forth in subsection E of this
section. Any conditions of approval shall be limited to conditions needed to
conform the permit to approval standards.
      (3)   After making a decision, the zoning administrator shall give the
building official written notice of the zoning compliance decision.
      (4)   A record of all zoning compliance reviews shall be maintained in
the office of the building official.
   (e)   Approval Standards:
The following standards shall apply to determine zoning compliance of a
building permit application:
      (1)   No building permit shall be approved for zoning compliance unless
the proposed building, structure or use when built and the land on which it is
located will conform to applicable provisions of this chapter and any
applicable conditions of approval required under a permit applicable to the
subject property.
      (2)   No building permit shall be issued unless the property or lot for
which the building permit is to be issued fronts a dedicated street which meets
the width requirement specified by this code and has been improved according to
city standards, except where a variance has been approved by the Hearing
Officer, or as follows:
         a.   In the event that property for which a building permit is sought
fronts a dedicated street which requires additional footage on each side of the
street in order to meet the width requirements of the road master plan or
official map, a building permit may be issued if one-half (1/2) of the
additional footage is dedicated by the owner of said property for use by the
public as a city street.
         b.   In lieu of requiring completion of all improvements to a
dedicated city street prior to the issuance of a building permit, a building
permit may be issued if:
            1.   The road is traversable by normal vehicular traffic, including
law enforcement, fire and other emergency vehicles.
   (f)   Appeal of Decision:
Any person adversely affected by a decision of the zoning administrator
regarding zoning compliance of a building permit may appeal the decision in
accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
   (g)   Effect Of Approval:
Approval of zoning compliance shall authorize an applicant to proceed with the
building permit review process. The requirements of this section shall be in
addition to any other requirements for the issuance of a building permit, as
contained in this code.
   (h)   Amendments:
The procedure for amending any zoning compliance decision shall be the same as
the original procedure set forth in this section.
   (i)   Expiration:
A building permit shall expire and have no further force or effect if the
building, activity, construction or occupancy authorized by the permit is not
commenced within the time provided by the building code adopted by the city.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2018-007 on 12/5/2018 Amended by Ord. 2019-007 on 6/5/2019
Amended by Ord. 2020-005 on 8/5/2020
Sec 152-7-14 Non-Conforming Use
   (a)   Purpose:
This section sets forth procedures for determining the existence, expansion, or
modification of a non-complying structure, non-conforming use, lot, or other
nonconformity.
   (b)   Authority:
The Planning Commission is authorized to make determinations regarding the
existence, expansion or modification of a non-complying structure, non-
conforming use, lot, or other nonconformity as provided in this section.
   (c)   Initiation:
A property owner, or the owner's agent, may request a determination regarding
the existence, expansion or modification of a non-complying structure, non-
conforming use, lot, or other nonconformity affecting the owner's property as
provided in subsection D1 of this section.
   (d)   Procedure:
An application for a determination of the existence, expansion or modification
of a non- complying structure, non-conforming use, lot, or other nonconformity
shall be considered and processed as provided in this subsection.
      (1)   A complete application shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any fee
established by the city's schedule of fees. The application shall include at
least the following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any;
         b.   The non-complying structure, non-conforming use, lot, or other
nonconformity in question;
         c.   A description of the action requested by the applicant; and
         d.   Grounds for finding the non-complying structure, non-conforming
use, lot, or other circumstance is non-conforming or for allowing expansion or
modification of the nonconformity.
      (2)   After the application is determined to be complete, the Planning
Commission shall approv, approve with conditions or deny the application
pursuant to the standards set forth in subsection E of this section. Any
conditions of approval shall be limited to conditions needed to conform the
nonconformity, its expansion or modification to approval standards.
      (3)   After a decision has been made, the Planning and Zoning
Administrator shall give the applicant written notice of the decision.
      (4)   A record of all non-conforming use or non-complying structure
determinations shall be maintained the office of the Planning and Zoning
Administrator.
   (e)   Standard For Decision:
A determination regarding the existence, expansion or modification of a non-
complying structure, non-conforming use, lot, or other nonconformity shall be
based on applicable provisions of chapter 8 of this title.
   (f)   Appeal Of Decision:
Any person adversely affected by a decision of the Planning Commission
regarding a non- complying structure, non-conforming use, lot, or other
nonconformity may, appeal the decision in accordance with the provisions of
section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
   (g)   Effect Of Decision:
An applicant may continue, expand or modify a non-complying structure, non-
conforming use, lot, or other nonconformity, as determined by the Planning
Commission.
   (h)   Expiration:
Determinations regarding nonconformities or non-complying structures shall not
expire but shall run with the land.
Sec 152-7-15 Sign Permit
   (a)   Purpose:
This section sets forth procedures for considering and approving a sign permit.
   (b)   Authority:
The zoning administrator is authorized to issue sign permits as provided in
this section.
   (c)   Initiation:
Any person may apply for a sign permit as provided in subsection D1 of this
section.
   (d)   Procedure:
An application for a sign permit shall be considered and processed as provided
in this subsection.
      (1)   A complete application shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any fee
established by the city's schedule of fees. The application shall include at
least the following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any;
         b.   A statement by the applicant demonstrating how the sign permit
request meets the approval standards of subsection E of this section;
         c.   A plot plan showing the following:
            1.   Applicant's name;
            2.   Site address;
            3.   Property boundaries and dimensions;
            4.   Layout of existing and proposed buildings, parking,
landscaping, and utilities; and
            5.   Adjoining property lines and uses within one hundred feet
(100') of the subject property; and
         d.   An elevation drawing showing:
            1.   Type of sign;
            2.   Sign location in relation to nearest property line;
            3.   Sign face design, if an on premises sign;
            4.   Sign height;
            5.   Sign face area;
            6.   Sign illumination details; and
            7.   Reflective elements and materials.
      (2)   After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
administrator shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the application
pursuant to the standards set forth in subsection E of this section. Any
conditions of approval shall be limited to conditions needed to conform the
sign permit to approval standards.
      (3)   After making a decision, the zoning administrator shall give the
applicant written notice of the decision.
      (4)   A record of all sign permits shall be maintained in the office of
the zoning administrator.
   (e)   Approval Standards:
The following standards shall apply to the issuance of a sign permit:
      (1)   A sign shall conform to applicable provisions of chapter 36 of this
chapter.
      (2)   All signs shall be inspected by a designated officer of the city
immediately after installation. The permittee shall request an inspection
within five (5) business days after installation. Any sign not conforming to
the requirements of chapter 36 of this chapter shall be made to conform or be
removed.
   (f)   Appeal Of Decision:
Any person adversely affected by a decision of the zoning administrator
regarding a sign permit may appeal the decision in accordance with the
provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
   (g)   Effect Of Approval:
Approval of a sign permit shall authorize an applicant to:
      (1)   Construct the sign as indicated on the permit, if no building and
electrical permits are required.
      (2)   If building and electrical permits are required, such permits shall
be obtained prior to construction.
   (h)   Amendments:
The procedure for amending any sign permit shall be the same as the original
procedure set forth in this section.
   (i)   Revocation:
A sign permit may be revoked as provided in section
152-9-6 of this chapter.
   (j)   Expiration:
A sign permit shall expire and have no further force or effect if the sign
authorized by the permit is not installed within one hundred eighty (180) days
after approval.
Sec 152-7-16 Temporary Use Permit
   (a)   Purpose:
This section sets forth procedures for considering and approving a temporary
use permit.
   (b)   Authority:
The zoning administrator is authorized to issue temporary use permits as
provided in this section.
   (c)   Initiation:
Any person may apply for a temporary use permit as provided in subsection D1 of
this section.
   (d)   Procedure:
An application for a temporary use permit shall be considered and processed as
provided in this subsection.
      (1)   A complete application shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any fee
established by the city's schedule of fees. The application shall include at
least the following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any;
         b.   The name and address of the applicant and the name and address of
every person or company the applicant represents;
         c.   The person chiefly responsible for the event or use and/or the
sponsoring organization and its chief officer;
         d.   The requested temporary use;
         e.   The place, date, time of the event, and hours of operation of the
proposed use;
         f.   A statement of the approximate number of persons, animals, and/or
vehicles which will participate in the event or be generated by the temporary
use and an explanation of how said number was derived, such as number of
presold tickets, available seating and/or parking, and past experience with
similar activities;
         g.   The following maps, plans, and documents evidencing sufficient
measures to be taken to reasonably protect the health, safety, and welfare of
patrons and the public in general:
            1.   A scaled drawing of the area in which the event is to be held
or the use conducted, showing the location of any existing structures and
improvements on the site of the proposed temporary use, including, but not
limited to, parking areas, curbs, gutter, sidewalks, and outside storage areas;
and
            2.   Sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the temporary use will
meet the general and specific requirements of section
152-48-4 of this chapter; and
         h.   Other such items as reasonably requested by the zoning
administrator to determine the feasibility of the temporary use.
      (2)   After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
administrator shall solicit recommendations from the city fire chief, police
chief, city/county health department, and city engineer. Thereafter the zoning
administrator shall approve, approve with conditions or deny the application
pursuant to the standards set forth in subsection E of this section. Any
conditions of approval shall be limited to conditions needed to conform the
temporary use permit to approval standards.
      (3)   After making a decision, the zoning administrator shall give the
applicant written notice of the decision.
      (4)   A record of all temporary use permits shall be maintained in the
office of the zoning administrator.
   (e)   Approval Standards:
The following standards shall apply to the issuance of a temporary use permit.
      (1)   A temporary use shall conform to:
         a.   The development standards set forth in section
152-48-4 of this chapter; and
         b.   Any recommendations received from the city fire chief, police
chief, city/county health department, and city engineer.
      (2)   No temporary use permit shall be issued unless the zoning
administrator finds the proposed temporary use:
         a.   Will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing or
working within the vicinity, or injurious to property, improvements or the
public in general;
         b.   Will not substantially interrupt the safe and orderly movement of
public transportation or other vehicular and pedestrian traffic in the area,
nor block traffic lanes or hinder traffic during peak commuter hours on
weekdays on any primary arterial street or principal commuter route designated
by the city;
         c.   Will not conflict with construction or development in the public
right of way or at public facilities;
         d.   Will not unduly interfere with the movement of police, fire,
ambulance, or other emergency vehicles on the streets, nor require the
diversion of so great a number of police, fire, or other essential public
employees from their normal duties as to prevent reasonable police, fire, or
other public services protection to the remainder of the city;
         e.   Will not conflict with nor be incompatible with the permitted
uses and regulations of the zone within which the temporary use is located; and
         f.   Is in compliance with regulations, conditions and licensing
requirements of applicable provisions of this code.
   (f)   Appeal Of Decision:
Any person adversely affected by a decision of the zoning administrator
regarding a temporary use permit may appeal the decision in accordance with the
provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
   (g)   Effect Of Approval:
Approval of a temporary use permit shall authorize an applicant to engage in
the temporary use subject to conditions of approval as may be imposed by the
zoning Administrator.
   (h)   Amendments:
The procedure for amending a temporary use permit shall be the same as the
original procedure set forth in this section.
   (i)   Revocation:
A temporary use permit may be revoked as provided in section
152-9-6 of this chapter.
   (j)   Expiration:
A temporary use permit shall expire as provided in subsection
152-48-4F of this chapter. Extensions of time shall be prohibited.
Sec 152-7-17 Routine And Uncontested Matters
   (a)   Purpose:
This section allows the zoning administrator to decide administratively a
routine and uncontested matter which would otherwise be decided by the Planning
Commission.
   (b)   Authority:
The Planning Commission may designate classes of matters as routine and
uncontested as provided in section
152-6-5 of this chapter. The zoning administrator is authorized to issue
permits for such routine and uncontested matters as provided in this section.
   (c)   Initiation:
A property owner, or the owner's agent, may request approval of a routine and
uncontested matter affecting the owner's property as provided in subsection D1
of this section.
   (d)   Procedure:
An application for approval of a routine and uncontested matter shall be
considered and processed as provided in this subsection.
      (1)   A complete application shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any fee
established by the city's schedule of fees. The application shall include at
least the following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any;
         b.   The specific matter for which approval is requested; and
         c.   Specific facts which illustrate the nature of the request and how
it relates to applicable provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
administrator shall review and decide the matter in accordance with applicable
provisions of this chapter and the guidelines determined by the Planning
Commissionfor such class of matters.
      (3)   After making a decision, the zoning administrator shall give the
applicant written notice of the decision.
      (4)   A record of all decisions on routine and uncontested matters shall
be maintained in the office of the zoning administrator.
   (e)   Approval Standards:
Any class of matters designated by the Planning Commission as routine and
uncontested shall be accompanied by a statement of guidelines for approval of
the matters so designated. A list of such matters and associated guidelines
shall be kept on file in the office of the zoning administrator. The zoning
administrator shall follow such guidelines in deciding any routine and
uncontested matter.
   (f)   Appeal Of Decision:
Any person adversely affected by a decision of the zoning administrator
regarding a routine and uncontested matter may appeal the decision in
accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
   (g)   Effect Of Approval:
Approval of a routine and uncontested matter shall be deemed to relate to, and
be for the benefit of, the use or lot in question rather than the owner, lessee
or operator of a use, or lot. A permit for a routine and uncontested matter
shall authorize only the matter in question and shall not be deemed to negate
any need for other permits required under this chapter.
   (h)   Amendments:
A permit for a routine and uncontested matter may be amended, varied or altered
only pursuant to the procedures, standards and limitations provided in this
section for its original approval.
   (i)   Revocation:
A permit for a routine and uncontested matter may be revoked as provided in
section
152-9-6 of this chapter.
   (j)   Expiration:
Approval of a routine and uncontested matter shall expire and have no further
force or effect if the building, activity, construction or occupancy authorized
by the approval is not commenced within one hundred eighty (180) days after
approval.
Sec 152-7-18 Administrative Interpretation
   (a)   Purpose:
The provisions of this Land Use Code, though detailed and extensive, cannot as
a practical matter address every specific situation to which these provisions
may be applied. This section allows the zoning administrator to interpret a
provision of the Land Use Code in light of the general and specific purposes
for which it was enacted and as applied to specific circumstances.
   (b)   Authority:
The zoning administrator is authorized to render interpretations of the
provisions of the Land Use Code, and any rule or regulation adopted pursuant
thereto, as provided in this section.
   (c)   Initiation:
Any person may request an administrative interpretation as provided in
subsection D1 of this section.
   (d)   Procedure:
An application for an administrative interpretation shall be considered and
processed as provided in this subsection.
      (1)   A complete application shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any fee
established by the city's schedule of fees. The application shall include at
least the following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any;
         b.   The specific provision or provisions of the Land Use Code for
which an interpretation is requested;
         c.   Specific facts of the situation which illustrate the need for an
administrative interpretation;
         d.   The interpretation claimed by the applicant to be correct; and
         e.   When a use interpretation is requested the application shall
include:
            1.   A statement explaining why the proposed use should be deemed
as included within a use category allowed by the zone applicable to the
property; and
            2.   Documents, statements, and other evidence demonstrating that
the proposed use will conform to all use limitations established by the zone
applicable to the property.
      (2)   After the application is determined to be complete, the zoning
administrator shall review the request and make an interpretation in accordance
with the standards set forth in subsection E of this section.
      (3)   After making a decision, the zoning administrator shall give the
applicant written notice of the decision.
      (4)   A record of all administrative interpretations shall be maintained
in the office of the zoning administrator.
   (e)   Standards For Making Administrative Interpretations:
The following standards shall apply to administrative interpretations:
      (1)   Administrative interpretations shall not add to or change the
provisions of the Land Use Code.
      (2)   Questions about the location of zone boundaries shall be resolved
by applying the standards set forth in section
152-11-4 of this chapter.
      (3)   An administrative interpretation shall be consistent with:
         a.   The provisions of the Land Use Code; and
         b.   Any previously rendered interpretations based on similar facts.
      (4)   A use interpretation shall also be subject to the following
standards:
         a.   A "use" defined in section
152-3-4 of this chapter shall be interpreted as provided therein;
         b.   Any use specifically listed as "not permitted" in a table of
permitted and conditional uses for a particular zone shall not be allowed in
that zone;
         c.   No use interpretation shall allow a use in a zone unless evidence
is presented demonstrating the use will conform to development standards
established for the zone;
         d.   No use interpretation shall allow a use in a particular zone
unless the use is substantially similar to a use allowed in the zone;
         e.   If a proposed use is most similar to a conditional use authorized
in the zone in which it is proposed to be located, any interpretation allowing
such use shall require that the use be approved only as a conditional use
pursuant to section
152-7-9 of this chapter; and
         f.   No use interpretation shall permit the establishment of any use
that would be inconsistent with the statement of purpose of the zone in which
it would be located.
   (f)   Appeal Of Decision:
Any person adversely affected by an administrative interpretation rendered by
the zoning administrator may appeal the decision in accordance with the
provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
   (g)   Effect Of Approval:
An administrative interpretation shall apply only to the property for which an
interpretation is given.
      (1)   A use interpretation finding a use to be a permitted or conditional
use in a particular zone shall be deemed to authorize only that use on the
subject property. A use interpretation shall not authorize another allegedly
similar use for which a separate use interpretation has not been issued.
      (2)   A use interpretation finding a particular use to be a permitted or
conditional use shall not authorize the establishment of such use nor the
development, construction, reconstruction, alteration, or moving of any
building or structure, but shall merely authorize the preparation, filing, and
processing of applications for any approvals or permits that may be required by
this Land Use Code or other applicable provisions of this code.
Sec 152-7-19 Appeal Of Administrative Decision
   (a)   Purpose:
This section sets forth procedures for appealing an administrative decision
applying provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Authority:
Any appeal from an administrative decision applying the provisions of this
chapter shall be heard and decided by the applicable appeal authority as
designated below:
      (1)   The Planning Commission is designated the appeal authority for any
appeal from administrative decisions of the Zoning Administrator;
      (2)   The City Council is designated the appeal authority for any appeal
from administrative and appeal decisions of the Planning Commission and the
final plat approval staff;
      (3)   The Hearing Officer is designated the appeal authority for any
appeal from administrative and appeal decisions of the City Council; and
      (4)   Upon proper notice, an applicant may elect to take an appeal from
any administrative decision directly to the Hearing Officer.
   (c)   Initiation:
Any person, or any officer, department, board or bureau of the city, adversely
affected by a decision administering or interpreting a provision of this
chapter may appeal to the applicable appeal authority designated in subsection
B of this section. A complete application for an appeal as provided in
subsection D1 of this section shall be filed within fourteen (14) days of the
decision which is appealed.
   (d)   Procedure:
An appeal of an administrative decision shall be considered and processed as
provided in this subsection.
      (1)   A complete application shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any fee
established by the city's schedule of fees. The application shall include at
least the following information:
         a.   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the
applicant's agent, if any;
         b.   The decision being appealed;
         c.   Grounds for the appeal;
         d.   A description of the action claimed by the applicant to be
incorrect; and
         e.   A prominent, unequivocal notice, if applicable, that the
applicant elects to take an appeal directly to the Hearing Officer.
      (2)   After an application is determined to be complete, the zoning
administrator shall schedule a hearing before the applicable appeal authority
and give notice to the parties in interest as provided in section
152-7-4 of this chapter, then forthwith transmit to the applicable appeal
authority all papers constituting the record of the action which is appealed.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a complete application for an appeal all
proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from shall be stayed, unless
the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the appeal authority
that by reason of the facts stated in the appeal a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause immediate peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings
shall not be stayed except by a restraining order granted by the district court
upon application, notice, and due cause shown.
      (4)   The appeal authority shall hold a public hearing at which any
parties in interest may appear in person or through an attorney. Within a
reasonable time thereafter, the appeal authority shall render a decision on the
appeal.
      (5)   After the appeal authority makes a decision, the zoning
administrator shall give the applicant written notice of the decision.
      (6)   A record of all appeals shall be maintained in the office of the
zoning administrator.
   (e)   Standards For Decision:
      (1)   The appeal authority may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or
may modify an administrative decision. To that end the Planning Commission
shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal was taken, may
attach appropriate conditions, and may issue or direct the issuance of a
permit. Any conditions imposed by the appeal authority shall be limited to
conditions needed to conform the matter appealed to applicable approval
standards.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review an administrative decision for
correctness and shall give no deference to the reasonableness of the decision
being appealed.
      (3)   The person making an appeal shall have the burden of proving that
an error has been made.
      (4)   Because this chapter is in derogation of a property owner's common
law right to unrestricted use of property, provisions herein restricting
property use should be strictly construed, and provisions permitting property
use should be liberally construed in favor of the property owner.
   (f)   Appeal Of Decision:
Any person adversely affected by a decision of the appeal authority regarding
an appeal of an administration decision may appeal to the next level of
authority specified in subsection B of this section or, within thirty (30) days
after such decision, appeal to the district court as provided in section 10-9a-
801 of the Utah Code, as amended.
Sec 152-7-20 Temporary Regulations
   (a)   Authorized:
The city council may, without a public hearing, enact an ordinance establishing
a temporary land use regulation for any part or all of the area within the city
if the council makes a finding of compelling, countervailing public interest;
or the area is unzoned.
      (1)   A temporary land use regulation may prohibit or regulate the
erection, construction, reconstruction, or alteration of any building or
structure, or subdivision approval.
      (2)   A temporary land use regulation may not impose an impact fee or
other financial requirement on building or development.
      (3)   A temporary land use regulation shall not exceed six (6) months in
duration.
   (b)   EIS Or MIS Areas:
The city council may, without a public hearing, enact an ordinance establishing
a temporary land use regulation prohibiting construction, subdivision approval,
and other development activities within an area that is the subject of an
environmental impact statement or a major investment study examining the area
as a proposed highway or transportation corridor.
      (1)   A land use regulation under this subsection B:
         a.   May not exceed six (6) months in duration; and
         b.   May be renewed, if requested by the Utah transportation
commission created under section 72-1-301 of the Utah Code, for up to two (2)
additional six (6) month periods by ordinance enacted before the expiration of
the previous temporary land use regulation.
      (2)   Notwithstanding subsection B1 of this section, a temporary land use
regulation enacted pursuant to this subsection B shall be effective only as
long as the environmental impact statement or major investment study is in
progress.
Sec 152-7-21 Review Of Constitutional Taking Issues
   (a)   Purpose:
The purpose of this section is to provide advisory guidelines for the city to
assist the city in identifying actions that may involve physical taking or
exaction of private real property and may have constitutional taking issues.
   (b)   Definitions:
As used herein:
      (1)   "Constitutional taking issues" means actions involving the physical
or regulatory taking of private real property by the city that might require
compensation to a private real property owner under:
         a.   The fifth or fourteenth amendment of the constitution of the
United States;
         b.   Article I, section 22 of the Utah constitution; or
         c.   Any recent court rulings governing the physical or regulatory
taking of private real property by a governmental entity.
   (c)   Guidelines:
The following guidelines shall be considered by the city when taking any action
that may result in the physical or regulatory taking of private real property.
The city should review the guidelines to determine and identify whether a
proposed governmental action raises constitutional taking issues.
      (1)   Does the action result in a permanent physical occupation of
private property?
      (2)   Does the action require a property owner to dedicate property or
grant an easement to the city?
      (3)   Does the action deprive the property owner of all economically
viable uses of the property?
      (4)   Does the action have a severe impact on the property owner's
economic interest?
      (5)   Does the action deny a fundamental attribute of ownership?
   (d)   Analysis:
If the city determines that a governmental action involves constitutional
taking issues, the proposed action should be reviewed by the city to analyze
the possible taking and to determine action to be taken. In reviewing proposed
action, the following factors shall be considered:
      (1)   The effect the potential taking would have on the use or value of
the private property;
      (2)   The likelihood that the action may result in a constitutional
taking;
      (3)   Any alternatives to the proposed action that would fulfill the
city's lawful objectives and reduce the risk of a constitutional taking;
      (4)   The cost to the city for payment of compensation if a taking is
determined;
      (5)   The governmental interest involved and its nexus to the potential
taking; and
      (6)   If the action is roughly proportional or reasonably related to the
impact of any proposed development.
   (e)   Appeal:
Any owner of private property whose interest in the property is subject to an
alleged physical or regulatory taking by the city, pursuant to a final and
authoritative decision or action of the city, may appeal the city's decision or
action by filing a written notice of appeal and statement of the grounds for
the appeal in the city recorder's office within thirty (30) days from the date
of the city's decision or action. The city council or its designee shall hear
all evidence regarding the appeal and render a decision and findings in writing
within fourteen (14) days from the date the appeal was filed.
   (f)   Limitations:
The guidelines set forth herein shall be advisory only and shall not be
construed to expand or limit the scope of the city's liability for a
constitutional taking. The city shall have no legal liability to any person,
firm, or entity of any nature whatsoever and a court may not impose liability
upon the city for failure to comply with the provisions of this section.
Sec 152-7-22 Procedural Irregularities
   (a)   Validity Of Action:
Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter which sets forth a procedure for
any matter herein, no action, inaction or recommendation regarding the matter
which is the subject of the procedure shall be void or invalid or set aside by
a court due to any error (including, but not limited to, any irregularity,
informality, neglect or omission) which pertains to a petition, application,
notice, finding, record, hearing, report, recommendation or any other
procedural matter whatsoever unless:
      (1)   The procedure is required by state or federal law; and
      (2)   In an examination of the entire circumstances, including the
evidence of record, the court is of the opinion that the procedural error
complained of was prejudicial to a substantial right of the complainant as
shown by the following:
         a.   Had the error not occurred the decision made pursuant to the
procedure would have been different, and
         b.   Because of the error the complainant suffered an injury for which
relief must be given.
   (b)   Assumption Of Validity:
The court shall presume that action taken pursuant to a procedure was done in
good faith and shall not presume that an error is prejudicial or that an injury
occurred. The complainant shall have the burden of the proof by a preponderance
of the evidence to show that an error is prejudicial or that an injury
occurred.
   (c)   Applicability:
All procedures within this chapter shall be subject to this section.
Sec 152-7-23 Grading Permit By Exception
Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter to the contrary, the zoning
administrator shall be authorized, upon an affirmative vote of the Hildale City
council, to issue a grading permit for property not scheduled for immediate or
reasonably imminent development upon such terms and conditions as may be deemed
necessary by said city council to guarantee the protection of the property and
neighboring properties against problems resulting from such grading, including,
but not limited to, the accumulation of weeds, soil erosion, surface drainage
and dust.
CHAPTER 8 NON-COMPLYING STRUCTURES, NON-CONFORMING USES AND LOTS
Sec
152-8-1 Purpose
Sec
152-8-2 Scope
Sec
152-8-3 Change In Non-Conforming Status
Sec
152-8-4 Non-Conforming Uses
Sec
152-8-5 Non-Complying Structures
Sec
152-8-6 Non-Conforming Lots
Sec
152-8-7 Other Nonconformities
Sec
152-8-8 Nonconformity Created By Public Action
Sec
152-8-9 Abandonment
Sec
152-8-10 Determination Of Non-Conforming Status
Sec
152-8-11 Non-Conforming Uses Detrimental To Health And Safety
Sec
152-8-12 Extension Of Time For Recovery Of Investment
Sec
152-8-13 Billboards Exempt
Sec
152-8-14 Appeals
Sec 152-8-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations governing legally
established uses, structures, lots, and other circumstances that do not conform
to applicable requirements of this title. The intent of this chapter is to
control expansion of non-conforming conditions while recognizing the interests
of property owners.
Sec 152-8-2 Scope
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any use, structure, lot, or other
circumstance governed by this chapter which was legally established but does
not conform to the requirements of this chapter. Any non-complying structure,
non-conforming use, lot, or other nonconformity may be continued only to the
extent it was lawfully created, and as provided in this chapter. Any non-
complying structure, non- conforming use, lot, or other nonconformity not
authorized under a previously existing zoning ordinance, or which was illegal
under such ordinance, shall remain unauthorized and illegal unless expressly
authorized or permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
Sec 152-8-3 Change In Non-Conforming Status
A non-complying structure, non-conforming use, lot, or other nonconformity may
not be changed except in conformance with the provisions of this chapter or as
authorized by the board of adjustment. To the extent any non-complying
structure, non-conforming use, lot, or other nonconformity becomes conforming,
it shall not be changed back to the previously existing non-conforming
condition.
Sec 152-8-4 Non-Conforming Uses
   (a)   Continuation:
A non-conforming use may be continued in essentially the same form as when it
began, except as provided in this section.
   (b)   Expansion:
A non-conforming use existing within a portion of a building may be expanded to
include the entire floor area of such building , and a non-conforming use may
be extended into another structure on the same lot that was previously legally
utilized for the same use, provided no structural alteration of the building is
proposed or made for the purpose of such expansion, and such use otherwise
complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   Non-Conforming Use Of Open Land:
A non-conforming use of open land may be continued provided such non-conforming
use shall not be expanded or extended into any other portion of a conforming
building or open land, and no structures, additions, alterations, or
enlargements thereto shall be made thereon, except those required by law.
   (d)   Expansion Of Outdoor Non-Conforming Use:
A non-conforming use of a lot where the principal use is not enclosed within a
building, such as a salvage yard or a motor vehicle sales lot, shall not be
expanded except in conformity with the requirements of this chapter.
Sec 152-8-5 Non-Complying Structures
   (a)   Continuation:
A non-complying structure may be continued, except as provided in this section.
If a non-complying structure is removed from the lot where it was located, each
future structure on such lot shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Maintenance And Repair:
A non-complying structure may be maintained. Repairs and structural alterations
may be made to a non-complying structure within the existing footprint thereof
provided the degree of noncompliance is not increased.
   (c)   Enlargement And Expansion:
Any expansion or enlargement of a non-complying structure that increases the
degree of noncompliance is prohibited..
   (d)   Relocation:
If a non-complying structure is relocated within the city, it shall be placed
only in a location where it fully complies with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (e)   Alteration Where Parking Insufficient:
A building which is complying except for sufficient automobile parking, as
required by this chapter, may be altered or enlarged provided additional
automobile parking space is supplied to meet the requirements of this chapter
for the non-complying portion of the old structure and the alteration or
enlargement.
   (f)   Reconstruction Or Restoration:
      (1)   The reconstruction or restoration of a non-complying structure
shall be prohibited, and the non-conforming use of a structure shall be
terminated, if the structure is involuntarily destroyed in whole or in part due
to fire or other calamity, and such structure or use has been abandoned.
      (2)   The reconstruction or restoration of a non-complying structure
shall be prohibited, or the non-conforming use of a structure shall be
terminated, if:
         a.   The structure is allowed to deteriorate to a condition that the
structure is rendered uninhabitable and is not repaired or restored within one
(1) Year after written notice to the property owner that the structure is
uninhabitable and that the non- complying structure or non-conforming use will
be lost if the structure is not repaired or restored within one (1) year; or
         b.   The property owner has voluntarily demolished a majority of the
non-complying structure or the building that houses the non-conforming use.
   (g)   Unsafe Structures:
Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit the continuing use of a
structure found to be in violation of any applicable life safety or health
code. The right to continue use of a non- complying structure shall be subject
to the life safety requirements of applicable housing, building, health, and
other life safety codes.
Sec 152-8-6 Non-Conforming Lots
   (a)   Continuation:
A non-conforming lot may continue to be occupied and used although it may not
conform in every respect with the dimensional requirements of this chapter,
subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   New Single-Family Dwelling:
A new single-family dwelling may be constructed on a legally established lot
which is non- conforming as to area, width, or both, provided:
      (1)   The lot was legally non-conforming when the area or width
requirements were changed;
      (2)   The use is for the sole purpose of a single-family dwelling;
      (3)   There is only one primary building on the lot or parcel; and
      (4)   The dwelling will conform to all other requirements of this
chapter, such as lot frontage, yard setbacks, building height, and other
applicable requirements, such as street improvements, fire protection, and
building codes.
   (c)   Lot With Building:
If a non-conforming lot contains a building legally established before the
effective date of this chapter, then the owner may continue the then existing
use of such building and may expand the building in any way that does not
increase the degree of nonconformity. An increase in building size shall not be
deemed to increase the degree of nonconformity of the lot unless the building
increases any encroachment into a required setback. Remodeling of a building
within an existing footprint or expansion in compliance with this section shall
not require a variance to lot requirements but shall be reviewed by the zoning
administrator as though the lot conforms to the requirements of this chapter.
   (d)   Accessory Building:
An accessory building customarily incidental to a dwelling may be constructed
on a non- conforming lot provided:
      (1)   The accessory building does not exceed one thousand (1,000) square
feet in floor area nor exceed fifteen feet (15') in height.
      (2)   The use of the lot is primarily residential.
      (3)   The accessory building conforms to all other requirements
pertaining to yard setbacks, fire protection, and building codes.
Sec 152-8-7 Other Nonconformities
This section shall apply to any other nonconformity including, but not limited
to, fence height or location; lack of buffers or screening; lack of or
inadequate landscaping; lack of or inadequate off street parking; and any other
nonconformity not addressed by sections
152-8-4,
152-8-5, and
152-8-6 of this chapter.
   (a)   Non-Conforming Development With Approved Site Plan:
Non-conforming development that is consistent with a site plan approved before
the effective date of this chapter shall be deemed to be in conformance with
this chapter to the extent it is consistent with the approved site plan and to
the extent such plan or conditions imposed thereon directly address the
specific issue involved in a determination of conformity. A nonconformity other
than one of those enumerated in sections
152-8-4,
152-8-5, and
152-8-6 of this chapter shall be brought into conformance upon the occurrence
of any one of the following:
      (1)   Any increase of more than thirty percent (30%) in floor area or
fifty percent (50%) of the value of the building or premises.
      (2)   For a lot located in a commercial, business, or industrial zone,
any change in use to a more intensive use when a new certificate of occupancy
is required.
   (b)   Compliance:
Because nonconformities addressed in this section involve less investment and
are more easily corrected than those addressed in sections
152-8-4,
152-8-5, and
152-8-6 of this chapter, the intent of the city is to eliminate such
nonconformities as quickly as practicable. The extent of such nonconformities
shall not be increased.
Sec 152-8-8 Nonconformity Created By Public Action
When area or setbacks of a legally created lot are reduced as the result of
conveyance to a federal, state or local government and the remaining area or
setback is at least seventy five percent (75%) of the required minimum in the
zone where it is located, the lot shall be deemed to be in compliance with the
minimum lot size and setback standards of this chapter without any need for a
variance.
Sec 152-8-9 Abandonment
Any non-conforming use or other nonconformity which has been abandoned pursuant
to the provisions of this subsection shall be terminated.
   (a)   Presumption Of Abandonment:
A non-conforming use, non-complying structure, or other nonconformity shall be
presumed abandoned when any of the following occurs:
      (1)   A majority of the primary structure associated with the
nonconforming use has been voluntarily demolished without prior written
agreement with the zoning administrator regarding an extension of the
nonconforming use;
      (2)   The use has been discontinued for a minimum of one year; or
      (3)   The primary structure associated with the nonconforming use remains
vacant for a period of one year.
   (b)   Overcoming Presumption Of Abandonment:
A presumption of abandonment may be rebutted upon evidence presented by the
owner showing no intent to abandon the use, structure, or other nonconformity.
Such evidence may include proof that during the alleged period of abandonment
the owner has done either of the following:
      (1)   Maintained the lot and structure, if any, in accordance with the
building code; or
      (2)   Has actively and continuously marketed the lot or structure for
sale or lease.
Sec 152-8-10 Determination Of Non-Conforming Status
In all cases, the property owner shall have the burden of establishing that a
non-complying structure, non-conforming lot, or use lawfully exists under this
chapter.
Sec 152-8-11 Non-Conforming Uses Detrimental To Health And Safety
No provision of this chapter shall be construed to allow the continuance of any
non-conforming use or non-complying structure when it is detrimental to the
health, safety, or welfare of the public.
Sec 152-8-12 Extension Of Time For Recovery Of Investment
The zoning administrator may suspend any requirement that a non-complying
structure, non- conforming use, lot, or other nonconformity come into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter if the owner of the affected
property demonstrates that he/she has not recovered or amortized the amount of
his/her investment in the non-complying structure, non-conforming use, lot, or
other nonconformity. Any extension of time must be renewed on an annual basis.
   (a)   Written Request For Extension Required:
A request for an extension of time needed to recover an investment in an
affected property shall be submitted in writing to the zoning Administrator.
   (b)   Information Required:
The following information shall accompany the request:
      (1)   The amount of the owner's investment in the use, structure, lot, or
other nonconformity from the time it became non-conforming;
      (2)   The amount of such investment that has been realized to date and an
estimate of the amounts that will be realized on the date the time limit
expires; and
      (3)   Evidence of any lease or purchase obligations undertaken in
reliance on any previously issued licenses or permits applying to the use,
structure, lot, or other nonconformity, including any contingency clauses
therein permitting termination of such lease.
Sec 152-8-13 Billboards Exempt
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to billboards. non-conforming
billboards shall be terminated in accordance with applicable provisions of
sections 10-9a-512 and 10-9a-513, Utah Code Annotated. In the event such
provisions are repealed, non-conforming billboards shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
Sec 152-8-14 Appeals
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the zoning administrator or other
official enforcing the provisions of this chapter may appeal for relief
therefrom in accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 9 ENFORCEMENT
Sec
152-9-1 Purpose
Sec
152-9-2 Scope
Sec
152-9-3 Enforcement Authority
Sec
152-9-4 Issuance Of Permits
Sec
152-9-5 Types Of Violations
Sec
152-9-6 Remedies
Sec
152-9-7 Non-Conforming Use As Affirmative Defense
Sec
152-9-8 Enforcement Procedures
Sec
152-9-9 Other Enforcement Matters
Sec
152-9-10 Appeals
Sec 152-9-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish the remedies, penalties, and
procedures for enforcement of this chapter.
Sec 152-9-2 Scope
The remedies, penalties, procedures, and other matters set forth in this
chapter shall apply to any violation of the provisions of this chapter.
Sec 152-9-3 Enforcement Authority
This chapter shall be enforced by the zoning administrator.
Sec 152-9-4 Issuance Of Permits
Every official and employee of the city who is vested with the duty or
authority to issue permits shall conform to the provisions of this chapter and
shall issue no permit, certificate, or license for a use, building, or purpose
in conflict with the provisions of this chapter. Any permit, certificate, or
license issued in conflict with the provisions of this chapter, intentionally
or otherwise, or which is issued upon a false statement of fact material to the
issuance of the permit shall be void.
Sec 152-9-5 Types Of Violations
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this chapter,
cause the violation of any provision of this chapter, or fail or refuse to do
some act required under this chapter, including any of the following acts:
   (a)   Development Or Use Without Permit:
To engage in any development, use, construction, remodeling, or other activity
of any nature upon the land and improvements thereon subject to the
jurisdiction of the city without all of the required permits, approvals,
certificates, and other forms of authorization required by this chapter or
other city ordinance in order to conduct or engage in such activity.
   (b)   Development Or Use Inconsistent With Permit:
To engage in any development, use, construction, remodeling, or other activity
which is contrary to the terms and conditions of any permit, approval,
certificate, or other form of authorization required to engage in such
activity.
   (c)   Development Or Use Inconsistent With Conditions Of Approval:
To violate, by act or omission, any lawful term, condition, or qualification
placed by the city council, planning commission, Hearing Officer, or officer of
the city, as applicable, upon a required permit, certificate, or other form of
authorization granted by the city council, planning commission, Hearing
Officer, or other city officer allowing the use, development, or other activity
upon land or improvements thereon.
   (d)   Development Or Use Inconsistent
With this chapter: To erect, construct, reconstruct, remodel, alter, maintain,
move, or use any building or structure, or to use any land in violation of this
title.
   (e)   Making Lot Or Setback non-conforming:
To reduce or diminish any lot area so that setbacks or open spaces shall be
smaller than prescribed by this chapter and the applicable final plat or plan.
   (f)   Increasing Intensity Of Use:
To increase the intensity of use of any land or structure, except in accordance
with the procedural and substantive requirements of this chapter.
   (g)   Removing, Defacing, Or Obscuring Notice:
To remove, deface, obscure, or otherwise interfere with any notice required by
this chapter.
   (h)   Continuing Violation:
To continue any of the above violations. Each day a violation occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
Sec 152-9-6 Remedies
Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the
enforcement remedies and penalties provided by this chapter and by Utah law,
including any of the following:
   (a)   Withhold Permits:
The city may deny or withhold all permits, certificates, or other forms of
authorization pertaining to any land or improvements when an uncorrected
violation exists pursuant to this chapter or to a condition or qualification of
a permit, certificate, approval or other authorization previously granted by
the city council, planning commission, Hearing Officer, or other city officer.
The city may, instead of withholding or denying an authorization, grant such
authorization subject to the condition that the violation be corrected. The
provisions of this section shall apply regardless of whether the original
applicant or current owner is responsible for the violation in question.
   (b)   Revoke Permits:
Any permit may be revoked when the zoning administrator determines that actions
taken thereunder do not conform to plans, specifications, or conditions of the
permit; that the same was procured by false representation or was issued by
mistake; or that any provision of this chapter is being violated.
      (1)   Written notice of such revocation shall be served upon the owner,
his or her agent, or contractor, or upon any person employed at the site of the
building or structure for which such permit was issued, or shall be posted in a
prominent location; and, thereafter, no such construction shall proceed.
      (2)   Upon revocation of a building or other permit issued by mistake,
the owner shall meet with the zoning administrator to determine the nature of
the mistake.
         a.   When plans are in conflict with ordinances, resolutions,
regulations, or requirements, and when construction has not progressed to a
stage where modification of the plans would require substantial alteration of
the structures in place, the plans shall be modified to conform with applicable
requirements.
         b.   When construction has progressed to a stage where compliance
would require substantial alteration of construction in place, the owner shall
meet with the city manager to negotiate possible changes in the plans which
would more nearly conform to applicable requirements.
         c.   When a mistake has been made calculating the fee for any permit,
the proper fee shall be charged.
   (c)   Stop Work:
In accordance with its power to stop work under the building code, the city may
stop work, with or without revoking permits, on any building or structure on
any land on which exists an uncorrected violation of a provision of this
chapter or permit or other form of authorization issued hereunder.
   (d)   Revoke Plan Or Other Approvals:
Where a violation of this chapter involves failure to comply with approved
plans or a condition upon which plan approval was subject, the city may, after
notice to the applicant and other known parties in interest (including any
holders of building permits affected) and after a hearing:
      (1)   Revoke the plan or other approval, or
      (2)   Condition its continuance on strict compliance, the provision of
security, or such other conditions as the city may reasonably impose.
   (e)   Remove Signs:
When a sign is illegally located within a public right of way, on any city
owned property, or in the case of an emergency or an identified hazard, the
zoning administrator may, without notice, cause the immediate removal of such
sign.
      (1)   Such action by the city shall be at the expense of the owner and
shall include the actual cost of repair or removal of the sign, plus fifteen
percent (15%) of such amount for administrative and overhead costs.
      (2)   If the owner fails to pay the amount due within thirty (30) days
from the date of billing, the city may initiate legal action against the owner
as provided by law to collect such costs and expenses, including interest at
the legal rate and reasonable attorney fees.
   (f)   Injunctive Relief:
The city may seek an injunction or other equitable relief in the district court
to stop any violation of this chapter, or a permit, certificate, or other form
of authorization granted hereunder.
   (g)   Abatement:
The city may seek a court order from the district court in the nature of
mandamus, abatement, or other action or proceeding to abate or remove a
violation or to otherwise restore the premises in question to the condition
which existed prior to the violation.
   (h)   Penalty:
Any person violating, causing or permitting a violation of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor. Such person shall be
deemed to be guilty of a separate offense for each and every day during which
any portion of any violation of this chapter is committed, continued or
permitted by such person. Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall upon conviction be punishable as a class C misdemeanor.
   (i)   Other Remedies:
The city shall have such other remedies as are and as may be from time to time
provided by Utah law or city ordinance for the violation of any provision of
this chapter.
   (j)   Remedies Cumulative:
These remedies shall be cumulative.
Sec 152-9-7 Non-Conforming Use As Affirmative Defense
It shall be an affirmative defense to the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter that the action complained of is a legally non-complying structure,
non-conforming lot, use, or other nonconformity as set forth in chapter 8 of
this chapter. The property owner shall have the burden of establishing that a
non-complying structure, non-conforming lot, or use lawfully exists under this
chapter.
Sec 152-9-8 Enforcement Procedures
   (a)   Inspection Of Buildings, Structures, And Land Uses:
The zoning administrator is authorized to inspect all buildings and structures
in the course of construction, modification, or repair and to inspect land uses
to determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Right Of Entry:
Authorized city personnel shall have the right to enter any building for the
purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Such
right of entry shall be exercised only at a reasonable hour. In no case shall
entry be made to any building in the absence of the owner or tenant thereof
without consent of the owner or tenant, or a written order of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (c)   Violation:
The zoning administrator shall investigate any purported violation of this
chapter.
   (d)   Interference With Enforcement Personnel:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with lawful enforcement
activities.
   (e)   Other City Departments To Assist With Enforcement Activities:
At the request of the city manager, other city departments shall assist in the
administration of enforcement activities authorized by this chapter.
   (f)   Notice:
In the case of violations not involving continuing construction or development,
or any emergency situation, the zoning administrator shall give written notice
of the nature of the violation to the owner of the land and to any person who
is a party to any relevant permit, certificate, or approval. The persons
receiving such notice shall have thirty (30) days to correct the violation
before further enforcement action.
   (g)   Immediate Enforcement:
In the case of a violation involving either continuing construction or
development, or an emergency situation, as reasonably determined by the zoning
administrator, the city may use the enforcement powers and remedies available
to it under this chapter without prior notice. In such case, the zoning
administrator shall send the notice to the same parties set forth in the
previous subsection simultaneously with the beginning of enforcement action.
   (h)   Enforcement And Abatement:
Any building or structure set up, erected, constructed, altered, enlarged,
converted, moved, or maintained; or any land, building, or premises used
contrary to the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to be unlawful
and a public nuisance. The city attorney may commence action or proceedings for
the abatement, removal, and enjoinment thereof in the manner provided by law.
The city attorney may also take such other steps and may apply to such court as
may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate and remove such
building or structure, and restrain and enjoin any person, firm, or corporation
from setting up, erecting, building, maintaining, or using any building,
structure, or property contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
Sec 152-9-9 Other Enforcement Matters
   (a)   Other Powers:
In addition to the enforcement powers specified in this chapter, the city may
exercise any and all enforcement powers granted to it by Utah law, as may be
amended from time to time.
   (b)   Continuation:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the continuation of previous enforcement
actions, undertaken by the city pursuant to previous and valid resolutions,
ordinances, and laws.
Sec 152-9-10 Appeals
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the zoning administrator or other
official enforcing the provisions of this chapter may appeal for relief
therefrom in accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 11 ZONES ESTABLISHED
Sec
152-11-1 Establishment Of Zones
Sec
152-11-2 Zone Purposes
Sec
152-11-3 Official Zoning Map
Sec
152-11-4 Rules For Locating Zone Boundaries
Sec
152-11-5 Clarification Of Zoning
Sec
152-11-6 Newly Annexed Territories
Sec 152-11-1 Establishment Of Zones
In order to accomplish the purposes of the Hildale general plan and this
chapter, the following zones, along with their accompanying abbreviations, are
hereby established as follows:
   (a)   Agricultural zones:
Agricultural 40 A-40
Agricultural 20 A-20
Agricultural 10 A-10
Agricultural 5 A-5
   (b)   Residential agriculture zones:
Residential-agricultural 1 RA-1
Residential-agricultural .5 RA-.5
   (c)   Residential zones:
Single-family residential 15 R1-15 Single-family residential 10 R1-10 Single-
family residential 8 R1-8 Single-family residential 6 R1-6 Multiple-family
residential 1 RM-1 Multiple-family residential 2 RM-2 Multiple-family
residential 3 RM-3 Mobile home/RV park MH/RV
   (d)   Commercial zones:
Neighborhood commercial NC General commercial GC Highway commercial HC Planned
commercial PC
Pedestrian-oriented commercial POC Mixed-Used MU
   (e)   Business and industrial zones:
Business/manufacturing park BMP Professional office PO
Light industrial M-1 Heavy industrial M-2
   (f)   Open space and public facility zones:
Open space OS Public facilities PF
   (g)   Special purpose and overlay zones:
Agriculture protection overlay APO Historic district overlay HDO Planned
development overlay PDO Sensitive lands overlay SLO Runway protection RPZ
Recreation resort RR
Extraction industries overlay
Sec 152-11-2 Zone Purposes
In addition to the general purposes of this chapter as set forth in section
152-1-3 of this chapter, the various zones each serve more specific purposes as
set forth below:
   (a)   Agricultural Zones:
Agricultural zones preserve and protect agricultural lands and related
activities, permit activities normally and necessarily related to agricultural
production, and prohibit land uses that may undermine continued agricultural
activity.
   (b)   Residential Agriculture Zones:
Residential agriculture zones allow a mix of agricultural and residential uses
on large lots. Limited agriculture activities, the keeping of limited numbers
of animals, and the enjoyment of a "gentleman farmer" type neighborhood are the
purpose of these zones.
      (1)   The purpose of the RA-1 and RA-.5 zones is to foster very low and
low density development with little impact on its surroundings and municipal
services; to preserve the character of the city's semi-rural areas; and to
promote and preserve conditions favorable to large-lot family life, including
the keeping of limited numbers of farm animals and fowl. The predominant use in
these zones is intended to be large lot neighborhoods with detached single-
family dwellings, protected from encroachment by commercial and industrial
uses. Other major uses in these zones are small farms, hobby farms and
agricultural developments. Ancillary uses include churches, schools, and parks
to serve neighborhood areas.
   (c)   Residential Zones:
Residential zones allow a wide range of residential land uses at various
densities. These zones protect the stability of neighborhoods and encourage,
collectively, diverse types of desirable new residential development and
protect existing residential uses.
      (1)   The purpose of the R1-15, R1-10, R1-8 and R1-6 zones is to permit
development of detached single-family homes on individual lots at medium to
high densities. Ancillary uses include churches, schools, and parks to serve
neighborhood areas.
      (2)   The purpose of the RM-1, RM-2, and RM-3 zones is to permit well
designed apartments, townhomes, twin homes, and condominiums at medium to high
density that are appropriately buffered from and compatible with surrounding
land uses. Ancillary uses include churches, schools, and parks to serve
neighborhood areas.
      (3)   The purpose of the MH/RV zone is to provide locations where
neighborhoods consisting of manufactured/mobile homes and recreational vehicle
parks and subdivisions may be created, maintained, and preserved. Ancillary
uses include churches, schools, and parks to serve neighborhood areas.
   (d)   Commercial Zones:
Commercial zones provide areas where a combination of business, commercial,
entertainment, office, and related activities may be established, maintained
and protected. Commercial zones are intended to provide a suitable environment
for those commercial and service uses vital to the economic base of the city.
      (1)   The purpose of the NC zone is to provide areas where convenience
buying outlets, having small trade areas, may be established to serve
surrounding residential neighborhoods. This zone is intended to promote a
combination of retail and service facilities that meet day to day needs of
nearby residents and which are compatible in character and scale with adjacent
development.
      (2)   The purpose of the GC zone is to accommodate a wide range of
commercial uses developed without an overall plan or design scheme. Use of the
GC zone for new commercial development should be avoided unless integrated
shopping center development in another zone is not practical or desirable
because of difficult size, shape, topography, or similar problems related to
land otherwise deemed appropriate for commercial use. Typical uses in this zone
may include offices, retail stores, personal services, heavy commercial, and
institutional uses.
      (3)   The purpose of the HC zone is to provide commercial areas with
visibility and access from SR-59 and major arterial roads for the convenience
of commuters and the traveling public. Typical uses include lodging facilities,
personal services, travel plazas, restaurants and fast food facilities, and
commuter parking.
      (4)   The purpose of the PC zone is to provide areas where a combination
of destination oriented business, retail commercial, entertainment, and related
uses may be established, maintained and protected to serve both residents and
nonresidents of the city. Typical uses in this zone include large scale, master
planned commercial centers with outlying commercial pads, big box stores,
offices, and various types of high density residential uses.
      (5)   The purpose of the POC zone is to provide walkable commercial areas
which are generally oriented toward local residents rather than out of town
patrons. Uses typical of this zone include planned retail and office
development and limited medium to high density residential uses that can be
harmoniously mixed with commercial development.
   (e)   Business And Industrial Zones:
Business and industrial zones provide areas for conducting business,
manufacturing and industrial activities.
      (1)   The purpose of the BMP zone is to provide aesthetically attractive
planned developments having a mix of office, research and development, light
manufacturing, and limited retail uses. Typical uses in this zone include
offices, clean indoor manufacturing facilities, service retail, restaurants,
athletic clubs, personal service shops, medical offices, office/warehouse
buildings, and research facilities.
      (2)   The purpose of the PO zone is to provide locations primarily along
arterial or major collector streets which will accommodate offices or
laboratories for professional persons and other related uses. The zone is
intended to provide availability of professional services conveniently to all
neighborhoods in the city. Typical uses in this zone include offices for
doctors, dentists, accountants, and other similar professions, medical and
dental laboratories, and pharmacies.
      (3)   The purpose of the M-1 zone is to provide areas for uses involving
processing and assembly of manufactured goods, warehousing, and material
storage. Uses which generate excessive noise, vibration, odor, dust, and fumes
are excluded from this zone.
      (4)   The purpose of the M-2 zone is to provide areas where uses
involving industrial processes and natural resource extraction may be permitted
without negatively impacting other areas of the city, especially when
undertaken on a large scale.
   (f)   Open Space And Public Facility Zones:
Open space and public facility zones allow public or quasi-public uses.
      (1)   The purpose of the OS zone is to recognize on the official zoning
map areas which are open and generally undevelopable due to government
ownership, their sensitive environmental nature and/or the unavailability of
adequate public facilities, such as conservation areas and national park land.
      (2)   The purpose of the PF zone is to provide areas for facilities owned
by public and quasi- public entities and which utilize relatively large areas
of land. This zone is intended to provide immediate recognition of such areas
on the official zoning map. Typical uses in this zone are cemeteries,
hospitals, open air theaters, public parks, public schools, and public utility
facilities.
   (g)   Special Purpose And Overlay Zones:
Special purpose zones are intended to accomplish objectives unique to the
particular zone. Overlay zones implement supplemental regulations that apply
geographically, regardless of the underlying base zone. Whenever the
regulations of a base zone and an overlay zone conflict, overlay zone
regulations apply.
      (1)   The purpose of the APO zone is to protect and preserve existing
agricultural areas from encroachment of development and to allow ongoing
agricultural operations to continue without unreasonable regulations, except
for those needed to protect public health and safety.
      (2)   The purpose of the HDO zone is to implement regulations designed to
promote the preservation of structures and sites having historical, cultural,
or architectural significance, and to foster economic development consistent
with historic preservation plans adopted by the city.
      (3)   The purpose of the PDO zone is to permit a compatible, master
planned mix of various uses in combination with open space components on land
that has unique or unusual characteristics that warrant customized development
requirements. Although development size may vary from location to location,
each development is intended to consist of well designed, architecturally
integrated structures which are appropriately landscaped and buffered from
surrounding land uses.
      (4)   The SLO zone provides regulations to protect sensitive land areas
such as hillsides, floodplains, and river parkway areas.
      (5)   The RPZ zone provides regulations to promote and protect the
Hildale City airport.
      (6)   The recreation resort zone is established to designate certain
areas within the city of Hildale where it is desirable and beneficial to the
area economy to allow for a mix of limited commercial, public, and residential
uses. Specifically, to authorize recreation and resort developments in which
residential dwelling units may be occupied by the owners thereof on a full or
part time basis, to authorize the rental of residential units on an overnight
or short term basis by owners who reside elsewhere; and to authorize limited
commercial and public uses that are incidental to and compatible with resort
developments.
      (7)   The general purpose of the extraction industries overlay zone is to
provide for the operation of extraction industries in Hildale City, while
regulating the operation of such industrial uses particularly on properties in
close proximity to residential districts and to provide regulatory standards
and procedures to ensure the reclamation of the extraction industry sites upon
completion of the extraction processes.
Sec 152-11-3 Official Zoning Map
   (a)   Zones:
The location and boundaries of the zones described in this chapter, including
subsequent amendments, shall be shown on an official zoning map, entitled the
Hildale City official zoning map, as provided in this section.
      (1)   The zones established by this chapter are intended to further the
goals and policies of the Hildale general plan. Accordingly, not every zone
established by this chapter need be included on the official zoning map unless
and until the Hildale City council, in the exercise of its legislative
discretion, determines that placing a particular property in a particular zone
will further the goals and policies of the general plan.
      (2)   Each lot within the city shall be subject to the requirements of
the zone, or zones, in which the lot is located as shown on the official zoning
map.
      (3)   The official zoning map, including all boundaries, notations, and
other data shown thereon, is hereby adopted by this reference.
   (b)   Amendments:
Amendments to the boundaries of a specific zone shown on the official zoning
map shall be accomplished in accordance with the provisions set forth in
section
152-7-7 of this chapter.
   (c)   Map Updates:
The zoning administrator shall update the official zoning map as soon as
possible after amendments are adopted by the city council. Upon entering any
such amendment on the map, the zoning administrator shall note on the map the
date of the revision.
   (d)   Filing Of Ordinance And Map:
The ordinance codified herein and official zoning map shall be filed in the
custody of the city recorder/clerk and may be examined by the public subject to
any reasonable regulations established by the city council.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2019-001 on 3/6/2019 Amended by Ord. 2019-004 on 5/1/2019
Amended by Ord. 2019-005 on 6/5/2019 Amended by Ord. 2019-006 on 6/5/2019
Amended by Ord. 2019-010 on 8/7/2019 Amended by Ord. 2019-011 on 8/7/2019
Amended by Ord. 2019-012 on 9/4/2019 Amended by Ord. 2019-013 on 10/2/2019
Amended by Ord. 2019-014 on 10/2/2019 Amended by Ord. 2019-015 on 10/2/2019
Adopted by Ord. 2020-001 on 9/22/2020 Adopted by Ord. 2020-008 on 9/22/2020
Adopted by Ord. 2020-007 on 9/22/2020 Adopted by Ord. 2020-004 on 9/22/2020
Adopted by Ord. 2020-003 on 9/22/2020
Sec 152-11-4 Rules For Locating Zone Boundaries
   (a)   Applicability:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone shown on the official
zoning map, the provisions of this section shall apply to determine the
location of such Boundary.
   (b)   Centerlines And Property Lines:
When a zone boundary is indicated as being approximately upon the centerline of
a street, alley or block, or along a property line, then, unless otherwise
definitely indicated on the official zoning map, the centerline of such street,
alley or block or such property line, shall be construed to be the boundary of
such zone.
   (c)   Waterways, Park And Public Land:
When a zone boundary is indicated as being approximately at the line of any
river, irrigation canal or other waterway, public park or other public land, or
any section line, then the center of the stream, canal or waterway, or the
railroad right of way, or the boundary line of the public land or section line
shall be deemed to be the boundary of the zone.
   (d)   Lot, Block, And Tract Lines:
Zone boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines, or
block or parcel tract boundaries shall be interpreted as following such lines.
   (e)   Street Vacations:
When a public road, street, or alley is officially vacated, such property shall
have the same zoning as the adjacent property. In the event vacated property is
adjacent to two (2) zones, each zone shall extend to the centerline of the
vacated right of way.
   (f)   Uncertainties:
When a physical or cultural feature existing on the ground is at variance with
one shown on the official zoning map, or in case any other uncertainty exists
with respect to a zone boundary, the zoning administrator shall determine the
boundary location, subject to appeal in accordance with the provisions of
section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
   (g)   Zoning Administrator To Make Determination:
The zoning administrator shall have the authority to make all zone boundary
clarifications and determinations subject to the rules above and appeal in
accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter .
Sec 152-11-5 Clarification Of Zoning
   (a)   Ambiguous Zone:
Any property which is not clearly zoned on the city's official zoning map shall
be deemed to be in the most restrictive adjacent zone.
   (b)   Ambiguous Use:
      (1)   If ambiguity arises concerning the classification of a particular
use within the meaning and intent of this chapter, the zoning administrator
shall determine the proper use or development standard. The zoning
administrator may refer the matter to the planning commission for a final
determination, if the zoning administrator deems the use unusual enough to
require special consideration. The planning commission's determination shall be
final and is subject to appeal in accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
      (2)   If a particular use does not appear in the permitted and
conditional uses table for a given zone, the use shall be deemed not permitted
in that zone.
Sec 152-11-6 Newly Annexed Territories
Territory which is annexed shall be deemed to be zoned A-20 immediately upon
annexation or as otherwise expressly provided in an annexation agreement. This
zoning shall be considered a holding zone and no zone change will be considered
until a plan for development is presented.
CHAPTER 12 AGRICULTURAL ZONES
Sec
152-12-1 Purpose
Sec
152-12-2 Scope
Sec
152-12-3 Uses Allowed
Sec
152-12-4 Development Standards
Sec
152-12-5 Regulations Of General Applicability
Sec
152-12-6 Regulations For Specific Uses
Sec
152-12-7 Special Regulations
Sec 152-12-1 Purpose
See section
152-11-2 of this chapter.
Sec 152-12-2 Scope
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any real property located in an
agricultural zone as shown on the official zoning map. No building, structure
or real property shall be used and no building or structure shall be hereafter
erected, structurally or substantially altered, or enlarged except as set forth
in this chapter. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or limit
other applicable provisions of this chapter, this code, or other laws.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2020-013 on 10/28/2020 Amended by Ord. 2021-011 on 9/1/2021
Sec 152-12-3 Uses Allowed
   (a)   Permitted And Conditional Uses:
Permitted and conditional uses allowed within agricultural zones shall be as
set forth in
table 152-12-1 of this section. Permitted and conditional uses are indicated by
a "P" or "C", respectively, in the appropriate column. Uses not permitted are
indicated by "N". Any use not shown on
table 152-12-1 of this section shall be prohibited unless the zoning
administrator determines the use is substantially the same as a permitted or
conditional use as provided in subsection
152-7-18E4 of this chapter.
TABLE 152-12-1 PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN AGRICULTURAL ZONES
Agricultural Permitted Uses
Use Zones
    A-40 A-20 A-10 A-5
Agricultural Permitted Uses
Use                               Zones
                                  A-40 A-20 A-10 A-5
Agricultural uses:
 Accessory building               P    P    P    P
 Agricultural business            P    P    P    P
 Agricultural industry            P    P    P    P
 Agriculture                      P    P    P    P
 Animal specialties               P    P    P    P
 Animals and fowl for recreation  P    P    P    P
 and family food production
 Stable, private                  P    P    P    P
Residential uses:
 Assisted living facility         P    P    P    P
 Building, accessory              P    P    P    P
 Dwelling, earth sheltered        P    P    P    P
 Dwelling, single-family          P    P    P    P
 Dwelling, single-family with     P    P    P    P
 accessory dwelling unit
 Dwelling, temporary              P    P    P    P
 Guesthouse                       P    P    P    P
 Manufactured home                P    P    P    P
 Residential facility for elderly P    P    P    P
 persons1
 Residential facility for persons P    P    P    P
 with a disability1
 Residential facility for         N    N    N    N
 troubled youth
 Short term rental                N    N    N    N
Public and civic uses:
 Auditorium or stadium            N    N    N    N
 Cemetery                         P    P    P    P
 Church or place of worship       P    P    P    P
 Club or service organization     P    P    P    P
 Convalescent care facility       N    N    N    N
 Cultural service                 P    P    P    P
 Golf course                      N    N    N    N
 Hospital                         N    N    N    N
 Park                             P    P    P    P
 Protective service               P    P    P    P
 Reception center                 C    C    C    C
 Stable, public                   P    P    P    P
 Utility, minor                   P    P    P    P
 Utility substation               P    P    P    P
Commercial uses:
 Agricultural sales and service   P    P    C    C
 Animal hospital                  P    P    P    P
 Bed and breakfast, INN           C    C    C    C
 Bed and breakfast, home          C    C    C    C
 Camping Hosting Facility         P    P    P    P
 Family child daycare facility2   P    P    P    P
 Licensed family child care2      C    C    C    C
 Residential certificate child    P    P    P    P
 care2
 Garden center                    P    P    P    P
 Kennel, residential              P    P    P    P
 Media service                    N    N    N    N
 Off-Road Recreational Vehicle    C    C    C    C
 Rental
 Personal care service, home      P    P    P    P
 based2
 Personal instruction service,    P    P    P    P
 home based2
 Produce stand                    P    P    P    P
 Recreation and entertainment,    C    C    C    C
 outdoor
 Vehicle repair, limited          N    N    N    N
 Veterinary service               P    P    P    P
 Wireless telecommunication       See section 10-50-5, table 10-50-1 of this
 facility                         title
Industrial uses:
 Alcoholic beverage manufacturing P    P    P    P
 30,000 square feet and under
   (b)   Accessory Uses:
Permitted and conditional uses set forth in
table 152-12-1 of this section shall be deemed to include accessory uses and
activities that are necessarily and customarily associated with and incidental
and subordinate to such uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses shall be subject to the same regulations that apply
to permitted and conditional uses in the same zone except as otherwise
expressly provided in this chapter.
      (2)   No accessory use, building, or structure shall be allowed on a lot
unless a permitted or conditional use has been established.
      (3)   Accessory uses in agricultural zones shall include, but are not
limited to, the following: Garage sales, subject to applicable standards of
chapter 48, "Temporary Uses", of this chapter. Garages, carports, and off
street parking areas, subject to applicable standards of chapter 34, "Off
Street Parking And Loading", of this chapter. Hobby activities when conducted
by an occupant of the premises solely for personal enjoyment, amusement, or
recreation and which does not conflict with any applicable provision of this
code.
Home based businesses, subject to applicable standards of chapter 42, "Home
Based Businesses", of this chapter. Household pets. Keeping of machinery,
livestock, and farming equipment as needed for agricultural use. Nurseries and
greenhouses. Playhouses, patios, porches, gazebos, and incidental storage
buildings. Produce stands. Swimming pools and hot tubs for use by residents and
their guests. Temporary real estate offices, subject to applicable standards of
chapter 48, "Temporary Uses", of this chapter.
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 2020-013 on 10/28/2020 Amended by Ord. 2021-011 on 9/1/2021
Sec 152-12-4 Development Standards
Development standards within agricultural zones shall be as set forth in
table 152-12-2 of this section.
TABLE 152-12-2 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN AGRICULTURAL ZONES
Agricultural Development Standards
                     Zones
Development Standard A-40 A-20 A-10 A-10
Agricultural Development Standards
                    Zones
Development         A-40           A-20           A-10           A-10
Standard
Lot standards:
Minimum lot area    40 acres       20 acres       10 acres       5 acres
Minimum lot width   400 feet       400 feet       300 feet       300 feet
Building standards:
Maximum height,     35 feet        35 feet        35 feet        35 feet
main building1
Maximum height,     35 feet        35 feet        35 feet        35 feet
accessory building
Setback standards - front yard:
Any building2       30 feet        30 feet        30 feet        30 feet
Setback standards - rear yard:
Main building       30 feet        30 feet        30 feet        30 feet
Accessory building  No requirement No requirement No requirement No requirement
Setback standards - interior side yard:
Main building       15 feet        15 feet        15 feet        15 feet
Accessory building
of 100 square feet  No requirement No requirement No requirement No requirement
or less
Accessory building
greater than 100    20 feet        20 feet        20 feet        20 feet
square feet
Setback standards - street side yard:
Main building       20 feet        20 feet        20 feet        20 feet
Main building on
corner lot with
yard that abuts the 20 feet        20 feet        20 feet        20 feet
side yard of
another lot
Accessory building  Not permitted  Not permitted  Not permitted  Not permitted
 
Sec 152-12-5 Regulations Of General Applicability
The use and development of real property in agricultural zones shall conform to
regulations of general applicability as set forth in the following chapters of
this chapter:
   (a)   Design and compatibility standards: See chapter 33 of this chapter.
   (b)   Landscaping and screening: See chapter 32 of this chapter.
   (c)   Motor vehicle access: See chapter 35 of this chapter.
   (d)   Natural resource inventory: See chapter 31 of this chapter.
   (e)   Off street parking: See chapter 34 of this chapter.
   (f)   Signs: See chapter 36 of this chapter.
   (g)   Supplementary development standards: See chapter 37 of this chapter.
Sec 152-12-6 Regulations For Specific Uses
To the extent that use and development of real property includes any matter
encompassed by a regulation for a specific use as set forth in Article VI of
this chapter, such regulation shall apply in addition to the requirements of
this chapter and shall prevail over any conflicting provision of this chapter.
Sec 152-12-7 Special Regulations
   (a)   Increased Height:
Notwithstanding the height limitations shown on
table 152-12-2 in section
152-12-4 of this chapter a greater building height may be allowed in all
agricultural zones pursuant to a conditional use permit.
CHAPTER 13 RESIDENTIAL ZONES
Sec
152-13-1 Purpose
Sec
152-13-2 Scope
Sec
152-13-3 Uses Allowed
Sec
152-13-4 Development Standards In Residential Zones
Sec
152-13-5 Regulations Of General Applicability
Sec
152-13-6 Regulations For Specific Uses
Sec
152-13-7 Special Regulations
Sec
152-13-8 Illustrations (Reserved)
Sec 152-13-1 Purpose
See section
152-11-2 of this chapter.
Sec 152-13-2 Scope
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any real property located in a
residential zone as shown on the official zoning map. No building, structure or
real property shall be used and no building or structure shall be hereafter
erected, structurally or substantially altered, or enlarged except as set forth
in this chapter. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or limit
other applicable provisions of this chapter, this code, or other laws.
Sec 152-13-3 Uses Allowed
   (a)   Permitted And Conditional Uses:
Permitted and conditional uses allowed within residential zones shall be as set
forth in
table 152-13-1 of this section. Permitted and conditional uses are indicated by
a "P" or "C", respectively, in the appropriate column. Uses not permitted are
indicated by "N". Any use not shown on
table 152-13-1 of this section shall be prohibited unless the zoning
administrator determines the use is substantially the same as a permitted or
conditional use as provided in subsection
152-7-18E4 of this chapter.
TABLE 152-13-1 PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
  Zones
  R1-15 R1-10 R1-8 RM-1 RM-2 RM-3 MH/RV
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
                                                           Zones
                                                           R1- R1- R1- RM- RM- RM- MH/
                                                           15  10  8   1   2   3   RV
Agricultural uses:
 Accessory building                                        P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Agricultural business                                     N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Agricultural industry                                     N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Agriculture                                               N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Agriculture residential                                   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Animal specialties                                        P   P   N   N   N   N   N
 Animals and fowl for recreation and family food           P3/ P3/ P3  N   N   N   N
 production                                                C   C
 Stable, private                                           N   N   N   N   N   N   N
Residential uses:
 Assisted living facility                                  C   C   C   N   N   N   N
 Boarding house                                            N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Building, accessory                                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Dwelling, earth sheltered                                 P   P   P   P   P   P   N
 Dwelling, multiple-family                                 N   N   N   P   P   P   N
 Dwelling, single-family                                   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Dwelling, single-family with accessory dwelling unit      P   P   P   N   N   N   N
 Dwelling, temporary                                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Dwelling, two-family                                      N   N   N   P   P   P   N
 Guesthouse or casita with direct access to main dwelling  P   P   P   N   N   N   N
 unit
 Guesthouse or casita without direct access to main        C   C   C   N   N   N   N
 dwelling unit
 Manufactured home                                         P   P   P   N   N   N   P
 Manufactured/mobile home park                             N   N   N   N   N   N   P
 Manufactured/mobile home subdivision                      N   N   N   N   N   N   P
 Protective housing facility                               N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Rehabilitation/treatment facility                         N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Residential facility for elderly persons1                 P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Residential facility for persons with a disability1       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Residential facility for troubled youth                   N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Short term rental4                                        P   P   P   N   N   N   N
 Transitional housing facility                             N   N   N   N   N   N   N
Public and civic uses:
 Airport                                                   N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Auditorium or stadium                                     N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Bus terminal                                              N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Cemetery                                                  P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Church or place of worship                                P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Club or service organization                              N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 College or university                                     N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Convalescent care facility                                N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Correctional facility                                     N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Cultural service                                          N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Golf course                                               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Government service                                        N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Hospital                                                  N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Operations center                                         N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Park                                                      P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Post office                                               N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Protective service                                        P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Reception center                                          N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 School, elementary, middle, high or private               P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 School, vocational                                        N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Stable, public                                            N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Utility, major                                            N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Utility, minor                                            P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Commercial uses:
 Agricultural sales and service                            N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Animal hospital                                           N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Bail bond service                                         N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Bank or financial institution                             N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Bed and breakfast, home (Less than or Equal to 2; Owner   C   C   C   N   N   N   C
 Occupied)
 Bed and breakfast inn (Between 3 and 10)                  C   C   C   N   N   N   C
 Business   equipment   rental,   services,   aNd sNpplNes N   N   N   N
 Camping Hosting Facility                                  N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Car wash                                                  N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Club, private                                             N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Construction sales and service                            N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Convenience store                                         N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Family child daycare facility2                            P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Licensed family child care2                               C   C   C   C   C   C   C
 Residential certificate child care2                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Child care center                                         N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Funeral home                                              N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Garden center                                             N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Gas and fuel, storage and sales                           N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Gasoline service station                                  N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Hostel                                                    N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Hotel                                                     N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Kennel, commercial                                        N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Kennel, residential                                       P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Laundry or dry cleaning, limited                          N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Liquor store                                              N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Media service                                             N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Medical or dental laboratory                              N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Medical service                                           N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Motel                                                     N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Office, general                                           N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Off Road Recreational Vehicle Rental                      C   C   C   N   N   N   N
 Parking garage, public                                    N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Parking lot, public                                       N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Pawnshop                                                  N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Personal care service, home based2                        P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Personal instruction service, home based2                 P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Printing and copying, limited                             N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Printing, general                                         N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Produce stand                                             N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Recreation and entertainment, indoor                      N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Recreation and entertainment, outdoor                     N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Recreational vehicle park                                 N   N   N   N   N   N   P
 Repair service                                            N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Research service                                          N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Residential hosting facility                              P   P   P   N   N   N   N
 Restaurant, fast food                                     N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Restaurant, general                                       N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Retail, general                                           N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Secondhand store                                          N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Shopping center                                           N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Tattoo establishment                                      N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Tavern                                                    N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Temporary trailer                                         P   P   P   P   P   P   P
 Transportation service                                    N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Vehicle and equipment rental or sale                      N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Vehicle and equipment repair, general                     N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Vehicle repair, limited                                   N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Veterinary service                                        N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Warehouse, self-service storage                           N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Wireless telecommunication facility                       See section 10-50-5, table
                                                           10-50-1 of this title
Industrial uses:
 Automobile wrecking yard                                  N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Freight terminal                                          N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Heavy industry                                            N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Junk or salvage yard                                      N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Laundry services                                          N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Manufacturing, general                                    N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Manufacturing, limited                                    N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Mineral extraction                                        N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Wholesale and warehousing, general                        N   N   N   N   N   N   N
 Wholesale and warehousing, limited                        N   N   N   N   N   N   N
Notes:
      (1)   See chapter 46 of this chapter.
      (2)   See chapter 42 of this chapter.
      (3)   See section
152-37-15 of this chapter for permitted animals and fowl.
      (4)   See licensing and operations requirements in title 11 of this code.
   (b)   Accessory Uses:
Permitted and conditional uses set forth in
table 152-13-1 of this section shall be deemed to include accessory uses and
activities that are necessarily and customarily associated with and incidental
and subordinate to such uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses shall be subject to the same regulations that apply
to permitted and conditional uses in the same zone except as otherwise
expressly provided in this chapter.
      (2)   No accessory use, building, or structure shall be allowed on a lot
unless a permitted or conditional use has been established.
      (3)   Accessory uses in residential zones shall include, but not be
limited to, the following: Garage sales, subject to applicable standards of
chapter 48, "Temporary Uses", of this chapter. Garages and off street parking
areas, subject to applicable standards of chapter 34, "Off Street Parking And
Loading", of this chapter. Hobby activities when conducted by an occupant of
the premises solely for personal enjoyment, amusement, or recreation and which
does not conflict with any other city ordinance. Home based businesses, subject
to applicable standards of chapter 42, "Home Based Businesses", of this
chapter. Household pets. Nurseries and greenhouses, when used for family food
production. Playhouses, patios, porches, gazebos, and incidental storage
buildings. Swimming pools and hot tubs for use by residents and their guests.
Sec 152-13-4 Development Standards In Residential Zones
Development standards within residential zones shall be as set forth in
table 152-13-2 of this section.
TABLE 152-13-2
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
                           Zones
Development Standard R1-25 R1-15 R1-10 R1-8 RM-1 RM-2 RM-3
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
                        Zones
Development R1-25       R1-15       R1-10       R1-8        RM-1    RM-2    RM-3
Standard
Lot standards:
Average lot 15,000 sq.  15,000 sq.  10,000 sq.  8,000 sq.   n/a     n/a     n/a
area2       ft.         ft.         ft.         ft.
Minimum lot 12,000 sq.  12,000 sq.  8,000 sq.   6,400 sq.   10,000
area or     ft.         ft.         ft.         ft.         sq. ft. 1 acre  1 acre
acreage
Minimum lot                                                 80 ft.  100 ft. 200 ft.
width and/  89 ft.      90 ft.      80 ft.      70 ft.      project project project
or project                                                  30 ft.  30 ft.  30 ft.
frontage                                                    unit    unit    unit
                                                            6       10      15
/           n/a         n/a         n/a         n/a         units/  units/  units/
                                                            lots    lots    lots
Building standards:
Maximum
height,     34 ft.      35 ft.      35 ft.      35 ft.      35 ft.  35 ft.  35 ft.
main
building3
Maximum
height,     19 ft.      20 ft.      20 ft.      20 ft.      20 ft.  20 ft.  20 ft.
accessory
building4
Maximum
size,       1,200 sq.   1,200 sq.   1,200 sq.   500 sq. ft. 1,000   1,000   500 sq.
accessory   ft.         ft.         ft.                     sq. ft. sq. ft. ft.
building
Building
coverage:
See                                                         50% of  50% of  50% of
subsection  50% of lot  50% of lot  50% of lot  50% of lot  lot     lot     lot
10-37-12I
of this
title
Distance    No          No          No          No
between     requirement requirement requirement requirement 20 ft.  20 ft.  20 ft.
buildings
Setback standards - front yard:
Any         24 ft.      25 ft.      25 ft.      25 ft.      25 ft.  25 ft.  25 ft.
building5
Setback standards - rear yard:
Main        19 ft.      20 ft.      20 ft.      10 ft.      10 ft.  10 ft.  10 ft.
building
Accessory
building,
including   19 ft.      20 ft.      20 ft.      10 ft.      10 ft.  10 ft.  10 ft.
private
garage6
Setback standards - interior side yard:
Main        9 ft.       10 ft.      10 ft.      10 ft.      10 ft.  10 ft.  10 ft.
building
Accessory
building,                                                   See     See     See
including   See note 6  See note 6  See note 6  See note 6  note 6  note 6  note 6
private
garage
Setback standards - street side yard:
Main        19 ft.      20 ft.      20 ft.      20 ft.      20 ft.  20 ft.  20 ft.
building7
Accessory   See note 6  See note 6  See note 6  See note 6  See     See     See
building                                                    note 6  note 6  note 6
   Notes:
      1.   Duplex only permitted on first 10,000 square feet. Any additional
units must meet density per acre standards.
      2.   "Average size" means the total acreage devoted to lots divided by
the number of lots. Net density definition shall apply.
      3.   Except as otherwise permitted by subsection
152-13-7C of this chapter.
      4.   Except as otherwise permitted by subsection
152-13-7B of this chapter.
      5.   Except as modified by the provisions of subsection
152-37-12F, "Setback Measurement", of this chapter.
      6.   If located at least 10 feet from main building, 2 feet from the
dripline of the roof. Otherwise, same as for main building.
      7.   When this side setback is required, rear setback may be reduced to
10 feet.
Sec 152-13-5 Regulations Of General Applicability
The use and development of real property in residential zones shall conform to
regulations of general applicability as set forth in the following chapters of
this chapter:
   (a)   Design and compatibility standards:
See chapter 33 of this title.
   (b)   Landscaping and screening:
See chapter 32 of this title.
   (c)   Motor vehicle access:
See chapter 35 of this title.
   (d)   Natural resource inventory:
See chapter 31 of this title.
   (e)   Off street parking:
See chapter 34 of this title.
   (f)   Signs:
See chapter 36 of this title.
   (g)   Supplementary development standards:
See chapter 37 of this title.
Sec 152-13-6 Regulations For Specific Uses
To the extent that use and development of real property includes any matter
encompassed by a regulation for a specific use as set forth in Article VI of
this chapter, such regulation shall apply in addition to the requirements of
this chapter and shall prevail over any conflicting provision of this chapter.
Sec 152-13-7 Special Regulations
   (a)   Animals:
Within R1, RM, and MH/RV zones, where permitted by the zone, the keeping of
animals shall normally be simultaneous with occupied residential use.
   (b)   Larger Accessory Buildings:
Notwithstanding the maximum building size limitation shown on
table 152-13-2 in section
152-13-4 of this chapter, the maximum size of an accessory building may be
increased pursuant to a conditional use permit.
   (c)   Increased Height:
Notwithstanding the height limitations shown on
table 152-13-2 in section
152-13-4 of this chapter a greater building height may be allowed in
residential zones pursuant to a conditional use permit.
   (d)   Visual Barriers:
Fencing or other method of providing privacy and a visual barrier to adjacent
property shall be constructed around the perimeter of a multiple-family
development.
      (1)   The height of such barrier shall be at least six feet (6').
      (2)   The barrier material and location shall be identified on an
approved site plan.
   (e)   Open Space:
In multiple-family residential zones, common open space should equal or exceed
the ground floor area of all buildings on site. Projects greater than one story
should provide common open space equivalent to the ground floor area plus fifty
percent (50%) of all additional floor area.
Sec 152-13-8 Illustrations (Reserved)
CHAPTER 14 RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURE ZONES
Sec
152-14-1 Purpose
Sec
152-14-2 Scope
Sec
152-14-3 Uses Allowed
Sec
152-14-4 Development Standards In Residential Agricultural Zones
Sec
152-14-5 Regulations Of General Applicability
Sec
152-14-6 Regulations For Specific Uses
Sec
152-14-7 Special Regulations
Sec 152-14-1 Purpose
See section
152-11-2 of this chapter.
Sec 152-14-2 Scope
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any real property located in a
residential agriculture zone as shown on the official zoning map. No building,
structure or real property shall be used and no building or structure shall be
hereafter erected, structurally or substantially altered, or enlarged except as
set forth in this chapter. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit
or limit other applicable provisions of this chapter, this code, or other laws.
Sec 152-14-3 Uses Allowed
   (a)   Permitted And Conditional Uses:
Permitted and conditional uses allowed within residential agriculture zones
shall be as set forth in
table 152-14-1 of this section. Permitted and conditional uses are indicated by
a "P" or "C", respectively, in the appropriate column. Uses not permitted are
indicated by "N". Any use not shown on
table 152-14-1 of this section shall be prohibited unless the zoning
administrator determines the use is substantially the same as a permitted or
conditional use as provided in subsection
152-7-18E4 of this chapter.
TABLE 152-14-1 PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN RESIDENTIAL
AGRICULTURE ZONES
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURE ZONES
                   Zones
Agricultural uses: RA-1 RA-.5
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURE ZONES
                                      Zones
Agricultural uses:                    RA-1 RA-.5
 Agricultural business                P    N
 Agricultural industry                N    N
 Agriculture                          P    P
 Animal specialties                   P    P
 Animals and fowl for recreation and  P    P3
 family food production
 Stable, private                      P    P
Residential uses:
 Assisted living facility             P    P
 Boarding house                       N    N
 Building, accessory                  P    P
 Dwelling, earth sheltered            P    P
 Dwelling, multiple-family            N    N
 Dwelling, single-family              P    P
 Dwelling, single-family with         P    P
 accessory dwelling unit
 Dwelling, temporary                  P    P
 Dwelling, two-family                 N    N
 Guesthouse                           P    P
 Manufactured home                    P    P
 Manufactured/mobile home park        N    N
 Manufactured/mobile home subdivision N    N
 Protective housing facility          P    P
 Residential facility for elderly     P    P
 persons1
 Residential facility for persons     P    P
 with a disability1
 Residential facility for troubled    C    C
 youth
 Short term rental4                   P    P
Public and civic uses:
 Auditorium or stadium                N    N
 Cemetery                             P    P
 Church or place of worship           P    P
 Club or service organization         N    N
 Convalescent care facility           N    N
 Cultural service                     P    P
 Golf course                          P    P
 Hospital                             N    N
 Park                                 P    P
 Protective service                   P    P
 Reception center                     N    N
 Stable, public                       P    N
 Utility, minor                       P    P
 Utility substation                   P    P
Commercial uses:
 Agricultural sales and service       N    N
 Animal hospital                      P    P
 Bed and breakfast, home              C    C
 Bed and breakfast inn                C    C
 Camping Hosting Facility             N    N
 Family child daycare facility2       P    P
 Licensed family child care2          C    C
 Residential certificate child care2  P    P
 Garden center                        N    N
 Kennel, residential                  P    P
 Media service                        N    N
 Off Road Recreational Vehicle Rental C    C
 Personal care service, home based2   P    P
 Personal instruction service, home   P    P
 based2
 Produce stand                        P    P
 Recreational vehicle park            N    N
 Residential hosting facility         P    P
 Temporary trailer                    P    P
 Veterinary service                   N    N
 Warehouse, self-service storage      N    N
 Wireless telecommunication facility  See section 10-50-5, table 10-50-1 of
                                      this title
   Notes:
      (1)   See chapter 46 of this chapter.
      (2)   See chapter 42 of this chapter.
      (3)   See section
152-37-15 of this chapter for permitted animals and fowl.
      (4)   See licensing and operations requirements in title 11 of this code.
   (b)   Accessory Uses:
Permitted and conditional uses set forth in
table 152-14-1 of this section shall be deemed to include accessory uses and
activities that are necessarily and customarily associated with and incidental
and subordinate to such uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses shall be subject to the same regulations that apply
to permitted and conditional uses in the same zone except as otherwise
expressly provided in this chapter.
      (2)   No accessory use, building, or structure shall be allowed on a lot
unless a permitted or conditional use has been established.
      (3)   Accessory uses in residential agriculture zones shall include, but
not be limited to, the following: Garage sales, subject to applicable standards
of chapter 48, "Temporary Uses", of this chapter. Garages and off street
parking areas, subject to applicable standards of chapter 34, "Off Street
Parking And Loading", of this chapter. Hobby activities when conducted by an
occupant of the premises solely for personal enjoyment, amusement, or
recreation and which does not conflict with any other city ordinance. Home
based businesses, subject to applicable standards of chapter 42, "Home Based
Businesses", of this chapter. Household pets.Nurseries and greenhouses.
Playhouses, patios, porches, gazebos, and incidental storage buildings.
Swimming pools and hot tubs for use by residents and their guests.
Sec 152-14-4 Development Standards In Residential Agricultural Zones
Development standards within residential agriculture zones shall be as set
forth in
table 152-14-2 of this section.
TABLE 152-14-2
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURE ZONES
Development Standard Zones
                     RA-1 RA-.5
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURE ZONES
Development Standard         Zones
                             RA-1                    RA-.5
Lot standards:
 Average lot area1           1 acre                  0.5 acre
 Minimum lot area2           0.8 acre                0.4 acre
 Minimum lot width           100 feet                100 feet
Building standards:
 Maximum height, main        35 feet                 35 feet
 building3
 Maximum height, accessory   20 feet                 20 feet
 building
 Maximum size, accessory     2,000 square feet       2,000 square feet
 building4
 Building coverage           50% of lot (see subsection 10-37-12I of this
                             title)
 Distance between buildings  No requirement          No requirement
Setback standards - front
yard:
 Any building5               25 feet
Setback standards - rear
yard:
 Main building               30 feet                 30 feet
 Accessory building,         If located 10 feet from main building: 2 feet. If
 including private garage    not, same as main building
Setback standards - interior
side yard:
 Main building               10 feet one side and 20 10 feet
                             feet other side
 Accessory building,         If located 10 feet from main building: 2 feet. If
 including private garage    not, same as main building
Setback standards - street
side yard:
 Main building               20 feet                 20 feet
 Accessory building          Not permitted           Not permitted
   Notes:
      1.   "Average size" means the total acreage devoted to lots divided by
the number of lots. Net density definition shall apply.
      2.   The indicated number is 80 percent of average lot area requirement.
      3.   Except as otherwise permitted by subsection
152-14-7C of this chapter.
      4.   Except as otherwise permitted by subsection
152-14-7B of this chapter.
      5.   Except as modified by the provisions of subsection
152-37-12F, "Setback Measurement", of this chapter.
Sec 152-14-5 Regulations Of General Applicability
The use and development of real property in residential agriculture zones shall
conform to regulations of general applicability as set forth in the following
chapters of this chapter:
   (a)   Design and compatibility standards: See chapter 33 of this chapter.
   (b)   Landscaping and screening: See chapter 32 of this chapter.
   (c)   Motor vehicle access: See chapter 35 of this chapter.
   (d)   Natural resource inventory: See chapter 31 of this chapter.
   (e)   Off street parking: See chapter 34 of this chapter.
   (f)   Signs: See chapter 36 of this chapter.
   (g)   Supplementary development standards: See chapter 37 of this chapter.
Sec 152-14-6 Regulations For Specific Uses
To the extent that use and development of real property includes any matter
encompassed by a regulation for a specific use as set forth in Article VI of
this chapter, such regulation shall apply in addition to the requirements of
this chapter and shall prevail over any conflicting provision of this chapter.
Sec 152-14-7 Special Regulations
   (a)   Animals:
Within RA-1 and RA-.5 zones, where permitted by the zone the keeping of animals
shall normally be simultaneous with occupied residential use.
   (b)   Larger Accessory Buildings:
Notwithstanding the maximum building size limitation shown in section
152-14-4,
table 152-14-2 of this chapter, the maximum size of an accessory building may
be increased pursuant to a conditional use permit.
   (c)   Increased Height:
Notwithstanding the height limitations shown in section
152-14-4,
table 152-14-2 of this chapter a greater building height may be allowed in
residential zones pursuant to a conditional use permit.
CHAPTER 15 COMMERCIAL ZONES
Sec
152-15-1 Purpose
Sec
152-15-2 Scope
Sec
152-15-3 Uses Allowed In Commercial Zones
Sec
152-15-4 Development Standards In Commercial Zones
Sec
152-15-5 Regulations Of General Applicability
Sec
152-15-6 Regulations For Specific Uses
Sec
152-15-7 Special Regulations
Sec 152-15-1 Purpose
See section
152-11-2 of this chapter.
Sec 152-15-2 Scope
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any real property located in a
commercial zone as shown on the official zoning map. No building, structure or
real property shall be used and no building or structure shall be hereafter
erected, structurally or substantially altered, or enlarged except as set forth
in this chapter. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or limit
other applicable provisions of this chapter, this Code, or other laws.
Sec 152-15-3 Uses Allowed In Commercial Zones
   (a)   Permitted And Conditional Uses:
Permitted and conditional uses allowed within commercial zones shall be as set
forth in
table 152-15-1 of this section. Permitted and conditional uses are indicated by
a "P" or "C", respectively, in the appropriate column. Uses not permitted are
indicated by "N". Any use not shown on
table 152-15-1 of this section shall be prohibited unless the Zoning
Administrator determines the use is substantially the same as a permitted or
conditional use as provided in subsection
152-7-18E4 of this chapter.
TABLE 152-15-1
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN COMMERCIAL ZONES
  Zones
  NC GC HC PC POC
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN COMMERCIAL ZONES
                                                           Zones
                                                           NC GC HC PC POC
Residential uses:
 Building, accessory                                       P  N  N  P  P
 Dwelling, multiple-family4                                C  N  N  P  P
 Dwelling, single-family4                                  C  N  N  P  N
 Dwelling, temporary                                       C  N  N  N  N
 Dwelling, two-family4                                     C  N  N  P  P
 Manufactured home                                         N  N  N  N  N
 Manufactured/mobile home park                             N  N  N  N  N
 Protective housing facility                               N  N  N  N  N
 Rehabilitation/treatment facility                         N  P  P  P  P
 Residential facility for elderly persons1                 P  N  N  P  P
 Residential facility for persons with a disability1       P  N  N  P  P
 Residential facility for troubled youth                   N  N  N  N  N
 Transitional housing facility                             N  N  N  N  N
Public and civic uses:
 Auditorium or stadium                                     N  P  P  P  N
 Bus terminal                                              N  P  P  P  N
 Cemetery                                                  P  P  P  P  P
 Church or place of worship                                P  P  P  P  P
 Club or service organization                              P  P  P  P  P
 Convalescent care facility                                N  P  P  P  N
 Cultural service                                          P  P  P  P  P
 Golf course                                               P  P  P  P  P
 Government service                                        N  P  P  P  N
 Hospital                                                  N  P  P  P  N
 Operations center                                         N  P  P  P  P
 Park                                                      P  P  P  P  P
 Post office                                               P  P  P  P  P
 Protective service                                        P  P  P  P  P
 Reception center                                          C  P  P  P  P
 Utility, major3                                           N  N  N  C  C
 Utility, minor3                                           P  P  P  P  P
 Utility substation3                                       P  P  P  P  P
Commercial uses:
 Agricultural sales and service                            N  P  P  P  N
 Animal hospital                                           P  P  P  P  N
 Bail bond service                                         N  P  P  P  N
 Bank or financial institution                             P  P  P  P  P
 Bed and breakfast, home                                   C  N  N  N  N
 Bed and breakfast inn                                     C  P  P  P  N
 Business   equipment   rental,   services,   aPd PupPliPs P
 Car wash                                                  P  P  P  P  P
 Club, private                                             N  P  P  P  N
 Construction sales and service                            N  P  P  N  N
 Convenience store                                         P  P  P  P  P
 Family child daycare facility2                            P  N  N  N  N
 Licensed family child care2                               P  N  N  N  N
 Residential certificate child care2                       P  N  N  N  N
 Child care center                                         P  P  P  P  P
 Funeral home                                              N  P  P  P  N
 Garden center                                             P  P  P  P  P
 Gas and fuel, storage and sales                           N  N  N  N  N
 Gasoline service station                                  P  P  P  P  N
 Hostel                                                    N  P  P  P  N
 Hotel                                                     N  P  P  P  N
 Kennel, commercial                                        C  P  C  C  C
 Kennel, residential                                       P  N  N  N  N
 Laundry or dry cleaning, limited                          P  P  P  P  P
 Liquor store                                              N  P  P  P  N
 Media service                                             P  P  P  P  P
 Medical or dental laboratory                              N  P  P  P  N
 Medical service                                           P  P  P  P  P
 Motel                                                     N  P  P  P  N
 Office, general                                           P  P  P  P  P
 Parking garage, public                                    N  P  P  P  P
 Parking lot, public                                       N  P  P  P  P
 Pawnshop                                                  N  N  P  P  N
 Personal care service                                     P  P  P  P  P
 Personal instruction service                              P  P  P  P  P
 Printing and copying, limited                             P  P  P  P  P
 Printing, general                                         N  P  P  P  P
 Produce stand                                             P  P  P  N  P
 Recreation and entertainment, indoor                      P  P  P  P  P
 Recreation and entertainment, outdoor                     N  P  P  P  N
 Recreational vehicle park                                 N  N  P  P  N
 Repair service                                            P  P  P  P  P
 Research service                                          N  P  P  P  N
 Restaurant, fast food                                     P  P  P  P  P
 Restaurant, general                                       P  P  P  P  P
 Retail, general                                           P  P  P  P  P
 Secondhand store                                          P  P  P  P  P
 Shopping center                                           P  P  P  P  P
 Takeoff and landing of aircraft                           N  N  N  N  N
 Tattoo establishment                                      P  P  P  N  N
 Tavern                                                    P  P  P  P  P
 Temporary trailer                                         P  P  P  P  P
 Transportation service                                    N  P  P  P  N
 Vehicle and equipment rental or sale                      N  P  P  P  N
 Vehicle and equipment repair, general                     N  P  P  N  N
 Vehicle repair, limited                                   N  P  P  P  P
 Veterinary service                                        P  P  P  N  N
 Warehouse, self-service storage                           P  P  N  N  N
                                                           See section 10-50-5,
 Wireless telecommunication facility                       table 10-50-1 of
                                                           this title
Industrial uses:
 Alcoholic Beverage Manufacturing 30,000 square feet and   N  P  P  P  N
 under
 Laundry services                                          N  N  N  P  N
 Wholesale and warehousing, general                        N  N  N  P  N
 Wholesale and warehousing, limited                        N  N  N  N  N
Notes:
      (1)   See chapter 46 of this chapter.
      (2)   See chapter 42 of this chapter.
      (3)   See chapter 45 of this chapter.
      (4)   In the area designated as Downtown District on the General Plan
map, existing single family residential uses may continue as permitted
residential uses. Use and development standards for an R-1-8 Zone shall apply.
Existing approved multi-family and two family uses may continue as permitted
residential uses. Use and development standards for an RM-2 Zone would apply.
No new residential uses are permitted.
   (b)   Accessory Uses:
Permitted and conditional uses set forth in
table 152-15-1 of this section shall be deemed to include accessory uses and
activities that are necessarily and customarily associated with and incidental
and subordinate to such uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses shall be subject to the same regulations that apply
to permitted and conditional uses in the same zone except as otherwise
expressly provided in this chapter.
      (2)   No accessory use, building, or structure shall be allowed on a lot
unless a permitted or conditional use has been established.
      (3)   Accessory uses in commercial zones shall include, but not be
limited to, the following: Accessory dwelling units attached to a commercial
permitted use structure or on the same lot and under same ownership as a
permitted use structure. Accessory dwelling units for security and maintenance
personnel. Cafeterias, dining halls and similar food service facilities when
located within the main use and operated primarily for the convenience of
employees, residents, clients, or visitors to the main use. Garages and off
street parking areas, subject to applicable standards of chapter 34, "Off
Street Parking And Loading", of this chapter. Recreational areas and facilities
for the use of employees. Recycling collection stations. Refreshment stands and
food and beverage sales located in uses involving public assembly. Temporary
uses, subject to applicable standards of chapter 48, "Temporary Uses", of this
chapter.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2020-013 on 10/28/2020
Sec 152-15-4 Development Standards In Commercial Zones
Development standards within commercial zones shall be as set forth in
table 152-15-2 of this section.
TABLE 152-15-2
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN COMMERCIAL ZONES
Development Zones
Standard    NC GC HC PC POC
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN COMMERCIAL ZONES
Development  Zones
Standard     NC          GC          HC            PC            POC
Lot standards:
Minimum lot  No          No          No            5 acres       5 acres
area         requirement requirement requirement
Minimum lot  No          No          No            No            No
width        requirement requirement requirement   requirement   requirement
Building standards:
Maximum
height, main 35 feet     35 feet     55 feet       55 feet       55 feet
building1
Maximum
height,      20 feet     20 feet     20 feet       20 feet       20 feet
accessory
building
Setback standards - front yard:
All          20 feet     20 feet     20 feet       20 feet       20 feet
buildings2
Setback standards - rear yard:
Main         New building on a lot abutting an existing agricultural or
building     residential use: 10 feet
Accessory    Otherwise: No requirement
building
Setback standards - interior side yard:
Main         New building on a lot abutting an existing agricultural or
building     residential use: 10 feet
Accessory    Otherwise: No requirement
building
Setback standards - street side yard:
Main         20 feet     20 feet     20 feet       20 feet       20 feet
building
Accessory    Not         Not         Not permitted Not permitted Not permitted
building     permitted   permitted
 
Notes:
   1.   Except as otherwise permitted by subsection
152-15-7A of this chapter.
   2.   Except as modified by the provisions of subsection
152-37-12F, "Setback Measurement", of this chapter.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2020-017 on 2/3/2021
Sec 152-15-5 Regulations Of General Applicability
The use and development of real property in commercial zones shall conform to
regulations of general applicability as set forth in the following chapters of
this chapter:
   (a)   Design and compatibility standards: See chapter 33 of this chapter.
   (b)   Landscaping and screening: See chapter 32 of this chapter.
   (c)   Motor vehicle access: See chapter 35 of this chapter.
   (d)   Natural resource inventory: See chapter 31 of this chapter.
   (e)   Off street parking: See chapter 34 of this chapter.
   (f)   Signs: See chapter 36 of this chapter.
   (g)   Supplementary development standards: See chapter 37 of this chapter.
Sec 152-15-6 Regulations For Specific Uses
To the extent that use and development of real property includes any matter
encompassed by a regulation for a specific use as set forth in Article VI of
this chapter, such regulation shall apply in addition to the requirements of
this chapter and shall prevail over any conflicting provision of this chapter.
Sec 152-15-7 Special Regulations
   (a)   Increased Height:
Notwithstanding the height limitations shown in section
152-15-4,
table 152-15-2 of this chapter a greater building height may be allowed in a
commercial zone for a commercial use pursuant to a conditional use permit.
   (b)   Use Within An Enclosed Building:
Each use specified in section
152-15-3,
table 152-15-1 of this chapter shall be conducted completely within a
completely enclosed building, except for the parking of motor vehicles and
services to persons therein.
   (c)   Dust, Odor, Smoke, Noise, And Vibration:
Each use specified in section
152-15-3,
table 152-15-1 of this chapter shall be free from objectionable dust, odor,
smoke, noise, and vibration.
   (d)   Highway Commercial Zone Location:
For property abutting SR-59, the Highway Commercial Zone shall begin at the
highway right-of- way line and shall extend a distance of five hundred feet
(500') from the State highway right-of- way line, except as otherwise depicted
by the zoning map.
   (e)   Vendor Carts:
Vendor carts are subject to the following definitions, rules and limitations:
      (1)   Definitions:
         a.   LONG TERM VENDOR CART: A vendor cart that is not removed from its
site and is properly stored when not in use.
            NEXT QUALIFIED APPLICANT: An applicant for a vendor cart business
license who has submitted a complete application for a specific location and
paid the applicable application fee based on the date application fee was paid
and determination of a complete application made, whichever shall be last.
            SEASONAL VENDOR CART: A vendor cart meeting all the requirements of
this section which is permitted for a specific season, either summer or winter.
Summer seasonal permits allow operation from April 1 to September 30 and winter
seasonal permits allow operation from October 1 to March 31. The holder of a
seasonal vendor cart permit may renew up to thirty (30) days prior to the first
date of the season if the location where the permit is sought is not occupied
by another seasonal vendor cart and the seasonal vendor cart business license
has been renewed.
            SHORT TERM VENDOR CART: A vendor cart that is removed from its site
and properly stored out of public view each day.
            SPECIAL EVENT CART: A wagon, cart, booth, or similar temporary
structure designed and used for the sale of goods and services at a special
event for which the City has issued a special event permit pursuant to title
11, chapter 112 of this Code.
            VENDOR CART: A temporary structure in the form of a wagon, cart
trailer, truck, or other mobile structure designed and intended for the sale of
goods and services. The term "vendor cart" includes a long term vendor cart, or
a short term vendor cart.
      (2)   Rules And Limitations:
         a.   Vendor Cart Locations:
Long term vendor carts and short term vendor carts are permitted only in those
land use zones where commercial uses are an allowed or conditional land use.
Special event vendor carts are permitted anywhere within the City if authorized
by a special event permit issued by the City or at a special event sponsored by
the City.
         b.   Vendor Cart General Design Standards: Long term vendor carts and
short term vendor carts are subject to the following general design standards:
            1.   All long term vendor carts and short term vendor carts must be
constructed of a professional quality for use as a vending cart.
            2.   All long term vendor carts and short term vendor carts must be
in good working condition, with no broken or rusty parts. All exterior
materials must be kept clean and in neat appearance. Metal and/or wood may be
used as exterior finishes. Metal surfaces shall be suitable for long term use
in an exterior location. Metal vendor cart exteriors must have finished edges,
concealed seams, and overlapping joints. Wood details and finishes must be
suitable for long wear in an exterior location and finished in a craftsmanlike
manner.
            3.   Siding and other compatible materials used on a vendor cart
must wrap all sides of the vendor cart.
            4.   Long term vendor carts must be windproof, waterproof and
locked when not in operation.
            5.   Vendor cart must be on wheels.
         c.   Additional Requirements For All Vendor Carts:
            1.   Vendor carts must be located on private property except food
vendors granted space by permit at city owned recreation sites if such permit
is established.
            2.   Vendor cart owners shall improve the immediate area around
their business through the installation of pavers, landscaping, awnings, and/or
short term decks to help the vendor carts to look less temporary, and to blend
into the surrounding character.
            3.   When a vendor cart is independently connected to the city's
culinary or irrigation water systems, power system or the sewer system, all
applicable fees must be paid.
            4.   Generators are prohibited for vendor carts, except for use as
an emergency source of power when the permanent source of power to the vendor
cart is temporarily unavailable.
            5.   Property owner and/or vendor shall maintain the premises and
the cart in a clean, safe, and orderly condition at all times.
            6.   Operators of vendor carts must obtain and maintain in full
force and effect throughout the permit a valid city of Hildale business
license.
            7.   Customer seating for a vendor cart is limited to a maximum of
either four
      (4)   seats or one picnic table not to exceed eight feet (8') in length
or diameter. Additionally, vendor carts may have one condiment table.
            8.   The operator of a vendor cart shall comply with all applicable
health regulations.
            9.   All storage boxes, cartons, and coolers used in connection
with the operation of a vendor cart shall be hidden from public view.
            10.   Short term vendor carts must be removed from the site and
properly stored out of public view each day.
            11.   Umbrellas or shade structures may be used on a vendor cart.
Tents on or at vendor carts are prohibited.
            12.   All signage must be attached to a vendor cart. Freestanding
signage on or for a short term vendor cart is prohibited except for one two
foot by three foot (2' x 3') A-frame sign that may be displayed when the vendor
cart is in operation. Said sign may not be located on a public sidewalk.
            13.   A vendor cart site must not create a public safety hazard.
Accordingly, no aboveground pipes are permitted. Extension cords may be used
only if the cord is located outside an area where the public has access.
            14.   Vendor carts must comply with regulations for grease traps
and waste disposal must be at an approved facility.
         d.   Special Event Carts:
Special event carts may be approved only in connection with and pursuant to the
procedures for the review and approval of an event permit issued by the city
pursuant to title 11, chapter 112 of this code or at a special event sponsored
by the city or at an event held at Maxwell Park. Special event carts are
subject to the applicable terms and conditions of the event permit. The
provisions of this chapter do not apply to special event vendor carts.
         e.   Limitation On Number Of Vendor Cart Permits:
            1.   The total number of vendor carts permits that may be issued by
the city under this chapter are seven (7) for all areas of the city, limited to
four (4) year round permits and three (3) seasonal permits for each season. Two
(2) additional full time permits may be issued in the gateway industrial area.
            2.   The limitations of subsection E2e(1) of this section do not
require the closure or removal of any vendor cart operating within the city as
of the effective date of this section, pursuant to a valid business license.
            3.   If the holder of a vendor cart business license is not
operating the vendor cart at the licensed location such that the vendor cart is
not open for business for at least fifty percent (50%) of the normal operating
hours for a continuous period of ninety (90) days, the license shall be revoked
and the next qualified applicant for a vendor cart business license shall be
issued a permit. Use of the cart at special events does not constitute
operation of a vendor cart.
            4.   If the total number of vendor carts permitted by the city ever
drops below the cap number established in subsection E2e(1) of this section,
the zoning administrator shall authorize a new vendor cart permit submitted by
the next qualified applicant to be processed. A qualified applicant must have:
a) submitted a completed application; and b) paid the required application fee.
If the next qualified applicant is not issued a business license within thirty
(30) days of notice they are eligible for a vendor cart permit, the applicant
will be moved to the bottom of the list and the next qualified applicant
notified.
   (f)   Right To Continue:
On the effective date of this section, all vendor carts for which a valid
business license exists may continue to be operated under the terms and
conditions of their existing approved site plan and business license until the
first to occur of:
      (1)   the business license is revoked by city in accordance with its
procedures;
      (2)   the business license is voluntarily surrendered or expires;
      (3)   the lease on the property is not renewed by the landowner; or
      (4)   the vendor cart is otherwise required to be closed or removed for
any lawful reason. Upon the occurrence of any event described in the preceding
section, the owner or operator of the vendor cart that was previously permitted
must obtain a new approval and in connection therewith must be brought into
compliance with the requirements of this section.
   (g)   Conditions Of Approval:
The zoning administrator may impose reasonable conditions when approving a
vendor cart permit under this section. Such conditions may include, if
appropriate, the requirement that the permittee provide a monetary guarantee to
the city, in a form acceptable to the city attorney, ensuring the complete
removal of the vendor cart, site cleanup, and site revegetation, when the
vendor cart license expires without being renewed, or is revoked.
CHAPTER 16 BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
Sec
152-16-1 Purpose
Sec
152-16-2 Scope
Sec
152-16-3 Uses Allowed In Business And Industrial Zones
Sec
152-16-4 Development Standards In Commercial Zones
Sec
152-16-5 Regulations Of General Applicability
Sec
152-16-6 Regulations For Specific Uses
Sec
152-16-7 Special Regulations
Sec 152-16-1 Purpose
See section
152-11-2 of this chapter.
Sec 152-16-2 Scope
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any real property located in a
business or industrial zone as shown on the official zoning map. No building,
structure or real property shall be used and no building or structure shall be
hereafter erected, structurally or substantially altered, or enlarged except as
set forth in this chapter. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit
or limit other applicable provisions of this chapter, this code, or other laws.
Sec 152-16-3 Uses Allowed In Business And Industrial Zones
   (a)   Permitted And Conditional Uses:
Permitted and conditional uses allowed within business and industrial zones
shall be as set forth in
table 152-16-1 of this section. Permitted and conditional uses are indicated by
a "P" or "C", respectively, in the appropriate column. Uses not permitted are
indicated by "N". Any use not shown on
table 152-16-1 of this section shall be prohibited unless the zoning
administrator determines the use is substantially the same as a permitted or
conditional use as provided in subsection
152-7-18E4 of this chapter.
TABLE 152-16-1
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
  Zones
  BMP PO M-1 M-2
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
                                                                     Zones
                                                                     BMP PO M- M-
                                                                            1  2
Agricultural uses:
 Accessory building                                                  P   P  P  P
 Agricultural business                                               N   N  N  N
 Agricultural industry                                               N   N  P  N
 Agriculture                                                         N   N  N  N
 Agriculture residential                                             N   N  N  N
 Animal specialties                                                  N   N  P  N
 Animals and fowl for recreation and family food production          N   N  N  N
 Stable, private                                                     N   N  N  N
Residential uses:
 Accessory building                                                  P   P  P  P
 Assisted living facility                                            N   N  N  N
 Boarding house                                                      N   N  N  N
 Dwelling, earth sheltered                                           N   N  N  N
 Dwelling, multiple-family                                           N   N  N  N
 Dwelling, single-family                                             N   N  N  N
 Dwelling,   single-family   with   accessory apartment     N   N  N  N
 Dwelling, two-family                                                N   N  N  N
 Guesthouse                                                          N   N  N  N
 Manufactured and mobile home park                                   N   N  N  N
 Manufactured and mobile home subdivision                            N   N  N  N
 Manufactured home                                                   N   N  N  N
 Protective housing facility                                         N   N  N  N
 Rehabilitation/treatment facility                                   P   P  P  P
 Residential facility for elderly persons1                           P   P  N  N
 Residential   facility   for   persons   with   a disPbilNtyN  N
 Residential facility for troubled youth                             N   N  P  N
 Transitional housing facility                                       N   N  P  N
Public and civic uses:
 Airport                                                             N   N  N  N
 Auditorium or stadium                                               N   N  N  N
 Bus terminal                                                        P   N  N  N
 Cemetery                                                            N   N  N  N
 Church or place of worship                                          P   P  N  N
 Club or service organization                                        P   P  N  N
 College or university                                               P   P  N  N
 Convalescent care facility                                          P   N  N  N
 Correctional facility                                               N   N  N  N
 Cultural service                                                    P   P  N  N
 Golf course                                                         N   N  N  N
 Government service                                                  P   P  N  N
 Hospital                                                            P   P  N  N
 Operations center                                                   P   N  P  P
 Park                                                                P   P  P  P
 Post office                                                         P   P  P  P
 Protective service                                                  P   P  P  P
 Reception center                                                    P   P  N  N
 School, elementary, middle, or high                                 N   N  N  N
 School, vocational                                                  P   P  P  P
 Stable, public                                                      N   N  N  N
 Utility, major3                                                     N   N  P  P
 Utility, minor3                                                     P   P  P  P
Commercial uses:
 Agricultural sales and service                                      P   N  P  P
 Animal hospital                                                     P   P  N  N
 Bail bond service                                                   P   P  P  P
 Bank or financial institution                                       P   P  N  N
 Bed and breakfast, home                                             N   N  N  N
 Bed and breakfast inn                                               N   N  N  N
 Business equipment rental, services, and supplies                   P   N  P  N
 Club, private                                                       P   N  N  N
 Construction sales and service                                      P   N  P  P
 Convenience store                                                   P   N  P  P
 Family child daycare facility2                                      N   N  N  N
 Licensed family child care2                                         N   N  N  N
 Residential certificate child care2                                 N   N  N  N
 Child care center                                                   P   N  P  N
 Funeral home                                                        P   N  N  N
 Garden center                                                       P   N  N  N
 Gas and fuel, storage and sales                                     N   N  P  P
 Gasoline service station                                            P   N  P  P
 Hostel                                                              P   N  N  N
 Hotel                                                               P   N  N  N
 Kennel, commercial                                                  P   P  P  P
 Kennel, residential                                                 N   N  N  N
 Laundry or dry cleaning, limited                                    P   N  N  N
 Liquor store                                                        P   P  P  P
 Media service                                                       P   P  P  P
 Medical or dental laboratory                                        P   P  P  P
 Medical service                                                     P   P  N  N
 Motel                                                               P   N  N  N
 Office, general                                                     P   P  N  N
 Parking garage, public                                              P   P  P  P
 Parking lot, public                                                 P   P  P  P
 Pawnshop                                                            P   N  N  N
 Personal care service                                               P   P  N  N
 Personal instruction service                                        P   P  N  N
 Printing and copying, limited                                       P   P  P  N
 Printing, general                                                   P   N  P  P
 Produce stand                                                       N   N  N  N
 Recreation and entertainment, indoor                                P   N  N  N
 Recreation and entertainment, outdoor                               P   N  N  N
 Recreational vehicle park                                           N   N  N  N
 Repair service                                                      P   N  P  N
 Research service                                                    P   P  P  P
 Restaurant, fast food                                               P   N  N  N
 Restaurant, general                                                 P   P  N  N
 Retail, general                                                     P   N  N  N
 Secondhand store                                                    P   N  N  N
 Shopping center                                                     P   N  N  N
 Tattoo establishment                                                P   N  N  N
 Tavern                                                              P   P  P  P
 Temporary trailer                                                   P   P  P  P
 Transportation service                                              P   N  P  P
 Vehicle and equipment rental or sale                                P   N  N  N
 Vehicle and equipment repair, general                               P   N  P  P
 Vehicle repair, limited                                             P   N  P  P
 Vehicle wash                                                        P   N  P  P
 Veterinary service                                                  P   N  N  N
 Warehouse, self-service storage                                     P   N  P  P
                                                                     See section
                                                                     10-50-5,
 Wireless telecommunication facility                                 table 10-50-
                                                                     1 of this
                                                                     title
Industrial uses:
 Alcoholic   beverage   manufacturing   30,000 square feet aPd uNdeP  N
 Alcoholic   beverage   manufacturing   over 30,000 square fNet N  N  P
 Automobile wrecking yard                                            N   N  C  C
 Freight terminal                                                    N   N  P  P
 Heavy industry                                                      N   N  N  P
 Junk or salvage yard                                                N   N  N  N
 Laundry services                                                    P   N  P  P
 Manufacturing, general                                              P   N  P  P
 Manufacturing, limited                                              P   N  P  P
 Mineral extraction                                                  N   N  N  P
 Wholesale and warehousing, general                                  P   N  P  P
 Wholesale and warehousing, limited                                  P   N  P  P
   Notes:
      (1)   See chapter 46 of this chapter.
      (2)   See chapter 42 of this chapter.
      (3)   See chapter 45 of this chapter.
   (b)   Accessory Uses:
Permitted and conditional uses set forth in
table 152-16-1 of this section shall be deemed to include accessory uses and
activities that are necessarily and customarily associated with and incidental
and subordinate to such uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses shall be subject to the same regulations that apply
to permitted and conditional uses in the same zone except as otherwise
expressly provided in this chapter.
      (2)   No accessory use, building, or structure shall be allowed on a lot
unless a permitted or conditional use has been established.
      (3)   Accessory uses in business and industrial zones shall include, but
not be limited to, the following: Cafeterias, dining halls and similar food
service facilities when located within the main use and operated primarily for
the convenience of employees, residents, clients, or visitors to the main use.
Dwelling units for security and maintenance personnel. Garages and off street
parking areas, subject to applicable standards of chapter 34, "Off Street
Parking And Loading", of this chapter. Recreational areas and facilities for
the use of employees. Recycling collection stations. Temporary uses, subject to
applicable standards of chapter 48, "Temporary Uses", of this chapter.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2020-013 on 10/28/2020
Sec 152-16-4 Development Standards In Commercial Zones
Development standards within business and industrial zones shall be as set
forth in
table 152-16-2 of this section.
TABLE 152-16-2
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
Development Zones
Standard    BMP PO M-1 M-2
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS IN BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL ZONES
Development      Zones
Standard         BMP            PO             M-1            M-2
Lot standards:
Minimum lot area 2 acres        2 acres        No requirement No requirement
Minimum lot      No requirement No requirement No requirement No requirement
width
Building
standards:
Maximum height,  35 feet        35 feet        60 feet        60 feet
main building1
Maximum height,
accessory        20 feet        20 feet        No requirement No requirement
building
Setback
standards -
front yard:
                                               Building on lot abutting
All buildings2   20 feet        20 feet        nonindustrial zone: Same setback
                                               as abutting zone
                                               Otherwise: No requirement
Setback
standards - rear
yard:
Main building    New building on a lot abutting an existing agricultural or
                 residential use: 10 feet
Accessory        Otherwise: No requirement
building
Setback
standards -
interior side
yard:
Main building    New building on a lot abutting an existing agricultural or
                 residential use: 10 feet
Accessory        Otherwise: No requirement
building
Setback
standards -
street side
yard:
                 New building on a lot abutting an existing agricultural or
Main building    residential use: 10 feet
                 Otherwise: No requirement
Accessory        Not permitted  Not permitted  Not permitted  Not permitted
building
Notes:
   1.   Except as otherwise permitted by subsection
152-16-7A of this chapter.
   2.   Except as modified by the provisions of subsection
152-37-12F, "Setback Measurement", of this chapter.
Sec 152-16-5 Regulations Of General Applicability
The use and development of real property in business and industrial zones shall
conform to regulations of general applicability as set forth in the following
chapters of this chapter:
   (a)   Design and compatibility standards: See chapter 33 of this chapter.
   (b)   Landscaping and screening: See chapter 32 of this chapter.
   (c)   Motor vehicle access: See chapter 35 of this chapter.
   (d)   Natural resource inventory: See chapter 31 of this chapter.
   (e)   Off street parking: See chapter 34 of this chapter.
   (f)   Signs: See chapter 36 of this chapter.
   (g)   Supplementary development standards: See chapter 37 of this chapter.
Sec 152-16-6 Regulations For Specific Uses
To the extent that use and development of real property includes any matter
encompassed by a regulation for a specific use as set forth in Article VI of
this chapter, such regulation shall apply in addition to the requirements of
this chapter and shall prevail over any conflicting provision of this chapter.
Sec 152-16-7 Special Regulations
   (a)   Increased Height:
Notwithstanding the height limitations shown in section
152-16-4,
table 152-16-2 of this chapter a greater building height may be allowed in a
business or industrial zone pursuant to a conditional use permit. Provided,
however, that within one hundred feet (100') of the boundary of an adjoining
agricultural, residential, or commercial zone, no building shall exceed the
greater of:
      (1)   The height limit established by such zone; or
      (2)   The height limit permitted by a conditional use permit for a
building on an abutting lot within such zone.
   (b)   Processing Within An Enclosed Building:
All processing and/or assembly of goods shall be conducted completely within a
completely enclosed building, unless otherwise specified in section
152-16-3,
table 152-16-1 of this chapter.
   (c)   Outdoor Storage:
Outdoor storage of materials, or finished or semifinished goods shall be
located at least one hundred feet (100') from any residential zone boundary.
CHAPTER 17 OPEN SPACE AND PUBLIC FACILITY ZONES
Sec
152-17-1 Purpose
Sec
152-17-2 Scope
Sec
152-17-3 Uses Allowed In Open Space And Public Facility Zones
Sec
152-17-4 Development Standards
Sec
152-17-5 Regulations Of General Applicability
Sec
152-17-6 Regulations For Specific Uses
Sec
152-17-7 Special Regulations
Sec 152-17-1 Purpose
See section
152-11-2 of this chapter.
Sec 152-17-2 Scope
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any real property located in an
Open Space or Public Facility Zone as shown on the official zoning map. No
building, structure or real property shall be used and no building or structure
shall be hereafter erected, structurally or substantially altered, or enlarged
except as set forth in this chapter. Such requirements shall not be construed
to prohibit or limit other applicable provisions of this chapter, this Code, or
other laws.
Sec 152-17-3 Uses Allowed In Open Space And Public Facility Zones
   (a)   Permitted And Conditional Uses:
Permitted and conditional uses allowed within open space or public facility
zones shall be as set forth in
table 152-17-1 of this section. Permitted and conditional uses are indicated by
a "P" or "C", respectively, in the appropriate column. Uses not permitted are
indicated by "N". Any use not shown on
table 152-17-1 of this section shall be prohibited unless the Zoning
Administrator determines the use is substantially the same as a permitted or
conditional use as provided in subsection
152-7-18E4 of this chapter.
TABLE 152-17-1
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN OPEN SPACE AND PUBLIC FACILITY
ZONES
  Zones
  OS PF
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN OPEN SPACE AND PUBLIC FACILITY
ZONES
                                       Zones
                                       OS PF
Agricultural uses:
 Agricultural business                 P  N
 Animal specialties                    P  N
 Animals and fowl for recreation and   P  N
 family food production
 Stable, private                       P  N
Public and civic uses:
 Airport                               N  P
 Auditorium or stadium                 N  P
 Cemetery                              N  P
 Church or place of worship            N  N
 Club or service organization          N  N
 College or university                 N  P
 Cultural service                      N  P
 Golf course                           N  P
 Hospital                              N  P
 Park                                  P  P
 Post Office                           N  P
 Protective service                    N  P
 Reception center                      N  P
 School, elementary, middle, or high   N  P
 School, vocational                    N  P
 Utility, major2                       P  P
 Utility, minor2                       P  P
 Utility substation2                   P  P
Commercial uses:
 Animal hospital                       N  N
 Child care center1                    N  P
 Club, private                         N  N
 Licensed family child care1           N  N
 Parking lot, public                   N  P
 Recreation and entertainment, outdoor N  P
 Research service                      N  N
 Residential certificate child care1   N  N
 Temporary trailer                     N  P
 Wireless telecommunication facility   See section 10-50-5, table 10-50-1 of
                                       this title
Industrial uses:
 Mineral extraction                    N  N
Notes:
      (1)   See chapter 42 of this chapter.
      (2)   See chapter 45 of this chapter.
   (b)   Accessory Uses: Permitted and conditional uses set forth in
table 152-17-1 of this section shall be deemed to include accessory uses and
activities that are necessarily and customarily associated with and incidental
and subordinate to such uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses shall be subject to the same regulations that apply
to permitted and conditional uses in the same zone except as otherwise
expressly provided in this chapter.
      (2)   No accessory use, building, or structure shall be allowed on a lot
unless a permitted or conditional use has been established.
      (3)   Accessory uses in public facility zones shall include, but not be
limited to, the following: Cafeterias, dining halls and similar food service
facilities when located within the main use and operated primarily for the
convenience of employees, residents, clients, or visitors to the main use.
Garages and off street parking areas, subject to applicable standards of
chapter 34, "Off Street Parking And Loading", of this chapter. Gift shops,
newsstands, and similar commercial activities operated primarily for the
convenience of employees, residents, clients, or visitors to the main use.
Recreational areas and facilities. Refreshment stands and food and beverage
sales located in uses involving public assembly. Temporary uses, subject to
applicable standards of chapter 48, "Temporary Uses", of this chapter.
Sec 152-17-4 Development Standards
(Rep. by Ord. 2018-01, 2-15-2018)
Sec 152-17-5 Regulations Of General Applicability
The use and development of real property in Open Space and Public Facility
Zones shall conform to regulations of general applicability as set forth in the
following chapters of this chapter:
   (a)   Design and compatibility standards:
See chapter 33 of this chapter.
   (b)   Landscaping and screening:
See chapter 32 of this chapter.
   (c)   Motor vehicle access:
See chapter 35 of this chapter.
   (d)   Off street parking:
See chapter 34 of this chapter.
   (e)   Signs:
See chapter 36 of this chapter.
   (f)   Supplementary development standards: See chapter 37 of this chapter.
Sec 152-17-6 Regulations For Specific Uses
To the extent that use and development of real property includes any matter
encompassed by a regulation for a specific use as set forth in Article VI of
this chapter, such regulation shall apply in addition to the requirements of
this chapter and shall prevail over any conflicting provision of this chapter.
Sec 152-17-7 Special Regulations
   (a)   Increased Height: A greater building height may be allowed in Open
Space or Public Facility Zones pursuant to a conditional use permit.
CHAPTER 21 AGRICULTURE PROTECTION OVERLAY ZONE
Sec
152-21-1 Purpose; Established
Sec
152-21-2 Definitions
Sec
152-21-3 Proposal For Creation Of Agricultural Protection Area
Sec
152-21-4 Planning Commission Review Of Proposal
Sec
152-21-5 City Council Review And Action
Sec
152-21-6 Criteria In Evaluating Proposals
Sec
152-21-7 Adding, Removing Land From Area
Sec
152-21-8 Review Of Areas
Sec
152-21-9 Protection Of Land
Sec 152-21-1 Purpose; Established
   (a)   To protect and preserve the existing agricultural areas within the
city from the encroachment of development, and to allow the ongoing
agricultural operations to proceed without unreasonable restriction unless
there is a direct relationship to public health or safety.
   (b)   An agriculture protection overlay zone is established which shall be
an overlay zone of the zoning classification in this chapter.
Sec 152-21-2 Definitions
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth below and shall apply in addition to the terms defined in chapter 3
of this chapter:
ADVISORY BOARD: The agriculture protection area advisory board of Washington
County.
AGRICULTURE PRODUCTION: Production for commercial purposes of crops, livestock,
and livestock products, including processing or retail marketing of any crops,
livestock and livestock products when more than fifty percent (50%) of the
processed or merchandised products are produced by the farm operator.
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREAS OR OVERLAY ZONE: A geographic area created under
the authority of this chapter that is granted the specific legal protections
contained in this Chapter.
CROPS, LIVESTOCK AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS:
   (a)   Land devoted to the raising of useful plants and animals with a
reasonable expectation of profit, including forages and sod crops; grains and
feed crops; livestock; trees and fruits; or vegetables, nursery, floral and
ornamental stock; or
   (b)   Land devoted to and meeting the requirements and qualifications for
payments or other compensation under a crop-land retirement program with an
agency of the state or federal Government.
POLITICAL SUBDIVISION: A city, school district or special district.
PROPOSED SPONSORS: The owners of land in agricultural production who are
sponsoring the proposal for creating an agricultural protection area.
STATE AGENCY: Each department, commission, board, council, agency, institution,
officer, corporation, fund, division, office, committee, authority, laboratory,
library, unit, bureau, panel or other administrative unit of the state.
Sec 152-21-3 Proposal For Creation Of Agricultural Protection Area
   (a)   Filing:
Any owner of land in agricultural production may file a proposal for creation
of an agricultural protection area with the planning commission.
   (b)   Content:
The proposal shall identify:
      (1)   The land in agricultural production that the proposal sponsors wish
to become part of an agriculture protection area;
      (2)   Any limits on the types of agriculture production to be allowed
within the agriculture protection area; and
      (3)   For each parcel of land:
         a.   The owners of the land contained within the parcel;
         b.   The tax parcel number or account number of each parcel; and
         c.   The number or account number of acres as listed on the parcel tax
records.
   (c)   Documents Required: The proposal shall include:
      (1)   A plat from the county recorder's office showing each parcel of
land with each outlined in color to identify proposed area.
      (2)   Application fee as outlined on the city fee schedule, available
from the city recorder/clerk.
   (d)   Minimum Acreage:
A minimum area of five (5) contiguous acres shall be included in an agriculture
protection area.
Sec 152-21-4 Planning Commission Review Of Proposal
   (a)   Required:
After fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice, the planning commission
shall refer the proposal and any proposed modifications and objections to the
proposal to the advisory board for their review, comments and recommendations.
   (b)   Report;
Recommendation:
      (1)   Within forty five (45) days after receipt of the proposal, the
planning commission shall submit a report to the city council that:
         a.   Identifies the effect of the creation of the proposed area on the
city's planning policies and objectives;
         b.   Analyzes and evaluates the proposal by applying the criteria
contained in section
152-21-6 of this chapter;
         c.   Recommends any modifications to the proposal;
         d.   Recommends any limits on the types of agriculture production to
be allowed in the agriculture protection area;
         e.   Analyzes and evaluates any objections to the proposal; and
         f.   Includes a recommendation to the city council to either accept,
accept and modify, or reject the proposal.
      (2)   Within forty five (45) days after receipt of the proposal, the
advisory board shall submit a report to the city council that:
         a.   Recommends any modifications to the proposal;
         b.   Recommends any limits on the types of agriculture production to
be allowed in the agriculture protection area;
         c.   Analyzes and evaluates the proposal by applying the criteria
contained in section
152-21-6 of this chapter;
         d.   Analyzes and evaluates any objections to the proposal; and
         e.   Includes a recommendation to the city council to either accept,
accept and modify, or reject the proposal.
   (c)   Failure To Submit Report:
If the planning commission or the advisory board fail to submit a report within
forty five (45) days, the city council shall consider their failure to report
as an approval of the proposal.
Sec 152-21-5 City Council Review And Action
   (a)   Procedure:
City council review and procedures are the same as for a zone change as set
forth in section
152-7-7 of this chapter.
   (b)   Filing Executed Documents:
In order to give constructive notice of the existence of an agriculture
protection area to all persons who have, may acquire or may seek to acquire an
interest in land in or adjacent to an agriculture protection area, within ten
(10) days of the creation of an agriculture protection area, the city council
shall file an executed document containing a legal description of the
agriculture protection area with the county recorder of deeds and the planning
commission.
   (c)   Written Notice:
Within ten (10) days of the recording of an agriculture protection area, the
city council shall send written notification to the commissioner of agriculture
that the agriculture protection area has been created.
The following shall be included in the notification:
      (1)   The number of landowners owning land within the agriculture
protection area;
      (2)   The total acreage of the area;
      (3)   The date of approval of the area; and
      (4)   The date of recording.
Sec 152-21-6 Criteria In Evaluating Proposals
In evaluating a proposal and in determining whether or not to create or
recommend the creation of an agriculture protection area, the advisory board,
planning commission and city council shall apply the following criteria:
   (a)   Use Of Land:
Whether or not the land is currently being used for agriculture production;
   (b)   Zoning:
Whether or not the land is zoned for agricultural use;
   (c)   Viability:
Whether or not the land is viable for agricultural production;
   (d)   Improvements:
The extent and nature of existing or proposed farm improvements; and
   (e)   Trends Anticipated:
Anticipated trends in agricultural and technological conditions.
Sec 152-21-7 Adding, Removing Land From Area
   (a)   Adding:
      (1)   Any owner may add land to an existing agriculture protection area
by:
         a.   Filing a proposal with the city council; and
         b.   Obtaining approval of the city council for the addition of the
land to the area.
      (2)   The city council shall comply with the provisions for creating an
agriculture protection area in determining whether or not to accept the
proposal.
   (b)   Removal:
      (1)   Any owner may remove land from an agriculture protection area by
filing a petition for removal of the land from the agriculture protection area
with the city council;
      (2)   The city council shall:
         a.   Grant the petition for removal of land from an agriculture
protection area even if removal of the land would result in an agriculture
protection area of less than the number of acres established by this chapter as
the minimum; and
         b.   In order to give constructive notice of the removal to all
persons who have, may acquire or may seek to acquire an interest in land in or
adjacent to the agriculture protection area and the land removed from the
agriculture protection area, file a legal description of the revised
agriculture protection area with the county recorder of deeds and the planning
commission.
         c.   The remaining land in the agriculture protection area is still an
agriculture protection area.
Sec 152-21-8 Review Of Areas
   (a)   Required:
The city council shall review any agriculture protection area created under the
authority of this chapter in the twentieth calendar year after it is created.
   (b)   Action:
      (1)   In the twentieth year, the city council shall:
         a.   Request the planning commission and advisory board to submit
recommendations about whether the agriculture protection area should be
continued, modified or terminated;
         b.   At least one hundred twenty (120) days before the end of the
calendar year, hold a public hearing to discuss whether the agriculture
protection area should be continued, modified or terminated;
         c.   Give notice of the hearing using the same procedures required by
subsection
152-21-5B of this chapter; and
         d.   After the public hearing, continue, modify or terminate the
agriculture protection area.
      (2)   If the city council modifies or terminates the agriculture
protection area, it shall file an executed document containing the legal
description of the agriculture protection area with the county recorder of
deeds.
   (c)   Failure To Act:
If the city council fails to affirmatively continue, modify or terminate the
agriculture protection area in the twentieth calendar year, the agriculture
protection area is considered to be reauthorized for another twenty (20) years.
Sec 152-21-9 Protection Of Land
   (a)   Property Taxes:
Any land placed in an agriculture protection area shall be subject to the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated, title 59, chapter 2, part 5, farmland
assessment act.
   (b)   Limitations On Local Regulations:
      (1)   It shall be the policy of the city to encourage the continuity,
development and viability of agriculture within the area by not enacting local
laws, ordinances or regulations that would unreasonably restrict farm
structures or farm practices within the area unless those laws, ordinances or
regulations bear a direct relationship to public health or safety.
      (2)   The city council may not change the zoning designation of land
within an agriculture protection area unless it receives written approval for
the change from all the landowners within the agriculture protection area.
   (c)   Nuisances:
      (1)   To the extent deemed necessary or desirable, the city council shall
ensure that any of its laws or ordinances that define or prohibit a public
nuisance exclude from the definition or prohibition any agricultural activity
or operation within an agriculture protection area conducted using normal
farming methods unless that activity or operation bears a direct relationship
to public health or safety.
      (2)   In a civil action for nuisance involving agriculture activities, it
is a complete defense if:
         a.   The agriculture activities were conducted within an agriculture
protection area; and
         b.   The agriculture activities were not in violation of any federal,
state or local law or regulation relating to the alleged nuisance, and were
conducted according to sound agricultural practices.
      (3)   For each new subdivision development located in whole or in part
within three hundred feet (300') of the boundary of an agriculture protection
area, the owner of the development shall provide notice on any plat filed with
the county recorder the following notice: Agriculture Protection Area
This property is located in the vicinity of an established agriculture
protection area in which normal agricultural uses and activities have been
afforded the highest priority use status. It can be anticipated that such
agricultural uses and activities may now or in the future be conducted on
property included in the agriculture protection area. The use and enjoyment of
this property is expressly conditioned on acceptance of annoyance or
inconvenience which may result from such normal agricultural uses and
activities.
   (d)   Eminent Domain Restrictions:
      (1)   Approval Required:
A political subdivision having or exercising eminent domain powers may not
condemn for any purpose any land within an agriculture protection area that is
being used for agriculture production unless it has obtained approval of the
city council and the advisory board according to the procedures and
requirements of this section.
      (2)   Notice:
Any condemner wishing to condemn property within an agriculture protection area
shall file a notice of condemnation with the city council and the agriculture
protection area's advisory board at least thirty (30) days before filing an
eminent domain complaint.
      (3)   Actions Required Of Council And Board:
The city council and the advisory board shall:
         a.   Hold a joint public hearing on the proposed condemnation;
         b.   Publish notice of the time, date, place and purpose of the public
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the city; and
         c.   Post notice of the time, date, place and purpose of the public
hearing in three (3) conspicuous public places within the city.
      (4)   Approval Conditions:
         a.   If the condemnation is for highway purposes or for the disposal
of solid or liquid waste materials, the city council and the advisory board may
approve the condemnation only if there is no reasonable and prudent alternative
to the use of the land within the agriculture protection area for the project.
         b.   If the condemnation is for any other purpose, the city council
and the advisory board may approve the condemnation only if:
            1.   The proposed condemnation would not have an unreasonably
adverse effect upon the preservation and enhancement of agriculture within the
agriculture protection area; or
            2.   There is no reasonable and prudent alternative to the use of
the land within the agriculture protection area for the project.
      (5)   Decision; Failure To Act:
         a.   Within sixty (60) days of receipt of the notice of condemnation,
the city council and the advisory board shall approve or reject the proposed
condemnation.
         b.   If the city council and the advisory board fail to act within the
sixty (60) days, the condemnation shall be considered approved.
      (6)   Violations Prohibited; Action To Enjoin:
The city council or the advisory board may request the city attorney to bring
an action to enjoin any condemner from violating any provisions of this
subsection.
   (e)   Restrictions On State Development Projects:
      (1)   Each state agency that plans any development project that might
affect land within an agriculture protection area shall submit its development
plan to the Utah commissioner of agriculture and the agriculture protection
area's advisory board for their review.
      (2)   The Utah commissioner of agriculture and the agriculture protection
area's advisory board shall:
         a.   Review the state agency's proposed development plan; and
         b.   Recommend any modifications to the development project that would
protect the integrity of the agriculture protection area or that would protect
the agriculture protection area from nonfarm encroachment.
CHAPTER 23 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY ZONE
Sec
152-23-1 Purpose And Objectives
Sec
152-23-2 Scope
Sec
152-23-3 Minimum Acreage
Sec
152-23-4 Use In Combination With Underlying Zone
Sec
152-23-5 Uses Allowed
Sec
152-23-6 Variations From Development Standards
Sec
152-23-7 Approval Of Planned Development Overlay Zone
Sec
152-23-8 Density
Sec
152-23-9 Development Standards
Sec
152-23-10 Protection Of Common Areas
Sec 152-23-1 Purpose And Objectives
   (a)   Purpose:
The planned development overlay zone is a floating zone that is unmapped until
applied to specific property in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
It is intended to allow development design flexibility, integration of mutually
compatible uses, consolidation of open spaces, clustering of dwelling units,
and optimum land planning with greater efficiency, convenience and amenity than
is possible under conventional zone regulations. To achieve these purposes, a
planned development should be planned as one complex land use with a common
architectural design theme that provides variety with architectural
compatibility, rather than as an aggregation of individual, unrelated buildings
located on separate, unrelated lots.
   (b)   Objectives:
Objectives to be accomplished under the provisions of this chapter include:
      (1)   Create more attractive and desirable environments within the city.
      (2)   Allow a variety of housing types in one development project.
      (3)   Encourage variety in physical development patterns, including
flexibility in building location.
      (4)   Preserve open space for visual enjoyment and recreational use.
      (5)   Encourage development on a large scale, since the purposes of a
planned development can be best realized in large scale developments.
Sec 152-23-2 Scope
The requirements of this chapter shall apply to any planned development within
the city. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or limit other
applicable provisions of this chapter, this code, or other laws except to the
extent such provisions are altered by the requirements of this chapter.
Sec 152-23-3 Minimum Acreage
The planned development overlay zone shall be applied only to projects
consisting of at least one and one half acres.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2019-008 on 6/5/2019
Sec 152-23-4 Use In Combination With Underlying Zone
The planned development overlay zone may be used in combination with any zone
set forth in chapters 12, 13, and 14 of this chapter, subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (a)   Provisions Supplementary:
The provisions of the planned development overlay zone shall be supplementary
to the provisions of the zone with which it is combined and shall not be
applied to any land area as an independent zone.
   (b)   Zone Designation:
The planned development overlay zone designation shall be shown on the official
zoning map in parentheses as a suffix to the zone designation with which it is
combined. For example, if the planned development overlay zone were being
combined with the residential agriculture (RA-1) zone, it would be designated
on the official zoning map as "RA-1 (PD)".
Sec 152-23-5 Uses Allowed
Uses allowed in a planned development overlay zone shall be limited to those
permitted or conditional uses set forth in the zone with which the planned
development overlay zone is combined and the uses set forth in this section.
Any conditional use shall be subject to the issuance of a conditional use
permit as set forth in this chapter.
   (a)   Density:
Multiple-family dwellings shall be a permitted use in a planned development
overlay zone provided total density in a particular planned development project
does not exceed the greater of:
      (1)   The density permitted by the underlying zone in which the project
is situated; or
      (2)   The density authorized by a density bonus pursuant to subsection
152-23-8C of this chapter.
   (b)   Accessory Uses:
Accessory uses located in a common main building may be permitted. Accessory
uses may include recreational facilities and structures, daycare centers,
personal services, and RV parking.
   (c)   Commercial Uses:
Any commercial use shown on
table 152-15-1 in subsection
152-15-3A of this chapter may be permitted within a planned unit development
provided such use is:
      (1)   Specifically authorized as part of a site plan approved pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter; and
      (2)   Designed as an integral element of the planned development,
including building and landscaping design which is consistent with design
elements of the development.
Sec 152-23-6 Variations From Development Standards
   (a)   Variations from applicable development standards of an underlying zone
and chapter 39 of this chapter may be approved as part of a preliminary site
plan for a planned development pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   A variation from the yard requirements set forth in subsection
152-23-9D of this chapter may be approved if the city council, after receiving
a recommendation from the planning commission, finds such variation meets the
approval criteria set forth in subsection
152-23-7B of this chapter and as set forth below. Any such variation shall be
explicitly noted in the approval of a preliminary site plan and shall be shown
on the approved plan.
      (1)   Variations from the development standards set forth in this chapter
are intended to be rare and shall be approved by at least four (4) members of
the city council.
      (2)   The applicant shall bear the burden of persuasion with regard to
any request for a variation under this subsection B. Such burden shall include
demonstrating that:
         a.   A proposed project which includes a variation is the result of a
substantial amount of advanced planning;
         b.   Any adverse conditions which may result from the variation will
be mitigated; and
         c.   The variation will result in a substantial benefit not only to
persons who will live or work within the project, but also to the city and its
citizens generally.
Sec 152-23-7 Approval Of Planned Development Overlay Zone
   (a)   Approval Procedure: Land shall be placed in a planned development
overlay zone pursuant to a zoning map amendment as set forth in section
152-7-7 of this chapter. The following shall be submitted in conjunction with
an application for a zoning map amendment:
      (1)   A natural resource inventory as required by chapter 31 of this
chapter, and
      (2)   A preliminary site plan as provided in subsection
152-7-10D2 of this chapter.
   (b)   Approval Criteria:
Submittal of an application for a planned development overlay zone does not
guarantee that the zone or a preliminary site plan will be approved. A zoning
map amendment and preliminary site plan may be approved only if the city
council, after receiving a recommendation from the planning commission, finds:
      (1)   The proposed planned development overlay zone and associated
preliminary site plan:
         a.   Does not conflict with any applicable policy of the Hildale City
general plan;
         b.   Meets the spirit and intent of this chapter as set forth in
section
152-23-1 of this chapter;
         c.   Will allow integrated planning and design of the property and, on
the whole, better development than would be possible under conventional land
use regulations;
         d.   Meets the use limitations and other requirements of the zone with
which the planned development overlay zone is combined, except as otherwise
allowed by this chapter;
         e.   Meets the density limitations of the underlying zone, unless a
density bonus is granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter; and
         f.   If a density bonus is authorized, provides superior site design
and increased amenities, as provided in subsection
152-23-8C of this chapter, which ameliorate the potential impact of increased
density; and
      (2)   The applicant has:
         a.   Sufficient control over the property to be developed to ensure
development will occur as approved;
         b.   The financial capability to carry out the planned development
project; and
         c.   The capability to start construction within one year of final
plan approval.
   (c)   Imposition Of Conditions:
In order to make findings necessary to approve a planned development overlay
zone, conditions of approval may be imposed on a preliminary site plan to
assure the planned development will:
      (1)   Accomplish the purpose of this chapter;
      (2)   Be developed as one integrated land use rather than as an
aggregation of individual and unrelated buildings and uses; and
      (3)   Meet the requirements of the zone in which the proposed development
is located except as such requirements are modified by this chapter and as
shown on an approved preliminary site plan for the planned development.
   (d)   Site Plan Approval:
Within twelve (12) months after approval of a planned development overlay zone
and a corresponding preliminary site plan, and before the issuance of any
building permit, an applicant shall obtain approval of a site plan pursuant to
section
152-7-10 of this chapter.
      (1)   A planned development may be constructed in phases as shown on an
approved preliminary site plan. In such case, a site plan shall be submitted
for each phase.
      (2)   At its discretion and for good cause, the planning commission may
extend for twelve (12) months for one time only the period for filing a site
plan, or in the case of a phased planned development, a site plan for the first
phase. If these time requirements are not met, the preliminary site plan
approval shall be deemed revoked and the property may be rezoned to remove the
planned development overlay zone.
   (e)   Subdivision Requirements:
An application for subdivision approval may proceed concurrently with an
application for a planned development. Compliance with the requirements of this
chapter does not exempt any applicant from meeting the requirements of chapter
39 of this chapter except as may be amended by the provisions of this chapter.
   (f)   Construction Limitations:
Upon approval of a site plan for a planned development, construction shall
proceed in accordance with approved plans and specifications, and in conformity
with any conditions associated with preliminary plan or site plan approval. No
permit shall be issued for any proposed building, structure or use within a
planned development unless such building, structure or use accords with the
approved preliminary plan and site plan and with any conditions imposed in
conjunction with such approvals.
   (g)   Amendments:
Amendments to approved plans and specifications shall be obtained by following
the procedure required for preliminary plan approval.
Sec 152-23-8 Density
   (a)   Base Density:
Base density for a planned development shall be determined as set forth in
subsection B of this section. Provided, however, that base density shall not
exceed the density permitted in the underlying zone in which the planned
development will be situated.
   (b)   Base Density Calculation:
Base density shall be determined by calculating the number of dwelling units
that could be developed on lots in a conventional subdivision under the
provisions of the underlying zone where the planned development will be located
(referred to as the "yield plan").
      (1)   The yield plan shall be prepared as a conceptual plan based on
requirements of the Land Use Code that pertain to a conventional subdivision
and shall reflect the dimensional (lot area, frontage, width, setbacks, etc.)
and other standards of the underlying zone in which the proposed planned
development will be located.
      (2)   The yield plan shall take into consideration the site's natural and
cultural features as shown on a natural resource inventory prepared for the
property and shall demonstrate that sensitive lands identified in the natural
resource inventory can be successfully included within open space areas or as
part of residential lots without disturbing the health or safety of present or
future city residents. At least one-half (1/2) of the minimum area required for
each lot shall be exclusive of wetlands, floodplains, and slopes exceeding
thirty percent (30%).
      (3)   The yield plan shall be drawn to scale, but need not be based on a
field survey. Each yield plan shall, however, exhibit a realistic layout
reflecting a development pattern that could reasonably be expected to be
implemented, taking into account the presence of wetlands, floodplains, steep
slopes, existing easements and other encumbrances on the property identified by
the natural resource inventory and the requirements of the Land Use Code, and
any other regulatory requirements applicable to the property.
   (c)   Density Bonus:
The city council, after receiving a recommendation from the planning
commission, may authorize a density bonus of up to twenty percent (20%) above
the base density for a planned development. The purpose of a density bonus is
to provide an incentive to an applicant to provide amenities that are not
required by the Land Use Codeor the applicable underlying zone, and which
otherwise would not be provided.
      (1)   The basis for granting a density bonus shall be included in the
findings required to approve a planned development set forth in subsection
152-23-7B of this chapter.
      (2)   A density bonus may be authorized based upon provision of one or
more of the following amenities. The maximum density bonus granted for any one
class of amenities shall not exceed the percentage indicated.
         a.   Enhanced overall design theme (up to 5 percent):
            1.   Landscaping is designed and installed along all streets of the
development according to a theme which provides overall design unity;
            2.   Theme lighting is used throughout the development for street
lighting, walkway lighting, parking areas, entrances, and building exteriors;
            3.   Perimeter fencing is used throughout the project that matches
building design, such as, masonry columns or piers using the same brick or
stone as the buildings; and
            4.   Special features such as fountains, streams, ponds,
sculptures, buildings or other elements which establish a strong design theme
for the development and are utilized in highly visible locations.
         b.   Improved building design (up to 5 percent):
            1.   Seventy five percent (75%) of the front exterior of each
dwelling, exclusive of windows or doors, consists of brick or stone;
            2.   Required parking for each unit is provided within a garage.
         c.   Improved energy efficiency (up to 5 percent):
            1.   Dwellings and main buildings have insulation greater than R-19
in walls and R-38 in ceilings; and
            2.   Dwellings are designed with an active or passive solar
feature, including, but not limited to, solar water heaters, Trombe walls,
earth insulation of building walls.
         d.   Parking upgrades (up to 5 percent):
            1.   Parking lots are screened from public view by means of
increased berming or landscaping around the parking lot perimeter;
            2.   Parking lots have landscaped islands beyond the minimum
required by this Land Use Code;
            3.   Additional and/or larger trees that will shade fifty percent
(50%) of the parking area upon tree maturation; and
            4.   Provision of screened recreational vehicle parking areas.
         e.   Provision of usable open space (up to 5 percent):
            1.   Open space is integrated into the entire development and is
connected to developed areas by a system of trails and walkways; and
            2.   Stormwater detention facilities are designed, landscaped, and
used for multiple purposes that are consistent with the overall design of the
planned development and which reduce the perception of the area as a stormwater
detention pond.
         f.   Provision of recreational facilities (up to 5 percent):
            1.   The planned development includes recreational amenities
primarily for the use by residents of the development, including swimming
pools, sports courts, spas, barbecue and picnic facilities;
            2.   Development of one or more common buildings used for meetings,
indoor recreation, daycare, or other common uses; and
            3.   Dedication and improvement of land for a publicly accessible
park or trail system, subject to acceptance by the city.
         g.   Increased landscaping (up to 5 percent):
            1.   Planting more than the minimum number of trees, shrubs, and
other landscaping required by this Land Use Code; and
            2.   Use of landscaping to soften the appearance of wood or masonry
fences and walls.
         h.   Utilization of recommended design and compatibility guidelines
set forth in chapter 33 of this Land Use Code (up to 5 percent).
Sec 152-23-9 Development Standards
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any planned
development and shall prevail over any contrary standard established in
chapters 12, 13, and 14 of this chapter.
   (a)   Residential Use Types:
Residential use types within a planned development shall be shown on an
approved site plan and may include one or more of the following:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling:
This dwelling type consists of a single-family dwelling located on a privately
owned lot which is not attached to another dwelling unit and has a private yard
on all four (4) sides of the dwelling.
      (2)   Single-family lot line dwelling:
This dwelling type consists of a single-family dwelling located on or within
less than five
feet (5') of a lot line and which is designated on an approved site plan as
such. Windows, doors, and other similar openings shall be prohibited in the
dwelling wall located on or adjacent to a lot line. When a single-family lot
line dwelling is placed on a lot line, an easement shall be provided which
allows the dwelling owner to enter the adjoining property in order to maintain
the dwelling.
      (3)   Twin home:
This dwelling type consists of a single-family dwelling which has one common
wall with another dwelling.
      (4)   Townhouse dwelling:
This dwelling type consists of three (3) or more dwelling units where each unit
has its own front and rear exterior access, no unit is located above or below
another unit, and each unit is separated from any other dwelling unit by one or
more common walls.
      (5)   Multiple dwelling:
This dwelling type consists of single-family dwelling units arranged in a
variety of configurations including back to back, side to side, or vertically.
However, no more than twelve (12) units shall be located in any single
building.
   (b)   Lot Area And Width:
A planned development shall not be subject to the lot width and lot area
requirements of the underlying zone in which the development is located. The
area and widths of lots shall be shown on an approved site plan.
   (c)   Lot And Dwelling Location Requirements:
Where possible, dwelling lots should be accessed from interior streets rather
than from roads bordering a planned development.
   (d)   Required Yards:
Minimum required yards shall be as follows:
      (1)   Front yard:
         a.   Dwellings: Nineteen feet (19') from back of curb.
         b.   Uncovered porches: Ten feet (10').
         c.   Garages with doors facing the street: At least twenty feet (20')
from back of sidewalk to accommodate cars parked in driveways.
      (2)   Side yard:
         a.   Single-family dwelling: Five feet (5').
         b.   Accessory buildings under five hundred (500) square feet: Three
feet (3') from a property line and ten feet (10') from a dwelling.
         c.   All other uses: Ten feet (10').
      (3)   Aggregate side yard (on the same lot):
         a.   Single-family dwelling: Fifteen feet (15').
         b.   All other uses: Thirty feet (30').
      (4)   Rear yard:
         a.   Single-family dwelling: Ten feet (10').
         b.   Garages and accessory buildings adjacent to alleys: Five feet
(5').
         c.   All other uses: Fifteen feet (15').
   (e)   Distance Between Buildings:
The minimum distance between main buildings shall be ten feet (10'). The
minimum distance between accessory buildings, such as garages, may be four feet
(4') if the accessory building is located at least ten feet (10') from a main
building.
   (f)   Tract Perimeter Setback And Buffer Requirements:
Structures shall be situated so as to maintain a minimum setback from any tract
property line equivalent to the front yard setback of the underlying zone.
   (g)   Walls And Fences:
Walls and fences may be required around the perimeter of a planned development
where the development abuts an adjacent zone.
   (h)   Height Of Buildings:
The maximum building height permitted in the underlying zone shall apply.
   (i)   Common Areas:
      (1)   Areas intended for public use shall be freely accessible from
streets and/or other common areas that have unrestricted entry. Areas intended
for restricted use shall be interspersed within residential development so as
to convey a sense of openness within the planned development. Residential
development may not totally exclude open space from fronting onto streets at
appropriate intervals.
      (2)   Common areas shall include all jointly used recreation areas and
related landscaping provided for the use and/or visual enjoyment of the
residents of the project. Common recreation areas shall be located and improved
so they may be readily accessed and used by residents of the dwelling units
they are intended to serve. Where necessary, walls or landscaping may be
required to protect the privacy of adjoining residents.
      (3)   Common areas may include:
         a.   Natural areas of undisturbed vegetation or areas replanted with
vegetation after development.
            1.   Use and maintenance shall be limited to removal of litter and
accumulated plant material.
            2.   Natural waterways and drainage channels shall be maintained as
free flowing and devoid of debris.
            3.   Stream channels shall conform to the city stormwater
management requirements and be maintained so as not to alter floodplain levels.
         b.   Agricultural uses where conditions are suitable for agricultural
production. Minimum areas for agricultural use designation shall be five (5)
acres.
         c.   Garden plots for use by residents.
         d.   Greenways, including pedestrianways, bike paths and equestrian
trails linking residential areas with other open space uses.
         e.   Recreation areas designed for specific recreational activities
such as children's play areas, playing fields, tennis courts, and similar
facilities.
         f.   Stormwater control and management areas that are designed,
landscaped, and used for multiple purposes that are consistent with the overall
design of the planned development and which reduce the perception of the area
as a stormwater detention pond.
         g.   Roads, buildings and other impervious surfaces as needed to
support common open space use. A determination as to whether the roads,
buildings or other impervious surfaces may function as common open space shall
be made in conjunction with approval of a preliminary site plan.
   (j)   Public And Community Facilities:
In addition to dwellings, a planned development may include areas for schools,
churches, public or private recreation buildings, and other similar community
facilities.
   (k)   Required Improvements:
      (1)   All streets shall be public streets and shall be established
according to public street standards adopted by the city.
      (2)   Curb and gutter shall be required along each side of all streets
except:
         a.   Where an approved stormwater management system eliminates the
necessity of the curb and gutter function, and
         b.   Where the roadway is approved for construction according to city
street standards.
      (3)   Sidewalks shall be installed along both sides of all streets except
where alternate pedestrianways are provided as part of an approved preliminary
site plan.
      (4)   Stormwater shall be controlled and managed according to a plan
approved by the city.
      (5)   Water and sewer systems shall be provided in accordance with
standards of chapter 39, "Subdivisions", of this chapter.
      (6)   Irrigation water, street signs, street lighting, fencing, and any
other required improvements shall be provided in accordance with city
standards.
      (7)   Other utilities and improvements shall be provided and installed in
accordance with city standards.
Sec 152-23-10 Protection Of Common Areas
   (a)   Maintenance Of Common Areas:
If common areas are provided within a planned development, adequate guarantees
shall be provided to protect such common areas from future development. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any structure in a planned
development until all required guarantees have been submitted to and approved
by the city. The developer of a planned development may elect any of the
following to preserve common areas:
      (1)   Fee Simple Donation:
A fee simple donation of any portion of common area land may be made to the
city so long as the city agrees to accept such donation. Upon receipt of such
donation the city shall impose a conservation easement on such land.
      (2)   Condominium Association:
Common areas and facilities may be controlled by a condominium association as
provided in the Utah condominium ownership act. All common area land and
facilities shall be held as a "common element".
      (3)   Homeowners' Association:
Common area land and facilities may be owned by a homeowners' association,
subject to applicable provisions of state law. The developer shall provide the
city with a description of the organization of the proposed association,
including its bylaws, and all documents governing ownership, maintenance, and
use restrictions for common facilities. The proposed association shall be
established by the owner or applicant and shall be operating (with a financial
subsidy from the developer if necessary) before the sale of any dwelling units
in the planned development. The association documents shall include the
following provisions:
         a.   Membership in the association shall be mandatory for each owner
and its grantees, successors and assigns.
         b.   Restrictions concerning common open space and/or facilities shall
run with the land and not for a period of years.
         c.   The association shall be responsible for the maintenance of all
common open space and/or facilities, liability insurance on all common open
spaces and/or facilities and paying general property taxes on all common open
spaces and/or facilities.
         d.   In the event the association does not maintain private common
open space areas and facilities as shown on an approved site plan, the city may
perform any required maintenance and may thereafter recover all costs incident
to performing the required maintenance from the association and/or each of its
members.
         e.   Members of the association shall pay their pro rata share of
costs of upkeep, maintenance, and operation of common open space and/or
facilities and/or improvements not dedicated to the city. The association
bylaws shall confer legal authority on the association to place a lien on the
real property of any member whose dues become delinquent. The bylaws shall also
provide that such delinquent dues and all accrued interest shall be paid before
the lien may be removed.
         f.   Written notice to all association members and to the city shall
be provided no less than sixty (60) days prior to any proposed transfer of any
common area land or facility, or the assumption of maintenance for common area
land or facility. No such transfer shall be effective unless approved by the
city, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld so long as it is
consistent with the provisions of this chapter and applicable law.
      (4)   Private Conservation Organization Or The City:
Fee simple title of common area land or conservation easements may be
transferred to a private nonprofit conservation organization or to the city
having jurisdiction where the land is located.
      (5)   Grant Of Easements To The City:
The city may, but shall not be required to, accept easements for public use of
any portion of common area land or facilities. Such land shall be subject to a
satisfactory maintenance agreement between the developer and the city.
      (6)   Noncommon Private Ownership:
Common area land and facilities may be located on one or more privately owned
lots of at least five (5) acres provided that the lot is restricted from future
development through a conservation easement, except uses allowed by an approved
site plan.
   (b)   Protective Covenants:
A declaration of building use restrictions (protective covenants) shall be
required for each planned development and phase thereof. The declaration in
original form bearing appropriate signatures and certifications shall be
submitted to the city for approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld. Such protective covenants shall include provisions that:
      (1)   An architectural control committee shall approve plans for all
buildings proposed for erection, placement, or alteration with the planned
development. The city may require that building permit applications show
evidence that the architectural control committee has approved each building
plan.
      (2)   No person, firm or entity shall change, modify or amend any of the
conditions of a recorded declaration of building use restrictions for a planned
development without first obtaining city approval. No change shall be approved
which would be contrary to the requirements of this chapter or an approved
preliminary plan.
CHAPTER 22 HISTORIC AREA OVERLAY ZONE (Reserved)
CHAPTER 24 SENSITIVE LANDS
Sec
152-24-1 Purpose
Sec
152-24-2 Sensitive Lands Defined
Sec
152-24-3 Determination Of Applicability
Sec
152-24-4 Procedure
Sec
152-24-5 Hillsides And Ridge Areas
Sec
152-24-6 Hillsides And Ridge Areas; General Development Standards
Sec
152-24-7 Special Area Development Standards
Sec
152-24-8 Grading, Drainage And Street Development Standards
Sec
152-24-9 APPENDIX: List Of Diagrams And Exhibits
Sec 152-24-1 Purpose
To further the peace, health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the
city, development within hillside areas must be accomplished in a manner that
minimizes potential flooding and erosion; provides protection from other
hazards; and encourages preservation of natural scenic beauty. The objectives
to be achieved include the following:
   (a)   Preserve unique geologic features, ridgelines and hillsides; and
maintain open space.
   (b)   Minimize the amount of grading and earthwork including street
excavation and site grading.
   (c)   Design and construct roads to minimize scars from cuts and fills and
avoid permanent scarring of hillsides.
   (d)   Stabilize steep hillsides, retain moisture, prevent erosion, and
preserve the beauty of unique landscape.
   (e)   Encourage street right of way, lot layout and structure designs that
minimize grading, excavation, and land disturbance generally.
   (f)   Encourage density transfers and cluster type development to minimize
disturbance of steep or sensitive terrain and important archaeological sites.
   (g)   Maintain scenic qualities by minimizing the visual impact of manmade
structures on the natural environment while allowing reasonable land use.
   (h)   Protect property rights through application of the "takings review"
procedure set forth in section
152-7-21 of this chapter.
Sec 152-24-2 Sensitive Lands Defined
For the purposes of this chapter, the following lands are "sensitive lands" and
shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter:
   (a)   Any area where there is a change in elevation which is equal to or
greater than ten percent (10%) (1 foot of vertical grade change for every 10
feet of horizontal run) for a distance of one hundred feet (100') or more, and
where said grade change covers an area of at least two (2) contiguous acres, or
an entire parcel if said parcel is less than two (2) acres. (See section
152-24-9, appendix diagram A, of this chapter.)
   (b)   Any area within one hundred feet (100') of the edge of a bluff. The
"edge of a bluff" means an area where there is a substantial abrupt change in
slope along the edge of a predominantly flat area of land. The slope of the
land below the abrupt edge typically has a grade that is near or exceeds thirty
percent (30%) or greater, and has a vertical elevation change of at least one
hundred feet (100') or greater, and lies within sensitive lands described in
subsection A of this section. (See section
152-24-9, appendix diagram B, of this chapter.)
   (c)   The boundaries of all areas within one hundred (100) vertical feet of
a ridgeline. A "ridgeline" means the junction of a rising steep slope on one
side and a descending slope that may be gentle or steep on the opposite side.
(See section
152-24-9, appendix diagram C, of this chapter.)
Sec 152-24-3 Determination Of Applicability
   (a)   Application Of Chapter:
The regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to land development which
includes any of the following:
      (1)   Any grading not associated with an approved project of the types
listed in subsection A3 of this section, when such grading will:
         a.   Disturb ten thousand (10,000) square feet or more of land area;
         b.   Create a cut or fill over three feet (3') in height; or
         c.   Create trenching over two hundred feet (200') in length.
      (2)   Any activity associated with a building permit, including grading
on a vacant lot or parcel not previously approved in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, but excluding any lot or parcel located in a
subdivision which received preliminary plat approval prior to the effective
date of this chapter.
      (3)   Any preliminary plat, planned development, site plan review,
conditional use permit and any other land use development permit authorized by
this Land Use Code.
      (4)   Hillside and ridge areas as set forth in subsection
152-24-5A of this chapter.
   (b)   Support Information:
An applicant may provide information to support a determination that the
project is not located on sensitive lands. Further on site investigation from
licensed professionals may be necessary to conclude whether or not a project is
located on sensitive lands.
   (c)   Zoning Administrator Determination:
If additional information is provided by an applicant, the zoning administrator
shall review the information and make a final determination whether or not the
project is subject to this chapter. The zoning administrator may also review
the project on site and may determine the project is not located on sensitive
lands and therefore not subject to this chapter. The decision of the zoning
administrator may be appealed in accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
   (d)   Other Applications:
In most instances the application required by this chapter is intended to be
submitted as a parallel application with another land use application such as a
preliminary plat under chapter 39, "Subdivisions", of this chapter and
processed simultaneously.
   (e)   Conflicting Provisions:
This chapter sets forth provisions that may affect other chapters of this
chapter and subdivision regulations set forth in chapter 39, "Subdivisions", of
this chapter. In the event of conflict, the more restrictive provisions shall
apply unless the less restrictive provision specifically provides otherwise.
   (f)   Zone Change Requests On Sensitive Lands:
Any application to change the zone designation on sensitive lands shall be
consistent with the Hildale general plan.
   (g)   Exceptions:
Exceptions to the provisions of this chapter may be granted by the city council
upon recommendation from the planning commission when:
      (1)   An alternative solution is proposed for the protection of the
sensitive land, based on sound and generally accepted engineering and land
development principles, and said alternative will result in equal or better
protection than development under the standards of this chapter; and is
consistent with the purposes of this chapter. The alternative shall also be
consistent with the general plan policies affecting sensitive lands;
      (2)   The size of the parcel existing before the effective date of the
adoption of this chapter is determined by the planning commission to be too
small to effectively apply the provisions of this chapter, and conditions can
be added to the project to minimize safety and general welfare concerns.
      (3)   The parcel is zoned for a nonresidential use and the planning
commission determines the site requires grading inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter, and conditions can be added to the project to
minimize safety and general welfare concerns.
Sec 152-24-4 Procedure
   (a)   Preliminary Activities:
The following requirements shall govern any preliminary activity such as
surveying, testing, or design related activities conducted on sensitive lands
subject to the provisions of this chapter for the purpose of exploring,
evaluating and/or establishing locations for any development, when such
preliminary activity may result in:
*Physical disturbance of the site of more than ten thousand (10,000) square
feet;
*Cuts or fills more than three feet (3') in depth; or
*Trenching more than two hundred feet (200') in length.
      (1)   Proposals for preliminary activities shall be submitted to the
zoning administrator for review and approval. Areas of proposed disturbance
shall be staked at the applicant's expense. Following staking, city
representatives shall have a reasonable opportunity to observe the staking.
Prior to granting a permit for preliminary activities, depending on the scale
of the activity, the zoning administrator may request written input from the
city engineer.
      (2)   After observation of a proposed development site, the zoning
administrator and the city engineer may authorize issuance of a permit for
preliminary activity. The permit shall be limited to the staked areas of
proposed disturbance and may include conditions for the following:
         a.   Implementation of adequate erosion control measures to protect
affected areas. Supplemental erosion control measures may also be required
between initial disturbance and either construction of permanent improvements,
or restoration of disturbed areas.
         b.   Limitations on cuts and fills to ensure that such cuts and fills
are made only where necessary to obtain access for required testing, and that
no safety problems will be created.
         c.   Requirements for restoration of disturbed areas where permanent
improvements are not constructed within a reasonable time following the
disturbance.
         d.   Any other reasonable condition necessary to avoid unnecessary
land disturbance and to protect adjoining property.
      (3)   Approvals from state or federal agencies that have jurisdiction
over development action on the site shall be required before permit issuance.
      (4)   Following the completion of any preliminary surveying, testing, or
design related activities in accordance with this subsection, any permanent
improvements subsequently developed or installed shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Development Project And Permit Review Authority:
The designated authority for the review and approval of projects subject to the
provisions of this chapter is as follows:
      (1)   Planning Commission Responsibility:
Any proposal for development other than building and grading permits for a
single-family dwelling shall be reviewed by the planning commission to
determine compliance with requirements of this chapter. A development plan
required for a project subject to chapter 39, "Subdivisions", of this chapter
shall be reviewed and approved by the planning commission at the preliminary
plat stage. Appeals of a planning commission decision on sensitive land issues
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
      (2)   Zoning Administrator Responsibility:
The zoning administrator is responsible for applying the provisions of this
chapter to single-family building permits and grading permits for single-family
dwellings on parcels not associated with a project previously approved by the
planning commission, and approving these permits when found to be consistent
with this chapter. Appeals of the zoning administrator's decision shall be
heard in accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
      (3)   City Council Responsibility:
Following receipt of a recommendation from the planning commission, or on
appeal, the city council shall hold a public hearing on the application.
Following a public hearing the city council may approve, approve with
conditions, or deny the proposed development plan.
      (4)   Final Approval:
Final approval shall require satisfactory compliance with all of the
requirements of the development plan and compliance with any companion
application conditions, i.e., preliminary plat, conditional use permit, zoning
map change, or other applicable requirements of this Land Use Code.
Sec 152-24-5 Hillsides And Ridge Areas
   (a)   Applicability:
The following procedures, submittal requirements and standards shall apply to
those projects located on lands identified as having at least one of the
following characteristics:
      (1)   Slopes over ten percent (10%) which are:
         a.   Identified through computer generated programs capable of
calculating slopes on topographic maps prepared with two foot (2') contour
interval accuracy; or
         b.   Established by profile lines drawn perpendicular to contour lines
at intervals no greater than one hundred fifty feet (150') apart, when the
slope, measured along any one hundred foot (100') segment of the profile line
is ten percent (10%) or greater. (See section
152-24-9, appendix diagram A, of this chapter.)
         c.   A slope shall be subject to this chapter only when a contiguous
identified area of ten percent (10%) or greater exceeds two (2) acres, or if
the site is less than one acre and the entire site is ten percent (10%) or
greater.
      (2)   Lands located within one hundred (100) vertical feet of a ridgeline
measured perpendicular from the ridgeline; and
      (3)   Lands located within one hundred feet (100') of an edge of a bluff.
   (b)   Conceptual Review:
At the option of the applicant, a concept plan may be submitted for review by
either city staff and/or the planning commission. The purpose of conceptual
review is to determine general consistency of the concept plan with this
chapter. While comments may be offered, no approval or denial action on the
concept plan will occur. The submittal of the concept plan should include the
information set forth in subsections B1 and B2 of this section. While not
mandatory, the submittal of all data listed will enable the staff and planning
commission to provide more thorough comments on the concept plan.
      (1)   A development plan map, drawn to a scale of one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100') or larger, which shows:
         a.   Two foot (2') contour intervals where slopes are zero to twenty
nine percent (0 - 29%); and five foot (5') contour intervals where slopes are
thirty percent (30%) or greater. Contour maps based on interpolation of maps
with larger contour intervals are not acceptable.
         b.   Natural slopes having grades of ten to twenty nine percent (10 -
29%) and natural slopes of thirty percent (30%) or greater shall be color
shaded clearly showing the difference between the two (2) categories.
         c.   Proposed development layout of lots, roads, schools, churches,
parks, open space, fire stations, commercial, cut or fill slopes or area of
disturbances, and any other proposed land use.
         d.   The grades of all existing or proposed roads.
      (2)   A report which indicates:
         a.   Total development area;
         b.   Total number of lots and dwelling units;
         c.   Proposed density, and/or density to be transferred, including
applicable bonus if any;
         d.   Percentage of each use, such as residential, commercial,
recreational, roads, etc.; and
         e.   The justification for the project design, which includes a
statement on how the project is consistent with the general plan and this
chapter, emphasizing how mitigation has been applied to reduce impact on
sensitive lands, or how sensitive lands have been avoided.
   (c)   Development Plan Submittal:
Following conceptual review, if such was requested by the applicant,
development plan approval shall be obtained. The following information and
reports along with any fee established by the city's schedule of fees, shall be
submitted as part of an application for development plan approval, and may be
in addition to information required for preliminary plat approval for a
subdivision:
      (1)   Development Plan:
A development plan which clearly shows:
         a.   Two foot (2') contours. The contour map shall be prepared and
certified by a licensed professional civil engineer or surveyor drawn at a
scale no smaller than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). Contour
maps based on interpolation of maps with larger contour intervals are not
acceptable.
         b.   Field surveys may be required of the applicant by the city to
verify the accuracy of the contour lines shown on the contour map.
         c.   Slopes having grades of ten to twenty nine percent (10 - 29%) and
natural slopes of thirty percent (30%) or greater shall be color shaded clearly
showing the difference between the two (2) categories. This contour information
shall either be computer based, or based on profile lines drawn perpendicular
to contours at intervals no less than one hundred fifty feet (150') apart, nor
greater than seventy five feet (75') from an existing or proposed property
line. Grades shall then be determined by calculating the slope along one
hundred foot (100') segments of the profile. (See section
152-24-9, appendix diagram A, of this chapter.)
         d.   To determine required minimum lot size (subsection
152-24-6B of this chapter) the average natural grade of each proposed parcel
shall be calculated, and indicated on the development plan. The average grade
shall be determined by calculating the grade of the natural slope between two
(2) opposing property lines, based on profiles taken perpendicular to the
contours, no less than one hundred fifty feet (150') apart, nor greater than
seventy five feet (75') from an existing or proposed property line. Small
washes or rock outcrops which have slopes distinctly different from surrounding
property may be excluded from slope determination, if the exclusion of such
small areas from slope determination will not be contrary to the overall
purpose of this chapter, as reasonably determined by the zoning administrator.
         e.   The proposed development layout of lots, roads, proposed road
grades, open space, area of disturbances, and existing native vegetation.
      (2)   Soils Investigation Report:
A soils investigation report which contains the following information:
         a.   Nature, distribution and classification (unified soil
classification) of existing soils to the appropriate depth of influence by the
proposed development, but not less than ten feet (10') deeper than the proposed
excavations or to bedrock.
         b.   Strength of existing soils, bearing capacity of supporting soils,
settlement estimates, collapse and shrink-swell characteristics, lateral
pressures and trench excavation limitations.
         c.   Groundwater levels that may affect development and estimated
elevation of high groundwater levels.
         d.   Appropriate laboratory testing for classification, consistency,
strength and consolidation conditions.
         e.   Slope stability.
         f.   A written statement by the geotechnical engineer, civil engineer,
or geologist preparing the soils report describing the general suitability of
the site for the owner's intended use. The report shall identify soil
constraints to development and shall state the professional opinion of the
author as to whether the proposed development plan will mitigate and/or
eliminate said constraints in a manner as to prevent hazard to life, hazard to
property, and adverse effects. If the soil report prepared for a subdivision
shows the presence of critically expansive soils, high water table, organic
soils, liquefiable soils, collapsible soils, or other soil problems which, if
not corrected, would lead to structural defects of the proposed buildings,
damage to the building from the water, or premature deterioration of the public
improvements, a soil investigation of each lot in the subdivision shall be
required by the city.
      (3)   Geotechnical Report:
A geotechnical and geological report subject to the standards and requirements
provided therein.
      (4)   Grading And Drainage Plan:
A grading and drainage plan report which includes stormwater management,
erosion, and grading plans describing the methods by which surface water,
natural drainage, erosion and sedimentation loss, and hydrologic hazards that
will be controlled during and after construction. The plan shall include the
following information:
         a.   The grading plan shall show present topography, including the
location and depth of all proposed fills and cuts of finished earth surfaces,
and/or use of retaining walls including height, using a contour interval of two
feet (2') when grades are zero to twenty nine percent (0 - 29%) and five foot
(5') contours when grades thirty percent (30%) and over.
         b.   The proposed area to be graded shall be clearly delineated on the
plan.
         c.   All calculations and proposed details used for design and
construction of debris basins, impoundments, diversions, dikes, waterways,
drains, culverts and other water management or soil erosion control measures
shall be shown. Drainage calculations shall determine runoff volume and peak
discharge using the "rational method", "SCS curve number method", or
appropriate equivalent. Data provided should include:
            1.   Rainfall depth, duration and distribution;
            2.   Watershed slope and drainage area delineation;
            3.   Land condition of watershed surface;
            4.   Topography of drainage area; and
            5.   Soil descriptions in watershed. Erosion calculations shall
employ predictions of soil loss sheet erosion using the universal soil loss
equation or equivalent. Data to be provided should include factors of:
               i.   Rainfall intensity and duration;
               ii.   Soil erodibility;
               iii.   Land slope and length of slope or topography;
               iv.   Condition of the soil surface and land management
practices in use; and
               v.   Surface cover, grass, pavements, etc.
      (5)   License Required:
All required reports shall be prepared by persons licensed to practice their
specialty or expertise in the state of Utah, if such license for practice is
required.
      (6)   Expert Advice:
In reviewing technical reports, calculations, and plans which may be required,
the city staff or city engineer may find it necessary to obtain the advice of
other experts regarding the adequacy of the reports submitted, and the validity
of the conclusions and recommendations reached in the reports. In such cases
the city staff or city engineer may consult with such experts, with the
reasonable costs of these consultations to be borne by the developer prior to
any public hearing. The planning commission or city council may require payment
by the developer of the costs of such consultations a condition of preliminary
or final plat approval.
Sec 152-24-6 Hillsides And Ridge Areas; General Development Standards
   (a)   Unbuildable Slopes:
Except as may be allowed by an exception as set forth in subsection
152-24-3G of this chapter, slopes of thirty percent (30%) or greater shall be
undisturbed. Such areas shall be designated as a nonbuildable area if part of a
residential lot, or at the election of the owner, these slopes may be offered
to the city or a duly created nonprofit conservation organization. Slopes of
thirty percent (30%) or greater, if included within a lot, shall not be
considered as lot area contributing to the minimum area required in subsection
B of this section. (See section
152-24-9, appendix diagram D, of this chapter.) Slopes thirty percent (30%) and
greater, but not exceeding forty percent (40%), may be used for street location
purposes when needed to provide two (2) ways of access to the project, when the
planning commission finds that:
      (1)   No significant harm will result and the roadway can be provided
without creating an obviously visible scar on the hillside;
      (2)   The proposed modification will result in a more functional and
improved plan; and
      (3)   The developer/builder agrees to comply with any conditions or
requirements imposed by the planning commission to mitigate any adverse effects
which may result from the proposed roadway.
   (b)   Subdivision Lot Size:
      (1)   The following minimum lot sizes shall be required unless the
existing base zone district requires a larger lot area. Lots with slopes
averaging less than ten percent (10%) shall be subject to the lot size
requirement of the base zone district.
Average Slope (Percent) Minimum Lot Area (Square Estimated Net Density1 (Units
                        Feet)                    Per Acre)
Average Slope (Percent) Minimum Lot Area (Square Estimated Net Density1 (Units
                        Feet)                    Per Acre)
10                      15,000                   2.32
11                      16,500                   2.11
12                      18,000                   1.94
13                      19,500                   1.79
14                      21,000                   1.66
15                      22,500                   1.55
16                      24,000                   1.45
17                      25,500                   1.37
18                      27,000                   1.29
19                      28,500                   1.22
20                      30,000                   1.16
21                      31,500                   1.11
22                      33,000                   1.06
23                      34,500                   1.01
24                      36,000                   0.97
25                      37,500                   0.93
26                      39,000                   0.89
27                      40,500                   0.86
28                      42,000                   0.83
29                      43,500                   0.8
Note:
   (1)   Based on the assumption that approximately 20 percent of the project
area will be streets, the net density shown expresses the estimated yield per
acre. As lots increase in size, the actual street percentage will typically
decline resulting in a slight increase in net density.
   (c)   Density Limitations:
      (1)   The maximum number of units allowed within a project site shall not
exceed the lesser of the following:
         a.   The maximum units allowed by the existing zone district on the
project site, plus any bonus allowed by subsection D of this section;
         b.   The maximum number of units resulting from the application of the
minimum lot size standards of subsection B of this section, plus any bonus
units allowed by this chapter; and
         c.   The maximum number of units allowed by the general plan, plus any
bonus units allowed by this chapter.
      (2)   To determine the maximum number of allowed units for a project as
limited by subsection C1 of this section, the following methods shall be
applied:
         a.   The maximum density of a zone district is calculated as follows:
            1.   When all proposed streets are known, the acreage of the total
project site shall be reduced by the acreage of existing and proposed streets.
This resulting net acreage factor is converted to total square feet and is then
divided by the minimum parcel size in single-family zone districts to yield the
number of permitted dwelling units. In multiple-family districts the total net
acreage shall be divided by the allowed number of units per acre as prescribed
by the applicable zone district.
            2.   When the acreage of proposed streets has not been determined,
the total acreage of the project site shall be reduced by twenty percent (20%)
to accommodate streets, and the resulting net acreage factor is converted to
square feet and then divided by the minimum parcel size in single-family zone
districts to yield the number of permitted dwelling units. In multiple- family
districts the total net acreage shall be divided by the allowed number of units
per acre as prescribed by the applicable zone district.
Example 1 - Acreage of streets is known:
 R1-10 zone
 Total site acres = 100 net acres (not including street acreage)
 100 acres x 43,560 square feet = 4,356,000 square feet total
 4,356,000 square feet divided by 10,000 square foot lots = 436 lots
Example 2 - Acreage of streets is unknown:
 R1-10 zone
 Total site acres = 100 acres
 100 acres x .80 = 80 net acres
 80 x 43,560 square feet = 3,484,800 square feet total
 3,484,800 square feet divided by 10,000 square foot lots = 348 lots
 
         b.   If densities are calculated using the minimum lot size provisions
of subsection B of this section, the total net acreage of each slope category
shall be divided by the allowed minimum parcel size of the applicable slope
category. Total net acreage shall be determined by reducing total acreage
within a slope category by the acreage of existing and proposed streets, or by
the twenty percent (20%) street factor using the applicable method of either
subsection C2a(1) or C2a(2) of this section. The minimum parcel size allowed by
the applicable slope category shall then be divided into the net acreage to
determine the dwelling unit yield for the slope category. This calculation
shall be done for each slope category of ten percent (10%) or greater on the
project site to determine the total allowable number of dwelling units on the
project site.
         c.   The general plan densities noted on the future land use map shall
be gross densities. Therefore, the maximum number of units permitted by the
general plan is determined by dividing the total acreage of the project site
(including the acreage of proposed streets if known), by the maximum density
(units per acre) as allowed by the applicable general plan land use category.
      (3)   Any proposed rezoning in sensitive land areas shall be consistent
with the general plan and the densities shown on the future land use map.
      (4)   If the planned development overlay zone is applied, density may
exceed the base zone density to the extent allowed in chapter 23 of this
chapter, subject to provisions therein. However, if the density transfer option
noted in subsection D of this section is requested in combination with the
density bonus provisions of chapter 23 of this chapter, the combination of
planned development and density transfer bonuses shall not exceed twenty five
percent (25%).
   (d)   Density Transfer:
A density transfer from steep slopes (generally greater than 20 percent) and
ridge areas to moderate slopes (generally less than 20 percent) on or off site
is encouraged and allowed through the processing of a planned development,
providing the purposes of this chapter and the general plan are maintained. A
density transfer bonus may be allowed as follows:
 
Slope           Bonus Factor1
10 - 14%        1.25
15 - 20%        1.5
21 - 25%        2
26 - 29%        2.5
30% or greater  No bonus is permitted, but density may be transferred at a rate
                of 1 dwelling unit for each 10 acres
Note:
   (1)   The allowable transfer including the bonus shall be determined by
multiplying the density allowed based on the percent of slope as provided in
subsection B of this section by the bonus factor. (Example: In a 26 percent
slope area, based on an estimated net density of 0.89 units per acre, applying
the bonus [0.89 units per acre x 2.5 bonus factor] a total of 2.23 units per
acre of 26 percent slope area may be transferred.)
   (e)   Maximum Impervious Material Coverage:
The maximum allowable lot coverage by impervious material (roofs, driveways,
walks, patios) shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) maximum coverage on slopes
ten to fourteen and nine- tenths percent (10 - 14.9%), and shall not exceed
thirty five percent (35%) maximum coverage on slopes fifteen percent (15%) or
greater. Areas of impervious material shall be estimated and included in the
total impervious surface area calculation for stormwater design purposes.
Sec 152-24-7 Special Area Development Standards
   (a)   The standards identified below for each special area shall be applied
in addition to the other requirements of this chapter when applicable. It is
recognized sensitive lands may be developed in alternative ways that will
reduce hazards and preserve aesthetic qualities as effectively as the standards
listed below. Therefore, an applicant may propose alternative standards through
the "exception" process as permitted by subsection
152-24-3G of this chapter. (See section
152-24-9, "Appendix", of this chapter, for the location of these special
areas.)
      (1)   Area A - Reserved
      (2)   Area B - Reserved
      (3)   Area C - Reserved
      (4)   Area D - Reserved
      (5)   Area E - Reserved
      (6)   Area F -Reserved
      (7)   Area G -Reserved
      (8)   Area H - Reserved
      (9)   Area I - Reserved
Sec 152-24-8 Grading, Drainage And Street Development Standards
   (a)   Grading, Drainage And Erosion:
The total watershed area shall be used to determine the amount of stormwater
runoff generated before and after construction.
      (1)   A grading and drainage report shall be prepared in which the
developer shall describe the methods intended to be employed to control the
increased erosion during construction.
      (2)   The developer shall be responsible for interim stabilization of all
disturbed areas during construction to prevent erosion, and for final
stabilization when construction is completed.
      (3)   The "SCS curve number method", "rational method", or other
stormwater computation method as approved by the city engineer shall be used in
computing runoff.
      (4)   Maps of the development site at a scale of one inch equals two
hundred feet (1" = 200') shall be provided by the developer to the city
engineer defining the boundaries of any floodplain and the limits of the
watershed.
      (5)   Existing drainage and floodway channels shall remain as
historically located except that roads and utilities may be installed across
such channels as approved by the planning commission and the city council.
Where these channel modifications are planned, the developer shall obtain
permits from the Utah division of water rights and U.S. army corps of engineers
when required by these agencies. The developer shall provide evidence of such
permits to the city prior to issuance of a grading permit. Structures and/or
lots shall be arranged so as to ensure adequate setbacks from all drainage and
floodway channels. The 100-year storm shall be that basis for calculating
setbacks.
      (6)   Facilities for the collection of stormwater runoff shall be
required to be constructed on development sites according to the following
requirements:
         a.   Such facilities shall be the first improvements or facilities
constructed on the development site.
         b.   Such facilities shall be designed so as to detain safely and
adequately the maximum expected stormwater runoff for a minimum 152-year storm,
while allowing an off site discharge not to exceed one-tenth (0.1) cubic foot
per second per acre. Regardless, stormwater mitigation shall limit runoff
volumes and flows so they do not exceed predevelopment levels.
         c.   Such facilities shall be so designed as to divert surface water
away from cut faces or sloping surfaces of a fill.
         d.   The existing natural drainage system shall be utilized to the
extent possible in its unimproved state.
         e.   Where drainage channels are required, wide shallow swales lined
with grass, rock, or other approved material shall be used instead of cutting
narrow, deep drainage ditches.
         f.   Flow retarding devices, such as detention ponds, check dams, and
recharge berms, shall be used where practical to minimize increases in runoff
volume and peak flow rate due to development.
      (7)   Erosion control measures on a development site and a drainage
design system to control stormwater erosion during and after construction shall
be contained in a grading and drainage report submitted by the developer.
      (8)   No grading or stripping shall be permitted except as part of a
development plan approved in advance by the planning commission, or when such
is a preliminary investigative action and is subject to subsection
152-24-4A of this chapter.
      (9)   A description of any hydrologic hazards associated with the
proposed development site and adjacent area shall be required. Hydrologic
hazards may include high water table, surface water impoundments, gradient of
the property, floodplains, etc.
   (b)   Cut And Fill Slopes:
Development standards for cuts and fill follow:
      (1)   Cut and fill slopes regulated by the building code shall comply
with the following unless more restrictive standards are otherwise recommended
in an approved soils and geology report:
         a.   Cut and fill slopes shall not exceed sixteen feet (16') in
vertical height. Proposed slopes that are separated by less than fifty feet
(50') of horizontal distance shall be considered a single slope, and their
combined height shall not exceed sixteen feet (16'). (See section
152-24-9, appendix diagram L, of this chapter.) The fifty foot (50') spacing
standard shall apply to slopes on the same lot or within fifty feet (50') of a
slope on an adjacent lot.
         b.   Benching and terracing may only occur as a means to reduce the
appearance of a slope sixteen feet (16') or less in height (i.e., creating 2 8-
foot slopes instead of a single 16 foot slope).
         c.   Cut and fill slopes shall not exceed a slope ratio of two feet
(2') horizontal to one foot (1') vertical, except as follows:
            1.   A cut slope is proposed in a stable rock based material and
the steeper cut would be preferable over the use of a retaining wall or the
revegetation of a larger two to one (2:1) slope, and when the erosion potential
will not be increased. Such determination shall be made by a licensed civil
engineer or geologist.
         d.   The following additional slope standards shall apply:
            1.   No slopes shall be cut steeper than the bedding plane,
fracture, fault or joint in any formation where the cut slope lies on the dip
of the strike line of the fracture, bedding plane, fault or joint.
            2.   No slopes shall be cut in an existing landslide, mudflow or
other form of naturally unstable slope.
            3.   If the material of a slope is of such composition and
character as to be unstable under the anticipated maximum moisture conditions,
the slope angle shall be reduced to a stable value or increased through
retention using a method approved by the city engineer and certified as to its
stability by a professional soils engineer.
         e.   Any cut or fill slope composed of loose material (i.e., not cut
into solid rock) shall be revegetated and a permanent irrigation system
provided.
      (2)   Fill slopes shall not be constructed on natural slopes steeper than
two feet (2') horizontal to one foot (1') vertical.
      (3)   A roadway cut and fill slope located outside a dedicated public
right of way shall be located within a recorded easement providing for slope
protection and preservation. The easement shall be in a form acceptable to the
city.
   (c)   Retaining And Stacked Rock Walls:
The following standards shall be applied to retaining walls:
      (1)   The maximum height of a retaining or stacked rock wall shall not
exceed sixteen feet (16'). Retaining or stacked rock walls separated by less
than fifty feet (50') of horizontal distance shall be considered as a single
wall, and their combined height shall not exceed sixteen feet (16'). (See
section
152-24-9, appendix diagram L, of this chapter.) The fifty foot (50') spacing
standard applies to walls or slopes on the same lot and when the wall or slope
is within fifty feet (50') of a wall or slope on an adjacent lot.
      (2)   The vertical height of the retaining wall or stacked rock wall when
combined with a cut or fill slope shall be considered part of the allowed slope
height (i.e., a 6 foot retaining wall adjacent to a 10 foot cut slope totals 16
feet, and is therefore maximum height of the allowed slope).
      (3)   Wherever possible the material and/or color of the retaining or
stacked rock wall shall be earth tones indigenous to the area.
      (4)   The use of retaining and stacked rock walls to reduce earth and
vegetation disturbance is encouraged, especially when revegetation is not
practical and the slope would be visible to the public.
      (5)   The design of retaining walls and stacked rock walls over four feet
(4') in height require engineering design and shall conform to building code
requirements.
   (d)   Streets And Rights Of Way:
The following street standards shall apply:
      (1)   The city's street standards and specifications shall apply to all
development, except where conditions related to proper development of sensitive
land areas necessitate altering these standards as described below and
elsewhere in this chapter and as may be otherwise approved by the city.
      (2)   Street grade requirements:
         Normal Permissible Exception
         Maximum grade 8 percent 12 percent
         Maximum grade street
         Intersections
         5 percent As determined by the planning commission
      (3)   Streets, roadways and private accessways shall follow as nearly as
possible the natural terrain.
      (4)   Two (2) points of access to a through road shall be provided for
emergency and firefighting equipment access for residential projects containing
thirty (30) or more lots or residential units. The second access may be
temporary when the planning commission finds:
         a.   The access road is developed to a grade, width, structural
standard and surface capable of accommodating emergency vehicles and two-way
traffic; and
         b.   Permanent secondary access will be provided in the future as
other phases of the project are developed, and/or there is reasonable
expectancy the development of adjacent lands in the foreseeable future will
provide the second permanent access.
      (5)   All fill slopes shall be contained within a public right of way, or
shall be located within recorded easements providing for slope protection and
preservation. The easements shall be in a form acceptable to the city.
      (6)   Variations of street design standards developed to solve sensitive
land and functional problems may be presented to the planning commission for
consideration. Examples of such variations may be the use of split roadways to
avoid deep cuts, one-way streets, modifications of surface drainage for curb,
gutter and sidewalk design and other innovative designs for sensitive lands
development.
      (7)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to streets or rights
of way already constructed or which have heretofore been approved by the city.
   (e)   On Site Development:
The property owner or developer shall be fully responsible for making all
improvements in accordance with the development site approval, e.g., streets,
utilities, drainage, erosion, walls and vegetation requirements.
   (f)   Bond:
In addition to the provisions requiring the posting of a bond as set forth in
chapter 39 of this chapter, the developer or property owner shall be required
to guarantee the stabilization of grading sites, cuts and fills, and
construction of stormwater runoff facilities, and the construction of
recreation space as may be required in this chapter. Such bond shall be in an
amount equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the cost of construction of
such work and shall continue for eighteen (18) months after the completion date
of such.
Sec 152-24-9 APPENDIX: List Of Diagrams And Exhibits
   (a)   Slope determination
   (b)   Bluff
   (c)   Ridgeline
   (d)   Nonbuildable area
   (e)   Density clustered on lower one-third of slope
   (f)   Bluff trail
   (g)   Sullivan's Knoll
   (h)   Ridge top setback
   (i)   Special areas
   (j)   Typical profile Hildale Cliff
   (k)   Bluff setback point
   (l)   Maximum allowed cut/fill/retaining walls
   (m)   Maximum building height on Hildale Cliff
Diagrams:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.png]
A - Slope determination
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.png]
B - BLUFF
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-29.png]
C - RIDGELINE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-31.png]
D - NONBUILDABLE AREA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-33.png]
E - DENSITY CLUSTERED ON LOWER ONE-THIRD OF SLOPE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-35.png]
F - BLUFF TRAIL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-37.png]
H - RIDGE TOP SETBACK
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-39.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-41.png]
 
I - Special areas
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-43.png]
J - TYPICAL PROFILE HURRICANE CLIFF
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-45.png]
K - BLUFF SETBACK POINT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-47.png]
L - MAXIMUM ALLOWED CUT/FILL/RETAINING WALLS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-49.png]
M - MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT ON HURRICANE CLIFF
CHAPTER 26 RECREATION RESORT ZONE
Sec
152-26-1 Purpose And Objectives
Sec
152-26-2 Scope
Sec
152-26-3 Minimum Acreage
Sec
152-26-4 Site Location
Sec
152-26-5 Uses Allowed
Sec
152-26-6 Development Standards For Recreational Resort
Sec
152-26-7 Regulations Of General Applicability
Sec 152-26-1 Purpose And Objectives
   (a)   Purpose:
The recreation resort zone is established to designate certain areas within the
city of Hildale where it is desirable and beneficial to the area economy to
allow for a mix of limited commercial, public, and residential uses.
Specifically, to authorize recreation and resort developments in which
residential dwelling units may be occupied by the owners thereof on a full or
part time basis, to authorize the rental of residential units on an overnight
or short term (30 days or less) basis by owners who reside elsewhere; and to
authorize limited commercial and public uses that are incidental to and
compatible with resort developments.
   (b)   Objective:
The objective of the recreation resort zone is to allow full service resort
developments with short and long term residential use combined with those
commercial and public facilities necessary to create a desirable resort
atmosphere.
Sec 152-26-2 Scope
The requirements of this chapter shall apply to any recreation resort zone
within the city. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or limit
other applicable provisions of this title, this code, or other laws except to
the extent such provisions are provided by this chapter.
Sec 152-26-3 Minimum Acreage
The recreation resort zone shall be applied only to projects consisting of at
least two (2) acres.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2024-02 on 4/10/2024
Sec 152-26-4 Site Location
The recreation resort zone shall only be allowed on collector or higher street
classification. However a lower street classification may be considered if the
applicant can demonstrate that the development would have no negative affect to
adjoining properties.
Sec 152-26-5 Uses Allowed
All uses must be shown on a preliminary site plan presented with the
application to change an area on the zoning map to recreation resort.
   (a)   Permitted Uses:
Permitted uses allowed within the recreation resort zone are as follows:
      (1)   Single and multiple dwelling unit residential, including
condominium and townhouse complexes. Unit and/or complex owners may reside in
the dwelling units or offer them for rent or lease either long term or short
term.
      (2)   Any commercial use related to the support or servicing of those
uses referred to in subsection A1 of this section and the facilities related
thereto including, but not limited to:
         Childcare facilities.
         Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities.
         On site property management.
         Personal care services.
         Professional office space related to property management.
         Restaurant and outdoor dining.
         Retail stores.
         Sales and rental offices.
      (3)   Motel, hotel, bed and breakfast inn, or boarding house.
   (b)   Prohibited Uses:
Any use not listed shall be prohibited unless the zoning administrator
determines the use is substantially the same as a permitted or conditional use
as provided in subsection
152-7-18E4 of this chapter.
   (c)   Accessory Uses:
Permitted and conditional uses set forth above shall be deemed to include
accessory uses and activities that are necessarily and customarily associated
with and incidental and subordinate to such uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses shall be subject to the same regulations that apply
to permitted and conditional uses in the same zone except as otherwise
expressly provided in this chapter.
      (2)   No accessory use, building, or structure shall be allowed on a lot
unless a permitted or conditional use has been established.
      (3)   Accessory uses in residential zones shall include, but not be
limited to, the following: Hobby activities when conducted by an occupant of
the premises solely for personal enjoyment, amusement, or recreation and which
does not conflict with any other city ordinance.Household pets.Nurseries and
greenhouses, when used for resort landscape or food production.Playgrounds,
patios, porches, gazebos, and incidental storage buildings in accordance with
the approved site plan for the zone.Short term storage and
parking areas and facilities for recreational vehicles, boats, and trailers
which are incidental and otherwise related to other approved uses.Swimming
pools and hot tubs; tennis and other sport courts; clubhouses; and other common
recreation or sport facilities for use by residents and their guests.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2020-013 on 10/28/2020
Sec 152-26-6 Development Standards For Recreational Resort
   (a)   Recreation resort zones shall be established on the city zoning map
and may be amended from time to time by ordinance. The recreation resort zone
is intended only for resort development directly providing the following
minimum facilities and services:
      (1)   a swimming pool and clubhouse and
      (2)   an on site rental or property manager. Those resort developments in
which full time/permanent residential use is authorized or contemplated shall
be subject to covenants, conditions, and restrictions and governed by a
property owners' association or other similar governing body.
   (b)   Development standards within the recreational resort shall be set
forth in
table 152-26-1 of this section.
TABLE 152-26-1
Lot standards:
 Average lot area                              n/a
 Minimum lot area or acreage
 Minimum lot width and/or project frontage     300 feet project
                                               30 feet unit
 Maximum density per acre                      8 units or lots
Building standards:
 Maximum height, main building1                35 feet
 Maximum height, accessory building1           20 feet
 Building coverage                             50 percent per site plan
 Distance between buildings                    20 feet
Setback standards - front:
 Any building - pedestrian entrance            15 feet from back of sidewalk
Garage or parking building3                    25 feet from back of sidewalk
Setbacks - rear:
 Main building                                 10 feet
 Accessory building, including private garage2 10 feet
Setback standards - interior side yard:
 Main building                                 10 feet
 Accessory building, including private garage2 10 feet
Setback standards - street side yard:
 Main building                                 20 feet
 Accessory building                            Not permitted
 Parking                                       See note 3
Notes:
      (1)   Except a greater height may be approved subject to a conditional
use permit.
      (2)   If located at least 10 feet from main building, 2 feet.
      (3)   If alternate parking, such as underground parking facilities or
parking structure is provided, garage setbacks may be altered by the planning
commission.
   (c)   An application for a zone map change to recreation resort zone shall
be accompanied by a completed preliminary site plan application as set forth in
section
152-7-10 of this chapter. An approved final site plan shall be required before
construction or site work in a recreation resort zone.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2024-02 on 4/10/2024
Sec 152-26-7 Regulations Of General Applicability
The use and development of real property in the recreation resort zone shall
conform at a minimum to regulations of general applicability as set forth in
the following chapters of this chapter:
   (a)   Design and compatibility standards: See chapter 33 of this chapter.
   (b)   Landscaping and screening: See chapter 32 of this chapter.
   (c)   Motor vehicle access: See chapter 35 of this chapter.
   (d)   Natural resource inventory: See chapter 31 of this chapter.
   (e)   Off street parking: See chapter 34 of this chapter.
   (f)   Signs: See chapter 36 of this chapter.
   (g)   Supplementary development standards: See chapter 37 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 27 EXTRACTION INDUSTRIES OVERLAY ZONE
Sec
152-27-1 Purpose And Intent
Sec
152-27-2 Scope
Sec
152-27-3 Zoning Districts
Sec
152-27-4 Use Regulations
Sec
152-27-5 Extraction Site Plan
Sec
152-27-6 Site Development Plan
Sec
152-27-7 Reclamation Plan Requirements
Sec
152-27-8 Building And Equipment Removal
Sec
152-27-9 Excavation Material Removal
Sec
152-27-10 Plan Modification
Sec
152-27-11 Security For Completion
Sec
152-27-12 Progress Report; Notice
Sec
152-27-13 Standards For Operation
Sec
152-27-14 Approval Process
Sec
152-27-15 Standards For Approval
Sec 152-27-1 Purpose And Intent
The general purpose of the extraction industries overlay zone is to provide for
the operation of extraction industries in Hildale City, while regulating the
operation of such industrial uses particularly on properties in close proximity
to residential districts and to provide regulatory standards and procedures to
ensure the reclamation of the extraction industry sites upon completion of the
extraction processes.
   (a)   Standards for development contained herein are intended specifically
to accomplish the following purposes:
      (1)   To minimize the adverse effects of development and operation of
extraction industries on neighboring properties;
      (2)   To preserve and/or reclaim visual and aesthetic qualities of
properties in which the extraction industries will operate which are vital to
the aesthetic quality of the city and quality of life of its residents; and
      (3)   To ensure adequate security is posted to ensure the successful and
timely reclamation of properties in which extraction industries operate at the
conclusion of such development and operation.
   (b)   The underlying zoning shall control the property once the extraction
industry work is completed and the extraction industries overlay zone has been
removed.
Sec 152-27-2 Scope
This extraction industries overlay zone will provide for the excavation of
clay, soil, granite, flagstone, slate, shale, limestone, sand, or gravel and
other similar extraction of natural resources from the land by excavating,
stripping, leveling, or other compatible extraction processes; and further
allow for and regulate the processing of extracted materials on or off site
within Hildale City for commercial purposes.
Sec 152-27-3 Zoning Districts
The extraction industries overlay zone may be applied to all zoning districts
as established in this land use code.
Sec 152-27-4 Use Regulations
The following are permitted uses within an approved extraction industries
overlay zone: Accessory uses and buildings, customarily incidental and
subordinate to a permitted use. Sand, gravel, rock, clay and similar natural
resources extraction mining, and quarry activities.
Sec 152-27-5 Extraction Site Plan
An extraction site plan is required for a zone change to the extraction
industries overlay zone. The site plan and reclamation plan may include any
conditions the city council, with the recommendation of the planning
commission, deems reasonable and necessary to accomplish the purposes of this
chapter. An annual review for compliance of the approved site plan will be made
by the city council. The city staff will conduct all necessary inspections to
assist the city council with its annual review and evaluation process.
   (a)   An application for an extraction industries overlay zone shall be
accompanied by a site development plan and reclamation plan prepared in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and submitted to the zoning
administrator in a form established by the administrator along with any fee
established by the city. The application shall include at least the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant (property
owner) and applicant's agent (if any);
      (2)   A legal description and map of the property to be subject to the
overlay zone;
      (3)   A statement of the current land use and zoning; and
      (4)   Name, address, and telephone number of the firm retained to
undertake the extraction operation, if different from the applicant.
Sec 152-27-6 Site Development Plan
   (a)   Drawings:
All drawings required below shall be prepared by a professional engineer,
licensed in the state of Utah.
   (b)   Plan Requirements:
      (1)   General Site Plan:
All property included in the proposed overlay showing any existing or proposed
buildings, parking areas, and roadways.
      (2)   Excavation Map:
This should be a topographic map, at a scale of one inch equals two hundred
feet (1" = 200') to a maximum contour interval of four feet (4'). This map
shall include a general depiction of the area at least five hundred feet (500')
beyond the proposed excavation and show the location of the operations and
proposed haul roads. This map shall identify the phases of the excavation, the
planned depth and the location of stockpiles, mine tailings, milling and
processing systems, and cross sections of the excavation site in areas of
greatest material displacement. The number of required cross sections shall be
dependent upon the size and topography of the excavation site.
      (3)   Development Schedule:
A text summary of the estimated development schedule and time frame shall be
submitted. This text should outline the estimated operational life of the
project, and should summarize phased extraction plans and corresponding phased
reclamation and estimated time frames for each phase.
      (4)   Roadway Plan:
Address the anticipated impact on existing streets, reflecting the trip
generation rate, along with the planned construction of any new streets,
including all proposed haul roads, and the access for such roads to any state
roads. Provide the anticipated type and number of heavy equipment to be used,
assuming full time operation and hauling of forty (40) hours per week and the
individual gross vehicular weight. Show travel impact
on any existing city streets, including amount of traffic. Provide proposed
mitigation of haul stress on improved city roadways. Additional improvements
to, or replacement of, surfaces and subsurfaces may be required as a condition
of approval.
      (5)   Utility Plan:
Show the location of all utility lines and facilities, if any, including, but
not limited to, water, sewer, power, cable television, natural gas and
telephone within the project area. This plan shall indicate the proposed point
of connection to utilities.
      (6)   Nuisance Mitigation Plan:
Provide detailed plan to control and limit dust, noise, vibration, smoke and
odor created on the site during actual extraction operations and during idle
time. This plan should reflect the requirement that all access and haul roads
on the site shall be maintained in a dust free condition by impervious
surfacing or some other treatment approved by the city. Dust mitigation must be
pursuant to rule R-307-205 of the Utah administrative code, applicable city
ordinances, and any other applicable statute or regulation.
      (7)   Drainage And Discharge Plan:
Show all natural and modified surface and subsurface drainage systems and the
plans to provide erosion protection to the site during operations. This plan
shall include provisions for the mitigation of erosion damage on site and
within five hundred feet (500') of the project boundary. Additionally, the plan
shall disclose the anticipated rate on a daily basis of water consumption,
wastewater discharge, drainage volumes, and source of disposal of water to be
used in the operation. Plan shall demonstrate compliance with all applicable
local, state, and federal regulations governing drainage and wastewater. NPDES
standards shall apply.
      (8)   Soil Geology Report:
Shall be prepared by a geologist and/or geotechnical engineer specializing in
soil mechanics and licensed by the state of Utah. It shall be based upon
geological evaluations, test borings, and excavations in a number and at
locations that the author of the report shall demonstrate are sufficient to
accurately identify and analyze soil types and geologic features within the
planned extraction area. Reduced costs shall not be justification for more
distant or convenient locations for extractions and borings. Additional soil
geologic investigations may be required if the report indicates the presence of
conditions that, if not corrected or adequately addressed through design, could
lead to unacceptable damage, erosion or soil movement. Such conditions may
include, but not be limited to: expansive soils, high water table, soluble
mineral veins, slope instability, buried slides, buried stream channels, and
fault zones.
   (c)   Investigation:
The investigation shall include visual appraisal of adjacent lots/parcels for
surface geologic/topographic conditions which could affect the proposed
extraction site, or could be threatened or degraded by the proposed extraction.
   (d)   Report:
The soil/geologic report shall also include the following:
      (1)   Slope stability analysis. Conclusions and recommendations
concerning the effects of material removal, introduction of water, ground
shaking, and erosion on slope stability, and recommendation for the protection
and preservation of any remaining slopes and hillsides after extraction is
completed.
      (2)   The location and yield of springs and seepage sites, if any, within
the project.
      (3)   The development of a complete soils profile identifying the soils
to the depth or level of estimated excavation that will constitute the exposed
surface soils at the completion of the extraction excavation operation; and
      (4)   Recommendation for corrective action or design specifications
intended to prevent potential dangers identified in the soils investigation,
particularly with regard to the mitigation of any impacts on contiguous
property.
Sec 152-27-7 Reclamation Plan Requirements
The reclamation plan shall include both text and appropriate maps and drawings
providing the following:
   (a)   Reclamation Timetable:
      (1)   A written document providing anticipated times for start and finish
of reclamation.
      (2)   If the extraction is to be phased, reclamation shall also be
phased.
   (b)   Topographic Map:
This shall reflect the phases of reclamation and the final site reclamation
including the approximate final finished grade of the site and all slopes. The
map will be prepared on a scale of one inch equals two hundred feet (1" =
200'), with a maximum contour interval of two feet (2'). This map should
represent the site and all property within five hundred feet (500') of the
project boundary.
   (c)   Grading Plan:
This shall show the areas to be reclaimed and the proposed finished grade and
the method by which the reclamation is to be accomplished. All restoration
material used in the final grading of the site shall be free from refuse or
toxic contaminants and shall be compacted as much as is practicable. Final soil
depths and types shall be appropriate for the future site use.
   (d)   Revegetation Plan:
Specifications including the seed or plant type, size, quantities, locations,
installation of topsoil, specifications for seeding or planting, mulching and
type of irrigation to be used.
   (e)   Drainage/Hydrology Plan:
Show the hydrological characteristics of the site after reclamation; including
the creation or modification of floodplain, erosion characteristics, drainage
patterns and wetlands.
Sec 152-27-8 Building And Equipment Removal
Following the completion of excavation and processing activities, or upon
removal of the overlay zone for any reason, all buildings, equipment and
temporary utilities used in the administration and management of the
operations, shall be removed. This removal shall be completed within the first
ninety (90) days following the completion of operations.
Sec 152-27-9 Excavation Material Removal
Following the completion of excavation and processing activities, or upon
removal of the overlay zone for any reason, all remaining excavation material
shall be removed from the site and located in the M-2 zone within one hundred
twenty (120) days.
Sec 152-27-10 Plan Modification
Plan modifications may be submitted any time during the reclamation process.
The modifications must be submitted to the city council with adequate
documentation supporting the request. If the city council approves the
modification, then the amended reclamation plan will govern the final process.
Sec 152-27-11 Security For Completion
The amount of security shall be equal to one hundred twenty five percent (125%)
of the amount estimated by the city engineer as being necessary to complete the
reclamation and site improvements if any as shown on the approved development
and reclamation plans. If reclamation is approved in phases, the amount of
security may be posted by phase; however, the developer shall not begin
extraction/excavation in subsequent phases until the full amount of the
security for any such approved subsequent phase has been posted.
   (a)   Security Agreement/Terms:
Before notice to proceed is granted on an approved site development plan the
permittee shall execute a security agreement and provide acceptable security in
a form approved by the city attorney as provided below. The security agreement
prepared by the city attorney shall include, without limitation, the following
terms and conditions:
      (1)   Incorporation by reference of the site development plan and all
data required by this chapter; and the approved reclamation plan with any
conditions which is used to compute the cost of the reclamation by the city
engineer.
      (2)   A requirement that the period of time allowed for completion of the
reclamation does not exceed one year from the date of completion of the phased
extraction.
      (3)   At completion of any reclamation phase as provided in the
reclamation plan, the permittee shall give written notice to the city and
request inspection by the city engineer. The reclamation shall be completed to
the satisfaction of the city engineer and according to the approved reclamation
plan.
      (4)   The release of security shall be under the exclusive control of the
city. The security proceeds may be released only upon written approval of the
city manager.
      (5)   The security proceeds may be reduced upon request of the developer
as the reclamation/improvements are completed. The amount of reduction shall be
approved by the mayor and city council on advice from the planning commission
and city engineer following inspection of the work by the city engineer. Such
requests may be made only once every thirty (30) days, and no reductions shall
be authorized until such time as the reclamation/improvements have been
inspected and found to be in compliance with city specifications. All
reductions shall be granted only upon written authorization signed by the city
manager.
      (6)   If the security amount becomes inadequate to pay the actual cost of
the completion of the reclamation/improvements for whatever reason, including
previous reductions, then the owner/developer shall be responsible for the
deficiency and work must stop on the site until a new security agreement
providing an adequate security amount has been approved and executed.
      (7)   If upon written demand of the city after expiration of the security
time period, the security proceeds are not transferred to the city within
thirty (30) days of the demand, then the city's costs of obtaining the
proceeds, including attorney fees and court costs, shall be payable by the
applicant. In addition, the applicant shall be liable for the costs incurred by
the city in administration of the funds to complete the reclamation work.
      (8)   The property owner shall hold the city harmless from any and all
liability that may arise as a result of the improvements which are installed
until such time as the city accepts the improvements.
      (9)   All reclamation/improvements required under this chapter shall be
installed by a contractor or subcontractor licensed by the state of Utah.
   (b)   Form Of Security:
The required security shall be one of the types provided in the subdivision
ordinance, chapter 39 of this chapter.
   (c)   Payment Of Interest:
Any interest accruing on escrowed funds shall, unless expended for completion
of site improvements required, inure to the benefit of the developer and not to
the city. The city shall not be required to pay interest to the developer on
any funds escrowed for this purpose.
   (d)   Release Of Funds/Retainage:
The city shall relinquish completion security funds held or security posted as
work is completed and inspected. The city shall release funds equal to the
actual cost of performing the work as the work progresses minus twenty five
percent (25%). The twenty five percent (25%) shall be held for one growing
season following completion of the reclamation work to ensure successful
reclamation. Upon successful germination and survival of reclamation
revegetation, remaining funds shall be released.
   (e)   Modification Of Plans/Increased Security:
The time period for completion of the required reclamation/improvements may be
extended in the following manner:
      (1)   Upon approval of the city council the time period may be extended,
for good cause, an additional one year from the expiration date of the original
security agreement;
      (2)   Said approval shall be in a written form signed by the mayor.
      (3)   If any approved modification of the reclamation plans, as provided
herein, increases the cost of required site improvements, additional security
must be provided to cover the increased costs.
   (f)   Phased Projects:
Site improvements and reclamation work applicable to each phase of a site
development plan shall be completed or security for completion provided prior
to commencing work on any subsequent phase.
Sec 152-27-12 Progress Report; Notice
An operations and progress report shall be filed with the city at the end of
each calendar year. This report shall summarize the year's extraction
activities pursuant to the approved site development and reclamation plans.
This progress report shall include a current site plan indicating the current
extent of operations, reclamation completed and updates on significant issues
raised either by the applicant or the city. The progress report shall include
calculations by a licensed land surveyor or engineer indicating the volume of
material excavated during the calendar year.
If the progress report shows no activity since the previous report, or if no
report is filed, the city shall inspect the site. If no progress on the site is
reported or verified, the city shall provide written notice to the applicant
specifying a time and place of a public hearing to consider removing the
extraction industries overlay and claim the security funds to reclaim the
property.
Sec 152-27-13 Standards For Operation
   (a)   Setbacks:
      (1)   No part of an excavation operation or access road, parking area,
office building or crushing, screening, washing, mixing or other type of
processing operation shall be permitted closer than three hundred feet (300')
to a residential property boundary except for accessory access roads.
      (2)   a.   The city council shall be authorized to consider modifications
to the setback set forth in subsection A1 of this section, when the character
of the terrain, the ownership of land, location of surrounding development or
other special conditions would justify such modification. However, in no case
shall the required distances for any excavation or accessory structure be less
than one hundred feet (100') from a residential property boundary.
         b.   If a modification authorizing excavation less than three hundred
feet (300') from a residential property boundary is granted, the following
conditions shall apply:
            1.   Hours of operation shall be limited to between seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
            2.   Operations are permitted only Monday through Friday.
            3.   Council will review every six (6) months rather than annually.
   (b)   Fencing:
Areas of excavation with serious or hazardous conditions shall be reasonably
fenced to exclude entrance by members of the public. Fences shall not be placed
closer than ten feet (10') from the edge of any cut slope.
   (c)   Grading/Excavation:
      (1)   All grading shall comply with standard engineering specifications
for slope stabilization in accordance with the latest approved reclamation
plans, IBC appendix J, "excavation and grading", and all other applicable city
ordinances. Slopes shall be maintained in a manner that will prevent erosion
damage on adjacent properties.
      (2)   Grading shall comply with approved grading plans for the excavation
and reclamation activities.
   (d)   Groundwater Contamination:
      (1)   Extractive operations, drainage, materials storage and use, site
access, access to roadways that cross waterways, fueling procedures,
reclamation activities and post reclamation uses shall be strictly controlled
so as to prevent any possible contamination of the groundwater or surface
water.
      (2)   Standards adopted by the city, in ground water protection
ordinances, or by the Washington County health department, and/or state of Utah
and federal regulations shall be used to determine the specific controls,
programs, safeguards, restrictions, and monitoring required from a specific
site. The most restrictive standards shall apply.
      (3)   The washing of sand and gravel or other extracted materials shall
be done so as to prevent the discharge of wastewater directly into adjacent
natural watercourses or onto any public or private roads or any private
property without the consent of the property owner.
   (e)   Hours Of Operation:
Excavation operations shall not begin before six o'clock (6:00) A.M., and shall
not continue after the hour of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   (f)   Nuisance Abatement:
      (1)   All equipment on and off site, utilized in the extraction and/or
processing operations shall be operated and maintained so as to minimize the
noise and vibration from the site.
      (2)   Access and haul roads on the site shall be maintained in a dust
free condition by surfacing or other treatment approved by the city.
      (3)   Soil berms, landscaping and other techniques should be used to
accomplish the objective of reducing the impact to adjacent property of
nuisances created by the project.
      (4)   All reasonable means shall be employed to reduce and mitigate dust,
noise, smoke, lights, and odor. Lighting shall be shielded to prevent intrusion
onto adjacent properties.
      (5)   Dust control procedures as deemed necessary by the city shall
continue during periods of non-operation.
   (g)   Reclamation:
      (1)   The reclamation of excavation sites shall be carried out
simultaneously with the excavation of the mineral resource or may be reclaimed
in phases as per the approved reclamation plan. Excavation shall be planned so
as to progressively develop the proposed final landforms by grading and
stockpiling overburden materials in areas designated for future landforms
according to the approved reclamation plan. Such areas are to be seeded and
planted within appropriate planting seasons, but in any case, the grading and
planting shall be completed within one year of completion of the phased
extraction under the approved plan. If a site plan or a subdivision preliminary
plat has been approved on the extraction site which includes an alternative
reclamation plan and timetable the previous section may not apply.
      (2)   If reclamation is proposed to be phased, no extraction shall begin
in subsequent phases until extraction is completed in any prior phase and
reclamation of prior phases is underway. Appropriate reclamation security shall
be posted for any subsequent phases.
      (3)   Any approved phased extraction and reclamation shall be
incorporated into the extraction/excavation site plan and shall be subject to
annual review.
      (4)   Failure to comply with reclamation timetables and conditions are
violations of this land use code and may be prosecuted accordingly.
Sec 152-27-14 Approval Process
   (a)   The applicant shall submit a complete application, site development
plan, reclamation plan, and applicable fee to the zoning administrator.
   (b)   After the application and accompanying plans have been reviewed by
staff and the joint utilities committee and upon determination that the
application is complete, a staff report shall be prepared.
   (c)   The planning commission shall hold a public hearing as provided in
section
152-7-4 of this chapter. Following a public hearing the planning commission may
recommend for approval, recommend for approval with modifications, or recommend
for denial thereof to the city council.
   (d)   Following receipt of a recommendation from the planning commission,
the city council shall hold a public meeting on the application as provided in
section
152-7-4 of this chapter. The city council may approve, approve with
modifications, or deny the application.
Sec 152-27-15 Standards For Approval
In approving an extraction industries overlay, the following factors shall be
considered:
   (a)   That the proposed plans will comply with the regulations and
conditions specified in this chapter for such use.
   (b)   That any impacts created by the proposed plans such as dust, noise,
vibration, water discharge, drainage and haul stress on improved city roadways,
will be reasonably mitigated under the proposed site development plan and
reclamation plans.
   (c)   If the imposition of any conditions or amendment to the proposed plans
can be made to bring the plans into compliance with this chapter.
CHAPTER 28 DEVELOPMENT IN AREAS OF SPECIAL CONSIDERATION
Sec
152-28-1 Purpose
Sec
152-28-2 Natural Hazards And Adverse Construction Conditions
Sec
152-28-3 Floodplains And Streams
Sec
152-27-4 Wetlands
Sec
152-27-5 Important Archaeological Sites
Sec 152-28-1 Purpose
To further the health, safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the city and
developers of project within the city, development in areas of special
consideration shall be undertaken in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter to minimize danger to persons and property and to ensure development of
lasting value.
Sec 152-28-2 Natural Hazards And Adverse Construction Conditions
   (a)   Report Required: (RESERVED)
   (b)   Report Requirements:
The geotechnical report shall include the following:
      (1)   Conditions And Features:
A general description of the topography, drainage conditions and surface
vegetation. The report shall include surface features such as rock
outcroppings, existing structures, debris, and unstable or wet conditions.
      (2)   Location Map:
A location map showing the footprints of the planned improvements and the
exploration locations with elevations.
      (3)   Subsurface Condition Evaluation:
An evaluation of the subsurface conditions, including a complete record of the
explorations, laboratory test results, and the elevation of the water table, if
encountered.
      (4)   Potential Geotechnical Constraints:
Identification of potential geotechnical constraints on the project site (such
as expansive rock and soil, collapsible soil, shallow bedrock and caliche,
gypsiferous rock and soil, potentially unstable rock or soil units, shallow
groundwater, and windblown sand), and recommendations for their mitigation.
      (5)   Springs And Seeps:
The locations of any springs and seeps on the project site, and recommendations
concerning the effects of the springs and seeps on the proposed development.
      (6)   Geotechnical Recommendations:
Specific geotechnical recommendations for the design and construction of the
proposed project, which shall include the following:
         a.   A general assessment of the requirements needing to be met to
develop the proposed site.
         b.   Site preparation and grading, and the suitability of the on site
soils for use as structural fill.
         c.   Stable cut and fill slopes, including recommendations concerning
the effects of material removal and the introduction of water, both on and off
site.
         d.   Recommendations for foundation type and design criteria,
including, but not limited to, bearing capacity of natural or compacted soils,
provisions to mitigate the effects of expansive, compressible or collapsible
soils, differential settlement and varying soil strength, and the effects of
adjacent loads.
         e.   Anticipated total and differential settlement.
         f.   Special design and construction considerations, as necessary,
such as the excavation and replacement of unsuitable materials, excavation
difficulties, stabilization, or special foundation provisions for problem soil
conditions.
         g.   Design criteria for restrained and unrestrained retaining walls.
         h.   Soil corrosion.
         i.   Moisture protection and surface drainage.
      (7)   Design Recommendations For Walls And Fill Slopes:
Detailed design recommendations for any planned rockery walls, mechanically
stabilized earth (MSE) walls, and/or reinforced fill slopes.
      (8)   Slope Stability Analysis:
A detailed slope stability analysis may be required if potentially unstable
rock or soil units or slope creep has been identified on the site. The analysis
should include, but not be limited to, a determination of shear strength and in
some instances residual shear strength, soil saturation, and treatment methods
required to provide a minimum safety factor of 1.5 for any slope within the
project boundary.
      (9)   Inspection And Certification:
It is strongly recommended that the geotechnical firm for the project also
provide inspection, testing, and verification services for all grading,
foundations, pavement sections, retaining structures, utility line placement,
and backfill and any other construction relating to geotechnical aspects of the
development. For real property for which development has proceeded on the basis
of a geologic or geotechnical report which has been accepted by the city, no
final inspection of a subdivision or other improvements shall be completed or
certificate of occupancy issued or performance bond released until the
engineering geologist or geotechnical engineering firm who prepared and
approved the report provides a letter of compliance, in writing, that the
completed improvements and structures conform to the descriptions and
requirements contained in said report including any approved revisions.
   (c)   Geology Report:
A Utah licensed professional engineering geologist or a Utah licensed
professional engineer who is trained and experienced in the practice of
geotechnical engineering shall prepare the geology report. The geology report
may be included in the geotechnical report, and shall include the following:
      (1)   The location and boundaries of the project site and its general
geologic setting.
      (2)   A description of the specific geologic conditions at the site.
      (3)   Identification of potential geologic hazards (such as faults,
landslides, rockfall, flooding and liquefaction).
      (4)   Conclusions and recommendations regarding the effects of the
geologic conditions and any potential hazards on the proposed development, and
recommendations to minimize any hazard to life or property, or any adverse
impact on the natural environment.
   (d)   Development Standards:
The following minimum standards shall apply to minimize effect of geologic
hazards:
      (1)   No structures shall be built on or within ten feet (10') of any
known fault line, or such greater distance as may be recommended by a licensed
geologist.
      (2)   No structure or improvement shall be allowed on any area known to
be within an active landslide area.
      (3)   Problems associated with development on or near perched groundwater
and shallow groundwater shall be mitigated.
      (4)   No structure shall be allowed in any rockfall zone.
      (5)   A waiver of liability shall be signed by the property owner and
recorded with the county recorder in a form approved by the city attorney, for
any parcel where the geologist report identifies the potential existence of any
of the above hazards.
Sec 152-28-3 Floodplains And Streams
   (a)   Floodplain Study Required:
Whenever a proposed building permit or development project is located within
two hundred feet (200') of Maxwell Wash or Short Creek Wash an engineering
analysis shall be prepared which identifies the effect of the 100-year flood or
floodway on the building or project site. This 100- year identification shall
not be required when a flood study has previously been completed for the area
by a licensed civil engineer, and when said study clearly identifies the 100-
year flood elevations and floodway for the area and project site.
   (b)   Habitable Floor Elevation:
Building permits and development plans found to be located within a 100-year
floodplain shall be conditioned to require the location of the ground floor of
any building a minimum of one foot (1') above the identified 100-year flood.
Prior to issuance of final occupancy of any building, a certification shall be
prepared by a licensed surveyor or civil engineer, providing the elevation of
the lowest habitable floor, noting that the lowest habitable floor is at least
one foot (1') above the identified 100-year flood. No buildings shall be
allowed within an identified floodway.
   (c)   Special Flood Hazard Areas:
Development within a special flood hazard area or within one hundred fifty feet
(150') of a special flood hazard area without an identified floodway as
identified on an official flood insurance rate map issued by the federal
emergency management agency shall be required to meet all the requirements of
chapter 40, "Flood Damage Prevention", of this chapter.
   (d)   Prohibited Activities:
No person shall disturb, remove, fill, dredge, clear, destroy or alter any
stream corridor or identified floodway, except as may be expressly allowed by a
valid stream channel alteration permit issued by the state of Utah Department
of Natural Resources.
   (e)   Required Setbacks:
Setbacks for any building, structure or improvement located within or adjacent
to a stream corridor shall comply with the most restrictive setback
requirements of either the zoning district in which it is located, the
requirements of the state of Utah Department of Natural Resources, or the
requirements of the U.S. army corps of engineers.
   (f)   Runoff Controls:
All construction and development projects located adjacent to any stream
corridor shall apply best management practices as may be required by a federal
or state agency with jurisdiction.
   (g)   Management Recommendations:
The city council, planning commission, or zoning administrator, as applicable,
may request recommendations from any federal, state, or local agencies, or
other professionals, prior to deciding on an application required for any
permit or approval.
Sec 152-27-4 Wetlands
   (a)   Applicant Responsibility:
The applicant shall be responsible to contact the U.S. army corps of engineers
to determine if a project site contains any wetlands, and obtain necessary
permits and meet permit specified requirements as may be necessary. A copy of
the permit shall be provided to the zoning administrator prior to issuance of a
notice to proceed.
Sec 152-27-5 Important Archaeological Sites
The intent of this requirement is to avoid the unnecessary or inadvertent
disturbance of prehistoric or historic human remains and to preserve important
archaeological site locations wherever possible. Density transfer and/or
including the site in an open space set aside are encouraged as a way to avoid
disturbance of important sites. Location of known important archaeological
sites is on file with the city of Hildale planning department. Local landowners
are likely aware of substantial sites on their land and should include these in
the planning process for a parcel.
CHAPTER 31 NATURAL RESOURCE INVENTORY (Reserved)
CHAPTER 32 LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING
Sec
152-32-1 Purpose
Sec
152-32-2 Scope
Sec
152-32-3 Landscaping Plan
Sec
152-32-4 Deviation From Strict Compliance
Sec
152-32-5 Required Landscaping
Sec
152-32-6 Plant Material Standards
Sec
152-32-7 Installation, Irrigation, And Maintenance
Sec
152-32-8 Substitute Plant Materials
Sec
152-32-9 Temporary Suspension Of Landscaping Installation
Sec
152-32-10 Site Feature Buffering And Screening
Sec 152-32-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to promote public health, safety and welfare by
establishing minimum standards for the preservation, installation and
maintenance of landscaping and buffering. This chapter is intended to achieve
the following objectives:
   (a)   To improve the aesthetic appearance of development by establishing
minimum landscaping standards;
   (b)   To promote water conservation by encouraging the use of drought
tolerant landscape material; and
   (c)   To maintain and improve environmental conditions by providing
groundwater recharge areas and minimizing stormwater runoff, noise and glare.
Sec 152-32-2 Scope
Unless exempted as provided in subsection B of this section, or otherwise
specifically provided elsewhere in this chapter, the standards and requirements
for a landscape plan according to this chapter shall apply.
   (a)   Continuous Maintenance:
Landscaping, buffering and site design features required by this chapter shall
be continuously maintained as provided in this chapter.
   (b)   Exemption:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to a single-family dwelling or
any agricultural or residential use in an agricultural zone. Public, civil, and
commercial permitted uses in an agricultural zone are not exempt.
Sec 152-32-3 Landscaping Plan
   (a)   Information Required:
Whenever a landscaping plan is required by this chapter, such plan shall
demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this chapter and shall show the
following information:
      (1)   Landscaping materials;
      (2)   Location and spacing of existing and proposed plantings;
      (3)   Plant sizes;
      (4)   Proposed treatment of ground surfaces;
      (5)   Irrigation or watering plan.
   (b)   Visual Obstructions:
Landscape plans shall conform to the visual obstruction requirements of
subsection
152-37-9E of this chapter.
Sec 152-32-4 Deviation From Strict Compliance
   (a)   Deviations Authorized:
Since site conditions and development constraints may vary greatly among sites,
the planning commission may approve landscape plans that deviate from strict
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Any proposed deviation from the
requirements of this chapter shall be:
      (1)   Clearly identified on the proposed landscape plan; and
      (2)   Accompanied by a written description of the proposed deviation
showing how the intent of this chapter will be met by the proposed plan.
   (b)   Findings Required:
The planning commission may authorize a landscape plan deviation only if it
finds the deviation:
      (1)   Is consistent with the intent of this chapter;
      (2)   Is justified by site constraints; and
      (3)   Is of comparable quality to what would otherwise be required
without a deviation.
Sec 152-32-5 Required Landscaping
   (a)   General Requirement:
Landscaped areas may include trees, shrubs, vegetative, organic and inorganic
ground cover and other organic and inorganic materials identified in an
approved landscaping plan. All required landscape areas shall be occupied by
plant material or ground cover.
   (b)   Landscaping Adjacent To A Public Street:
Except for approved driveways and pedestrian walkways, a landscaped area of ten
foot (10') minimum shall be provided adjacent and parallel to the frontage of a
public street as follows:
      (1)   A ten foot (10') wide landscaped area on any commercial
development.
      (2)   At least one tree and three (3) shrubs shall be planted for every
thirty five feet (35') of street frontage in a required landscaped area. Such
trees and shrubs may be clustered, provided that no tree shall be within five
feet (5') of another.
      (3)   The slope of any earth berm shall not exceed a vertical to
horizontal ratio of one to two (1:2) and shall be treated with suitable ground
cover to prevent soil erosion.
   (c)   Parking Strip Landscaping:
All parking strips shall be landscaped.
   (d)   Parking Lot Landscaping:
      (1)   Every parking lot consisting of more than ten (10) spaces and three
thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet of area shall contain internal
landscaped areas as follows:
         a.   Multiple-family residential: A minimum of ten percent (10%) of
total parking lot area.
         b.   Office and commercial: A minimum of seven percent (7%) of total
parking lot area.
         c.   Industrial and warehouse: A minimum of five percent (5%) of total
parking lot area.
      (2)   For every ten (10) required parking spaces, or portion thereof, a
minimum of two (2) shrubs and one deciduous tree shall be provided within the
internal parking area. The species of such trees shall be such that at maturity
a tree canopy is provided to shade the parking area below each tree.
      (3)   Landscaped areas shall contain a minimum of twenty five (25) square
feet and shall have a minimum average width of at least five feet (5').
      (4)   Landscape islands should be located in the following priority:
         a.   To define major drives and accessways;
         b.   To delineate ends of parking rows;
         c.   At aisle intersections; and
         d.   Within parking rows.
   (e)   Foundation Landscaping:
Landscaping shall be provided adjacent to the wall of a building which has
frontage on a public street as follows:
      (1)   At least fifty percent (50%) of the building frontage shall be
landscaped; and
      (2)   The minimum width of the landscaped area shall be three feet (3').
   (f)   Landscaping In A Multiple Residential Development:
Open space and common areas within a multiple residential development shall
include a minimum of one tree and two (2) shrubs per dwelling unit.
Sec 152-32-6 Plant Material Standards
   (a)   Plant Characteristics:
Plant materials used to provide landscaping should be:
      (1)   Drought tolerant;
      (2)   Have noninvasive growth habits;
      (3)   Have low maintenance characteristics; and
      (4)   Be commercially available.
   (b)   Plant Quality:
Plants installed pursuant to this chapter shall conform to or exceed the plant
quality standards of the most recent edition of "American Standard For Nursery
Stock" published by the American Nursery And Landscape Association.
   (c)   Artificial Plants:
No artificial plants shall be used to meet any standard of this chapter except
by special permission of the planning commission.
   (d)   Tree Diameter And Height:
      (1)   Trees planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter shall have a
minimum caliper (diameter) of two inches (2") measured at ground level.
      (2)   Evergreen trees planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter
shall have a minimum height of four feet (4').
      (3)   Shrubs planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter shall have
a minimum height of eighteen inches (18") at the time of planting.
   (e)   Ground Treatment:
Ground area within a required landscape area shall be landscaped and present a
finished appearance upon completion of landscaping. Additional ground cover may
consist of plant materials characterized by horizontal as well as vertical
growth, generally not exceeding eighteen inches (18") in height. Up to eighty
five percent (85%) of additional ground cover may consist of inert material
such as decomposed granite, gravel, crushed rock, bark chips, or other similar
material. Porous landscape fabric shall be required under these types of ground
cover.
Sec 152-32-7 Installation, Irrigation, And Maintenance
Any required landscaping shall be installed, irrigated, and maintained in
accordance with the following standards:
   (a)   Installation:
All landscaping shall be installed according to accepted nursery practices.
   (b)   Verification Of Installation:
Prior to issuing a certificate of occupancy, the zoning administrator shall
verify that required landscaping and screening has been installed in compliance
with the approved landscape plan.
   (c)   Irrigation:
Landscape areas shall be irrigated as necessary to maintain required plant
materials in good and healthy condition, while at the same time avoiding water
waste through inefficient irrigation.
   (d)   Maintenance:
Landscape areas, including park strips, shall be maintained in a healthy, neat
and orderly condition as follows:
      (1)   Landscaped areas shall be free of weeds and litter;
      (2)   Landscape structures (e.g., walls, fences) shall be repaired or
replaced in a structurally sound condition consistent with original appearance;
and
      (3)   The city may require that any dead trees, shrubs and plants be
replaced within the current or next planting season.
Sec 152-32-8 Substitute Plant Materials
The zoning administrator may approve installation of comparable substitute
plant materials to satisfy the requirements of an approved landscape plan when
approved materials are unavailable or when other unforeseen conditions prevent
the use of materials shown on an approved landscaping plan. Any significant
change to approved landscaping plans shall be reviewed and approved by the
planning commission.
Sec 152-32-9 Temporary Suspension Of Landscaping Installation
During periods of adverse weather conditions or when plants and landscape
materials are not available, the zoning administrator may issue a temporary
certificate of occupancy, provided the landowner enters into an agreement with
the city that requires the installation of required landscaping within a
reasonable time.
Sec 152-32-10 Site Feature Buffering And Screening
The following site features shall be screened as provided below:
   (a)   Trash Receptacles:
Trash receptacles in a multiple-family residential, commercial, public
facility, business/manufacturing park, or professional office zone shall be
screened from view by a wall or fence which:
      (1)   Is at least six feet (6') in height;
      (2)   Provides complete visual screening of the receptacle; and
      (3)   Is compatible in material and color with the main building on the
lot.
   (b)   Permitted Outdoor Storage:
Outdoor storage areas permitted by this chapter shall be screened from view by
an opaque fence or wall. Non-opaque fencing, such as powder or vinyl coated
chain link, may be used to satisfy this requirement in industrial zones if
vinyl slats are inserted into the fence.
   (c)   Ground Mounted Utility Boxes, Meters And Mechanical Equipment:
Ground mounted utility boxes, meters, and mechanical equipment shall be
screened from view by landscaping or architectural elements compatible in
material and color with the primary structure(s) on the premises. This
requirement shall not apply to:
      (1)   Rear and rear side yard locations adjacent to other service or
mechanical areas not adjacent to a public street, and
      (2)   Development in agricultural and single-family residential zones.
CHAPTER 33 DESIGN AND COMPATIBILITY STANDARDS
Sec
152-33-1 Purpose
Sec
152-33-2 Scope
Sec
152-33-3 Building Design
Sec
152-33-4 Parking Design
Sec
152-33-5 Site Plan Design
Sec
152-33-6 Sign Design
Sec 152-33-1 Purpose
This chapter establishes two (2) kinds of design criteria: design standards and
design guidelines. They are intended to improve the quality and compatibility
of development, particularly with regard to buildings, landscaping, parking,
site layout, and signage.
   (a)   Design Standards:
Design standards are required in addition to other standards set forth in this
chapter and are indicated by the verb "shall".
   (b)   Design Guidelines:
Design guidelines indicate additional actions that may be taken to enhance
development design and achieve greater compatibility with adjacent land uses.
Guidelines thus use the verb "should" (rather than "shall") signifying that the
guidelines are desirable objectives to be achieved but are not mandatory
requirements.
Sec 152-33-2 Scope
   (a)   Applicability:
The design standards set forth in this chapter shall apply to:
      (1)   All new multiple residential, commercial, public facility, or
industrial buildings and uses except where the requirements of this chapter are
expressly superseded by another provision of this chapter.
      (2)   Existing buildings and uses when a change occurs that involves a
design standard set forth in this chapter and the change:
         a.   Requires a building or other permit issued by the city; or
         b.   Alters the occupancy designation of a building under the building
code; or
         c.   Increases required parking by more than twenty percent (20%).
   (b)   Imposition Of Conditions:
In approving a development plan, the approving authority may impose reasonable
conditions consistent with the purpose and intent of the purpose of this
chapter.
   (c)   Other Code Requirements:
The requirements of this chapter shall apply in addition to other applicable
requirements of this chapter, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Chapter 32, "Landscaping And Screening", of this chapter.
      (2)   Chapter 34, "Off Street Parking And Loading", of this chapter.
      (3)   Chapter 35, "Motor Vehicle Access", of this chapter.
      (4)   Chapter 36, "Signs", of this chapter.
Sec 152-33-3 Building Design
   (a)   General Considerations:
Additions to existing buildings should incorporate predominant architectural
features, materials, and colors of the existing buildings.
   (b)   Building Entry:
Main building entrances shall be easily identifiable and shall be provided with
adequate security lighting.
   (c)   Communications Equipment:
Building mounted communications equipment which extends above a parapet wall
shall be the color of the wall or parapet upon which it is placed and designed
to blend with the design details of the building. See chapter 50 of this
chapter.
   (d)   Detailing:
Detailing should be used as a method of enhancing the theme or character of a
building, thereby adding interest to the development.
      (1)   Details of a building elevation, such as particular design
characteristics or use of material and color, shall continue the character or
theme of the project.
      (2)   Equipment such as, but not limited to, roof mounted communications
and mechanical equipment, vending machines and ice machines shall be screened
from street view and placed in an area designed for their inclusion as an
integral part of the project. See chapter 50 of this chapter.
      (3)   Patio enclosures visible from a public street shall be compatible
and integrated with the architectural character of the project.
      (4)   Building entryway and stairway design and placement shall be
integrated with the design of the project through the use of similar building
materials, details, shapes, colors, location or other features.
   (e)   Exterior Materials:
Exterior building materials shall be durable, require low maintenance, and be
of the same or higher quality as surrounding developments.
      (1)   Details of proposed colors and materials, including color chips,
samples, and colored building elevations, shall be shown on building plans when
a development project application is submitted.
      (2)   Reflective surfaces should not be used in locations which may
produce excessive reflections or glare that may create a potential safety
problem.
      (3)   Tile, architectural grade asphalt shingles, standing seam metal or
similar quality roofing materials shall be used on all visible pitched roofs.
      (4)   Pad buildings in commercial developments, including service
stations, convenience stores, restaurants, auto maintenance facilities and
similar uses shall be designed in a compatible architectural style and should
incorporate the same materials, colors and landscaping as the primary
development.
      (5)   Pre-engineered metal buildings:
         a.   Shall be permitted in all agricultural, residential agriculture,
industrial, and public facility zones;
         b.   Shall be allowed by conditional use permit in all commercial and
residential zones.
   (f)   Grade Separation:
When the grade of a site is changed, even if due to landscaping or stormwater
retention requirements, a grade separation of greater than two feet (2') at any
propertyline shall be avoided.
   (g)   Height/Roofline:
The scale of a project should not overwhelm adjacent buildings.
      (1)   Perceived height should be reduced as needed by changing the
roofline and varying the height.
      (2)   Roofline and parapet variations should be used to provide
architectural style or character for commercial or industrial buildings that
have limited wall variations due to functional constraints of the building.
   (h)   Relief:
Architectural relief should be used in building design to provide interest and
variety and avoid monotony. Details that create shade and cast shadows should
be used to provide visual relief to the building.
      (1)   Horizontal and vertical elements of exterior walls should vary in
height and projection to provide substantial architectural interest and style.
Such interest and style may be provided through, but not limited to, the
imaginative treatment of windows, doors, eaves, rooflines and parapets.
      (2)   Building trim, accents, color, materials and style should be
incorporated into primary design themes to promote architectural visual
interest.
      (3)   All exterior elevations of buildings should be integrated into the
design theme of the project. In particular, the upper walls of the sides and
rear should exhibit relief, rhythm and interest through the use of height
variations, relief elements providing shadow, and the use of scuppers,
downspouts and expansion joints as design elements.
   (i)   Window And Door Placement:
Patterns created by window and door placement should be used where possible to
add rhythm, variety, and interest to building design. Attractive views should
be emphasized, and uncomplimentary views avoided.
Sec 152-33-4 Parking Design
   (a)   General Considerations:
Parking lot design should include a useful pedestrian circulation system,
adequate turning radii, an efficient traffic movement pattern, a pleasant
appearance, convenient parking locations, efficient drainage, and integration
of parking with the character of the site and proposed development.
   (b)   Covered Spaces:
Covered parking structures should be compatible with the overall design and
character of the project.
   (c)   Emergency Vehicle Access:
Access for emergency vehicles should be integrated into the design of the
project.
   (d)   Loading And Unloading Areas:
Pedestrian drop off locations should be incorporated within overall circulation
patterns and should be convenient and safe for pedestrians.
   (e)   Parking Location:
Parking areas should be located as follows:
      (1)   In office use projects, twenty five percent (25%) of the required
parking spaces should be provided within two hundred feet (200') of the
building served, and the balance within four hundred feet (400').
      (2)   In commercial and industrial use projects, required parking spaces
should be located within three hundred feet (300') of the building served.
      (3)   In residential projects, required parking spaces should be arranged
to provide at least one parking space per unit within two hundred feet (200')
of the dwelling units they are intended to serve.
   (f)   On Site Traffic Lanes:
Traffic lanes within a development project should provide a circulation pattern
which is convenient and safe. Pedestrian traffic should be incorporated into
the project design.
   (g)   Parking Lot Lighting:
Parking lot lighting should provide adequate illumination, be downward focused,
and avoid direct illumination of adjacent property.
   (h)   Traffic Impact On Street System:
Developments which generate significant increases in traffic should include an
analysis of the proposed development's impact on the current and future
transportation system, and methods to control traffic.
   (i)   Minimum Parking Requirements: See chapter 34 of this chapter.
Sec 152-33-5 Site Plan Design
   (a)   General Considerations:
Site layout should help create a coherent and unified project. The impact of
site design on surrounding property owners should be taken into consideration.
Projects should be designed to minimize negative impacts on adjoining property.
   (b)   Loading And Service Bays:
Landscaped areas and walls should be used to decrease noise levels. Service and
loading bays (automotive, service, tire, etc.) shall be oriented away from
neighboring residential areas and major public streets.
   (c)   Natural Features:
Prominent natural features of land, as shown on a natural features inventory,
such as hillsides, views or other features should be considered when designing
the site. The design should seek to preserve significant natural features and
avoid site design problems associated with floodplains, steep slopes, drainage
areas, or other similar features.
   (d)   Noise Impact:
Site design shall include provisions for limiting noise, particularly as to
adjacent residential property. The occupants of a development should be
protected from noise from both outside and within the site through screening,
berming, setbacks, and building materials. Noise generating equipment should be
located and buffered to minimize impact on adjacent residential uses or
districts.
   (e)   Open Space:
Open space should be used as a buffer between adjacent properties.
      (1)   The open space within a development should be integral to the
development, not small leftover pieces of land.
      (2)   Courtyard areas should be designed as usable space.
      (3)   Recreation and outdoor activity areas should be provided to
accommodate all users. Development projects oriented toward elderly users
should be provided with passive activities.
      (4)   Amenities within a development project should be proportional to
the size of the project.
      (5)   Open space should be an integral part of a development project,
connecting recreational facilities with other areas utilizing continuous common
areas.
      (6)   Private open spaces such as patios and balconies are encouraged.
Patios and balconies should be a minimum sixty (60) square feet in area and
have a minimum narrow dimension of six feet (6').
      (7)   In multiple-family residential zones, common open space should
equal or exceed the ground floor area of all buildings on site. Projects
greater than one story should provide common open space equivalent to the
ground floor area plus fifty percent (50%) of all additional floor area.
   (f)   Outdoor Lighting:
Lighting should provide visual interest yet limit its impact on adjacent
properties.
      (1)   The exterior lighting of a project should provide for the
illumination of buildings and grounds for safety purposes, but in an aesthetic
manner. Lighting should be focused downward, and placed and screened to limit
the emission of light beyond the development.
      (2)   Fixtures used in exterior lighting should be selected for
functional and aesthetic value.
   (g)   Outside Storage:
Approved outside storage areas shall be screened from street view and nearby
residence, office, and commercial areas.
   (h)   Pedestrian Circulation:
A network of convenient, safe, and raised or textured pedestrian paths should
connect areas within the project, and the project to adjacent properties.
      (1)   The location and number of access points to a site, the interior
circulation pattern, and the separation between pedestrians and vehicles should
be designed to maximize safety and convenience, and should be harmonious with
proposed and neighboring buildings.
      (2)   Walkways shall be well lighted to provide visibility, security and
a pleasant environment.
   (i)   Privacy:
Site design and floor plan layouts should be organized to provide privacy for
the proposed project and surrounding uses. Window and door placement, and
patio/balcony areas should not directly overlook adjacent properties.
   (j)   Security:
A site should be designed to avoid creating conditions which may invite
criminal activity.
      (1)   Buildings, windows, and landscaping should be located to maximize
surveillance of entryways, pathways, and parking lots.
      (2)   Adequate lighting should be provided throughout the development.
   (k)   Solar Exposure:
An energy efficient design which reduces summer heat gain and winter heat loss
and encourages outdoor usable areas should be incorporated into the site plan.
      (1)   An energy efficient design to reduce summer heat gain through
window and door placement, and landscaping, use of innovative construction
materials, or building orientations is encouraged.
      (2)   Providing shade for outdoor activity areas such as picnic areas and
courtyards is encouraged.
   (l)   Trash And Refuse Collection Areas:
Areas which generate noise and odors shall be located to minimize the impact on
adjacent property owners or users. Such areas shall be screened from view.
Refuse enclosures at highly visible locations should be six feet (6') high,
constructed of materials to match main buildings on the site, and provide
latching gates for screening the opening to the enclosure.
   (m)   Walls:
Different projects and uses should be physically separated to minimize the
impact of unattractive or noisy areas and provide a buffer between properties.
      (1)   Walls which front on a public street should be designed to include
colors, materials, forms, and architectural accents compatible with the main
building.
      (2)   Minimum requirements for screening walls: See chapter 37 of this
chapter.
   (n)   Auxiliary Equipment:
Generators and other large auxiliary equipment should be placed at locations
where they will be least intrusive in terms of noise, appearance, and odors,
particularly for occupants of neighboring properties.
      (1)   Equipment should be kept low to the ground.
      (2)   Walls, landscaping, and other materials shall be used to screen
auxiliary equipment.
   (o)   Minimum Site Plan Requirements:
See applicable base and overlay zone standards (chapters 11 to 30) of this
chapter.
Sec 152-33-6 Sign Design
   (a)   General Considerations:
The placement and design of signs should be compatible with the development
project and with the surrounding area. Signs should be an integral design
element of a building and should be compatible with the style of the buildings
in terms of location, scale, color and lettering.
   (b)   Minimum Sign Requirements: See chapter 36 of this chapter.
CHAPTER 34 OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
Sec
152-34-1 Purpose
Sec
152-34-2 Scope
Sec
152-34-3 Parking To Be Provided
Sec
152-34-4 Parking Calculation
Sec
152-34-5 Parking Location
Sec
152-34-6 Number And Ty peOf Parking Spaces
Sec
152-34-7 Parking Dimensions
Sec
152-34-8 Parking Lot Design And Construction
Sec
152-34-9 Parking Modifications
Sec
152-34-10 Tables And Figures
Sec 152-34-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to assure the provision and maintenance of off
street parking and loading facilities in proportion to the parking and loading
demand of land uses. The requirements of this chapter are intended to assure
useful and attractive parking and loading facilities, to protect public safety,
and to mitigate adverse land use impacts.
Sec 152-34-2 Scope
The requirements of this chapter are applicable to all new development
requiring motor vehicle access under the provisions of this chapter. The
requirements of this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit or limit other
applicable provisions of this chapter, this code, and other laws.
Sec 152-34-3 Parking To Be Provided
   (a)   Off Street Parking Required:
Every land use established under the authority of this chapter shall have
parking required by this chapter. When any building or structure is erected,
enlarged or increased in capacity, or any use is established or changed,
parking shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (b)   Continuing Obligation To Provide Parking:
Provision of parking as required by this chapter shall be a continuing
obligation so long as a use continues which requires parking. It shall be
unlawful for any owner, land use operator, or person responsible for providing
parking to discontinue or dispense with required parking facilities without
providing an alternate parking area which meets the requirements of this
chapter.
Sec 152-34-4 Parking Calculation
The following provisions shall be used to calculate the total number of parking
spaces required by this chapter:
   (a)   More Than One Use On Lot:
If a lot contains more than one use, parking spaces shall be provided in an
amount equal to the total of the requirements for each use unless shared
parking is permitted pursuant to this chapter.
   (b)   Fixed Seating:
Where seating consists of chairs, benches, pews or other forms of fixed
seating, parking shall be calculated at the rate of one parking space per four
(4) seats.
   (c)   Square Foot Basis:
Parking requirements based on square footage shall be calculated using gross
floor area ("GFA") unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (d)   Employee Basis:
Parking requirements based on the number of employees shall be calculated using
the largest number of persons working on any shift.
   (e)   Use Not Listed:
If a use and a corresponding parking standard is not listed in
table 152-34-1 of subsection
152-34-10A of this chapter, the zoning administrator shall determine the number
of spaces required for such use based on the nearest comparable use or a
parking study as provided in subsection
152-34-9E of this chapter.
Sec 152-34-5 Parking Location
   (a)   On Site Parking:
Except as allowed in subsection B of this section, all required parking shall
be located on the same lot as the use to which it is appurtenant and shall be
located within three hundred feet (300') from the premises served.
   (b)   Off Site Parking:
Where practical difficulties exist in providing on site parking or if public
safety or convenience, or both, would be better served by locating parking on a
separate lot, the planning commission may authorize off site parking subject to
the following conditions:
      (1)   Required parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities
shall not be located in an off site parking lot.
      (2)   Off site parking lots shall be located in the same or a more
intensive zone which applies to the property where the use served is located.
      (3)   No off site parking space shall be located more than five hundred
feet (500') from a public entrance of the use served, measured along the route
of the shortest legal, practical walking distance. Off site parking shall not
be separated from a principal use by a street right of way with a width of more
than seventy two feet (72').
      (4)   Availability of each off site parking lot shall be assured by an
agreement approved by the city which requires:
         a.   The parking lot to be continuously available unless an
alternative legal parking lot is provided;
         b.   All spaces to be available without charge; and
         c.   The zoning administrator to be notified thirty (30) days prior to
the expiration or termination of the agreement.
      (5)   Before approving an off site parking lot, the planning commission
shall find that such parking is conveniently usable without causing
unreasonable:
         a.   Hazard to pedestrians;
         b.   Hazard to vehicular traffic;
         c.   Traffic congestion;
         d.   Interference with safe and convenient access to other parking
areas in the vicinity;
         e.   Detriment to the appropriate use of business property in the
vicinity; or
         f.   Detriment to any residential neighborhood.
   (c)   Temporary Parking:
      (1)   Unimproved temporary parking areas shall be exempt from the
landscaping and paving requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The city may allow a temporary use approved pursuant to chapter 48
of this chapter to occupy or use parking areas ordinarily required for a
permanent use if it is found that the temporary use will not cause a shortage
in parking needed for the permanent use.
   (d)   Prohibited Parking:
      (1)   Vacant lots, public rights of way, or open land areas shall not be
used as parking areas for customers or employees.
      (2)   Overnight parking of vehicles for display other than in designated
and improved areas shall be prohibited.
   (e)   Commercial Vehicle Parking In Residential Zones:
One commercial vehicle with a rated capacity of more than two (2) tons may be
parked for not more than twenty four (24) continuous hours in any thirty (30)
day period on a lot in a residential zone. Contracting and earthmoving
equipment shall not be parked in a residential zone.
Sec 152-34-6 Number And Type Of Parking Spaces
   (a)   Parking Required:
Off street parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with this section for
every land use authorized by this chapter except as otherwise expressly allowed
by this title. The total number of parking spaces required by this section
shall be determined by summing the parking required by each of the subsections
in this section.
   (b)   Standard Parking Spaces:
Standard parking spaces shall be provided as set forth in
table 152-34-1, "Off Street Parking Schedule", in subsection
152-34-10A of this chapter.
   (c)   Handicapped Parking Spaces:
Parking spaces for handicapped persons shall be provided as required by the
international building code and the "Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards
Manual".
   (d)   Stacking Parking Spaces:
 
1. Bank drive-through including automatic teller machines 3 per lane
2. Carwash:
   a. Automatic wash accessory use                        4 per bay
   b. Automatic wash primary use                          4 per bay
   c. Self-wash                                           3 per bay
3. Gasoline pump island                                   1 per pump
4. Fast food restaurant drive-through                     5 per lane
 
   (e)   Off Street Loading Spaces:
Off street loading spaces with a height clearance of fourteen feet (14') or
more shall be provided for buildings used for retail, office, industrial,
hospital, storage warehousing, and similar uses as follows:
 
GFA Of Building                    Required Number Of Loading Spaces
3,000 - 20,000 square feet         1
Each additional 20,000 square feet 1
   (f)   Tandem Parking Spaces:
Tandem parking spaces shall not qualify as required parking unless approved by
the planning commission in the following instances:
      (1)   In multi-family dwellings with garages;
      (2)   In conjunction with valet parking service; or
      (3)   To provide one required space for a bed and breakfast, home, or
residential hosting facility without specific planning commission approval.
   (g)   Recreational Vehicle Parking:
Adequate and accessible recreational vehicle parking storage areas shall be
required in each multi-family and planned residential development project
unless the premises are subject to restrictive covenants or other means
limiting the parking of such vehicles.
Sec 152-34-7 Parking Dimensions
Unless otherwise modified as provided in this chapter, parking space, bay, and
related dimensions shall be as follows:
   (a)   Parking Space Dimensions:
Parking space and related dimensions shall be as set forth in this section and
as shown on section
152-34-10,
table 152-34-2 and
figure 152-34-1 of this chapter.
      (1)   Standard parking space:
Nine by eighteen feet (9 x 18').
      (2)   Carport:
Minimum inside dimension of nine by twenty feet (9 x 20') for each parking
space.
      (3)   Garage:
Minimum inside dimension of ten by twenty feet (10 x 20') and minimum door
width of eight feet (8') for each parking space.
      (4)   Handicapped parking space:
Standard size plus four foot (4') unloading area parallel to the length of the
space. Loading area may be shared with an adjacent handicapped parking space.
      (5)   Angle parking space:
See section
152-34-10,
table 152-34-2 and
figure 152-34-1 of this chapter.
      (6)   Parallel parking space:
Nine by twenty two feet (9 x 22').
      (7)   Loading space:
Ten by twenty five feet (10 x 25').
      (8)   Stacking space:
Ten by twenty feet (10 x 20').
      (9)   Where the tires of parked vehicles contact curbing, parking stall
length may be reduced by two feet (2') if space is available and vehicle
overhang does not block a sidewalk.
   (b)   Driveway Dimensions:
Minimum driveway dimensions shall be as follows:
      (1)   For access to five (5) or fewer spaces: Twelve feet (12').
      (2)   For access to six (6) or more spaces: Twelve feet (12') for one-way
traffic; twenty five feet (25') for two-way traffic. Driveway width shall not
exceed thirty five feet (35').
Sec 152-34-8 Parking Lot Design And Construction
   (a)   Parking Plans:
Plans for any proposed parking lot shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator. The plan shall clearly indicate the proposed development,
including location, size, shape, design, curb cuts, lighting, landscaping and
other features and appurtenances of the proposed development.
   (b)   Access To Public Street:
Except for parking for a single-family or two-family dwelling, access to a
parking space or parking lot shall be from a parking lot aisle and not directly
from a public street. Every parking lot shall have access to a public street.
Such access may be provided through platted or recorded easements, reciprocal
arrangements, or other guaranteed means.
   (c)   Private Driveway:
Parking for single-family and two-family dwellings may be accessed from a
public street via a private driveway.
   (d)   Backing Space:
Backing space shall be provided for all parking lots so that cars will not back
onto a public street. Public sidewalks shall not be used as a part of the
required backing area. Separate exits shall be provided for angled and one-way
parallel parking so a vehicle will not exit by backing onto a public street.
   (e)   Curb Cuts:
Curb cuts and driveways allowing access to a public street shall conform to the
requirements of chapter 35 of this chapter.
   (f)   Internal Circulation:
Each parking lot shall provide for traffic circulation on the property adequate
to access all parts thereof without the necessity of exiting onto a public
street.
   (g)   Landscaping:
Parking lots shall be landscaped as provided in chapter 32 of this chapter.
   (h)   Lighting:
Parking lots used at night shall be adequately lighted, utilizing hooded light
sources. Parking lot lights shall be arranged to reflect light away from
adjoining residential premises.
   (i)   Paving:
Unless expressly provided otherwise in this chapter, every parking lot required
by this chapter shall:
      (1)   Be paved with asphalt, concrete or some other all weather surfacing
material;
      (2)   Maintained to eliminate dust or mud; and
      (3)   Be graded and drained to dispose of all surface water. Such surface
water drainage shall not cross a public sidewalk.
Sec 152-34-9 Parking Modifications
   (a)   Modification Permitted:
The number of parking spaces required under section
152-34-6 of this chapter may be modified in accordance with the provisions in
this section. The purpose of such modifications is to avoid creating
unnecessary parking areas that will be essentially unused. In considering a
modification, the planning commission may require a parking study to be
completed as provided in subsection E of this section.
   (b)   Shared Use Parking:
The planning commission may authorize shared use of a parking lot subject to
the following conditions:
      (1)   The uses sharing the parking lot are unlikely to produce a
substantial demand for parking at the same time. The city may require a shared
parking study to be completed which clearly establishes that uses will make use
of the shared spaces at different times of the day, week, month or year.
      (2)   Required parking spaces reserved for persons with disabilities
shall not be reduced.
      (3)   Ongoing shared use of the parking lot is assured by an agreement or
easement approved by the city which requires:
         a.   The parking lot to be continuously available unless an
alternative legal parking lot is provided;
         b.   All spaces to be available without charge;
         c.   The zoning administrator to be notified thirty (30) days prior to
the expiration or termination of the agreement or easement; and
         d.   Provision of additional parking up to the amount otherwise
required under this chapter if the zoning administrator determines, based on
parking counts, that a shared parking lot does not satisfy the off street
parking demand of the uses involved.
   (c)   Commercial, Retail, Office, And Mixed Use Developments:
The planning commission may modify the number of parking spaces required or
allowed for commercial, retail, office, or mixed use developments after
considering the following items and making a finding that adequate parking will
be provided:
      (1)   Total number of spaces that would otherwise be required for each
individual establishment in the development;
      (2)   Hours of operation for each business establishment located in the
development, including peak business hours;
      (3)   Estimated tradeoff between businesses which are open when others
are closed;
      (4)   Availability of approved on street or shared parking;
      (5)   Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit
stations; and
      (6)   Car or van pooling programs available to users of the development.
   (d)   Multi-Family And Planned Developments:
The planning commission may modify the total number of parking spaces required
for multi- family or planned developments after considering the following items
and making a finding that adequate parking will be provided:
      (1)   Size of housing units by number of bedrooms;
      (2)   Cost range of units proposed;
      (3)   Owner/tenant characteristics and lifestyle, i.e., singles, couples,
families, professionals, retired, elderly, etc.;
      (4)   Examination of existing comparable parking by area or projects;
      (5)   Size of project;
      (6)   Special parking requirements for visitors and recreational
vehicles;
      (7)   Future parking expansion capabilities;
      (8)   Transportation alternatives, including proximity to transit
stations;
      (9)   Workplace relationships;
      (10)   Handicap requirements;
      (11)   Restrictive covenants; and
      (12)   Availability of approved on street parking for required guest
parking.
   (e)   Parking Space Study:
When a parking space study is required for a particular use shown on
table 152-34-1 in subsection
152-34-10A of this chapter, or when an applicant requests a modification in the
number of parking spaces required under section
152-34-6 of this chapter, a parking study shall be provided by the applicant
which recommends an adequate number of parking spaces and sets forth the basis
of the recommendation.
      (1)   The study shall provide:
         a.   Planning and traffic engineering data, including estimates of
parking demand based on recommendations from the Institute of Parking
Engineers;
         b.   Data collected from uses or combinations of uses that are the
same or comparable to the proposed project as indicated by density, scale,
bulk, area, type of activity, and location;
         c.   The source of data used to develop the study's recommendations;
and
         d.   The name and qualifications of the persons who prepared the
study.
      (2)   The planning commission shall determine the required number of
parking spaces after:
         a.   Considering the recommendations of the parking study and any
recommendations from city staff; and
         b.   Making the findings required under subsection C or D of this
section.
Sec 152-34-10 Tables And Figures
   (a)   Off Street Parking Schedule:
TABLE 152-34-1
OFF STREET PARKING SCHEDULE
Use Type Minimum Standard Notes/Additional Standard
Use Type                   Minimum Standard          Notes/Additional Standard
Agricultural uses:
 Agricultural business     1 space per employee on
                           highest employment shift
 Agricultural processing   1 space per employee on
                           highest employment shift
Residential uses:
 Assistedliving facility   1 space per 5 beds
 Boarding house            1 space per tenant
 Dwelling, earth sheltered 2 spaces per dwelling
                           unit
 Dwelling, multiple-
 family:
 Studio and 1 bedroom      1.5 spaces per dwelling
 units                     unit
 2 or more bedroom units   2 spaces per dwelling
                           unit
 Dwelling, single- family  2 spaces per dwelling
                           unit
 Dwelling, single- family
 with accessory dwelling   3 spaces
 unit
 Dwelling, temporary       2 spaces per dwelling
                           unit
 Dwelling, two- family     2 spaces per dwelling
                           unit
 Guesthouse                1 space per dwelling unit
 Manufactured home         2 spaces per dwelling
                           unit
                           1 space for every 4
 Protective housing        residents, plus 1 space
 facility                  per employee on highest
                           employment shift
 Rehabilitation/treatment  0.5 space per bed
 facility
 Residential facility for  1 space for every 4
 elderly or persons with a residents, plus 1 space
 disability                per employee on highest
                           employment shift
                           1 space for every 4
 Residential facilityfor   residents, plus 1 space
 troubled youth            per employee on highest
                           employment shift
                           1 space for every 4
 Transitional housing      residents, plus 1 space
 facility                  per employee on highest
                           employment shift
Public and civic uses:
                           1 space per 6 seats of
                           total seating capacity,
                           plus 1 space per 100      Each 18 inches of bench
 Auditoriumor stadium      square feet of assembly   space shall be considered
                           area within the main      as 1 seat
                           auditorium where there
                           are no fixed seats
 Bus terminal              Parking study required    See subsection 10-34-9E of
                                                     this chapter
 Cemetery                  Parking study required    See subsection 10-34-9E of
                                                     this chapter
                           1 space per 6 seats of
                           total seating capacity,
 Church or place of        plus 1 space per 100      Each 18 inches of bench
 worship                   square feet of assembly   space shall be considered
                           area within the main      as 1 seat
                           auditorium where there
                           are no fixed seats
                           1 space per 6 seats of
                           total seating capacity,
 Club or service           plus 1 space per 100      Each 18 inches of bench
 organization              square feet of assembly   space shall be considered
                           area within the main      as 1 seat
                           auditorium where there
                           are no fixed seats
 Collegeor university      Parking study required    See subsection 10-34-9E of
                                                     this chapter
 Convalescent care         1 space per 4 beds, plus
 facility                  1 space per employee on
                           highest employment shift
 Correctional facility     Parking study required    See subsection 10-34-9E of
                                                     this chapter
 Cultural service          1 space per 300 square
                           feet of gross floor area
                           4 spaces per hole, plus 1 Storage area for golf
 Golf course               space per driving range   carts and maintenance
                           tee                       vehicles shall be provided
 Government service        1 space per 200 square
                           feet of gross floor area
 Hospital                  2 spaces per bed
                           4 spaces, plus 1 space
 Operations center         per employee on highest
                           employment shift
 Park                      Parking study required    See subsection 10-34-9E of
                                                     this chapter
                           2 spaces, plus 1 space    Loading zone and storage
 Post office               per 200 square feet of    area for mail vehicles
                           gross floor area          shall be provided
                           4 spaces, plus 1 space
 Protective service        per employee on highest
                           employment shift
                           1 space per 6 seats of
                           total seating capacity,
                           plus 1 space per 100
 Reception center          square feet of assembly
                           area within the main
                           auditorium where there
                           are no fixed seats
 Riding academy or stable  Parking study required    See subsection 10-34-9E of
                                                     this chapter
                           1 space per employee,
 School, elementary,       plus 2 spaces per
 middle,high, and          classroom and 1 space for
 vocational                every 3 students of
                           driving age
 Utility, major            Parking study required    See subsection 10-34-9E of
                                                     this chapter
Commercial uses:
 Agricultural salesand     4 spaces, plus 1 space    Storage area for vehicles
 service                   per employee on highest   for sale or under repair
                           employment shift          shall be provided
 Animal hospital           5 spaces per doctor
                           2 spaces, plus 1 space
 Bailbond service          per 200 square feet of
                           gross floor area
 Bank or financial         2 spaces, plus 1 space    Plus stacking spaces per
 institution               per 200 square feet of    subsection 10-34-6D1 of
                           gross floor area          this chapter
                           1 space per guestroom,
 Bed and breakfast, home   plus 2 spaces for host
                           family
                           1 space per guestroom,
 Bed and breakfast inn     plus 2 spaces for host
                           family/
                           proprietor
 Business equipment rental 1 space per 250 square
 and supplies              feet of gross floor area
                                                     Plus stacking spaces per
 Car wash                  1 space per employee      subsection 10-34-6D2 of
                                                     this chapter
 Club, private             1 space per 100 square    10 spaces minimum
                           feet of gross floor area
 Construction sales and    1 space per 250 square    Storage area for vehicles
 service                   feet of gross floor area  for sale or under repair
                                                     shall be provided
 Convenience store         1 space per 200 square    Minimum of 5 spaces
                           feet of gross floor area
                           4 spaces, plus 1 space
 Daycare                   per 500 square feet of
                           gross floor area
 Family child daycare      1 space for every 5
 facility                  children authorized
 Licensed family child     1 space for every 5
 care                      children authorized
 Family child preschool    1 space for every 5
 facility                  children authorized
                           1 space per employee on
 Family child care         highest employment shift,
 facility                  plus 1 space for every 5
                           children authorized
                           5 spaces, plus 1 space
 Funeral home              per 35 square feet of
                           assembly room floor area
                           1 space per 250 square
 Garden center             feet of gross floor area,
                           including outdoor display
                           and sales area
 Gas and fuel, storage and 1 space per employee on
 sales                     highest employment shift
                           1 space per 250 square    Plus stacking spaces per
 Gasoline service station  feet of gross floor area  subsection 10-34-6D3 of
                                                     this chapter
 Hostel                    2 spaces plus 1 space per
                           living or sleeping unit
 Hotel                     2 spaces plus 1 space per
                           living or sleeping unit
 Kennel, commercial        1 space per 600 square
                           feet of gross floor area
 Laundry or dry cleaning,  1 space per 250 square
 limited                   feet of gross floor area
 Liquor store              1 space per 250 square
                           feet of gross floor area
 Media service             1 space per 250 square
                           feet of gross floor area
 Medicalor dental          2 spaces, plus 1 space
 laboratory                per employee on highest
                           employment shift
 Medical service           6 spaces per doctor
                           2 spaces, plus 1 space
 Motel                     per living or sleeping
                           unit
 Office, general           1 space per 250 square    8 spaces minimum
                           feet of gross floor area
 Pawnshop                  1 space per 250 square    5 spaces minimum
                           feet of gross floor area
                           1 space per 250 square
                           feet of gross floor area,
 Personal care service     plus 1 space per employee
                           on highest employment
                           shift
                           0.50 space per person
                           under maximum occupancy
 Personal instruction      allowed by fire code,
 service                   plus 1 space per employee
                           on highest employment
                           shift
 Printing and copying,     1 space per 250 square    5 spaces minimum
 limited                   feet of gross floor area
                           1 space per 250 square
                           feet of retail or office
 Printing, general         area, plus 1 space for
                           every 500 square feet of
                           additional building area
 Produce stand             6 spaces                  Exemptfromlandscaping and
                                                     paving requirements
 Recreation and
 entertainment, indoor:
                           5 spaces per alley, plus
 Bowling alley             2 spaces per billiard
                           table
 Movie theater             1 space per 4 seats
 Tennis, handball and      3 spaces per court
 racquetball courts
 Other uses                1 space per 300 square
                           feet of gross floor area
 Recreationand             Parking study required    See subsection 10-34-9E of
 entertainment, outdoor                              this chapter
                           1 space per 250 square
                           feet of retail or office
 Repair service            area, plus 1 space for
                           every 500 square feet of
                           additional building area
 Research service          1 space per employee on
                           highest employment shift
 Residential hosting       1 space per guestroom
 facility                  plus 2 spaces for host
                           family
                           1 space per 100 square    Plus stacking spaces per
 Restaurant, fast food     feet of gross floor area  subsection 10-34-6D4 of
                                                     this chapter
 Restaurant, general       1 space per 100 square    10 spaces minimum
                           feet of gross floor area
 Retail, general           1 space per 250 square
                           feet of gross floor area
 Secondhand store          1 space per 250 square
                           feet of gross floor area
                                                     For shopping centers
                           1 space per 250 square    containing more than 500
 Shopping center           feet of gross floor area, spaces, 1 space per 500
                           up to 500 spaces          square feet of gross floor
                                                     area
 Tattoo establishment      1 space per 250 square    2 spaces minimum
                           feet of gross floor area
 Tavern                    1 space per 100 square    10 spaces minimum
                           feet of gross floor area
 Transportation service    Parking study required    See subsection 10-34-9E of
                                                     this chapter
                           1 space per 250 square
 Vehicle and equipment     feet of gross floor area, 4 spaces minimum
 rental or sale            plus 1 space for every 10
                           vehicles displayed
                                                     4 spaces minimum; separate
 Vehicle and equipment     1 space per 250 square    storage area for vehicles
 repair                    feet of gross floor area  under repair shall be
                                                     provided
 Veterinary service        5 spaces per doctor
 Warehouse, self-service   1 space per employee on
 storage                   highest employment shift
 Wireless
 telecommunication         None
 facility
Industrial uses:
 Automobile wrecking yard  1 space per 1,000 square
 Freight terminal          feet of gross floor area
 Heavy industry            or 1 space per employee
 Junk or salvage yard      on highest shift,
 Laundry services          whichever is greater
                           1 space per 1,000 square
 Manufacturing             feet of gross floor area
 Mineral extraction        or 1 space per employee
 Wholesale and warehousing on highest shift,
                           whichever is greater
      (b)   Parking Space And Aisle Dimensions:
TABLE 152-34-2
PARKING SPACE AND AISLE DIMENSIONS
(In Feet)
Dimension Factors
 A B C D E F G H
Dimension Factors
 A   B C    D  E    F    G    H
Two-way aisle:
 90°9 18   24 9    60   60   18
 75°9 20.3 24 9.5  64   55   18.7
 60°9 20.1 24 10.4 64.2 59.8 17.9
 45°9 19.1 24 12.7 62.2 55.8 15.9
One-way aisle:
 75°9 20.3 17 9.5  57.6 54.4 18.7
 60°9 20.1 15 10.4 55.2 50.8 17.9
 45°9 19.1 13 12.7 51.2 44.8 15.9
   (c)   Parking Space And Aisle Illustration:
FIGURE 152-34-1
PARKING SPACE AND AISLE ILLUSTRATION
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b75875a078cdb63ca4e133352816ef5d5a68ed96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2123.png]
CHAPTER 35 MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS
Sec
152-35-1 Purpose
Sec
152-35-2 Scope
Sec
152-35-3 Access Required
Sec
152-35-4 Development Standards
Sec 152-35-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish uniform standards for motor vehicle
access to private property from public streets under the jurisdiction of the
city.
Sec 152-35-2 Scope
The requirements of this chapter are applicable to new development in
residential, commercial, business and industrial, and public facility zones,
except where access is provided from a street or highway not under the
jurisdiction of the city. In such case, the requirements of the entity having
jurisdiction shall apply. The requirements of this chapter shall not be
construed to prohibit or limit other applicable provisions of this chapter,
this code, and other laws.
Sec 152-35-3 Access Required
Ingress and egress to and from each lot and/or use of land, as the case may be,
subject to this chapter shall be provided as set forth in this chapter.
Sec 152-35-4 Development Standards
The following requirements shall apply to driveways for new development:
   (a)   Residential development:
      (1)   Curb cuts for driveways must be approved by the streets
superintendent or his appointee in accordance with section 156-22 of this code.
In no case will utilities be moved to accommodate driveways.
      (2)   On corner lots, driveways shall be located such that a vehicle
parked on that driveway would not infringe upon the sight triangle area formed
by the property lines and their projections and a line connecting them at
points twenty five feet (25') from the intersections of the projecting property
lines. Lots that front a street that has a functional classification higher
than a local residential street shall require a setback of at least twenty five
feet (25') from the point of curvature of the curb return, or forty feet (40')
from the point of the intersection of property lines nearest the intersection,
whichever is farther from the street intersection, unless approved otherwise by
the city engineer. 3. Any unused curb cuts for driveways shall be replaced with
standard curb, gutter and sidewalk unless otherwise approved by the city
engineer.
   (b)   Nonresidential development:
      (1)   Except as provided in this subsection, the minimum width of a two-
way driveway shall be twenty feet (20') and the maximum width shall be twenty
four feet (24').
         a.   Commercial property requiring five (5) or more parking spaces
shall have driveways with a minimum width of twenty four feet (24') and a
maximum width of thirty six feet (36').
         b.   Commercial property requiring four (4) or fewer parking spaces
shall have driveways with a minimum width of eighteen feet (18') and a maximum
width of thirty feet (30').
      (2)   Each driveway shall be:
         a.   At least fifty feet (50') from an intersecting street; and
         b.   Installed according to city standards and specifications.
         c.   Constructed with curb returns and an eight foot (8') waterway.
      (3)   No driveway shall be closer than twelve feet (12') to another
driveway or be more than thirty six feet (36') in width unless approved by the
city engineer.
      (4)   Not more than two (2) driveways shall be established for each one
hundred feet (100') of street frontage. Where necessary for public safety, the
planning commission may require greater driveway spacing.
      (5)   Driveways that exceed twenty four feet (24') in width shall be
separated by a landscaped area of at least twelve feet (12') in width.
      (6)   Where possible, new driveways for commercial uses shall:
         a.   Be a minimum of two hundred feet (200') apart, and
         b.   Align with any existing commercial driveways across the street.
      (7)   Existing, non-conforming driveways shall be retired upon
construction of a new building.
      (8)   A single driveway may serve property on both sides of a common
property line. Shared driveways between and among lots are encouraged and
allowed if the adjoining property owners execute and record an easement in a
form approved by the city attorney to ensure access for the adjoining lots.
CHAPTER 36 SIGNS
Sec
152-36-1 Purpose
Sec
152-36-2 Definitions
Sec
152-36-3 General Requirements
Sec
152-36-4 Violations And Remedies
Sec
152-36-5 Exceptions
Sec
152-36-6 Location Standards
Sec
152-36-7 Sign Development Standards
Sec
152-36-8 Special Purpose Signs
Sec
152-36-9 Classification Of Signs
Sec
152-36-10 Signs Permitted In Agricultural (A) And Residential (R) Zones And
Noncommercial Uses
Sec
152-36-11 Signs Permitted In Other Zones
Sec
152-36-12 Off Premises Advertising Structures
Sec
152-36-13 Non-Conforming Signs
Sec
152-36-14 Sign Features And Requirements By Zone
Sec 152-36-1 Purpose
The purpose of the sign regulations set forth in this chapter is intended to:
   (a)   Eliminate potential hazards to motorists and pedestrians by requiring
that signs are designed, constructed, installed and maintained in a manner that
promotes the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the
city of Hildale;
   (b)   Encourage signs which, by their design, are integrated with and
harmonious to the buildings and sites, including landscaping, which they
occupy;
   (c)   Encourage sign legibility through the elimination of excessive and
confusing sign displays;
   (d)   Preserve the appearance of the city as a place in which to live and to
work, and create an attraction to nonresidents to come to visit or trade;
   (e)   Allow each individual business to clearly identify itself and the
nature of its business in such a manner as to become the hallmark of the
business which will create a distinctive appearance
and also enhance the city character;
   (f)   Safeguard and enhance property values, and protect public and private
investment in buildings and open space.
Sec 152-36-2 Definitions
The following words and phrases whenever used in this chapter shall be
construed as defined in this section:
A-FRAME SIGN: Any sign or structure composed of two (2) sign faces mounted or
attached back to back in such a manner as to form a basically triangular
vertical cross section through the faces.
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign which is designed and constructed to give its message
through the flashing of or rotation of lights or figures.
BANNER: A flexible sign characteristically supported by two (2) or more points.
It is generally made of fabric or other non-rigid materials with no enclosing
frame.
BILLBOARD: A freestanding ground sign located on real property that is designed
and intended to direct attention to a business, product, service or message
that is not sold, offered or existing on the property, nor specific to the
property where the property sign is located.
BUILDING FACE: The visible outer surface of an exterior wall of a building. The
area of the face of the building shall be the total area of such surface,
including doors and windows.
CANOPY: See definition of Marquee.
DISREPAIR: A sign shall be considered in disrepair when it fails to be in the
same form as originally constructed, or when it fails to perform its intended
function of conveying a message.
Conditions shall include, but not be limited to:
   (a)   Structural pole or support failure.
   (b)   Signs not being held vertically or as originally constructed.
   (c)   Borders falling off or already removed.
   (d)   Panels missing or falling off.
   (e)   Message falling off or in disrepair such that it cannot be interpreted
by the motoring public.
   (f)   Signs that are overgrown by trees or other vegetation.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER: A sign with changeable copy that is controlled
electronically via a remote programming device.
ENTRY FEATURE SIGN: A sign that is placed at the entrance of a subdivision or
other residential or commercial project as part of a distinct architectural or
landscape feature that identifies the project and displays the project name.
ERECT: To build, construct, place, relocate, enlarge, substantially alter,
attach, suspend, paint, post or display. Normal maintenance, including
refinishing, is not included in this definition, provided the use of the sign
is not changed or altered.
FLOATING SIGN: Any inflatable or floating sign or advertising device that is
affixed to or displayed at a place of business. Examples are blimps, hot air
balloons, and inflatable figures.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any sign that is standing on or erected into the ground.
Such signs are usually, but not necessarily, supported from the ground by one
or more poles or posts or similar uprights, with or without braces. Any sign
which is mounted into the ground, but has the supports to any portion of the
roof of a building or structure, shall be considered to be a roof sign.
FRONTAGE: The length of the sides along the street or any other principal
public thoroughfare, but not including such length along an alley, watercourse,
railroad, street or thoroughfare with no permitted access.
LOGO SIGNS: Any sign whose single feature is a reproduction of the common
recognized logo of the company and/or product.
MARQUEE: Any permanent rooflike structure projection beyond a building or wall,
generally designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
MONUMENT SIGN: Any on premises sign which is mounted directly to the ground
having a foundation or pedestal that is at least sixty percent (60%) of the
width of the actual sign structure and meeting the standards for height set for
monument signs.
MOVABLE, FREESTANDING SIGN: Any sign not affixed to or erected into the ground.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: Any sign which advertises products, development projects,
services, or business establishments which are not located, conducted,
manufactured or sold upon the same premises upon which the sign is erected.
ON PREMISES SIGN: Any sign which advertises products, services, development
projects, or business establishments which are located, conducted, manufactured
or sold upon the same premises on which the sign is erected. "On premises" may
include separate parcels that are contiguous to the premises where projects,
services, development projects or business establishments are located and owned
by the same person or legal entity. Only one sign is permitted on a contiguous
parcel.
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN: See definition of On Premises Sign.
PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign attached to a building or structural wall and
extending horizontally outward from such wall more than eighteen inches (18").
PUBLIC EVENT BANNER: A banner pertaining to festivals or events which is
installed as a temporary sign. Installation of banners across SR-59 is
generally not permitted without special permission of the Hildale City council.
PUBLIC INFORMATION SIGN: Signs presenting travel information and signs
concerning historic and scenic sites, public recreation facilities,
miscellaneous instructions and warnings.
READER BOARD: A sign with manually changeable copy such as gas station prices,
school events, etc.
REAL PROPERTY: Land or real estate, with or without structures; not goods or
services. RESIDENTIAL ZONE OR DISTRICT: Any zone which is designated by the
prefix "R" in this chapter.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign which is erected upon or over the roof or over a parapet of
any building or structure.
SCENIC BYWAY: A road that possesses outstanding scenic, recreational,
historical, educational, scientific or cultural values or features. The
designation can be made by federal or state agencies.
SIGN: Any words, lettering, parts of letters, figures, numerals, phrases,
sentences, devices, designs, pictures, trade names or trademarks by which
anything is made known, such as are used to designate a firm, association,
corporation, profession, business or service, whether placed on the ground,
rocks, trees, stumps, or other natural objects, or on a building, wall, roof,
frame, support, fence or other manmade structure, which are visible from any
public street, public highway or public road right of way. For the purpose of
this chapter, the word "sign" does not include the flag, pennant or insignia of
any nation, state, city or other political unit, or of a nonprofit
organization. It shall not include, further, any official notice issued by any
court, public body or officer, or directional, warning or informational sign or
structure required or authorized by law.
SIGN AREA: The area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding the
minimum frame and supports. In computing sign area, only one side of a double
faced sign covering the same subject shall be computed. For signs that do not
have a frame or a separate background, sign area shall be computed on the basis
of the least rectangle, triangle or circle large enough to frame the display on
one face. An electronic message center will be included in calculation of
overall sign area.
TEMPORARY: A period not to exceed six (6) months.
TIME AND TEMPERATURE DEVICE: Any mechanism that displays the time and/or
temperature, but does not display any commercial advertising or identification.
WALL SIGNS: Any sign posted, or painted upon, suspended from, or otherwise
affixed to a wall, fascia, canopy, or marquee of a building located on the site
to which the sign pertains.
WIND SIGN: Any propeller, whirligig or similar commercial device which is
designed to flutter, rotate or display other movement under the influence of
wind. This definition shall not include pennants, flags or banners.
Sec 152-36-3 General Requirements
The following general requirements shall apply to all signs and outdoor
advertising structures which may be erected or maintained within the city:
   (a)   Sign Approval:
Except as otherwise provided, it shall be illegal to erect or maintain any sign
or outdoor advertising structure in the city without first obtaining the
approval of the city for said sign or advertising structure, the granting of
which shall be based upon the provisions of this chapter. Approval shall not be
required for temporary non-electrical wall and non-electrical freestanding
signs of less than six (6) square feet in area.
   (b)   Permits:
The approval of the city shall be evidenced by a permit issued by the zoning
administrator in accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-15, "Sign Permit", of this chapter.
   (c)   Animated Signs:
No strobing, flashing, or rotating signs are permitted.
   (d)   Sound Or Emissions:
No sign shall be designed for the purpose of emitting sound, smoke, or steam.
   (e)   Movable And Temporary Freestanding Signs:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all off premises, movable and
temporary freestanding signs, including, but not limited to, movable,
freestanding, A-frame signs, are prohibited. This prohibition shall include
signs mounted or painted upon vehicles or trailers which are parked in any
location for the purpose of calling attention to or advertising a person, place
or thing. "Temporary" shall be construed to mean a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days.
Movable A-frame signs displaying a menu or special message in front of a place
of business to be displayed during open hours of the business may be approved
subject to a maximum size of thirty inches by thirty six inches (30" x 36").
Such signs require a permit and must be stored inside the place of business
outside of regular business hours and may not obstruct the flow of pedestrian
traffic on the sidewalk or be placed on the street.
   (f)   Off Premises Billboard Signs And Off Premises Outdoor Advertising
Structures:
Off premises billboard signs and off premises outdoor advertising structures
are not permitted in any location within the city of Hildale.
   (g)   Roof Signs:
Roof signs may be permitted upon approval of a design which hides all
supporting members. Roof sign area will be included in the total allowed wall
sign area for the wall over which the roof sign is erected. Roof signs are not
permitted by right.
   (h)   Canopy Signs:
Signs painted on or affixed to canopies which are part of the building shall be
considered part of the total allowed area of wall signs for the wall from which
the canopy projects. Signs painted on or affixed to canopies which are
freestanding shall be considered part of the total allowable area of
freestanding signs for that use. Signs suspended under canopies (marquees)
which project over public rights of way shall be limited to six (6) square
feet. Signs with changeable copy (reader boards) located on marquees of
theaters or similar public assembly uses may combine the total allowable area
for all building faces as permitted by the city so long as there are no wall
signs placed upon building faces other than the face to which the marquee is
attached.
   (i)   Banner Signs: Banner signs will be permitted under the following
conditions:
      (1)   Sign must be mounted or displayed on the face of a building or
affixed to supporting poles or on a permanent fence in such a manner as to
prevent displacement by wind or other cause. Location of banner sign must be
such that safe sight distances are maintained for pedestrian and vehicular
traffic.
      (2)   Sign may not be larger than one hundred (100) square feet.
      (3)   For grand opening promotions, banner signs may be displayed for
sixty (60) consecutive days (only 1 such display per business location).
      (4)   For new businesses without permanent signs, a banner sign may be
permitted for up to six (6) months. One 6-month extension may be granted by the
planning commission.
      (5)   For bankruptcy or going out of business promotions, banner signs
may be displayed for sixty (60) consecutive days (only 1 such display per
business license).
      (6)   For all other sales and events, banner signs may be displayed for a
maximum of thirty
      (30) days per quarter (a 3 month period).
      (7)   Banner signs which become tattered, worn, or in a state of
disrepair must be immediately removed, regardless of time limits. However, a
replacement banner sign with the same message may be erected for the remainder
of the time limit.
   (j)   Floating Signs:
Such signs may be permitted as a temporary use for special events, sales, or
similar occasions for a time period not exceeding twenty one (21) days. One
such twenty one (21) day period may be approved in each three (3) month period.
   (k)   Illumination:
Lighting fixtures used to illuminate any sign shall be mounted on the top of
the sign structure and shielded to prevent the emission of light beyond the
sign.
   (l)   Location:
No sign shall be constructed or erected in such a location or manner that it
obstructs or unreasonably interferes with an existing sign.
Sec 152-36-4 Violations And Remedies
It is unlawful to erect or maintain a sign contrary to the provisions of this
chapter. If a sign is erected or maintained in violation of this chapter, it
shall be deemed a class C misdemeanor and upon conviction, subject to penalty
as provided in section
4-2 of this code. In addition to the remedies and enforcement procedures
outlined in chapter 9 of this chapter, the city may invoke the following
remedies:
   (a)   (1)   Order the defect corrected within a period of time, not
exceeding sixty (60) days from the date of notice or the time established by an
agreement signed by the zoning administrator, if correction of the defect will
bring the subject sign into compliance with the provisions of this chapter; or
      (2)   If the defect cannot be corrected without resulting in a violation
of the provisions of this chapter, order that the subject sign be removed by
and at the expense of the owner of the sign, within a period of time not
exceeding thirty (30) days from the date of notice.
   (b)   It is unlawful to erect or maintain a sign contrary to the provisions
of this chapter. If a sign is erected or maintained in violation of this
chapter, the city may do the following:
      (1)   Order the defect corrected within a fixed period of time, not
exceeding thirty (30) days, if correction of the defect will bring the subject
sign into compliance with the provisions of this chapter; but
      (2)   If correction of the defect will result in a violation of the
provisions of this chapter, order that the subject sign be removed by and at
the expense of the owner of the sign, within a fixed period of time not
exceeding thirty (30) days.
   (c)   If the owner of the sign contests the order of the city, the remedy
shall be an appeal in accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter.
   (d)   If the owner of the sign fails or refuses to remove the subject sign
at the order of the city, the city may remove the sign at any time after the
owner thereof exhausts his or her administrative remedies in relation thereto,
unless otherwise ordered by a court of law. Removal by the city shall be at the
expense of the owner, and the city may obtain judgment against the owner in an
amount equal thereto, together with reasonable attorney fees and costs.
Sec 152-36-5 Exceptions
This chapter shall have no application to signs used exclusively for:
   (a)   The display of official notices used by any court or public body or
official, or the posting of notices by any public officer in the performance of
a duty, or by any person giving legal notice.
   (b)   Directional, warning, or informational signs of a public or semipublic
nature, erected and maintained by an official body or public utility.
   (c)   Any sign of a noncommercial nature when used to protect the health,
safety, or welfare of the general public.
   (d)   Any official flag, pennant or insignia of any nation, state, city or
other political unit.
   (e)   Time and temperature signs and elements of commercial signs which
convey only time, temperature, or weather conditions.
Sec 152-36-6 Location Standards
All signs and outdoor advertising structures shall comply with the following
location requirements:
   (a)   Not Obstruct, Interfere:
No sign shall be erected in such a manner that any portion of the sign or its
support will interfere with the use of any fire escape, exit or standpipe, or
obstruct any required stairway, door, ventilator or window. No sign or its
support shall create a visual obstruction and shall be erected to comply with
the supplemental development standards in subsection
152-37-9E of this chapter.
   (b)   Sight Triangle:
No freestanding or projecting sign shall be erected at any intersection
improved for vehicular traffic within a triangular area formed by the property
lines and their projections and a line connecting them at points twenty five
feet (25') from the intersections of the projecting property lines; unless same
in its entirety is less than three feet (3'), or more than eight feet (8')
above the curb grade, no part of its means of support has a single or joined
horizontal dimension exceeding twelve inches (12"), or said sign is within an
area in which a building or structure is permitted by the provisions of the
respective zone.
   (c)   Utility Clearance:
No sign shall be erected or maintained which has less horizontal or vertical
clearance from communication lines and energized electrical power lines than
that prescribed by the laws of the state or rules and regulations duly
promulgated by agencies thereof or by electrical utility providers. No signs
shall be erected or maintained on any utility pole except by the utility
company itself.
   (d)   Clearance; Public, Private Ways:
No sign shall be erected in such a manner that any portion of the sign or its
support will extend over a public or private walkway with a minimum clearance
of less than ten feet (10').
Sec 152-36-7 Sign Development Standards
   (a)   Monument signs are encouraged in all planned commercial zones and
commercial zones located along the commercial corridor of SR-59.
   (b)   Monument signs are required in all other zones including planned
developments, project entrances, historical zones, and park, church, and school
sites.
   (c)   Wall signs shall be so placed as to utilize existing architectural
features of a building without obscuring them. Wall signs shall be oriented
toward pedestrians or vehicles within close proximity to the sign. The area of
wall sign shall be no greater than twenty percent (20%) of the total square
footage of the wall where it is located. Marquee, canopy, and roof signs shall
be considered part of the twenty percent (20%) area limit.
No part of any such sign shall extend above the top level of the wall upon, or
in front of, which it is located.
No such sign, including any light box or structural part, shall project more
than eighteen inches (18") from the face of the part of the building to which
it is attached. No copy is permitted on the sides of any such sign.
   (d)   Freestanding signs: There may be one such sign for each two hundred
feet (200') of frontage of the property, plus one additional sign for each
additional two hundred foot (200') frontage. In the case of a parcel of
property having multiple occupancies with a common frontage, the frontage shall
be deemed to be that of the entire commonly used parcel of property and not the
frontage of individual businesses or occupancies.
Such signs shall not exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
No such sign shall project more than fifteen feet (15') into any required front
yard.
   (e)   New buildings or clusters of buildings having more than one tenant or
use shall provide a sign plan for the entire structure or project. The sign
plan must be designated so that it establishes a common theme or design, uses
similar construction methods, has compatible colors, lettering, lettering
styles, scale, symbols, and size of signs and backgrounds. Only one
freestanding sign may be allowed, if permitted by this chapter, for clusters of
buildings. Individual businesses may be identified on the same sign. The
planning commission may approve a sign in excess of the maximum size permitted
by this chapter when considering the overall sign plan.
   (f)   Signs which become tattered, worn, or in a state of disrepair must be
removed if not repaired within twenty one (21) days of written notice by city
to sign owner.
Sec 152-36-8 Special Purpose Signs
In addition to any other permitted signs, signs for special purposes set forth
in this section shall be permitted as provided herein:
   (a)   For Sale, Rent Or Lease Signs:
In all zoning districts, signs may be erected to advertise the sale, rent or
lease of property upon which said signs are placed. Said signs shall be limited
to one sign per street face, unless otherwise provided by the zoning
provisions, and shall not exceed an area of six (6) square feet in residential
zones or twenty five (25) square feet in nonresidential zoning districts. Said
signs shall be exempt from project plan approval.
   (b)   Directory Signs:
In all districts where group occupancies in office buildings, commercial
buildings, or industrial buildings are permitted, directory signs may be
erected displaying the names of occupants of a building who are engaged in a
particular profession, business or industrial pursuit. Said sign shall be
situated at least fifteen feet (15') inside the property line and shall not
exceed twelve feet (12') in height. Said sign shall not exceed an area of one
hundred (100) square feet and shall not be placed within a clear vision area of
a corner lot as set forth in section
152-37-9 of this chapter.
   (c)   Construction Project Signs:
Signs may be erected in conjunction with construction projects and used for the
purpose of publicizing the future occupants of the building, architects,
engineers and construction organizations participating in the project; and such
other information as may be approved by the zoning administrator. In
residential districts, no such sign shall exceed one hundred (100) square feet
in area. In other districts, no such sign shall exceed an area of two hundred
(200) square feet, and no freestanding sign shall exceed twelve feet (12') in
height. All such signs shall be removed before final inspection.
   (d)   Directional Signs:
Directional signs may be erected for the purpose of facilitating or controlling
the efficient or safe movement of pedestrians or vehicles on or into private
property. If a directional sign is not located on the property or properties to
which it pertains, it may not be located on another
property that contains more than one other directional sign. Consent of the
other property owner, lessee, or occupant is required. No such sign shall
exceed sixteen (16) square feet.
   (e)   Open House Signs:
Open house signs advertising real estate open for inspection for a prospective
sale may be placed on private property in all districts with the consent of the
owner, lessee or occupant. Such signs may state the name of the person or firm
sponsoring the open house. Such signs shall not exceed six (6) square feet. No
more than two (2) such signs may be placed on any one parcel of private
property at the same time.
   (f)   Church, Quasi-Public Organizations And Apartment House Identification
Signs:
In all districts, a church or quasi-public organization may erect one wall sign
on the premises to identify the name of the organization and announce
activities thereof. Apartment houses of five
      (5) or more dwelling units may erect one wall sign on the premises to
identify only the name of the apartment complex and to indicate a vacancy. Said
wall sign shall not exceed an area of thirty two (32) square feet, and may be
mounted upon a freestanding, ornamental structure if approved by the zoning
administrator.
   (g)   Bus Bench Signs:
In all zones, bus bench signs are prohibited.
   (h)   Development Promotional And Directional Signs:
Two (2) development promotional signs facing different directions may be placed
on the premises of each subdivision, planned development, or condominium
project having five (5) or more lots or approved dwelling units. Said
promotional sign may have an area of sixty four (64) square feet. Two (2)
additional promotional signs facing different directions may be placed on the
premises of each subdivision, planned development or condominium project having
two (2) or more separate, major points of access at each major access point.
All of the above signs shall be removed not later than thirty (30) days
following the sale of all lots in said development.
   (i)   Yard/Garage Sale Signs:
Such signs may be posted only for those sales conducted in compliance with
subsection
152-48-3C of this chapter.
   (j)   Entry Feature Sign:
Such signs may be constructed at entrances of residential or commercial
projects subject to all the safety and visibility provisions of this chapter.
Sec 152-36-9 Classification Of Signs
Every sign erected or proposed to be erected within the city shall be
classified in accordance with the definitions of signs contained in this
chapter. Any sign which does not clearly fall within one of the classifications
shall be placed in the classification which the sign, in view of its design,
location and purpose, most clearly approximates by the zoning administrator.
Sec 152-36-10 Signs Permitted In Agricultural (A) And Residential (R) Zones
AndNoncommercial Uses
No sign shall be erected in any agricultural or any residential zones or for
noncommercial uses except that certain special purpose signs may be erected in
all zones in compliance with the provisions of section
152-36-6 of this chapter.
Sec 152-36-11 Signs Permitted In Other Zones
For those zoning districts which do not have sign regulations as a part of the
zone provisions, and for those which are not readily placed into
classifications referred to in preceding sections, the planning commission
shall classify said zones as either: residential (R), agricultural (A),
commercial (C), or industrial (I) zones, depending upon the similarity of the
characteristics and permitted uses of said zone to those already classified.
When such a classification has been made by the city, the sign provisions
applying to the respective classification shall apply to said zones.
Sec 152-36-12 Off Premises Advertising Structures
   (a)   Prohibition Of New Off Premises Signs:
Except for off premises public information and logo signs meeting the size,
shape, color and other requirements described in subsection B2 of this section,
no permits shall be issued for the construction of off premises signs or
outdoor advertising structures. All lawfully existing off premises signs and
outdoor advertising structures as of the adoption of this chapter are declared
non-conforming uses in all zones of the city.
   (b)   Public Information And Logo Signs:
      (1)   Off premises public information signs are permitted pursuant to
this section for the purpose of directing the traveling public to points of
interest, historical sites and other locations of interest, approved as such by
the city. Specifications for off premises information signs are as set forth in
the "Manual Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices For Streets And Highways" and
all such signs shall comply with those specifications.
      (2)   Off premises "logo" signs are permitted under this section for the
purpose of directing the traveling and general public to business
establishments which provide lodging, food, camping, gas or other services.
Identified by the Utah Department of Transportation as the "logo sign program",
these signs shall comply with the following regulations: In constructing and
maintaining a logo sign program of signs, the owner and installation contractor
shall comply with and adhere to all applicable state and federal laws and
regulations, and to UDOT policy and procedure.
   (c)   City May Amortize:
The city may acquire title to off premises non-conforming signs or outdoor
advertising structures by gift, purchase, agreement, exchange or eminent
domain, and shall have the right to amortize off premises non-conforming signs
as permitted by state or federal law.
Sec 152-36-13 Non-Conforming Signs
   (a)   On Premises Signs:
All on premises or appurtenant signs which have been made non-conforming by the
adoption of provisions contained within this chapter shall be subject to the
following regulations:
      (1)   Unsafe Signs:
Any sign or portion thereof declared unsafe by a proper public authority must
be restored to a safe condition or removed within thirty (30) days of mailing
or otherwise given notice of the unsafe condition.
      (2)   Alterations:
A non-conforming sign shall not be reconstructed, raised, moved, placed,
extended or enlarged or other alteration made unless said sign is changed so as
to conform to all provisions of this chapter. "Alterations" shall also mean
that changing of the text or message on the sign from one use of the premises
to another use of the premises and the changing of the ownership of the sign
when that ownership necessitates a change in the text or message of the sign.
"Alterations" shall not be interpreted to include changing the text or copy on
off premises advertising signs, theater signs, outdoor bulletins or other
similar signs which are designed to accommodate changeable copy.
      (3)   Restoration:
non-conforming signs which have been allowed to deteriorate or which have been
damaged by fire, explosion, act of God, act of a public enemy, or damaged by
any other cause, to the extent of more than sixty percent (60%) of its assessed
value shall, if repaired or rebuilt, be repaired or rebuilt in conformity with
the regulations of this chapter or shall be removed.
   (b)   Off Premises Signs:
All off premises signs which are made non-conforming uses by the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of 152-9a-511, 512, and 513 of
the Utah Code or subsequent amendments.
Sec 152-36-14 Sign Features And Requirements By Zone
TABLE 152-36-1
   Agricultural/ Residential Commercial Industrial SR-9
                 Agricultural/ Commercial   Industrial   SR-9
                 Residential
Sign type:
 On premises
 signs:
  Canopy         NP            P            P            P
  Entry feature  P             P            P            P
  Fascia         NP            P            P            P
  Freestanding   NP            P            P            P
  Marquee        NP            P            P            P
  Monument       NP            P            P            P
  Wall           NP            P            P            P
  Window         NP            P            P            P
 Off premises    NP            NP           NP           NP
 signs
Sign effects and copy content:
 On premises
 signs:
  Animated       NP            P            P            P
  Changeable     NP            P            P            P
  copy
  Electronic     NP            P            P            P
  message center
  Flashing       NP            NP           NP           NP
  Identification P             P            P            P
  Illuminated    NP            P            P            P
  Rotating       NP            NP           NP           NP
 Off premises    NP            NP           NP           NP
 signs
Sign dimensions:
 Maximum sign
 height:
  Freestanding   n/a           35'          35'          35'
  Monument sign  n/a           35'          35'          35'
 Maximum sign
 height:
  Freestanding   n/a           200 sq. ft.  200 sq. ft.  200 sq. ft.
                               1 window or  1 window or
                 1 window or   wall sign,   wall sign,
                 wall sign,    not to       not to
  Home based     not to exceed exceed 12" x exceed 12" x 1 window or wall sign, not   to exceed 12" x 24" containing business
  business       12" x 24"     24"          24"          name
                 containing    containing   containing
                 business name business     business
                               name         name
  Monument sign  n/a           200 sq. ft.  200 sq. ft.  200 sq. ft.
Number of signs (per building or lot):
 On premises
 signs:
  Canopy         n/a           1            1            1
  Entry feature  Per site plan Per site     Per site     Per site plan
                               plan         plan
  Fascia         n/a           1            1            1
  Freestanding   n/a           1            1            1
  Per 200 feet                 1 monument   1 monument
  of single      n/a           or 1         or 1         1 monument or 1 freestanding
  project                      freestanding freestanding
  frontage
  Marquee        n/a           1            1            1
  Monument       n/a           1            1            1
  Wall           n/a           1            1            1
  Window         n/a           1            1            1
 Off premises    NP            NP           NP           NP
 signs
Location of signs:
 Minimum
 clearance under n/a           10'          10'          10'
 sign
 Minimum support
 setback from    n/a           5'           5'           5'
 public right of
 way
 Maximum
 overhang of     n/a           5'           5'           5'
 public right of
 way
 Maximum
 thickness of
 sign over       n/a           3'           3'           3'
 public right of
 way
CHAPTER 37 SUPPLEMENTARY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Sec
152-37-1 Purpose
Sec
152-37-2 Scope
Sec
152-37-3 Abandoned, Wrecked, Or Junk Vehicles
Sec
152-37-4 Adequate Public Facilities
Sec
152-37-5 Accessory Uses And Structures
Sec
152-37-6 Buildable Area
Sec
152-37-7 Condominium Projects
Sec
152-37-8 Easements
Sec
152-37-9 Fences And Walls
Sec
152-37-10 Flag Lots
Sec
152-37-11 Height Exceptions And Limitations
Sec
152-37-12 Lots And Yards
Sec
152-37-13 Private Rights-Of-Way
Sec
152-37-14 Storage Of Trash And Debris Prohibited
Sec
152-37-15 Numbers Of Animals And Fowl For Recreational Use And Family Food
Production
Sec 152-37-1 Purpose
This chapter establishes several miscellaneous land development regulations
which are applicable throughout the city regardless of zone.
Sec 152-37-2 Scope
The requirements of this chapter shall apply in addition to the development and
use standards set forth in other chapters of this chapter, including base
zones, special purpose and overlay zones, development regulations of general
applicability, and regulations for specific uses. The requirements of this
chapter shall not be construed to prohibit or limit other applicable provisions
of this chapter, this code, and other laws; provided that the requirements of
this chapter shall prevail over conflicting provisions of any other requirement
in this chapter unless a different standard is expressly authorized.
Sec 152-37-3 Abandoned, Wrecked, Or Junk Vehicles
   (a)   Abandoned Vehicles Prohibited:
It shall be unlawful to park or permit the parking of any licensed or
unlicensed motor vehicle or parts thereof in an abandoned condition upon any
public or private property within the city for longer than seventy two (72)
hours, except as follows:
      (1)   In any residential or agricultural zone, two (2) or less such
vehicles or parts thereof may be stored in a building or within a rear yard; or
      (2)   In a commercial or industrial zone, any number of such vehicles or
parts thereof may be permitted if:
         a.   Such use is authorized in the zone where the use is located, and
         b.   Vehicles and parts thereof are stored within a building or are
completely screened by a six foot (6') high, opaque, sight obscuring fence.
   (b)   Nuisance:
The accumulation and storage of more than the permitted number of vehicles or
parts thereof on private or public property except as set forth above shall
constitute a nuisance, detrimental to the health, safety, and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city. It shall be the duty of the owner of such vehicle or
parts thereof, or lessee, or other person in possession of private property
upon which such vehicle or parts thereof is located, to remove the same from
such property.
Sec 152-37-4 Adequate Public Facilities
Land shall be developed only where existing infrastructure is in place or will
be timely provided to service proposed development. The city may require an
analysis to be completed to determine whether adequate public facilities are
available to service a development and whether such development will change
existing levels of service or will create a demand which exceeds acceptable
levels of service for roadways, intersections, bridges, storm drainage
facilities, water lines, water pressure, sewer lines, fire and emergency
response times, and other similar public services. The city may disapprove a
proposed development if demand for public services exceeds accepted levels of
service. No subsequent approval of such development shall be given until either
the developer or the city installs improvements calculated to raise service
levels to the standard adopted by the City.
Sec 152-37-5 Accessory Uses And Structures
Accessory uses and structures shall be permitted in all zones provided they are
incidental to, and do not substantially alter a principal use or structure.
   (a)   Front Yard:
No accessory building or structure nor group thereof shall be located in a
front yard unless expressly authorized by a provision of this chapter.
Sec 152-37-6 Buildable Area
Every lot created after the effective date of this chapter shall have a
buildable area sufficient to place a building or structure thereon which meets
the minimum standards of the zone where the lot is located. Buildable area may
be required to be depicted on a proposed subdivision plat, site plan, or plot
plan for the purpose of notifying future owners of the approved buildable area
based on applicable development standards. Area within an easement may not be
included within buildable area unless the easement beneficiary executes and
records a release of the easement in a form acceptable to the City Attorney.
Sec 152-37-7 Condominium Projects
   (a)   State Law Requirements:
The owner of real property may construct a new condominium project or convert
existing land and/or structures into a condominium project by complying with
the provisions of the Condominium Ownership Act, title 57, chapter 8 of the
Utah Code, as amended, and applicable provisions of this chapter and other
titles of this Code.
   (b)   Uses Permitted:
Uses permitted within a condominium project shall be limited to those uses
permitted within the zone in which a project is located.
Sec 152-37-8 Easements
No dwelling, main building, or permanent accessory building shall be located
within a recorded easement area unless the property owner either produces
evidence satisfactory to the Zoning Administrator that the easement has been
abandoned, or executes a recordable document, in a form approved by the City
Attorney, indicating that notwithstanding apparent abandonment of the easement,
the structure may be subject to the superior interest of the easement holder
and may be required to be relocated at the property owner's expense to
accommodate such interest.
   (a)   Location:
Any structure in an easement area shall be located pursuant to the setback and
other applicable requirements of this chapter.
   (b)   No Expansion Of Legal Rights:
Nothing in this section is intended to expand or restrict the rights or
obligations of any party to
any recorded easement.
Sec 152-37-9 Fences And Walls
   (a)   Height Of Fences And Walls:
No fence, wall, or similar structure exceeding six feet (6') in height shall be
erected in any rear or side yard except for accessory buildings and structures
permitted by this chapter unless by conditional use permit.
   (b)   Retaining Walls:
When a retaining wall protects a cut below natural grade and is located on a
line separating lots, such retaining wall may be topped by a fence, wall, or
hedge of the same height that would otherwise be permitted at such location if
no retaining wall existed.
   (c)   Fences In Front Or Side Yards:
No opaque fence or wall or other similar structure exceeding forty eight inches
(48") in height shall be erected within a front yard except upon written
permission from the Planning Commission.
   (d)   Swimming Pools:
Swimming pools of permanent construction not enclosed within a building shall
be set back at least five feet (5') from all property lines and shall be
completely surrounded by a fence or wall having a lockable self-closing gate
and a height of at least six feet (6') which conforms to Building Code
requirements.
   (e)   Visual Obstructions:
To avoid creating a visual obstruction and promote public safety, a fence,
wall, or other similar structure or landscaping located in a required front
yard shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   No opaque fence, wall, or other similar structure, or landscaping
which exceeds two feet (2') in height shall be placed within a triangular area
formed by a driveway line, the street property line, and a line connecting them
at points twelve feet (12') along the driveway line and twelve feet (12') along
the street property line, except for a reasonable number of trees pruned high
enough to permit unobstructed vision for drivers of motor vehicles.
      (2)   In all zones which require a front yard, no fence, wall, or other
similar structure, or landscaping which exceeds two feet (2') in height shall
be placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street
property lines and a line connecting them at points twenty five feet (25') from
the intersection of the street lines, except for a reasonable number of trees
pruned high enough to permit unobstructed vision for drivers of motor vehicles.
Sec 152-37-10 Flag Lots
A flag lot for one single-family dwelling may be allowed to accommodate the
development of property that otherwise could not reasonably be developed under
the regulations contained in this chapter or other titles adopted by the city.
The primary purpose of this section is not to make development of property
easier and more profitable. Rather, it is to serve as a "last resort" for
property which may not otherwise be reasonably developed.
   (a)   Factors:
When property is subdivided, flag lots shall not be approved by right but may
be allowed after considering the following:
      (1)   More than two (2) flag lots with contiguous staffs should be
avoided;
      (2)   Whether development of the property in question under normal city
land use and subdivision regulations is reasonable and practical; and
      (3)   Creation of a flag lot should not foreclose the possibility of
future development of other large interior parcels that are not developable
unless a street is extended to them across other adjacent properties.
   (b)   Development Standards:
When flag lots are permitted, they shall be subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   A flag lot shall be comprised of a staff (narrow) portion that is
contiguous with a flag (wide) portion.
      (2)   The staff portion of the lot shall front on and be contiguous to a
public street. The minimum width of the staff portion at any point shall be
twenty six feet (26'). However, a greater staff width for lots within the
sensitive lands overlay zone may be required. The maximum length of a staff
shall be five hundred feet (500'). The maximum grade of a staff shall not
exceed twelve percent (12%).
      (3)   The size of the flag portion of a lot shall conform to the minimum
lot size requirement of the zone in which the lot is located. Sufficient
turnaround space per the fire code shall be provided.
      (4)   No building or structure shall be located within the staff portion
of a flag lot.
      (5)   The front yard of a flag lot shall be on the side of the flag
portion which connects to the staff. Yard setbacks shall conform to the setback
requirements of the zone in which the flag lot is located.
      (6)   A main building shall be located no more than two hundred fifty
feet (250') from a fire hydrant, measured along a public or private right of
way or along the staff portion of a flag lot. An easement for any fire hydrant
located on private property shall be provided to the city for access to and
maintenance of the hydrant.
      (7)   Upon review the city may require installation of curb, gutter and
other drainage control measures in the staff portion of a flag lot to prevent
runoff from entering neighboring properties.
      (8)   Clear address signage shall be installed and maintained at the
street by the owner, including notice that the driveway is a private right of
way.
      (9)   The new residential structure to be constructed on a flag lot shall
be no higher than the average height of all residential structures within a
three hundred foot (300') radius of the proposed structure.
      (10)   Before a flag lot is approved the joint utility advisory board
must approve the design and location of all facilities needed to accommodate a
single-family dwelling. Construction of the approved facilities must be
complete before a building permit will be issued for the lot.
Sec 152-37-11 Height Exceptions And Limitations
   (a)   Exceptions To Height Limitations:
Roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating
fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the building,
parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, water tanks,
wireless or television masts, theater lofts, silos or similar structures may be
erected above the limits herein prescribed, but no space above the
height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of providing additional floor
space for human occupancy.
   (b)   Maximum Height Of Accessory Buildings:
No building which is accessory to a single-family or a multiple-family dwelling
with four (4) or fewer dwelling units shall be erected to a height greater than
twenty feet (20') unless a greater height is authorized by a conditional use
permit.
   (c)   Minimum Height Of Main Buildings:
No dwelling shall be erected to a height less than one story above grade except
earth sheltered dwellings authorized by the provisions of this chapter.
Sec 152-37-12 Lots And Yards
   (a)   Every Building On Legally Created Lot:
Every building shall be located and maintained on a legally created lot as
defined in this chapter, unless such lot is a legally non-conforming lot. Not
more than one single-family dwelling or commercial structure shall occupy any
one lot except as authorized by the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Sale Or Lease Of Required Land:
No land needed to meet the size, width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
requirements of this chapter shall be sold, leased, or otherwise transferred
away, whether by subdivision or metes and bounds, so as to create or increase
the nonconformity of a lot, building, or site development. No lot having less
than the minimum width and area required by the zone where it is located may be
divided from a larger parcel of land, except as permitted by this section or by
the Planning Commission pursuant to the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   A reduction in the minimum required area of a lot owned by the
city, county, state, or other public entity or utility provider may be granted
a variance approved by the Planning Commission provided:
         a.   Such lot is used exclusively for public purposes, and
         b.   No living quarters are located on such lot.
      (2)   If a portion of a lot which meets minimum lot area requirements is
acquired for public use in any manner, including dedication, condemnation or
purchase, and such acquisition reduces the minimum area required, the remainder
of such lot shall nevertheless be considered as having the required minimum lot
area if all of the following conditions are met:
         a.   The lot contains a rectangular space of at least thirty by forty
feet (30 x 40') exclusive of applicable front and side yard requirements, and
exclusive of one- half (1/2) of the applicable rear yard requirements, and such
rectangular space is usable for a principal use or structure.
         b.   The remainder of the lot has an area of at least one-half (1/2)
of the required lot area of the zone in which it is located.
         c.   The remainder of the lot has access to a public street.
   (c)   Reduction Of Minimum Lot Width And Area Requirements:
Minimum lot area or lot width requirements of this chapter shall not be
construed to prevent the use of a lot for a single-family dwelling so long as
such lot was:
      (1)   Held in separate ownership on the effective date of this chapter;
and
      (2)   Was legally created when it became non-conforming as to area or
width.
   (d)   Adjacent Lots When Used As One Building Lot:
When a common side lot line separating two (2) or more contiguous lots is
covered or proposed to be covered by a building, such lots shall constitute a
single building site and the setback requirements of this chapter shall not
apply to a common lot line if a document is recorded indicating the owner's
intent to use the combined lots as a single development site. The setback
requirements of this chapter shall apply only to the exterior side lot lines of
the contiguous lots so joined.
   (e)   Double Frontage Lots:
Lots having frontage on two (2) or more streets shall be prohibited except for
corner lots and double frontage lots in subdivisions which back onto streets
shown on the City's road master plan.
Such double frontage lots shall be accessed only from an internal subdivision
street. Frontage on lots having a front lot line on more than one (1) street
shall be measured on one (1) street only.
   (f)   Setback Measurement:
The depth of a required yard abutting a street shall be measured from the lot
line except as set forth below:
      (1)   In blocks where more than fifty percent (50%) of the buildable lots
have main buildings which do not meet the current front yard setback of the
zone where the block is located, the minimum front yard requirement for new
construction shall be equal to the average existing front yard size on the
block. In no case shall a front yard of more than thirty feet (30') be
required.
      (2)   On lots with frontage on the curve of a cul-de-sac or "knuckle"
street the front setback may be measured from a straight line drawn joining the
front corners of the lot. In no case may the living area be any closer than
fifteen feet (15') from the back of sidewalk or the garage be any closer than
twenty feet (20') from the back of sidewalk.
   (g)   Yards To Be Unobstructed;
Exceptions: Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky and
unobstructed except for:
=
      (1)   Accessory buildings in a rear yard or interior side yard;
      (2)   The ordinary projections of window bays, roof overhangs, skylights,
sills, belt courses, cornices, chimneys, flues and other ornamental features,
which shall not project into a yard more than four feet (4');
      (3)   Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways
and balconies open upon fire towers projecting into a yard not more than five
feet (5'); and
      (4)   Any part of an uncovered deck or patio, excluding nonopaque
railings.
   (h)   Yard Space For One Building Only:
No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is
hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this chapter, shall be considered as providing a yard or open
space for any other building, nor shall any yard or other required open space
on an adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot
whereon a building is to be erected or established.
   (i)   Lot Coverage:
In no zone shall a building or group of buildings with their accessory
buildings cover more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of the lot.
Sec 152-37-13 Private Rights-Of-Way
The Zoning Administrator shall not authorize a building permit for a dwelling
located on a lot accessed only by a private right-of-way except under one (1)
of the following conditions:
   (a)   non-conforming Lot:
The lot was legally created and recorded prior to the effective date of this
chapter; or
   (b)   Variance:
A variance is granted by the Hearing Officer.
Sec 152-37-14 Storage Of Trash And Debris Prohibited
No yard or other open space shall be used for the accumulation of trash,
debris, or abandoned equipment and no land shall be used for such purposes,
except as authorized by and in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Sec 152-37-15 Numbers Of Animals And Fowl For Recreational Use And Family Food
Production
Subject to the following conditions, the keeping of chickens, ducks, pigeons,
and rabbits, shall be permitted in the R1-10, R1-15, and RA-.5 zoning
classifications. In the R1-10 and R1-15 Zones, fighting cocks are specifically
prohibited. In the RA-.5 Zones fighting cocks are specifically prohibited.
The number of animals permitted on a specific parcel shall be determined on the
basis of points. Each full acre lot shall equal five hundred (500) animal
points. Lots smaller than one (1) acre shall be permitted a proportionate
number of points in relation to the percentage of an acre contained in the lot
(e.g., 0.25 acre x 100 = 25 animal points).
 
Type Of Animal Or Fowl                Number Of
                                      Points Per Animal
Chickens, rabbits, ducks, and pigeons 3
Sheep, goats, and Roosters            25
Swine                                 75
Cows, horses                          100
(For example, a 0.25 acre lot would be allowed 8 chickens, ducks, pigeons, or
rabbits or combination thereof for a total of 8 animals.)
Animal enclosures, including, but not limited to, coops, hutches, or pens, must
be located at least five feet (5') from a back or side property line, animal
enclosures may not be located in front yards, and no animal enclosure may be
located any closer than twenty five feet (25') from a neighboring house.
All requirements of title 9, chapter 90, "Animals", of this code shall apply.
CHAPTER 38 TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS (Reserved)
CHAPTER 39 SUBDIVISIONS
Sec
152-39-1 General Provisions
Sec
152-39-2 Scope
Sec
152-39-3 Definitions
Sec
152-39-4 Necessity Of Plat; Exemption From Plat Requirements
Sec
152-39-5 Notice Requirements
Sec
152-39-6 Preliminary Plat Process
Sec
152-39-7 Preliminary Plat Requirements
Sec
152-39-8 Construction Drawings
Sec
152-39-9 Final Plat Approval Process
Sec
152-39-10 Final Plat Requirements
Sec
152-39-11 Subdivision Streets And Fencing
Sec
152-39-12 Subdivider's Agreement
Sec
152-39-13 Guarantee Of Completion Of Improvements; Form Of Surety ; Release Of
Funds
Sec
152-39-14 Warranty Of Completed Improvements
Sec
152-39-15 Enforcement And Permits
Sec
152-39-16 Plat Amendments
Sec
152-39-17 Fees
Sec
152-39-18 Penalty ; Validity
Sec 152-39-1 General Provisions
   (a)   The underlying purpose and intent of this chapter is to promote the
health, safety, convenience, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city
of Hildale in the division or subdivision of land and related matters affected
by each subdivision.
   (b)   Any proposed subdivision and its ultimate use shall be in the best
interest of the public welfare and shall be in harmony with good neighborhood
development of the area concerned, and the subdivider shall present evidence to
this effect when requested to do so by the planning commission.
   (c)   In cases where unusual topographical or other exceptional conditions
exist such as sensitive lands, collapsible soils or other conditions
necessitating any exceptions from or additional requirements to this chapter,
said exceptions or requirements may be set by city council after recommendation
by the planning commission and/or the city engineer.
Sec 152-39-2 Scope
   (a)   No person shall subdivide any tract of land which is wholly or in part
within the city boundaries except in compliance with this chapter.
   (b)   No person shall sell or exchange, or offer to sell or exchange, any
parcel of land which is a part of a subdivision of a larger tract of land, or
offer for recording in the office of the county recorder any deed conveying
such a parcel of land, or any interest therein, unless such subdivision has
been created pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   All lots, plots, or tracts of land located within a subdivision shall
be subject to this chapter regardless of whether or not the tract is owned by
the subdivider or a subsequent purchaser, transferor, or holder of the land.
Sec 152-39-3 Definitions
The following words and phrases used in this chapter, in addition to those
listed in chapter 3 of this chapter, shall have the respective meanings
hereafter set forth, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the
context:
ADJACENT LANDOWNERS: Any property owner of record, according to the records of
the county recorder, whose property adjoins or abuts property proposed for
subdivision, or any portion thereof.
AFFECTED ENTITY: As stated in statute, a county, municipality, independent
special district, local district, school district, interlocal cooperation
entity, specified public utility, or the Utah department of transportation, if:
   (a)   The entity's services or facilities are likely to require expansion or
significant modification because of an intended use of land;
   (b)   The entity has filed with the municipality a copy of the entity's
general or long range plan; or
   (c)   The entity's boundaries or facilities are within one mile of land
which is the subject of a general plan amendment or land use ordinance change.
BLOCK: The land surrounded by streets and other rights of way other than an
alley, or land which is designated as a block on any recorded subdivision plat.
BONA FIDE DIVISION OR PARTITION OF LAND FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES: The division
of
a parcel of land into two (2) or more lots none of which is less than five (5)
acres in an area, and where no dedication of any street is required to serve
any such lots or parcels of land so created.
CITY: Hildale City, Utah.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of Hildale City, Utah.
CITY ENGINEER: The city engineer of Hildale City, Utah, or a consulting
engineering firm designated as the city engineer by the city council.
CITY PLANNER: The professional planner of Hildale City, Utah, or person
designated as such by the Hildale City council.
COMMUNICATIONS EASEMENT: An exterior easement for placement of facilities
intended to be used in connection with the delivery of multichannel video
programming services, cable services, information services, or tele-
communications or telecommunications services.
COMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE: Facilities planned to be used in connection with
the delivery of multichannel video programming services, cable services,
information services, telecommunications or telecommunications services, which
term shall include, but not be limited to, conduit.
COUNTY: Washington County, Utah.
CULINARY WATER AUTHORITY: The department, agency, or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water
system and sources for the subject property.
DEDICATION: Land set aside by an owner for any general and public uses.
EASEMENT: That portion of a lot or lots reserved for present or future use by a
person or agency other than the legal owner or owners of said property or
properties. The easement may be for use under, on, or above said lot or lots.
FINAL PLAT: The final drawing of the subdivision and dedication prepared for
filing of record with the county recorder and in compliance with all the
requirements set forth in this chapter and adopted pursuant thereto.
GENERAL PLAN: A plan, labeled "General Plan of Hildale City", including maps or
reports or both, which has been approved by the city council as required by
law, or such plan as it may be amended from time to time.
JOINT UTILITY COMMITTEE: A committee consisting of representatives from each
major utility provider, including but not limited to water, gas, power, sewer,
phone, and public works, and chaired by the Public Works Director.
LOT: A separately delineated parcel of real property having a number and
designation shown on a recorded subdivision plat, or a contiguous quantity of
real property defined in a deed by metes and bounds which has a separate
property identification number according to the records of the county recorder
and is not shown on a recorded subdivision plat.
LOT RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land of not less than twenty six feet (26') wide
connecting a lot to a street for use as private access to that lot.
OFFICIAL ZONING MAP: A zoning map adopted by the city council pursuant to the
provisions of section 152-9a-501, Utah Code Annotated, 1953, as amended.
OPEN SPACE: Designated land within the subdivision which shall always remain
undeveloped, which shall be included in improved parks and recreational areas,
or which shall remain all natural.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or
partnership, firm, or association of individuals, however styled or designated.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Hildale City planning commission.
PLAT: A map or depiction of a subdivision, showing thereon the division of a
tract or parcel of land into lots, blocks, and streets, or other divisions and
dedications.
SANITARY SEWER AUTHORITY: Colorado City-Hildale City Utility Department.
SECURITY: An escrow agreement, irrevocable letter of credit, or other security
instrument given by the subdivider to ensure the proper installation of public
improvements.
STREET: A thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to the public and
accepted by proper public authority, or a thoroughfare not less than twenty six
feet (26') wide which has been made public by right of use and which affords
the principal access to the abutting property.
Street, Arterial: A street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended
to serve as a major trafficway, and is designated on the general plan as a
controlled access highway, major street, parkway or other equivalent term to
identify those streets comprising the basic structure of the street plan.
Street, Collector: A street, existing or proposed, which is the main means of
access to an arterial street system.
Street, Cul-De-Sac: A street which originates from a designated city street
with no other outlet and forcing a radius turn area, not to exceed six hundred
sixty feet (660') in length without the written approval of the city council,
the planning commission and the fire chief.
Street, Private: A right of way or easement in private ownership not dedicated
or maintained as a public street.
Street, Residential: A street, existing or proposed, which is supplementary to
a collector street and which serves or is intended to serve local needs of a
neighborhood.
SUBDIVIDER: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership,
corporation, trust or other legal entity commencing proceedings under this
chapter to effect a subdivision for himself or for another.
SUBDIVISION:
   (a)   Includes:
      (1)   The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and
bounds description, devise and testacy, map, plat or other recorded instrument;
and
      (2)   Except as provided herein, divisions of land for all residential
and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial,
agricultural and industrial purposes.
   (b)   Does not include:
      (1)   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable land
use ordinance;
      (2)   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining unsubdivided
properties adjusting their mutual boundary if no new lot is created and the
adjustment does not violate applicable land use ordinances; or
      (3)   A recorded document executed by the owner of record, revising the
legal description of more than one contiguous unsubdivided parcel of property
into one legal description encompassing all such parcels of property, or
joining a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of property that has
not been subdivided, if the joinder does not violate applicable land use
ordinances.
The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of property
that has not been subdivided does not constitute a "subdivision" as to the
unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the unsubdivided parcel to the
provisions of this chapter.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2019-009 on 8/7/2019
Sec 152-39-4 Necessity Of Plat; Exemption From Plat Requirements
All subdivisions shall be required to prepare and receive approval of a
preliminary and final plat in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
except as follows:
   (a)   A subdivision creating no more than one new lot may be approved by
city staff without the necessity of preparing and filing a preliminary plat or
final plat if:
      (1)   Notice is provided by city as required by this chapter.
      (2)   The proposed subdivision:
         a.   Is not traversed by the mapped lines of a proposed street as
shown in the general plan and does not require the dedication of any land for
street or other public purposes.
         b.   Does not impact an existing easement or right of way or, if it
does have an impact, evidence is shown that the impact will not impair the use
of any such easement or right of way.
         c.   Has been approved by the culinary water authority and sanitary
sewer authority.
         d.   Is located in a zoned area, and conforms to all applicable land
use ordinances or has properly received a variance from the requirements of an
otherwise conflicting and applicable land use ordinance.
   (b)   A lot or a parcel resulting from a division of agricultural land is
exempt from the plat requirements of this chapter if the lot or parcel:
      (1)   Meets the minimum size requirement of applicable zoning; and
      (2)   Is not used and will not be used for any nonagricultural purpose.
   (c)   The creation of a lot under subsection A of this section shall not be
approved until a plan for providing utilities and other required improvements
to the proposed lot has been reviewed and signed by members of the joint
utility committee. No building permit will be issued for said lot until the
approved improvements are constructed and accepted.
   (d)   The boundaries of each lot or parcel exempted under subsection A or B
of this section shall be described by deed and upon approval of city staff,
shall be recorded with the county recorder.
Sec 152-39-5 Notice Requirements
   (a)   Notice Of Proposed Multiple-Unit Residential, Commercial, Or
Industrial Development:
Notice of any public hearing to consider a preliminary plat describing a
multiple-unit residential, commercial, or industrial development shall be
provided in writing to any affected entity.
   (b)   Notice Of Proposal To Vacate Some Or All Of A Public Street, Right Of
Way, Or Easement:
The legislative body shall hold a public hearing and give notice of the date,
place, and time of the hearing at least ten (10) days before the public hearing
by:
      (1)   Mailing notice to the record owner of each parcel that is accessed
by the public street, right of way, or easement;
      (2)   Mailing notice to each affected entity;
      (3)   Posting notice on or near the street, right of way, or easement in
a manner that is calculated to alert the public;
      (4)   Publishing notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city; and
      (5)   Publishing notice on the Utah public notice website.
Sec 152-39-6 Preliminary Plat Process
All applications for preliminary plat approval shall be subject to the
following:
   (a)   City and/or applicant shall determine whether proposed subdivision is
consistent with current zoning of the property.
   (b)   If proposed subdivision is consistent with zoning designation, the
applicant shall meet with planning staff to discuss the proposed project.
   (c)   Applicant shall obtain a preliminary plat application form and
complete the application and have a plat prepared by a licensed engineer or
surveyor meeting all the requirements for a preliminary plat.
   (d)   Applicant shall submit completed application, preliminary plat,
subdivider's agreement pursuant to section
152-39-12 of this chapter, and required fee to planning department on or before
deadline for submissions established by the city.
   (e)   Staff shall review application and plat for completeness and obtain
comments from joint utility committee.
   (f)   Zoning administrator shall place the item on an agenda for
consideration at a public meeting before the planning commission.
   (g)   Applicant or applicant's authorized representative shall appear at the
scheduled meeting before the planning commission to discuss the preliminary
plat, answer questions, and receive recommendation from planning commission.
   (h)   Planning commission may recommend to the city council approval,
disapproval, or approval with conditions.
   (i)   Upon receiving a recommendation from the planning commission, the
preliminary plat application will be placed on a city council agenda. Applicant
or applicant's authorized representative must appear at the city council
meeting when application is on the agenda. In the event the applicant fails to
appear at the city council meeting, or if applicant fails to obtain approval
from the city council within six (6) months said preliminary plat shall be
considered void.
   (j)   City council may approve the plat, approve with conditions, recommend
changes, send back to the planning commission, or deny the plat, subject to the
following:
      (1)   The city council shall withhold approval of a preliminary or final
plat if the plat contains a communications easement that may have the effect of
prohibiting the ability of any person to provide multichannel video programming
services, cable services, information services, telecommunications or
telecommunications services within the subdivision. An easement including a
communications easement that limits the ability of any landowner to access a
local utility or franchised cable or telecommunications service provider
without payment of a fee to cross the easement violates this section.
      (2)   The city council shall withhold approval of a preliminary or final
plat if the property to be dedicated for streets, roads, rights of way or other
parcels intended for the use and benefit of the general public is not provided
free and clear of any easements, unless the city council finds that:
         a.   The subdivider did not create the easement, and could not
reasonably be expected to obtain a release of the easement; an
         b.   Acceptance of the easement will not adversely affect the public.
   (k)   Approval of the preliminary plat by the city council shall authorize
the subdivider to proceed with the preparation and review of construction
drawings and the final plat.
   (l)   After preliminary plat approval from the city council, a complete
application for final plat approval must be submitted within one year of the
preliminary plat approval date. The planning commission may authorize a onetime
extension not to exceed one year, provided that a written request for extension
is received by the city before the one year time period has expired.
Sec 152-39-7 Preliminary Plat Requirements
The preliminary plat shall include or be accompanied by the following:
   (a)   Description:
In a title block located in the lower right hand corner of the sheet the
following is required:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision.
      (2)   The location of the subdivision, including the address and the
section, township and range.
      (3)   The names and addresses of the owner or subdivider if other than
the owner.
      (4)   Date of preparation and north point.
      (5)   Scale shall be of sufficient size to adequately describe in legible
form all required elements.
   (b)   Existing Conditions:
The preliminary plat shall show:
      (1)   The location of the nearest monument.
      (2)   The boundary of the proposed subdivision and the acreage included.
      (3)   All property contiguous to the property to be subdivided and under
the control of the subdivider, even though only a portion is being subdivided.
(Where the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider's tract, a
sketch of the prospective street system of the unplatted parts of the
subdivider's land shall be submitted, and the street system of the part
submitted shall be considered in light of existing master street plan or other
commission studies.) And all property contiguous to the proposed subdivision.
      (4)   The location, width and names/numbers of all existing streets
within two hundred feet (200') of the subdivision and of all prior streets or
other public ways, easements, utility rights of way, parks and other public
open spaces, within and adjacent to the tract.
      (5)   The location of all wells and springs or seeps, proposed, active
and abandoned, and of all reservoirs or ponds within the tract and at a
distance of at least one hundred feet (100') beyond the tract boundaries.
      (6)   Existing ditches, canals, natural drainage channels and open
waterways and proposed realignments.
      (7)   Contours at vertical intervals not greater than five feet (5').
      (8)   Identification of potential geotechnical constraints on the project
site (such as expansive rock and soil, collapsible soil, shallow bedrock and
caliche, gypsiferous rock and soil, potentially unstable rock or soil units
including fault lines, shallow groundwater, and windblown sand) and
recommendations for their mitigation.
   (c)   Proposed Plan:
The subdivision plans shall show:
      (1)   The layout of streets, showing location, widths and other
dimensions of proposed streets, crosswalks, alleys and easements.
      (2)   The layout, numbers and typical dimensions of lots. Designation of
buildable area is required for each lot.
      (3)   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use or set aside for use of property owners in the subdivision.
      (4)   Easements for water, sewers, drainage, utilities, lines and other
purposes.
      (5)   Typical street cross sections and street grades where required by
the planning commission.
      (6)   A tentative plan or method by which the subdivider proposes to
handle the stormwater drainage for the subdivision.
      (7)   Approximate radius of all centerline curves on highways or streets.
      (8)   Each lot shall abut a street shown on the subdivision plat or on an
existing publicly dedicated street. (Double frontage or flag lots shall be
prohibited except where conditions make other design undesirable.)
      (9)   All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after subdividing
of a larger tract shall be added to adjacent lots or common areas, rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
      (10)   Where necessary, copies of any agreements with adjacent property
owners relevant to the proposed subdivision shall be presented to the planning
commission.
      (11)   A letter from both the local sanitary sewer provider and culinary
water provider indicating availability of service.
      (12)   If the subdivision is to be built in phases, the plat shall show
possible phasing lines.
      (13)   A tentative plan or method for providing nondiscriminatory access
to the subdivision for purposes of placement of communications infrastructure,
and for purposes of placement of utility infrastructure.
   (d)   Required Copies Of Plans:
      (1)   Two (2) copies of all full scale drawings.
      (2)   One copy of each drawing on eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x
17") sheets or eight and one-half by eleven (81/2 x 11) if the project is small
and the plans are legible at that size.
Sec 152-39-8 Construction Drawings
After preliminary plat approval by city council, the applicant shall have
construction drawings prepared by a licensed engineer for all on site and
required off site improvements in accordance with the following:
   (a)   Final plan and profile must be prepared in accordance with:
      (1)   Current Hildale City standards and specifications;
      (2)   Requirements of the Southwest Utah Public Health Department and the
state department of environmental quality or other appropriate state agencies;
and5. Applicable fire codes.
   (b)   Specific geotechnical recommendations for the design and construction
of the proposed subdivision shall include the following if applicable:
      (1)   A general assessment of the requirements needed to develop on the
site.
      (2)   Site preparation and grading and the suitability of on site soils
for use as structural fill.
      (3)   Stable cut and fill slopes including recommendations concerning the
effects of material removal and the introduction of water.
      (4)   Recommendations for foundation type and design criteria, including,
but not limited to, bearing capacity of natural or compacted soils, provisions
to mitigate the effects of expansive, compressible, or collapsible soils,
differential settlement and varying soil strength, and the effects of adjacent
loads.
      (5)   Anticipated total and differential settlement.
      (6)   Special design and construction considerations, as necessary, such
as the excavation and replacement of unsuitable materials, excavation
difficulties, stabilization, or special foundation provisions for problem soil
conditions.
      (7)   Design criteria for restrained and unrestrained retaining or
rockery wall.
      (8)   Moisture protection and surface drainage.
   (c)   Eleven (11) sets of complete drawings must be submitted to the Public
Works Director. Construction drawings must contain a signature block for all
required utility, City, and Ash Creek Special Service District representatives.
Drawings shall be a minimum of twenty two inches by thirty four inches (22" x
34") (full size).
   (d)   Applicant shall request placement on a Joint Utility Committee agenda
for initial review of the plans.
   (e)   Applicant or applicant's authorized representative shall attend the
Joint Utility Committee meeting when the item is on the agenda. Utility,
franchisee, City, and Ash Creek representatives will take copies of plans to
redline.
   (f)   All street grades over five percent (5%) shall be noted on the
preliminary plat.
   (g)   When redlines are completed, Public Works Director shall prepare a
summary of the needed changes and return redlined plans to applicant.
   (h)   Applicant shall then submit three (3) copies of the corrected
construction drawings, addressing all redlined items, to the City Engineer for
review and possible signature. After City Engineer signs, applicant must obtain
all required signatures and return signed plans to Public Works Director for
final signature.
   (i)   Construction drawings are valid for twenty four (24) months after
final signature. Construction drawings signed more than twenty four (24) months
prior to construction of improvements shall be considered expired. For a
project where construction has started and all improvements shown on the plan
will be constructed, the Public Works Director may permit construction to
continue. Construction drawings showing multiple phases of a project are valid
only for those improvements constructed within the first twenty four (24)
months of approval. New approvals must be obtained and any new standards shall
apply for future phases or delayed projects.
Sec 152-39-9 Final Plat Approval Process
Application process:
   (a)   Once construction drawings are approved, applicant shall submit
completed final plat application, paper copy of final plat in full size, an
electronic copy of the final plat, required fee, and any other required
documents to Planning Department.
   (b)   The City Engineer shall review the electronic copy of plat and notify
the applicant or applicant's authorized representative of any required changes.
Applicant shall make required changes and resubmit electronic and paper copies
of final plat, one full size and one (1) eleven inch by seventeen inch (11" x
17") for second review.
   (c)   If plat is approved by City Engineer, he shall sign the plat and
return to the Planning Department. If plat is not approved after second
submittal, an additional fee must be paid before any subsequent reviews.
   (d)   Upon signature of approved final plat, the final plat application
shall be reviewed by the final plat approval staff.
   (e)   Once the final plat approval staff has granted approval of a final
plat and a bond or other financial security is in place in accordance with
section
152-39-13 of this chapter, the subdivider may schedule a preconstruction
meeting with the City Public Works Department. Upon receipt of written notice
to proceed from City, construction of the subdivision may proceed. No
construction shall be permitted prior to receipt of written notice to proceed.
Sec 152-39-10 Final Plat Requirements
   (a)   Required Information: The final plat shall show:
      (1)   The name or designation of the subdivision that is distinct from
any plat already recorded in the County Recorder's Office, as approved by the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   The boundaries, course, and dimensions of all of the parcels of
ground divided, by their boundaries, course, and extent, whether the owner
proposes that any parcel of ground is intended to be used as a street or for
another public use, and whether any such area is reserved or proposed for
dedication for a public purpose.
      (3)   The lot or unit reference, block or building reference, street or
site address, street name or coordinate address, acreage or square footage of
all parcels, units, lots, and the length and width of the blocks and lots
intended for sale.
      (4)   Every existing right-of-way and easement grant of record for
communications infrastructure, for underground facilities as defined in section
54-8a-2 of the Utah Code and for other utility facilities. Where the same is
granted to a specific entity, that entity must be clearly identified.
      (5)   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines
or official monument, which shall be accurately described on the plat and shown
by appropriate symbols.
      (6)   All street centerline data must be shown, together with its
relationship to the property lines, corners, etc.
      (7)   The accurate location of all monuments shall be shown on the plat,
and shall be identified, including all United States, State, County or other
official monuments.
      (8)   The dedication to the public of all streets and highways included
in the proposed subdivision (except approved private streets).
      (9)   Street monuments to be installed by the subdivider in accordance
with the requirements of the City standards. Locations of said monuments shall
be approved by the City Engineer and indicated on the subdivider's plat by the
appropriate symbols.
      (10)   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purposes indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed or covenant for common uses by all property
owners.
      (11)   Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property
controlled by a public agency or utility company, approval for the location,
improvement and maintenance of such streets shall be obtained from the public
agency or utility company and entered on the final plat in a form approved by
the City Attorney.
      (12)   The parent parcel number, as shown on the records of the
Washington County Recorder in St. George, Utah.
   (b)   Required Forms And Certificates:
In addition the final plat shall contain the standard forms for the following:
      (1)   A registered professional land surveyor's signed certificate of
survey, together with a statement that:
         a.   the surveyor holds a license in accordance with title 58, chapter
22 of the Utah Code, Professional Engineers and Professional Land Surveyors
Licensing Act;
         b.   the surveyor has completed a survey of the property described on
the plat in accordance with section 17-23-17 of the Utah Code and has verified
all measurements; and
         c.   has placed monuments as represented on the plat.
      (2)   The owner's certificate of dedication of all streets, roads,
rights-of-way or other parcels intended for the use and benefit of the general
public.
      (3)   Mortgagee or other lienholder's consent to record, if applicable.
      (4)   A notary public's acknowledgment of the signature of the mortgagee
or each owner signing the plat.
      (5)   Certificate of approval from Colorado City-Hildale City Utility
Department.
      (6)   Certificate of approval and acceptance by the City as evidenced by
the signature of the Mayor.
      (7)   Certificate of approval of the City Engineer.
      (8)   Certificate of approval as to form executed by the City Attorney.
      (9)   A one and one-half inch by five inch (11/2" x 5") space in the
lower right hand corner of the drawing for the use of the County Recorder.
      (10)   Certificate of approval of the County Treasurer.
   (c)   Other Information Required:
The following information or documentation shall be submitted with the final
plat or prior to recordation:
      (1)   A statement that all taxes or special assessments payable on all
property within the limits of the subdivision are paid in full, or a letter
stating that a satisfactory bond has been filed to secure such payment.
      (2)   An original copy for staff review of the proposed deed restrictions
or CC&Rs in proposed final form with signature lines for all owners of any
interest in the subdivision who would sign the final subdivision plat must be
submitted with final plat application. After being approved by staff this
document shall be signed, acknowledged by a notary public, and recorded in the
Office of the County Recorder along with the final plat.
      (3)   An up to date title or subdivision report for the property being
subdivided.
      (4)   A disk of the final plat prepared in "AutoCAD 2004" (or newer
format).
      (5)   Mylar of approved final plat submitted and reviewed for substantial
conformance with paper final plat.
   (d)   Requirements For Recordation:
      (1)   Final plat approval.
      (2)   Bond or other financial security in place.
      (3)   Payment of any applicable impact fee.
      (4)   Three (3) disks of the final plat prepared in "AutoCAD 2004" format
or later format as designated from time to time by City Engineer; one disk for
the City, one for the County Recorder.
      (5)   Final title or subdivision report prepared and submitted to the
City Attorney.
      (6)   All signatures must be on the mylar, including property owners of
record according to the title report and City officials. The City Attorney
shall be the last signer of the mylar just prior to recordation.
      (7)   Preliminary acceptance by City of all public and private
improvements as shown on approved construction drawings.
      (8)   If submitted mylar shows substantial change from the approved paper
final plat, applicant shall submit an application for an amended plat and get
approval of the amended plat before recordation will be permitted to occur.
   (e)   Recordation Of Plat:
Any subdivision plat receiving final approval from the City Council shall be
recorded at the Office of the Washington County Recorder within one year of the
date of said final approval, unless said period is extended in writing by the
City Council. Any approval for any final plat not recorded within said period
or extended period shall be deemed to have been revoked and any such final plat
shall require new approval from the City Council before recordation.
Sec 152-39-11 Subdivision Streets And Fencing
   (a)   Relation To Adjoining Street Systems:
      (1)   The arrangements of streets in new subdivisions shall make
provision for the continuation of the existing streets to adjoining areas
insofar as such may be deemed necessary by the Planning Commission for public
requirements. New streets within subdivisions shall not preclude future access
to adjoining properties.
      (2)   Standard residential streets shall approach the arterial or
collector streets at an angle of not less than eighty degrees (80°).
   (b)   Fencing:
      (1)   Where Required:
A solid masonry, chainlink or other nonclimbable fence not less than six feet
(6') in height shall be installed on both sides of existing supply irrigation
ditches or canals, or bordering open reservoirs or nonaccess streets, and which
are located within or adjacent to the subdivision, except where the planning
commission determines that park areas including streams or bodies of water
shall remain unfenced.
      (2)   Prevent Nuisance Or Hazard:
The planning commission may also require the construction or installation of a
fence in any subdivision where the planning commission determines that the
absence of a fence may create a nuisance or hazard to the welfare of the
residents of the subdivision or the adjoining property.
      (3)   Agricultural Fencing:
Unless otherwise waived by affected agricultural property owners, fencing
abutting agricultural property shall be required of subdivider. Fence shall be
at a minimum, six feet (6') high with posts spaced at eight feet (8') apart.
(The agricultural property owner shall have the option of paying the additional
cost to create spacing of the post at 6 feet.) Fencing and post material and
design shall be approved with the construction drawings. If there was no
existing fence, or the existing fence does not protect the new fence, then the
subdivider will be required to install and maintain an electrical fence
parallel to the new fence.
Sec 152-39-12 Subdivider's Agreement
All applications for a subdivision shall be accompanied by an executed copy of
the following agreement, as amended from time to time by the city council. Said
agreement shall be substantially in the following form:
SUBDIVIDER'S AGREEMENT WITH Hildale CITY
This agreement is entered into this day of , , between of , County of , State
of , hereinafter referred to as "Subdivider," and the City of Hildale, a
municipal corporation of the State of Utah, located in Washington County,
hereinafter referred to as the "City." Subdivider, on behalf of it/himself,
its/his heirs, successors and assigns, hereby acknowledges, covenants and
agrees that: (1) it/he has received and read a copy of the Hildale City
Subdivision Chapter of the Land Use Code and shall in all respects comply with
the provisions contained therein, (2) all on-site and off-site improvements
required to be constructed in connection with said subdivision shall be
constructed and installed in accordance with the approved construction plans
and drawings, and (3) in the event that legal action is required to be taken by
Hildale to enforce the terms of this agreement, Subdivider agrees that it/he
shall be liable to pay all such legal costs and expenses incurred by Hildale,
including court costs and a reasonable attorney’s fee.
DATED this day of, SubdividerSubdivider Title
STATE OF UTAH)
: ss.
COUNTY OF WASHINGTON)
On the day of , , personally appeared before me , the signer(s) of the above
instrument, who duly acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same on behalf
of the Subdivider.
(SEAL)
NOTARY PUBLIC
Accepted by:
Hildale City Zoning Administrator or Planning Director
All signatures to this agreement, other than for sole proprietorships, shall be
accompanied by documentation acceptable to the city attesting to the fact that
the signer hereof is authorized by the subdivider to enter into this agreement
(e.g., a copy of a corporate resolution, copy of a partnership agreement,
etc.).
Sec 152-39-13 Guarantee Of Completion Of Improvements; Form Of Surety ; Release
Of Funds
Subdivider shall guarantee improvements in accordance with the following:
   (a)   Completion Of Improvements Before Recordation:
If subdivider desires to construct improvements as shown on approved
construction drawings prior to recordation:
      (1)   Recordation of the plat shall not occur until the improvements
required in connection with the subdivision have been completed and
conditionally accepted.
      (2)   Subdivider shall provide guarantee of conditionally accepted
improvements in a form acceptable to city as shown in subsection C of this
section in the following amount:
         a.   Ten percent (10%) of the total cost of all the required
improvements shall be retained by the city during the twelve (12) month (24
month if applicable) warranty period.
   (b)   Recordation Before Completion Of Improvements:
If the subdivider desires to have a plat recorded prior to construction of
improvements subdivider shall guarantee completion, within two (2) years from
the date of final plat approval by the city council, of installation and
construction of the required improvements in compliance with all city
standards.
   (c)   Form Of Surety:
In order to guarantee completion of improvements, subdivider shall provide one
of the following types of sureties or guarantees:
      (1)   Escrow:
The subdivider shall deposit with any insurance company, bank, or savings and
loan institution in an escrow account an amount of money equal to at least one
hundred fifteen percent (115%) of the estimated costs of the improvements not
constructed or installed by the subdivider plus ten percent (10%) of the cost
of all the required improvements of the subdivision as a guarantee amount, as
determined by the city engineer. The escrow agreement shall be subject to
approval by the city attorney and shall be signed by the subdivider, the city,
and the escrow holder, and shall contain substantially the following language:
AGREEMENT
The undersigned hereby promises and warrants that it has on deposit in an
escrow account for the benefit of Hildale City Corporation, the sum of ($),
which represents at least one hundred fifteen percent (115%) of the costs of
the engineer's estimated costs for improvements not constructed or installed by
the subdivider plus ten percent (10%) of the cost of improvements of the
subdivision.
The undersigned hereby agrees that the foregoing sum of money shall be used
exclusively for the purpose of paying for the costs of materials, construction,
and installation of the improvements required by Hildale City Subdivision
Chapter. The undersigned further agrees that the money held in an escrow
account shall be paid out to the contractors installing and constructing the
required improvements only upon approval of the City. The subdivider shall not
withdraw from the escrow account any amount in excess of 100% of the estimated
cost of the improvements, but shall pay from other sources any costs for such
improvements which exceed the engineers estimate approved by the City.
After all improvements are made, completed and preliminarily accepted by the
City, a
sum equal to 10% of the estimated costs of improvements shall remain with the
escrow holder for a period of 12 months as a warranty that all improvements are
installed and inspected to City specifications, and that all defects occurring
within the first 12 months (24 months if applicable) are corrected and approved
by the City. If, after 12 months (24 months if applicable), all or any part of
the required improvements are not installed, constructed, and maintained
according to the standards required in the Hildale City Subdivision Ordinance,
Hildale City shall notify in writing the subdivider and escrow holder of the
defects and shall make demand on the subdivider that the defects be corrected.
If the defects are not corrected within 30 days, Hildale City may correct the
defects and charge to the escrow holder the costs of correcting the defects.
The escrow holder shall, on receiving reasonable proof from Hildale City of the
defect and that Hildale City has incurred the cost of correcting the defect,
pay to Hildale City from the escrow account the cost of correcting the defect,
and the escrow holder shall be held harmless by the parties by reason of
payment to Hildale City.
If, 12 months (24 months if applicable) after preliminary acceptance of the
improvements required by City's standards and specifications and shown on
approved construction drawings, the required improvements remain substantially
free from latent defects, Hildale City shall certify such fact to the escrow
holder, and the escrow holder shall release to the subdivider any money still
held in the escrow account, and the escrow holder shall be discharged of its
obligations to Hildale City.
(Authorized Signature)
The escrow agreement may contain such additional provisions as the parties deem
necessary.
      (2)   Irrevocable Letter Of Credit:
The subdivider shall file with Hildale City an irrevocable letter of credit
from a duly chartered state or national bank or savings and loan institution,
which letter shall contain provisions substantially similar to that required in
the escrow agreement.
The form of the irrevocable letter of credit shall be substantially as follows:
Name of Bank:
Address:
IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT
To: Hildale City Corporation Date:
Letter of Credit No.:
Gentlemen:
We hereby establish our irrevocable letter of credit in your favor for the
account of , , (insert name of subdivider, subdivider's address) up to the
aggregate amount of ($ ) (insert amount equal to one hundred fifteen percent,
i.e., 115% of the estimated costs of the improvements not constructed or
installed by the subdivider plus ten percent [10%] of the cost of all
improvements of the subdivision as determined by the Engineer) drawn at sight
on , , (insert name of bank, address of bank), accompanied by a statement
signed by an officer of Hildale City Corporation as follows:
"We certify that the improvements related to the (insert name of subdivision)
have not
been completed and the defects corrected in accordance with city ordinances and
that this drawing represents the amount necessary to complete those
improvements."
We hereby agree with drawers, endorsers and bona fide holders that all drafts
under and in compliance with the terms of this credit will be duly honored upon
presentation and delivery of documents as specified to the drawee or drawn and
presented at our bank for negotiation on or before (insert completion date plus
90 days). This Irrevocable Letter of Credit automatically renews for a one year
term at the end of every term unless the Authorized Bank Officer provides
Hildale City written notice of termination thirty (30) days prior to the end of
the term.
Very Truly Yours,
Authorized Bank Officer
      (3)   Other Guarantee:
Such other financial guarantee that may be acceptable to the city council.
   (d)   Release Of Funds:
As the required improvements are satisfactorily installed and have been
inspected by the city, funds which have been placed in escrow for those
improvements will be authorized to be released for payment of those
improvements. Escrow holder is authorized to release funds from this account
only after receiving a written release from city. The city is not responsible
to determine the party to be paid.
After all required improvements have been installed, the subdivider shall
notify the city and request that the subdivision be granted preliminary
acceptance and begin the warranty period. The subdivision will then be
inspected by city, and if all improvements have been completed in accordance
with city ordinances and specifications, as built plans have been delivered to
the public works department, and a final grading plan has been submitted, the
city will grant preliminary acceptance. The subdivision will then begin the
twelve (12) month (24 month if applicable) warranty period. Ten percent (10%)
of the total cost of all the required improvements, as specified above, shall
be retained by the city during this warranty Period.
All funds in escrow surplus to the warranty amount may then be released by the
city. The purpose of retaining the ten percent (10%) warranty amount is to
guarantee that the improvements have been installed correctly and that they
function properly. If any improvements have not been installed correctly or
fail to function properly, and the subdivider fails to correct the deficiencies
within thirty (30) days of notification thereof, then upon written notice by
the city, escrow shall pay over to the city the amount necessary to complete,
repair, or replace said improvements.
In the event the costs of completing, repairing, or replacing the
unsatisfactory improvements exceed the amount remaining in the escrow account,
the subdivider shall, within ten (10) days of notice thereof, pay the excess
amount to the city and shall also cause to restore the escrow account or
irrevocable letter of credit to the prescribed ten percent (10%) warranty
amount. The city shall not issue any building permits for the subdivision until
the above referenced excess costs have been paid to the city and the warranty
amount (10 percent of the total cost of improvements) has been restored.
Sec 152-39-14 Warranty Of Completed Improvements
Upon completion of construction and installation of all required improvements,
subdivider shall warrant that said improvements shall be and shall remain free
from defects in material and workmanship for a period of twelve (12) months
after the date of preliminary acceptance by city, unless said warranty period
is extended for a period of up to twenty four (24) months by the city council
upon a finding that a warranty period of twelve (12) months is inadequate to
protect the public health, safety and welfare for any of the following reasons:
   (a)   The prior poor or substandard performance by the subdivider or
contractor responsible for construction and installation of the improvements,
   (b)   The presence or existence of unstable soil conditions within the
subdivision or adjacent area,
   (c)   Extreme fluctuations in climatic conditions that would or could
reasonably prevent the discovery of substandard or defective performance within
a twelve (12) month period, or
   (d)   Any other exceptional reason or circumstances which in good faith is
determined by the city council to require a longer warranty period. The
subdivider shall be responsible to make all repairs to and maintain the
improvements and every part thereof in good working condition during the
guarantee period without cost to the city.
Sec 152-39-15 Enforcement And Permits
In order to enforce compliance with this chapter, the building official shall
not issue any permit for the proposed erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration of any structure, or use of any land unless it fully conforms to all
provisions of this chapter. No Hildale City officer or employee shall issue any
permit or license for any building or structure or use when such land is a part
of a "subdivision" as defined herein until such subdivision has been approved
and recorded in the county recorder's office, and unless the improvements shown
on approved construction plans for the subdivision have been installed and
preliminarily accepted, and all other provisions of law have been complied
with. Any license or permit issued in conflict with this chapter shall be null
and void.
Notwithstanding the above, a building permit for a single model home for the
developer of the subdivision for which the final checklist for completion has
been issued may be approved by the city council. A certificate of occupancy
shall not be granted and the model home may not be used or occupied for any
reason until the subdivision has been approved and recorded.
Sec 152-39-16 Plat Amendments
The procedure for consideration and approval of any addition, alteration,
modification, or change to an approved plat shall be substantially the same as
is required for initial plat approval unless the zoning administrator
determines that such addition, alteration, modification, or other change does
not constitute a significant change from the intent or effect of the approved
plat.
Sec 152-39-17 Fees
The following fees are hereby established:
   (a)   Preliminary Plat Application Fee:
At the time of filing of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall deposit
with the city a nonrefundable fee made payable to Hildale City. The city
council shall by resolution from time to time prescribe the amount of such fee,
which shall be for the purpose of reimbursing the city for the expense of
checking and reviewing such final subdivision plats.
   (b)   Final Plat Application Fee:
At the time of filing the final plat, the subdivider shall deposit with the
city a nonrefundable fee made payable to Hildale City. The city council shall
by resolution from time to time prescribe the
amount of such fee, which shall be for the purpose of reimbursing the city for
the expense of checking and reviewing such final subdivision plats, and
inspecting subdivision improvements.
   (c)   Habitat Conservation Fee:
Before plat is released for recordation, subdivider shall pay applicable per
acre habitat conservation impact fee to city.
   (d)   Recording Fee:
At the time of recording the final plat, the subdivider shall be responsible
for payment of the recording fee.
Sec 152-39-18 Penalty ; Validity
   (a)   Penalty:
Any subdivider or other person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of
the provisions for this chapter shall be guilty of a class B misdemeanor, and
punished as provided by law upon conviction.
   (b)   Validity:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is, for
any reason, held to be invalid, such holding shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portion of this chapter.
CHAPTER 40 FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ARTICLE A STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
ARTICLE B DEFINITIONS
ARTICLE C GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE D ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE E PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
ARTICLE A STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
Sec
152-40A-1 Statutory Authorization
Sec
152-40A-2 Findings Of Fact
Sec
152-40A-3 Statement Of Purpose
Sec
152-40A-4 Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
Sec 152-40A-1 Statutory Authorization
The legislature of the state of Utah has in Utah Code Annotated section 152-3-
701 et seq., delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the city council of
Hildale City, Utah, does ordain as follows.
Sec 152-40A-2 Findings Of Fact
   (a)   The flood hazard areas of Hildale City are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (b)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
Sec 152-40A-3 Statement Of Purpose
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (a)   Protect human life and health;
   (b)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (c)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (d)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (e)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (f)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (g)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
Sec 152-40A-4 Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (a)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (b)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (c)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (d)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (e)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
areas.
ARTICLE B DEFINITIONS
Sec
152-40B-1 Definitions Of Words And Phrases
Sec 152-40B-1 Definitions Of Words And Phrases
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application:
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average
depth of one to three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist,
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be
evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building:
   (a)   built, in the case of a building in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH,
B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated floor, or in the case of a
building in zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
structure member of the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means
of pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the floor of
the water and
   (b)   adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of
the building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the
case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building"
also includes a building elevated by means of fill or solid foundation
perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movement
of floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-30, VE, or V, "elevated building" also
includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of "elevated building",
even though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the
breakaway walls met the standards of section 60.3(e)(5) of the national flood
insurance program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   (a)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes Hildale tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Land use ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register;
   (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   (c)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of interior; or
   (d)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      (1)   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      (2)   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without
approved programs.
INFRASTRUCTURE: Roads, bridges, pipelines, cabling, power lines, utility or any
other public or private constructed improvement.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   (a)   Built on a single chassis;
   (b)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act (Pub. L. 97-348), includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The "actual start" means either
the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as
the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
   (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions, or
   (b)   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. (For full requirements see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
ARTICLE C GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec
152-40C-1 Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
Sec
152-40C-2 Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
Sec
152-40C-3 Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit
Sec
152-40C-4 Compliance
Sec
152-40C-5 Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
Sec
152-40C-6 Interpretation
Sec
152-40C-7 Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
Sec 152-40C-1 Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of Hildale City, Utah.
Sec 152-40C-2 Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in its flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) are adopted by
reference and declared to be part of this chapter.
Sec 152-40C-3 Establishment Of Floodplain Development Permit
A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
Sec 152-40C-4 Compliance
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
altered, or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable Regulations.
Sec 152-40C-5 Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
Sec 152-40C-6 Interpretation
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   (a)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (b)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (c)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
Sec 152-40C-7 Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the
community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
ARTICLE D ADMINISTRATION
Sec
152-40D-1 Designation Of Floodplain Administrator
Sec
152-40D-2 Duties And Responsibilities Of Floodplain Administrator
Sec
152-40D-3 Permit Procedures
Sec
152-40D-4 Variance Procedures
Sec 152-40D-1 Designation Of Floodplain Administrator
The planning director is hereby appointed the floodplain administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance program regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management.
Sec 152-40D-2 Duties And Responsibilities Of Floodplain Administrator
Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
   (a)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building site,
including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   (c)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
   (d)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
   (e)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   (f)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is the division of water rights, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal emergency management agency.
   (g)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of a watercourse is maintained.
   (h)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with section
152-40C-2 of this chapter the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
article E of this chapter.
   (i)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the floodplain
administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community.
   (j)   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the
national flood insurance program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in zone A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot (1'), provided
that the community first applies for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA
(conditional letter of map revision).
Sec 152-40D-3 Permit Procedures
   (a)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection
152-40E-2B of this chapter;
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection
152-40D-2A of this article.
   (b)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
floodplain administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (10)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area.
Sec 152-40D-4 Variance Procedures
   (a)   The appeal board as established by the community shall hear and render
judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (b)   The appeal board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (c)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (d)   The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
   (e)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (f)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection
152-40D-3B of this article have been fully considered. As the lot size
increases beyond the one- half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required
for issuing the variance increases.
   (g)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (section
152-40A-3 of this chapter).
   (h)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (i)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (j)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   (k)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in subsections A through J of this section
are met, and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
ARTICLE E PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
Sec
152-40E-1 General Standards
Sec
152-40E-2 Specific Standards
Sec
152-40E-3 Standards For Subdivision Proposals
Sec
152-40E-4 Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
Sec
152-40E-5 Floodways
Sec 152-40E-1 General Standards
In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required for
all new construction and substantial improvements:
   (a)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (b)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (c)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (d)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (e)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
   (f)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; And
   (g)   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
Sec 152-40E-2 Specific Standards
In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in:
   a)   section
152-40C-2 of this chapter,
   b)   subsection
152-40D-2H of this chapter, or
   c)   subsection
152-40E-3C of this article, the following provisions are required:
      (a)   Residential Construction:
New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall
have the lowest floor (including basement), elevated to one foot (1') above the
base flood elevation. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land
surveyor shall submit a certification to the floodplain administrator that the
standard of this subsection as proposed in subsection
152-40D-3A1 of this chapter, is satisfied.
      (b)   Nonresidential Construction:
New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial, industrial or
other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated to one foot (1') above the base flood level or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base
flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to
the passage of water and with structural components having the capability of
resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A
registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review
structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall
certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such
certification which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the
floodplain administrator.
      (c)   Enclosures:
New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed areas below
the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access or storage in an area other than a basement and which are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces
on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs
for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
criteria:
         (1)   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding shall be provided.
         (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (d)   Manufactured Homes:
         (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within zone A
on a community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices
which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured
homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over
the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites: a)
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, b) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, c) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision, or d) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
on which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood, be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to one foot (1') above the base flood elevation
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
         (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially
improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within
zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the
provisions of section
152-40E-4 of this article be elevated so that either:
            a.   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the
base flood elevation, or
            b.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and be securely anchored to
an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
      (e)   Recreational Vehicles:
Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within zones A1-30, AH, and
AE on the community's FIRM either:
         (1)   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days,
         (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
         (3)   Meet the permit requirements of subsection
152-40D-3A of this chapter, and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
"manufactured homes" in subsection D of this section. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions.
Sec 152-40E-3 Standards For Subdivision Proposals
All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home parks
and subdivisions, shall meet the standards of subsections A through E of this
section.
   (a)   All proposals shall be consistent with sections
152-40A-2,
152-40A-3, and
152-40A-4 of this chapter.
   (b)   All proposals shall meet development permit requirements of sections
152-40C-3,
152-40D-3 of this chapter, and the provisions of this article.
   (c)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed development including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions greater than fifty (50) lots or five
(5) acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to section
152-40C-2 or subsection
152-40D-2H of this chapter.
   (d)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (e)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damage.
Sec 152-40E-4 Standards For Areas Of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in section
152-40C-2 of this chapter, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These
areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to
three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the
path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following
provisions apply:
   (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth
number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth
number is specified).
   (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
on the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified), or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   (c)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the floodplain administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in subsection
152-40D-3A1 of this chapter, are satisfied.
      (1)   Require within zone AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
Sec 152-40E-5 Floodways
Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard established in section
152-40C-2 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. Since the
floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters
which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following
provisions shall apply:
   (a)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (b)   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this article.
   (c)   Under the provisions of 44 CFR chapter 1, section 65.12, of the
national flood insurance regulations, a community may permit encroachments
within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base
flood elevations, provided that the community first applies for a conditional
FIRM and floodway revision through FEMA.
This section has been affected by a recently passed ordinance, 2018-04 - MISC
ZONING AMENDMENTS. Go to new ordinance.
CHAPTER 41 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
Sec
152-41-1 Purpose
Sec
152-41-2 Scope
Sec
152-41-3 Permitted Use
Sec
152-41-4 Development Standards; Permitted Use
Sec
152-41-5 Compliance With Development Standards
Sec 152-41-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for
accessory dwelling units. These regulations are intended to ensure that limited
use of accessory dwelling units allowed in a
residential zone do not disturb the single-family residential character of a
neighborhood.
Sec 152-41-2 Scope
The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all accessory dwelling units in
single-family zones. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or
limit other applicable provisions of this chapter, this code, and other laws.
Sec 152-41-3 Permitted Use
The accessory dwelling units described below shall be allowed as permitted uses
in any agricultural or residential zone, or any other zone in which such uses
are permitted uses, subject to the development standards of section
152-41-4 of this chapter. The definition of each use is set forth in chapter 3
of this chapter.
Accessory dwelling units.
Guesthouse or casita with complete kitchen facilities.
Sec 152-41-4 Development Standards; Permitted Use
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any
accessory unit allowed as a permitted use.
   (a)   Definition; Setbacks And Size:
An accessory dwelling unit is an accessory use to the main residential dwelling
unit. Setbacks and size limitations established for accessory buildings in each
zone shall apply.
   (b)   Egress And Life Safety Requirements:
The dwelling unit must meet egress and life safety requirements of the
international residential building code.
   (c)   Ownership:
The owner or immediate family member of the owner of the main dwelling unit
shall be a resident of the main dwelling unit on the residential property
before an accessory dwelling unit may be rented.
   (d)   Limit:
Only one accessory dwelling unit shall be established on a single residential
property.
   (e)   Entrance:
The accessory dwelling unit shall have its own outside entrance.
   (f)   Landscaping:
Landscaping shall be provided and maintained to minimize impact on neighboring
properties, to retain residential character, and to provide a visual buffer for
on site parking in relation to adjacent properties and the street. Landscaping
may include, but shall not be limited to, planting trees in the park strip.
   (g)   Secondary Use:
The accessory dwelling unit shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes.
   (h)   Maximum Size, Impervious Surface:
The accessory dwelling unit, if it is detached, must not exceed the maximum
size permitted for an accessory building and the total area of impervious
surface on the lot must not exceed fifty percent (50%).
   (i)   Short Term Rental:
A detached accessory dwelling unit may not be rented as a short term rental.
Sec 152-41-5 Compliance With Development Standards
   (a)   Residential properties with accessory dwelling units found to be in
violation of the development standards set forth in section
152-42-4 of this chapter shall be subject to all applicable remedies set forth
in chapter 9 of this chapter to ensure compliance.
   (b)   Residential properties with a restrictive easement that does not
permit renting of an accessory dwelling unit must apply to the planning
department to have that restrictive easement lifted before obtaining a rental
permit.
   (c)   In order to ensure accessory dwelling units meet the development
standards, a permit must be issued by the planning department for the rental
use of the unit.
CHAPTER 42 HOME BASED BUSINESSES
Sec
152-42-1 Purpose
Sec
152-42-2 Scope
Sec
152-42-3 Permitted Use
Sec
152-42-4 Development Standards; Permitted Use
Sec
152-42-5 Compliance With Development Standards
Sec 152-42-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for
home based businesses. These regulations are intended to ensure that limited
business activities allowed in a residential zone do not disturb the
residential character of a neighborhood.
Sec 152-42-2 Scope
The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all home based businesses
within the City. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or limit
other applicable provisions of this title, this Code, and other laws.
Sec 152-42-3 Permitted Use
The home based business uses set forth below shall be allowed as permitted uses
in any agricultural or residential zone, or any other zone in which such uses
are permitted uses, subject to the development standards of section
152-42-4 of this chapter.
The definition of each use is set forth in chapter 3 of this chapter. Bakeries,
catering, and home kitchens per Utah Code.
Computer/internet sales/programming. Handyman, contractor offices.
Janitorial, housekeeping, and landscaping service offices.
Licensed family child care or residential certificate child care; preschool.
Mobile services.
Office, general.
One customer personal care service such as one chair beauty and barber shops.
Personal instruction service.
Production of home crafts.
Sec 152-42-4 Development Standards; Permitted Use
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any home
based business allowed as a permitted use.
   (a)   Ownership:
A home based business shall be owned and operated by a person who resides in
the dwelling where the home based business is located. Such person shall be the
primary provider of the labor, work, or service provided in the home based
business.
   (b)   Employees:
A home based business established after the adoption of this chapter may not
have employees who do not permanently reside in the home who work at or from
the home except a licensed family child care or a residential certificate child
care where a single additional employee is required by the number and/or ages
of children.
   (c)   Business License Or Registration:
Home based business owners must apply for a City business license. Licensing
and any fees will be in accordance with the business licensing regulations in
title 11 of this Code.
   (d)   Fire Inspection:
Fire inspections for a home based business shall be determined by the Hildale
CIty Fire Department.
   (e)   Inventory:
Products produced pursuant to the home based business may be kept on the
premises. No other stock in trade, inventory, commodities, or other merchandise
shall be kept on the premises for storage, or wholesale or retail sales, except
for incidental or sporadic use.
   (f)   Modification Of Structures:
There shall be no visible evidence from the exterior of a dwelling or structure
that it is being used for any other purpose than that of a dwelling or
accessory Building.
   (g)   Offensive Or Noxious Activities:
The home based business shall not include any activity which unreasonably
disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood, including, but not limited
to, interference of radio, television, or other electronic reception by reason
of design, materials, or construction; lighting, odor, dust, sounds,
vibrations, vehicles, parking and general operation of business. No smoke,
odor, liquid or solid waste shall be emitted which is not usual and customary
to the use of the property for residential purposes. Tools, items, equipment,
or activities conducted within a dwelling or accessory building which are
offensive or noxious by reason of the emission of odor, smoke, gas, vibration,
magnetic interference, or noise are prohibited.
   (h)   Secondary Use:
The home based business shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
primary use of the dwelling for residential purposes.
      (1)   The home based business shall not disrupt the residential character
of the neighborhood in which the residence is located.
      (2)   Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of a dwelling shall be used
for a home based business except for residential childcare.
      (3)   A home based business shall not involve the use of yard space, or
activity outside the main building not normally associated with residential
use.
      (4)   A home based business may utilize an accessory building existing at
the time of business license approval only after approval by the Hildale Valley
Fire District.
   (i)   Traffic, Parking, And Access:
No home based business use shall use on-street parking for business customers
or business vehicles.
      (1)   Not more than two (2) customer parking spaces shall be created.
   (j)   Combustible Materials:
Combustible materials per Fire Code shall not be stored in the home.
   (k)   Prohibitions:
Shall specifically exclude vehicle repair work of any kind, commercial stables,
animal boarding, auctions, restaurants, and funeral homes.
Sec 152-42-5 Compliance With Development Standards
Home based businesses found to be in violation of the development standards set
forth in section
152-42-4 of this chapter shall be subject to all applicable remedies set forth
in chapter 9 of this chapter to ensure compliance.
CHAPTER 43 MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE REGULATIONS
Sec
152-43-1 Purpose
Sec
152-43-2 Scope
Sec
152-43-3 Uses Allowed
Sec
152-43-4 Temporary Dwelling
Sec
152-43-5 Basis For Approval
Sec
152-43-6 Development Standards
Sec
152-43-7 Maintenance Of Premises And Common Areas
Sec
152-43-8 Protection Of Common Areas
Sec
152-43-9 Compliance With Other Regulations
Sec
152-43-10 Certificate Of Compliance
Sec
152-43-11 License
Sec 152-43-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations for manufactured/mobile
home parks and subdivisions, and recreational vehicle parks in order to achieve
the following objectives:
   (a)   To assure that development of such parks and subdivisions promote the
purpose and objectives of the Hildale City general plan and this chapter;
   (b)   To permit variety, flexibility, and affordability in land development
for residential purposes in designated areas of the city;
   (c)   To protect the integrity and characteristics of zones contiguous to
zones where manufactured/mobile home parks and subdivisions, and recreational
vehicle parks are located; and
   (d)   To protect the integrity of land use values contiguous to and within
such parks and subdivisions.
Sec 152-43-2 Scope
No manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle shall be used or occupied
except within an approved manufactured/mobile home park or subdivision, or
recreational vehicle park, or as specifically provided by a provision of this
chapter or this code. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or
limit other applicable provisions of this chapter, this code, or other Laws.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-011 on 9/1/2021
Sec 152-43-3 Uses Allowed
   (a)   Permitted And Conditional Use:
A manufactured/mobile home park or subdivision, and recreational vehicle park
may be established in an MH/RV zone as set forth in chapter 13, "Residential
Zones", of this chapter, subject to the provisions of this chapter, or as
otherwise specifically provided in this chapter or this chapter. In the event a
provision of this chapter conflicts with a provision in another chapter of this
chapter, the provision of this chapter shall apply.
   (b)   Location Of An Occupied Manufactured/Mobile Home:
No occupied manufactured/mobile home shall be located anywhere within the city
except as follows:
      (1)   A manufactured home, when attached to a permanent foundation in
accordance with plans providing for vertical loads, uplift, and lateral forces
and frost protection in compliance with applicable building code, may be
located within any single-family residential zone subject to the requirements
of that zone; or
      (2)   Within an approved manufactured/mobile home park or subdivision; or
      (3)   As a dwelling unit on a bona fide farm or ranch when allowed by the
zone where the ranch or farm is located; or
      (4)   Any of the following temporary uses, subject to the issuance of a
temporary use permit pursuant to the requirements of section
152-7-16 and chapter 48 of this chapter:
         a.   Construction field office for use by contractors or as a
temporary place of business for an owner or lessee while a permanent building
is under construction on the same site;
         b.   Dwelling for members of an immediate family (parents, children,
brothers, or sisters), subject to the requirements of section
152-43-4 of this chapter;
         c.   Sales office for manufactured/mobile homes or recreational
vehicles, when allowed by the zone where the office is located;
         d.   Sales office for the sale of dwellings in a subdivision or other
residential project.
   (c)   Location Of An Occupied Recreational Vehicle:
No occupied recreational vehicle shall be located anywhere within the city
except as follows:
      (1)   Within a:
         a.   Recreational vehicle park;
         b.   Manufactured/mobile home park, subject to the requirements of
subsection
152-43-6A2b of this chapter; or
         c.   Campground, subject to the requirements of Chapter 52 of this
code; and
      (2)   As a dwelling for members of an immediate family (parents,
children, brothers, or sisters), subject to the requirements of section
152-43-4 of this chapter.
      (3)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the occupation of a
recreational vehicle by visitors to occupants of a single-family residential
lot improved with one single-family residence for a time not exceeding two (2)
weeks (14 days) in any ninety (90) day period.
   (d)   Location Of An Unoccupied Manufactured/Mobile Home Or Recreational
Vehicle:
An unoccupied manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle may be located
as follows:
      (1)   On a sales lot, when allowed by the zone where the lot is located;
and
      (2)   Long term storage of a recreational vehicle or manufactured/mobile
home for maintenance operations, reconstruction, or construction is permitted
only within an enclosed area and only in a zone allowing such use.
      (3)   This subsection shall not be construed to prohibit the storage of
an unoccupied recreational vehicle on the property of the vehicle's owner or in
a commercial lot approved for the storage of recreational vehicles.
   (e)   Emergency Or Temporary Parking:
Emergency or temporary parking of an unoccupied manufactured/mobile home or
recreational vehicle outside an approved manufactured/mobile home park or
subdivision, or recreational vehicle park, or other authorized place may be
permitted for a period not exceeding forty eight
      (48) hours. This limitation does not apply to an unoccupied manufactured/
mobile home or recreational vehicle located in an authorized sales area.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-011 on 9/1/2021
Sec 152-43-4 Temporary Dwelling
   (a)   Conditions For Issuance:
A manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle may be used for a temporary
dwelling on a lot not located in a recreational vehicle park or manufactured/
mobile home park as a dwelling for members of an immediate family subject to
the issuance of a temporary use permit as provided in section
152-7-16 and chapter 48 of this chapter, and the following requirements:
      (1)   No temporary use permit shall be issued except in connection with
the construction of a new dwelling or the temporary placement of a recreational
vehicle on a residential lot subject to the standards in subsection B of this
section.
      (2)   A permit for a temporary dwelling used by members of an immediate
family during construction of a new dwelling shall be issued only for the
property where the new dwelling is to be constructed.
      (3)   A valid building permit for construction of the new dwelling shall
be issued and fully paid for prior to the issuance of a temporary use permit
for a temporary dwelling used by members of an immediate family during
construction of a new dwelling.
      (4)   All applicable fees shall be paid prior to placement of the
manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle to be used as a temporary
dwelling used by members of an immediate family during construction of a new
dwelling on the subject property.
      (5)   All utility connections shall conform to city standards.
      (6)   No temporary use permit for a temporary dwelling used by members of
an immediate family during construction of a new dwelling shall be approved for
longer than six (6) months unless an extension is approved prior to expiration
of the original permit. Such extension shall not exceed six (6) months.
   (b)   Recreational Vehicle:
Standards for temporary placement of a single recreational vehicle on a
residential lot for use as a temporary dwelling by an immediate family member
(parents, children, brothers, or sisters) in case of financial hardship.
      (1)   Recreational vehicle must be located on a lot containing a single-
family dwelling and must be occupied by an immediate family member of the
family occupying the dwelling.
      (2)   No rent may be paid for the temporary placement.
      (3)   A temporary use permit must be issued for a period not exceeding
six (6) months. One 6-month extension may be granted by the city council. Such
extension must be in writing.
      (4)   Holding tanks must be emptied into an approved facility. Power
connections must conform to prevailing safety standards. Water must be
connected to occupied dwelling unit's culinary water system only.
      (5)   Failure to comply with standards listed above is grounds for
immediate revocation of the temporary use permit.
   (c)   Removal Upon Expiration:
Upon expiration, or revocation, of a temporary use permit, or any extension
thereof, a manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle shall be removed
from the premises within ten (10) days.
   (d)   Agreement Required:
No temporary use permit shall be issued unless the permittee has executed an
agreement with the city which contains the terms and conditions set forth in
subsections A and B of this section, and such other terms as may be reasonably
required by the city to assure compliance with this section.
Sec 152-43-5 Basis For Approval
   (a)   Manufactured Home Or Recreational Vehicle Park Or Park Model Park:
      (1)   A manufactured home or recreational vehicle park or park model park
may be approved by the city council in locations where such use is allowed as a
permitted or conditional use by the applicable zone, pursuant to applicable
requirements of this chapter. Prior to use or occupancy of any such park:
         a.   A site plan shall be approved as provided in section
152-7-10 of this chapter; and
         b.   A conditional use permit shall be approved as provided in section
152-7-9 of this chapter where the applicable zone allows such parks only as a
conditional use.
      (2)   Before final approval is granted for any manufactured home or
recreational vehicle park or park model park, a report to the city council by
the planning commission shall find the proposed development will:
         a.   Be in keeping with the general character of the zone in which the
park is to be located;
         b.   Have an approved financing plan for construction and phase
completion, together with an approved security to assure compliance and
completion; and
         c.   Meet applicable development standards of section
152-43-6 of this chapter and all requirements of other applicable ordinances,
except where such requirements are modified by a planned development approved
pursuant to chapter 23 of this chapter.
   (b)   Manufactured Home Subdivision:
      (1)   A manufactured home subdivision may be approved by the city council
in locations where such use is allowed as a permitted or conditional use by the
applicable zone, pursuant to applicable requirements of this chapter. Prior to
construction, use, or occupancy of any such subdivision:
         a.   A preliminary subdivision plan shall be approved as provided in
chapter 39 of this chapter; and
         b.   A conditional use permit shall be approved as provided in section
152-7-9 of this chapter where the applicable zone allows such subdivisions only
as a conditional use.
      (2)   Before final plat approval is granted for any such subdivision, a
report to the city council by the planning commission shall find the proposed
development will:
         a.   Be in keeping with the general character of the zone in which the
subdivision is to be located;
         b.   Have lot sizes that conform to the applicable zone where the
subdivision is located;
         c.   Meet applicable requirements of chapter 39 of this chapter;
         d.   Have an approved financing plan for construction and phase
completion, together with an approved security to assure compliance;
         e.   Meet applicable development standards of section
152-43-6 of this chapter and all requirements of other applicable ordinances,
except where such requirements are modified by a planned development approved
pursuant to chapter 23 of this chapter.
   (c)   Disapproval:
The city council may disapprove an application for a manufactured home park or
subdivision, or recreational vehicle park or park model park if the council
finds the proposed development cannot:
      (1)   Connect to the city water and wastewater system.
      (2)   Meet one or more applicable development standards set forth in this
chapter; or
      (3)   Provide adequate assurances that the development will be completed
within two (2) years after approval.
Sec 152-43-6 Development Standards
The development of a manufactured home park or subdivision, or recreational
vehicle park or park model development shall conform to applicable standards
and requirements of this section and as set forth in
table 152-43-1 of this section unless modified by a planned development
approved pursuant to chapter 23 of this chapter.
   (a)   General Requirements:
      (1)   Layout: Land not contained within individual lots or spaces, roads
or parking shall be set aside and developed as parks, playgrounds, trails, and
service areas for the common use and enjoyment of occupants of the development,
and the visitors thereto.
      (2)   Location:
         a.   A manufactured home subdivision may be located on any lot as
allowed by the zone where the lot is located;
         b.   A recreational vehicle park should generally be located:
            1.   Adjacent to or in close proximity to a major collector or
arterial road as shown in the city's transportation master plan;
            2.   Near adequate shopping facilities; and
         c.   A park model development shall be located on property zoned MH/
RV.
      (3)   Plan Preparation:
Plans for a manufactured home park or subdivision, or recreational vehicle park
or park model development shall be prepared by a licensed architect, licensed
engineer and/or licensed land surveyor.
   (b)   Building Standards:
All standards shown in
table 152-43-1 of this section must be met.
   (c)   Site Improvements:
      (1)   Access To Lots And Spaces:
Sufficient access shall be provided to each manufactured home, or recreational
vehicle lot or space or park model to allow maneuvering of homes or vehicles
into position.
         a.   The accessway shall be kept free from trees and other
obstructions.
         b.   Paving under a manufactured home is not required if adequate
support is provided as required by applicable building codes. Use of planks,
steel mats or other means to support the manufactured home during placement is
allowed so long as the same are removed upon completion of placement.
      (2)   Common Area:
Except for a manufactured home subdivision, one or more common areas equal to
at least ten percent (10%) of the land area of the development shall be set
aside for the joint use and enjoyment of occupants. Land covered by vehicular
roadways, sidewalks and off street parking shall not be included in calculating
this ten percent (10%) common area requirement; provided, however, that in
initial phases of development, the minimum area shall be not less than one-half
(1/2) acre or ten percent (10%) of the land area under development, whichever
is greater.
      (3)   Connection To City Services:
Each manufactured home, recreational vehicle, or park model shall be connected
to the city water system and wastewater disposal system, except as otherwise
allowed by the regulations for such systems.
      (4)   Landscaping:
Any area not covered by a manufactured home or recreational vehicle or park
model, hard surfacing, or a building shall be landscaped per an approved site
plan.
      (5)   Laundry:
A laundry may be provided for the convenience of residents within a
manufactured home park or subdivision, or recreational vehicle park or park
model development, but not for the general public.
      (6)   Lighting:
Shall be provided to meet safety standards and shall be shown on the site plan.
      (7)   Parking:
Off street parking requirements for a manufactured home park or subdivision, or
recreational vehicle park or park model development shall be provided on each
lot or space as follows:
         a.   Manufactured home park or subdivision: Two (2) parking spaces per
lot or space.
         b.   Recreational vehicle park: One parking space per RV space.
         c.   Park model development: One parking space per park model space.
         d.   Each parking space shall have a minimum width of nine feet (9')
and minimum depth of eighteen feet (18').
         e.   Before a lot or space may be occupied, all off street parking
areas and driveways shall be surfaced with a material acceptable to the city.
      (8)   Roadway Design:
Accessways within a manufactured home park or recreational vehicle park or park
model park shall conform to construction design standards and specifications
adopted by the city, with a minimum width of thirty feet (30'), unless modified
by a planned development approved pursuant to chapter 23 of this chapter.
      (9)   Roads Within A Manufactured Home Subdivision:
Roads within a manufactured home subdivision shall conform to construction
design standards and specifications adopted by the city unless modified by a
planned development approved pursuant to chapter 23 of this chapter.
      (10)   Skirting:
Each manufactured home shall be skirted.
      (11)   Storage,
Waste Receptacles, And Additions:
         a.   All storage and solid waste receptacles other than individual
homeowner trash receptacles shall be contained within an enclosure at least six
feet (6') high.
         b.   All patios, carports, garages and other additions to a
manufactured home shall be compatible in design and construction with the
associated home. Such facilities shall be constructed in accordance with
applicable building codes and kept in good repair.
      (12)   Storm Drainage Facilities:
Storm drainage facilities shall be constructed to protect residents of the
development as well as adjacent property owners in accordance with applicable
provisions of this code and the adopted storm drainage plan as reasonably
determined by the city engineer.
   (d)   Standards Specific To Recreational Vehicle Parks And Park Model Parks:
      (1)   No manufactured homes or site built dwelling units shall be
permitted, except for that of the owner/manager and permanent maintenance
personnel.
      (2)   Recreational vehicle parks shall not be used as permanent
residences, except for that of the owner/manager and permanent maintenance
personnel. All recreational vehicles within a recreational vehicle park shall
display current license plates/tags.
      (3)   No "park model" units shall be permitted within a recreational
vehicle park except a number of park models may be approved in the park to be
used as short term vacation rentals. However, a park model development may be
approved to allow recreational vehicles but not campers or tents in the
development.
      (4)   Each park must provide an adequate and easily identifiable office
or registration area. The location of the office shall not interfere with the
normal flow of traffic into and out of the recreational vehicle park.
      (5)   Each self-propelled recreational vehicle unit shall be equipped
with wheels, which remain on the unit; however, the wheels may be blocked for
stability.
      (6)   No permanent room addition shall be attached to recreational
vehicle nor shall any permanent structure be constructed on a recreational
vehicle lot.
      (7)   Room additions may be permitted on park models if all setbacks are
met and pursuant to the issuance of a building permit before construction.
      (8)   A minimum of one toilet, one sink, and one hot shower, each
designed for complete privacy, for each forty (40) spaces, or fraction thereof.
      (9)   Conversion of an established residential park or park model
development to another residential use, shall be subject to review and approval
based on codes and zones in place at the time of conversion. A zone change will
be required.
   (e)   Table 152-43-1:
TABLE 152-43-1
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS MANUFACTURED HOME AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS AND
SUBDIVISIONS
                     Manufactured Home Manufactured Home Recreational Vehicle
Development Standard Subdivision       Park              Park/ Park Model
                                                         Development
Development         Manufactured Home   Manufactured Home   Recreational
Standard            Subdivision         Park                Vehicle Park/ Park
                                                            Model Development
General standards:
 Location           See subsection A2 of this section
 Minimum            10 acres            10 acres            5 acres
 development size
 Ownership          Individual lots     Park must remain    Park must remain
                                        single parcel       single parcel
 Plan preparation   Licensed architect, licensed engineer and/or licensed land
                    surveyor required; see subsection A3 of this section
 Required zone      MH/RV; see chapter 13 of this title
Building standards:
 Maximum height,    35 ft.              35 ft.              35 ft.
 service building
 Maximum height,    12 ft.              12 ft.              12 ft.
 accessory building
Lot/space standards:
 Minimum lot/space  5,700 sq. ft.       4,000 sq. ft.       1,400 sq. ft.
 area
 Minimum lot/space  60 ft.              50 ft.              35 ft.
 width
 Minimum lot/space  95 ft.              70 ft.              40 ft.
 depth
Setback standards:
 Front yard         15 ft.              15 ft.              5 ft.
 Rear yard          10 ft.              10 ft.              5 ft.
 Side yard,         10 ft.              8 ft.               7 ft.
 interior
 Side yard, street  20 ft.              15 ft.              7 ft.
                    5 ft.; if adjacent  3 ft.; if adjacent
                    to exterior         to exterior
 Accessory building boundary or utility boundary or utility 5 ft.
                    easement, then 10   easement, then 7.5
                    ft.                 ft.
 Separation between 20 ft.              20 ft.              14 ft.
 structures
Site improvements:
 Access to lots and Sufficient area to maneuver homes or vehicles required; see
 spaces             subsection C1 of this section
 Common area        Not required        10% of land area; see subsection C2 of
                                        this section
 Connection to city Must connect to city water system and wastewater disposal
 services           system; see subsection C3 of this section
 Landscaping        Open and unpaved areas must be landscaped; see subsection
                    C4 of this section
 Laundry            Laundry may be provided for residents, but not general
                    public; see subsection C5 of this section
 Roadway and        See subsections C8 and C9 of this section
 accessway design
 
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-011 on 9/1/2021
Sec 152-43-7 Maintenance Of Premises And Common Areas
   (a)   Nuisance:
The premises on which any manufactured home or recreational vehicle or park
model is located, used, or occupied shall be maintained in a clean, orderly,
and sanitary condition. The accumulation of rubbish, waste, weeds, or other
unsightly material thereon shall constitute a nuisance and a violation of this
chapter.
   (b)   Remedies:
In addition to the remedies set forth in section
152-9-6 of this chapter, the city may require removal of a manufactured home or
recreational vehicle, or park model from any premises which do not conform to
the requirements of this chapter.
   (c)   Guarantee Of Performance:
The city may require the owner of a manufactured home park or subdivision, or
recreational vehicle park or park model park to provide financial guarantees to
assure that common areas and facilities, roadways, storage areas, service
facilities and landscaping are adequately maintained.
   (d)   Manager:
The owner of a manufactured home park or subdivision or recreational vehicle
park or park model park shall appoint a property manager. The manager shall be:
      (1)   Locally available;
      (2)   Authorized to represent the owner with respect to all aspects of
the management and maintenance of the park; and
      (3)   Authorized to receive official notices, including service of
process.
Sec 152-43-8 Protection Of Common Areas
If common areas are provided within a manufactured home park or subdivision, or
recreational vehicle park or park model park adequate guarantees shall be
provided to protect such common areas from future development. No certificate
of occupancy shall be issued for any structure in such park or subdivision
until all required guarantees have been submitted to and approved by the city.
The developer of a manufactured home park or subdivision, or recreational
vehicle park or park model park, may elect any of the methods set forth in
subsection
152-23-10A of this chapter to preserve common areas.
Sec 152-43-9 Compliance With Other Regulations
The use and occupancy of a manufactured home or recreational vehicle or park
model shall comply with applicable provisions of this chapter and any other
applicable code, including, but not limited to, building and health codes.
Sec 152-43-10 Certificate Of Compliance
A manufactured home or recreational vehicle or park model used or intended to
be used either immediately or in the future for human habitation, regardless of
its location or its conforming or non- conforming status, shall be subject to
the following rules, regulations and requirements:
   (a)   Relocation Of Used Manufactured/Mobile Homes:
No used mobile homes shall be moved into the city limits. No used manufactured
home shall be moved into the city limits without written approval from the
building official. Such approval shall be given upon written certification,
accompanied by color photos of the manufactured home from a qualified inspector
approved by the building official that such manufactured home meets the
following criteria:
      (1)   Must have original HUD sticker.
      (2)   Original HUD sticker and data plate must be permanently attached,
intact and legible. All serial numbers must match.
      (3)   Roof must be undamaged and leakproof.
      (4)   Exterior walls shall be free from cracks, breaks, holes, nail pops,
etc.
      (5)   Bottom board must be intact. There shall be no rot or deterioration
of siding, and no new openings, such as added windows or doors, shall be
permitted.
      (6)   Interior walls must be attached at base and top plate.
      (7)   There shall be no water damage to ceilings, floors, or interior
walls.
      (8)   Floors under water heater and plumbing fixtures must be intact.
      (9)   Windows must be intact and meet HUD/ANSI code for time of
manufacture.
      (10)   Exterior doors must be intact and close completely with no damage
to door or frame.
      (11)   Must have underfloor insulation properly installed and complete.
      (12)   Plumbing system must meet all applicable federal and state codes.
      (13)   Gas system must pass pressure test.
      (14)   Electrical system must meet all applicable federal and state
codes.
      (15)   Heating and cooling systems must meet all applicable federal and
state codes.
      (16)   All units must be free of mold.
   (b)   Relocation Of Used Park Model:
No used park model shall be moved into the city limits without written approval
from the building official. Such approval shall be given upon written
certification, accompanied by color photos of the park model, from a qualified
inspector approved by the building official that such park model meets the
following criteria:
      (1)   Roof must be undamaged and leakproof.
      (2)   Exterior walls shall be free from cracks, breaks, holes, nail pops,
etc.
      (3)   Bottom board must be intact. There shall be no rot or deterioration
of siding, and no new openings, such as added windows or doors, shall be
permitted.
      (4)   Interior walls must be attached at base and top plate.
      (5)   There shall be no water damage to ceilings, floors, or interior
walls.
      (6)   Floors under water heater and plumbing fixtures must be intact.
      (7)   Windows must be intact and meet ANSI code for time of manufacture.
      (8)   Exterior doors must be intact and close completely with no damage
to door or frame.
      (9)   Must have underfloor insulation properly installed and complete.
      (10)   Plumbing system must meet all applicable federal and state codes.
      (11)   Gas system must pass pressure test.
      (12)   Electrical system must meet all applicable federal and state
codes.
      (13)   Heating and cooling systems must meet all applicable federal and
state codes.
      (14)   Unit must be free of mold.
   (c)   Setup Permit:
All manufactured homes and park models located within the city shall be
required to obtain a separate setup permit from the building department.
Sec 152-43-11 License
No manufactured/mobile home or recreational vehicle park shall be operated
unless and until a valid Hildale City business license has been obtained.
CHAPTER 45 PUBLIC UTILITY SUBSTATIONS
Sec
152-45-1 Purpose
Sec
152-45-2 Scope
Sec
152-45-3 Permitted Use
Sec
152-45-4 Development Standards; Permitted Use
Sec
152-45-5 Conditional Use Permit Required
Sec
152-45-6 Development Standards
Sec 152-45-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for
public utility substations to ensure they are compatible with adjoining uses.
Sec 152-45-2 Scope
The requirements of this chapter shall apply to any public utility substation
within the city. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or limit
other applicable provisions of this title, this code, and other laws.
Sec 152-45-3 Permitted Use
A public utility substation that conforms to the development standards of
section
152-45-4 of this chapter shall be a permitted use in any zone.
Sec 152-45-4 Development Standards; Permitted Use
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any public
utility substation established as a permitted use.
   (a)   Color:
The public utility substation shall be painted or constructed of materials with
earth tone colors chosen by the utility provider from a list of colors approved
by the city.
   (b)   Fencing:
The perimeter of the public utility substation site shall be fenced if
necessary to provide public safety or protect utility equipment.
   (c)   Landscaping:
The perimeter of the public utility substation site shall be landscaped in
accordance with a landscaping plan approved by the zoning administrator.
   (d)   Location:
Public utility substations shall be located only as follows :
      (1)   On private property, more than thirty feet (30') from any habitable
structure.
      (2)   Within the park strip of any fully constructed public street right
of way.
      (3)   No public utility substation shall be located in the path of any
planned street or trail as illustrated on the city's road master plan or any
park or trail master plan that may be adopted.
   (e)   Maximum Size:
Maximum aboveground size of a public utility substation shall be as follows:
      (1)   If not located within the park strip of a fully improved street,
nine feet (9') in any direction horizontally and six and one-half feet (61/2')
vertically above the existing grade.
      (2)   If located within the park strip of a fully improved street, five
feet (5') horizontally parallel to the street by two feet (2') perpendicular to
the street and fifty six inches (56") vertically above existing grade.
   (f)   Visual Obstructions:
The public utility substation shall conform to visual obstruction regulations
set forth in subsection
152-37-9E of this chapter.
Sec 152-45-5 Conditional Use Permit Required
A public utility substation that does not conform to the development standards
of section
152-45-4 of this chapter may be established in any zone subject to the issuance
of a conditional use permit pursuant to the requirements of section
152-7-9 of this chapter and the development standards of section
152-45-6 of this chapter.
Sec 152-45-6 Development Standards
The development standards of section
152-45-4 of this chapter shall apply to any public utility substation
established as a conditional use except as modified by the following
subsections:
   (a)   Location:
Public utility substations exceeding the size limits of subsection
152-45-4E of this chapter shall not be located in any park strip or front yard.
   (b)   Maximum Size:
A public utility substation located in a residential zone shall not exceed
twelve feet (12') horizontally and ten feet (10') vertically above existing
grade.
   (c)   Maximum Height:
Public utility substations exceeding the height limitations of subsection
152-45-4E of this chapter may be permitted subject to the issuance of a
conditional use permit.
CHAPTER 46 RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY PERSONS AND PERSONS WITH
ADISABILITY
Sec
152-46-1 Purpose
Sec
152-46-2 Scope
Sec
152-46-3 Defintions
Sec
152-46-4 Permitted Uses
Sec
152-46-5 Development Standards
Sec
152-46-6 Reasonable Accommodation
Sec 152-46-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to comply with sections 152-9a-517 and 152-9a-
520 of the Utah Code, and avoid discrimination in housing against persons with
disabilities pursuant to the Utah fair housing act and the federal fair housing
act as interpreted by courts whose decisions are binding in Utah.
Sec 152-46-2 Scope
If any facility, residence, congregate living or other housing arrangement
meets the definition of a residential facility for elderly persons or a
residential facility for persons with a disability as set forth in this
chapter, the requirements of this chapter shall govern the same notwithstanding
any conflicting provision of this chapter or this code. Except as provided
herein, the requirements of this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit or
limit other applicable provisions of this chapter, this code or other laws.
Sec 152-46-3 Defintions
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth below and shall apply in addition to the terms defined in chapter 3
of this chapter:
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY: A residential facility, licensed by the state of
Utah, with a home like setting that provides an array of coordinated supportive
personal and healthcare services, available twenty four (24) hours per day, to
residents who have been assessed under Utah Department of Health or the Utah
Department of Human Services rules to need any of these services and who have a
service plan based on the assessment, which may include:
   (a)   specified services of intermittent nursing care;
   (b)   administration of medication; and
   (c)   support services promoting residents' independence and self-
sufficiency. An assisted living facility does not include adult daycare
provided in conjunction with a residential facility for elderly persons or a
residential facility for persons with a disability.
DISABILITY: A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of a person's major life activities, including a person having a record of
such an impairment, or being regarded as having such an impairment.
"Disability" does not include current illegal use of, or addiction to, any
federally controlled substance, as defined in section 102 of the controlled
substances act, 21 USC 802, or successor law.
ELDERLY PERSON: A person who is sixty (60) years old or older who desires or
needs to live with other elderly persons in a group setting, but who is capable
of living independently.
HAS A RECORD OF SUCH AN IMPAIRMENT: A person who has a history of, or has been
misclassified as having, a mental or physical impairment that substantially
limits one or more major life activities. IS
REGARDED AS HAVING AN IMPAIRMENT:
   (a)   A person who has a physical or mental impairment that does not
substantially limit one or more major life activities but that is treated by
another person as constituting such a limitation;
   (b)   Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others toward
such impairment; or
   (c)   Has none of the impairments defined in subsection A of this definition
but is treated by another person as having such an impairment.
MAJOR LIFE ACTIVITIES: Functions such as caring for oneself, performing manual
tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning and working.
PHYSICAL OR MENTAL IMPAIRMENT:
   (a)   Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or
anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems:
neurological; musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including
speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic
and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
   (b)   Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation,
organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning
disabilities. The term physical or mental impairment includes, but is not
limited to, such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech and
hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, autism, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy,
multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, human immunodeficiency
virus infection, mental retardation, emotional illness, drug addiction (other
than addiction caused by current, illegal use of a controlled substance) and
alcoholism.
PROTECTIVE HOUSING FACILITY: A facility operated, licensed or contracted by a
governmental entity, or operated by a charitable, nonprofit organization,
where, for no compensation, temporary, protective housing is provided to:
   (a)   Abused or neglected children awaiting placement in foster care;
   (b)   Pregnant or parenting teens;
   (c)   Victims of sexual abuse; or
   (d)   Victims of domestic abuse.
REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION: A change in a rule, policy, practice, or service
necessary to afford a person with a disability equal opportunity to use and
enjoy a dwelling. As used in this definition:
Equal Opportunity:
Achieving equal results as between a person with a disability and a non-
disabled person.
Necessary:
The applicant must show that, but for the accommodation, one or more persons
with a disability likely will be denied an equal opportunity to enjoy housing
of their choice.
Reasonable:
A requested accommodation will not undermine the legitimate purposes of
existing land use regulations notwithstanding the benefit that the
accommodation would provide to a person with a disability.
REHABILITATION/TREATMENT FACILITY: A facility licensed by or contracted by the
state of Utah to provide temporary occupancy and supervision of adults or
juveniles in order to provide rehabilitation, treatment, counseling, or
educational services. Without limitation, such services may include
rehabilitation, treatment, counseling, or assessment and evaluation services
related to delinquent behavior, alcohol and drug abuse, sex offenders, sexual
abuse, or mental health.
RESIDENCE: A dwelling unit where an individual is actually living at a given
point in time and intends to remain, and not a place of temporary sojourn or
transient visit.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS: A single-family or multiple-family
dwelling unit that meets the requirements of section 152-9a-103(38) of the Utah
Code or its successor.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY: A residence in which more
than one person with a disability resides and which is licensed or certified
by:
   (a)   The Utah Department of Human Services under title 62A, chapter 2, of
the Utah Code, licensure of programs and facilities, or
   (b)   The Utah Department of Health under title 26, chapter 21, of the Utah
Code, health care facility licensing and inspection act.
TRANSITIONAL HOUSING FACILITY: A facility owned, operated or contracted by a
governmental entity, or a charitable, nonprofit organization, where, for no
compensation, temporary housing (for usually 3 to 24 months) is provided to
homeless persons, while they obtain work, job skills, or otherwise take steps
to stabilize their circumstances. A transitional housing facility shall not
include a homeless shelter.
Sec 152-46-4 Permitted Uses
   (a)   Permitted Uses:
Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this chapter, and subject to the
development standards in section
152-46-5 of this chapter:
      (1)   A residential facility for elderly persons shall be a permitted use
in any zone where a dwelling is allowed as a permitted or conditional use,
except an area zoned to permit exclusively single-family dwellings; and
      (2)   A residential facility for persons with a disability shall be a
permitted use in any zoning area where similar residential dwellings that are
not residential facilities for persons with a disability are allowed, provided
that any such facility which would likely create a fundamental change in the
character of a residential neighborhood may be excluded from a zoning area.
   (b)   Termination:
A use permitted by this chapter is nontransferable and shall terminate if:
      (1)   The facility is devoted to a use other than a residential facility
for elderly persons or a residential facility for persons with a disability, or
      (2)   Any license or certification issued by the Utah Department of
Health or the department of human services for such facility terminates or is
revoked, or
      (3)   The facility fails to comply with requirements set forth in this
chapter.
Sec 152-46-5 Development Standards
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any
residential facility for elderly persons or any residential facility for
persons with a disability.
   (a)   Building, Safety And Health Regulations:
The facility shall comply with building, safety, and health regulations
applicable to similar structures.
      (1)   Each facility shall be subject to the same development standards
applicable to similar structures located in the same zoning district in which
the facility is located.
      (2)   The minimum number of parking spaces required for a facility shall
be the same as for similar structures located in the same zoning district in
which the facility is located.
   (b)   Number Of Occupants:
Pursuant to the definition of "family" in section
152-3-4 of this chapter, not more than three (3) persons shall occupy a
residential facility for elderly persons or any residential facility for
persons with a disability established in a dwelling unit unless a reasonable
accommodation for a greater number of occupants is granted.
   (c)   Separation Required:
No facility occupied by more than five (5) persons shall be established or
maintained within one thousand feet (1,000'), measured in a straight line
without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the property line of
the facility to the closest property line of any of the following:
      (1)   A residential facility for persons with a disability occupied by
more than five (5) persons; or
      (2)   A residential facility for elderly persons occupied by more than
five (5) persons; or
      (3)   Any of the following:
         a.   Assisted living facility;
         b.   Protective housing facility;
         c.   Rehabilitation/treatment facility; or
         d.   Transitional housing facility.
   (d)   No Dangerous Persons Permitted:
No facility shall be made available to an individual whose tenancy would:
      (1)   Constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals, or
      (2)   Result in substantial physical damage to the property of others.
   (e)   License And Certification:
Prior to occupancy of any facility, the person or entity operating the facility
shall:
      (1)   Provide to the city a copy of any license or certification required
by the Utah Department of Health or the Utah Department of Human Services, and
      (2)   Certify in a sworn statement that no person will reside or remain
in the facility whose tenancy would:
         a.   Constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals, or
         b.   Result in substantial physical damage to the property of others.
Sec 152-46-6 Reasonable Accommodation
   (a)   Reasonable Accommodation Required:
None of the requirements of this chapter shall be interpreted to limit any
reasonable accommodation necessary to allow the establishment or occupancy of a
residential facility for persons with a disability.
   (b)   Application:
Any person or entity wanting a reasonable accommodation shall make application
therefor to the zoning administrator and shall articulate in writing the nature
of the requested accommodation and the basis for the request.
   (c)   Decision:
The planning commission shall render a decision on each application for a
reasonable accommodation within forty five (45) days. The decision shall be
based on evidence of record demonstrating:
      (1)   The requested accommodation will not undermine the legitimate
purposes of existing land use regulations notwithstanding the benefit that the
accommodation would provide to a person with a disability;
      (2)   That, but for the accommodation, one or more persons with a
disability likely will be denied an equal opportunity to enjoy housing of their
choice; and
      (3)   That equal results will be achieved as between the person with a
disability requesting the accommodation and a nondisabled person.
   (d)   Appeal:
If a reasonable accommodation request is denied, the decision may be appealed
in accordance with the provisions of section
152-7-19 of this chapter .
CHAPTER 47 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES^1
Sec
152-47-1 Purpose And Intent
Sec
152-47-2 Definitions
Sec
152-47-3 Location Of Sexually Oriented Businesses^2
Sec
152-47-4 Concentration Prohibited
Sec
152-47-5 Sign Regulations
Sec
152-47-6 Hours Of Operation
Sec
152-47-7 Injunction
Sec
152-47-8 Enforcement; Penalty
Sec 152-47-1 Purpose And Intent
It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent any deleterious location and concentration of sexually oriented
businesses within the city, thereby reducing or eliminating the adverse
secondary effects from such sexually oriented businesses and to regulate the
signage to control the adverse effects of such signage and prevent
inappropriate exposure to the community.
This chapter by its terms is designed to prevent crime, protect the city's
retail trade, maintain property values and generally protect and preserve the
quality of the city's neighborhoods, commercial districts and the quality of
life.
The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing
a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials protected by the first amendment, or to
deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented
entertainment to their intended market.
Neither is it the intent or effect of this chapter to condone nor legitimize
the distribution of obscene material. This chapter is to be construed as a
regulation of time, place and manner of the operation of these businesses
consistent with the limitations provided by provisions of the United States and
Utah constitutions.
Sec 152-47-2 Definitions
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth below and shall apply in addition to the terms defined in chapter 3
of this chapter. Whenever a word or phrase used in this chapter is not defined
herein or in chapter 3 of this chapter, but is defined in related sections of
Utah Code Annotated or in other city ordinances or resolutions, such
definitions are incorporated herein and shall apply as if set forth herein in
full, unless the context clearly appears otherwise.
BUSINESS LICENSE AUTHORITY: Hildale City manager or designees. CORRIDOR:
   (a)   SR-59, all inclusive.
   (b)   Utah Avenue, all inclusive.
   (c)   Canyon Street, all inclusive.
   (d)   Central Street, all inclusive.
EMPLOY: Hiring an individual to work for pecuniary or any other form of
compensation, whether such person is hired on the payroll of the employer as an
independent contractor, as an agent or in any other form of employment
relationship.
ESCORT: Any person who, for pecuniary compensation or any form of
consideration, dates, socializes, visits, consorts with or accompanies or
offers to date, consort, socialize, visit or accompany another or other to or
about social affairs, entertainment or places of amusement, or within any place
of public or private quarter. "Escort" shall not be construed to include
persons who provide business or personal service such as licensed private
nurses, aides for the elderly or handicapped, social secretaries or similar
service personnel whose relationship with their patron is characterized by a
bona fide contractual relationship having a duration of more than twelve (12)
hours and who provide a service not principally characterized as dating or
socializing. "Escort" shall also not be construed to include persons providing
services such as singing telegrams, birthday greetings or similar activities
characterized by appearances in a public place, contracted for by a party other
than the person for whom the service is being performed and of a duration not
longer than one hour.
ESCORT SERVICE: An individual or entity who, for pecuniary compensation,
furnishes or offers to furnish escorts, or provides or offers to introduce
patrons to escorts.
ESCORT SERVICE RUNNER: Any third person, not an escort, who, for pecuniary
compensation, acts in the capacity of an agent or broker for an escort service,
escort or patron by contacting or meeting with escort services, escorts or
patrons at any location within Hildale City, whether or not such third person
is employed by such escort service, escort, patron or by another business, or
is an independent contractor or self-employed.
HISTORIC BUILDINGS OR SITES: Those buildings or sites found on either the
national or state historic registers or the Hildale City register of cultural
and historic resources.
NUDE AND SEMINUDE DANCING AGENCY: Any person, agency, firm, corporation,
partnership, or any other entity or individual, which furnishes, books or
otherwise engages or offers to furnish, book or
otherwise engage the service of a professional dancer for performance or
appearance at a business licensed for nude entertainment, seminude dancing bars
or adult theaters.
NUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: A business, including adult theater, where
employees perform or appear in the presence of patrons of the business in a
state of nudity or seminudity. A business shall also be presumed to be a nude
entertainment business if the business holds itself out as such a business.
NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY: A state of dress in which the nipple and areola of
the female breast, or male or female genitals, pubic region or anus are covered
by less than the covering required in the definition of "seminude".
OUTCALL SERVICES: Services of a type performed by a sexually oriented business
employee outside of the premises of the licensed sexually oriented business,
including, but not limited to, escorts, models, dancers and other similar
employees.
PATRON: Any person who contracts with or employs any escort services or escort,
or the customer of anynude entertainment business.
PECUNIARY COMPENSATION: Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire,
profit, reward or any other form of consideration.
PERSON: Any person, unincorporated association, corporation, LLC, partnership
or other legal entity.
PUBLIC PARK: A park, playground, swimming pool, golf course, bike or jogging
path, or athletic field within Hildale City which is under the control,
operation or management of Hildale City.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION: A building which is used primarily for religious worship
and related religious activities.
SCHOOL: An institution of learning or instruction primarily catering to minors,
whether public or private. This definition shall include daycares, preschools,
nursery schools, kindergarten, elementary schools, junior high schools, middle
high schools, senior high schools or any special institution of learning under
the jurisdiction of the state department of education.
SEMINUDE: A state of dress in which opaque clothing covers no more than the
nipple and areola of the female breast, and the male or female genitals, pubic
region and anus shall be fully covered by an opaque covering no narrower than
four inches (4") wide in the front and five inches (5") wide in the back, which
shall not taper to less than one inch (1") wide at the narrowest point.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES: Those employees who work on the premises
of a sexually oriented business in activities related to the sexually oriented
portion of the business. This includes all managing employees, dancers,
escorts, models and other similar employees whether or not hired as employees,
agents or as independent contractors. Sexually oriented business employees
shall not include individuals whose work is unrelated to the sexually oriented
portion of the business, such as janitors, bookkeepers and similar employees.
Sexually oriented business employees shall not include cooks, serving persons,
bartenders and similar employees, except where they may be managers or
supervisors of the business. All persons making outcall meetings under this
chapter, including escorts, models, guards, escort runners, drivers, chauffeurs
and other similar employees, shall be considered sexually oriented business
employees.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES: Those businesses defined as follows: Adult
Arcade:
An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or more still or
motion picture projectors,
slide projectors or similar machines, or other image producing machines, for
viewing by five (5) or fewer persons each, are regularly used to show films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Adult Bookstore, Adult Novelty Store Or Adult Video Store:
A commercial establishment which has as a significant or substantial portion of
its stock in trade or derives a significant or substantial portion of its
revenues or devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior
business or advertising to the sale or rental, for any form of consideration,
of any one or more of the following:
   (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other visual representations
which are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   (b)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use or
marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of themselves or others.
   (c)   An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental or viewing of materials depicting or
describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas", and
still be categorized as adult bookstore, adult novelty store or adult video
store. Such other business purposes will not serve to exempt such
establishments from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes is
offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, the specified
materials which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
Adult Cabaret:
A nightclub, bar, restaurant, "bottle club" or similar commercial
establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which regularly
features:
   (a)   Persons who appear nude or in a state of nudity or seminude;
   (b)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   (c)   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Adult Motel:
A motel, hotel or similar commercial establishment which:
   (a)   Offers public accommodations, for any form of consideration, which
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas" and which advertises the availability of this
sexually oriented type of material by means of a sign visible from the public
right of way, or by means of any off premises advertising, including, but not
limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television;
or
   (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time less than ten
(10) hours; or
   (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant to subrent the sleeping room for a time
period of less than ten (10) hours.
Adult Motion Picture Theater:
A commercial establishment where films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides
or similar photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction
or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
Adult Theater:
A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial establishment which,
for any form of consideration, regularly features persons who appear in a state
of nudity or live performances which are characterized by exposure of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
Massage Parlor:
Any place where, for any form of consideration or gratuity, massage, alcohol
rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic treatments, or any
other treatment manipulation of the human body which occurs as a part of or in
connection with "specified sexual activities" or where any person providing
such treatment, manipulation or service related thereto, exposes his or her
"specified anatomical areas". The definition of sexual oriented businesses
shall not include the practice of massage in any licensed hospital, nor by a
licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by any nurse or
technician working under the supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor or osteopath, nor by trainers for any amateur, semi-professional
or professional athlete or athletic team or school athletic program.
Nude Entertainment Business:
A business, including adult theater, where employees perform or appear in the
presence of patrons of the business in a state of nudity or seminudity. A
business shall also be presumed to be a nude entertainment business if the
business holds itself out as such a business.
Nude Model Studio:
Any place where a person who regularly appears in a state of nudity or displays
"specified anatomical areas" is provided for money or any form of
consideration, to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed or similarly depicted by other persons.
Seminude Dancing Bars:
Any business which sells or allows the consumption of any alcoholic beverage on
its premises that permits dancing, modeling or other performance or appearance
however characterized, in a state of seminudity.
Sexual Encounter Establishment:
A business or commercial establishment, that as one of its primary business
purposes, offers for any form of consideration, a place where two (2) or more
persons may congregate, associate or consort for the purpose of "specified
sexual activities" or the exposure of "specified anatomical areas" or
activities when one or more of the persons is seminude. The definition of
sexually oriented businesses shall not include an establishment where a medical
practitioner, psychologist, psychiatrist or similar professional person
licensed by the state engages in medically approved and recognized sexual
therapy.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA: Any of the following:
   (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areolae; or
   (b)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following:
   (a)   The fondling or other intentional touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
   (b)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
   (c)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
   (d)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;
   (e)   Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in undergarments, a
mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise
physically restrained on the part of the one so clothed; or
   (f)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through E of this definition.
SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Increase in the floor
areas occupied by the business by more than fifteen percent (15%), as the floor
areas exist at the time the business receives its initial sexually oriented
business license under the applicable Hildale City licensing provisions in
effect at the time of initial issuance.
Sec 152-47-3 Location Of Sexually Oriented Businesses^2
   (a)   Industrial District:
Sexually oriented businesses shall be permitted only in industrial (M-1 and M-
2) zones as provided in chapter 16 of this chapter.
   (b)   Additional Restrictions:
Sexually oriented businesses are subject to the following additional
restrictions:
      (1)   No sexually oriented business shall be located within a one
thousand foot (1,000') radius of any church, park, school or residential zone
as measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the property line of the school, park, religious institution or
residential zone nearest the sexually oriented business and the property line
of the sexually oriented business nearest the church, park, school or
residential zone.
      (2)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted to locate within
five hundred feet (500') of any corridor, measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects, from the property line of any
corridor nearest the sexually oriented business nearest any gateway. If any
block shall be surrounded on all four (4) sides by a designated corridor, then
no sexually oriented business shall be permitted in that block.
      (3)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted within a five
hundred foot (500') linear distance of any historic building or site, measuring
a straight distance, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from
the property line of the historic building or site nearest the sexually
oriented business to the nearest property line of the sexually oriented
business nearest the historic building or site.
      (4)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted within a one
thousand foot (1,000') radius from the intersection of any interchanges of SR-
59 State Street and a city street within the limits of the city. The distance
shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures,
from the side of asphalt pavement (or other hard road base material) of the
interchange and a city street to the property line of the sexually oriented
business nearest the intersection. This subsection shall be interpreted to
include all current and all future interchanges within the limits of the city.
      (5)   No sexually oriented business shall be allowed within one thousand
feet (1,000') linear distance of a tavern, as defined under Utah Code Annotated
section 31A-1-105(61)(a) (and any amendments thereto), measuring a straight
distance, without regard to intervening structures or objects from the nearest
property line of the tavern to the nearest property line of the sexually
oriented business.
Sec 152-47-4 Concentration Prohibited
   (a)   Distance:
No sexually oriented business shall be allowed within one thousand feet
(1,000') linear distance of another such business measuring a straight
distance, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the nearest
property line of the one business to the nearest property line of the other
business.
   (b)   Building Or Structure:
Not more than one sexually oriented business shall be permitted to operate, be
established or be maintained within the same building, structure or portion
thereof.
Sec 152-47-5 Sign Regulations
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in chapter 36 of this
chapter, or any amendments thereto, sexually oriented business signs shall be
limited as follows:
   (a)   Number Allowed:
No more than one sign shall be allowed on sexually oriented business premises.
   (b)   Square Feet:
No sign on the sexually oriented business premises shall be allowed to exceed
eighteen (18) square feet.
   (c)   Animation:
No animation shall be permitted on or around any sexually oriented business
sign or on the exterior walls or roof of the premises.
   (d)   Alphanumeric Copy Only:
No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity related to or inferring
the nature of the business shall be allowed on any sexually oriented business
sign. Sexually oriented business signs shall only contain alphanumeric copy.
   (e)   Flat Wall Signs:
Only flat wall signs shall be permitted for any sexually oriented business.
   (f)   Painted Prohibited:
Painted signs and painted wall advertising shall not be allowed.
   (g)   Temporary Signs And Devices:
Other than the signs specifically allowed by this section, a sexually oriented
business shall not construct, or allow to be constructed, any temporary sign,
banner, light or other device designed to draw attention to the business
location.
   (h)   Prohibiting Minors:
Signs on front or near the entrance of the sexually oriented business, twenty
four inches by twenty four inches (24" x 24"), with letters of three inches
(3") or larger, prohibiting persons under the age of eighteen (18), with
letters of contrasting color, shall be allowed. (
Sec 152-47-6 Hours Of Operation
   (a)   Operator:
It shall be unlawful and a person commits a class C misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in chapter 9 of this chapter, if he/she operates or causes
to be operated a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not an
appropriate license has been issued for said business, and allows such business
to remain open for business, or to permit any employee to engage in a
performance, solicit a performance, make a sale, solicit a sale, provide a
service or solicit a service, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. of any particular day.
   (b)   Employee:
It shall be unlawful and a person commits a class C misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in chapter 9 of this chapter, if working as an employee of
a sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not an appropriate
license has been issued for said business, said employee engages in a
performance, solicits a performance, makes a sale, solicits a sale, provides a
service or solicits a service, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. of any particular day.
Sec 152-47-7 Injunction
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
which is not in compliance with this chapter is subject to a suit for
injunction as well as prosecution for the criminal violation. Such violation
shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
4-2 of this code and if an injunction must be sought, attorney fees and costs
will be assessed at the discretion of the court against the sexually oriented
business.
Sec 152-47-8 Enforcement; Penalty
   (a)   Enforcement: this chapter hereby requires that sexually oriented
businesses shall be permitted only as provided in sections
152-47-3 and
152-47-4 of this chapter.
   (b)   Misdemeanor:
In addition, any sexually oriented business shall be subject to the following
restrictions:
      (1)   The person commits a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
4-2 of this code, if he operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business in violation of sections
152-47-3 and
152-47-4 of this chapter.
      (2)   A person commits a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
4-2 of this code, if he causes or permits the operation, establishment or
maintenance of more than one sexually oriented business within the same
building, structure or portion thereof, as provided in subsection
152-47-4B of this chapter, or causes the substantial enlargement of any
sexually oriented business in any building, structure or portion thereof
containing another sexually oriented business.
CHAPTER 48 TEMPORARY USES
Sec
152-48-1 Purpose
Sec
152-48-2 Scope
Sec
152-48-3 Temporary Uses Allowed; Permit
Sec
152-48-4 Development Standards; General Provisions
Sec 152-48-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to accommodate certain land uses which are
temporary in nature and are not permitted or conditional uses in the zone where
the temporary use is proposed. The character of such uses requires proper
conditions to protect the owners, occupants, and users of adjacent property.
Sec 152-48-2 Scope
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the temporary uses enumerated
herein. Any building or structure not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter shall be deemed a permanent use and shall be allowed only if such use
is a permitted or conditional use in the zone where the use is located. The
requirements of this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit or limit other
applicable provisions of this chapter, this code, and other laws. This chapter
shall not apply to activities lawfully conducted by a government agency.
Sec 152-48-3 Temporary Uses Allowed; Permit
   (a)   Uses Allowed:
Any person may sponsor or conduct for profit or nonprofit purposes the
temporary uses set forth below subject to the issuance of a temporary use
permit, unless under express provisions of this chapter no such permit is
required:
Auction.
Christmas tree sales.
Farmers' market.
Fireworks stand.
Garage/yard sale.
Motorized vehicle sales by a licensed dealer. Produce stand.
Sales office for manufactured/mobile homes or recreational vehicles, when
allowed by the zone where the office is located.
Sales office for the sale of dwellings in a subdivision or other residential
project.
Temporary construction field office or place of business while a permanent
building is under construction on the same site.
Temporary dwelling, subject to the standards set forth in section
152-43-4 of this chapter. Temporary retail sales.
   (b)   Temporary Use Permit Required:
Unless exempt under the provisions of subsection C of this section, no person
shall install or conduct any temporary use without obtaining a temporary use
permit issued pursuant to the requirements of section
152-7-16 of this chapter and the development standards of this chapter.
   (c)   Exemption:
No temporary use permit shall be required for the first or second garage/yard
sale conducted on a lot or parcel during a calendar year.
Sec 152-48-4 Development Standards; General Provisions
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any
temporary use.
   (a)   Accessory Use:
As determined by the zoning administrator, a temporary use shall be:
      (1)   An accessory use in the zone where the use is proposed to be
located, or
      (2)   Compatible, in terms of character and intensity of use, with
permitted or conditional uses allowed in such zone.
   (b)   Owner Approval:
The owner of the property where a temporary use is proposed shall provide a
written statement authorizing the use.
   (c)   Access:
Specific areas shall be designated for ingress and egress of vehicular traffic
and for patron admission, ensuring the safety of patrons, the exclusion of
persons not entitled to entry, and the enforcement of state and local laws and
ordinances. The adequacy of such areas shall be based upon the number of
patrons reasonably expected to attend the temporary use.
   (d)   Insurance:
When deemed necessary by the zoning administrator for public health and safety
reasons, a temporary use permit applicant shall provide liability insurance for
benefit of the city. Such insurance shall:
      (1)   Name the city as an insured.
      (2)   Hold the city harmless from any claim arising from personal injury
or property damage resulting from the temporary use.
      (3)   Provide that the insurance shall not be canceled prior to giving
the city at least ten (10) days' written notice of such cancellation.
   (e)   Parking:
Off street parking associated with the principal permitted or conditional use
on the lot where the temporary use is located shall be made available for the
temporary use.
   (f)   Time Limits:
The duration of temporary use permits shall be as follows:
      (1)   Auctions;
garage/yard sales: Three (3) days (not more than 4 per year).
      (2)   Temporary retail sales:
Ten (10) days per calendar year on a given lot or parcel.
      (3)   Fireworks stand:
Thirty (30) days.
      (4)   Christmas tree sales;
motorized vehicle sales by a licensed dealer: Sixty (60) days.
      (5)   Produce stand;
farmers' market: Ninety (90) days.
      (6)   Temporary construction or model home office:
For the duration of construction activity so long as construction is diligently
pursued and the offices are located on the property under construction or
development.
      (7)   Temporary dwelling:
Six (6) months; provided the city council may grant one 6-month extension for
good cause if such extension is requested before the expiration of the original
permit.
   (g)   Trash Removal:
All trash shall be removed and the temporary use site restored to its prior
condition within seven
      (7) days after the temporary use has been concluded. In the case of
temporary placement of a recreational vehicle for an immediate family member,
occupant of the single-family residence and/or property owner shall be
responsible for compliance with this subsection.
   (h)   Inspections:
Authorized law enforcement officers, zoning enforcement officers, fire control
officers, and other governmental personnel shall be permitted free access to
the temporary use to make inspections to ensure compliance with the provisions
of this section.
CHAPTER 49 USES IN HISTORIC BUILDINGS
Sec
152-49-1 Purpose
Sec
152-49-2 Scope
Sec
152-49-3 Conditional Use Permit Required
Sec
152-49-4 Development Standards
Sec
152-49-5 Historic Preservation Commission Review
Sec 152-49-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to encourage preservation of historic buildings
located in residential areas by allowing income producing activities to be
conducted therein, and to establish use and development regulations for uses
allowed within historic buildings.
Sec 152-49-2 Scope
The requirements of this chapter shall apply to any building listed on the
Hildale Historic Landmark Register. Such requirements shall not be construed to
prohibit or limit other applicable provisions of this chapter, this code, and
other laws.
Sec 152-49-3 Conditional Use Permit Required
   (a)   Uses Allowed:
The following uses may be established in a historic building located in any
residential zone subject to the issuance of a conditional use permit pursuant
to the requirements of this chapter and section
152-7-9 of this chapter:
Bed and breakfast inn.
Cultural service.
Office, general.
Personal care service.
Personal instruction service. Reception center.
Restaurant, general.
Retail, general (antique store only).
   (b)   Additional Conditional Use Permit Criteria:
In addition to the requirements set forth in section
152-7-9 of this chapter, a conditional use permit for a use in a historic
building shall not be approved unless the evidence presented establishes that
the proposed use will conform to the development standards set forth in section
152-49-4 of this chapter.
Sec 152-49-4 Development Standards
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to any
conditional use permit for a use in a historic building located in a
residential zone.
   (a)   Historic Landmark Register:
The building or site on which the use is conducted shall be included on the
Hildale Historic Landmark Register. The building or site shall remain on the
national, state, or Hildale Historic Landmark Register for the duration of the
conditional use permit.
   (b)   Landscaping:
Landscaping may be required as needed to buffer on site parking from adjacent
properties and the street.
   (c)   Operating Hours:
Operating hours may be restricted to mitigate foreseeable negative impacts
resulting from particular operating hours.
   (d)   Parking:
Parking may be less than required by chapter 34 of this chapter based upon the
specific aspects of the site and use proposed.
   (e)   Signs:
Signs shall conform to the requirements of chapter 36 of this chapter except as
otherwise provided in this subsection.
      (1)   Sign types shall be limited to monument, wall, and identification
signs.
      (2)   Signs shall be designed to complement the site and structures in
terms of size and placement.
      (3)   Signs shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet or, if
freestanding, five feet (5') in height.
      (4)   If illuminated, only indirect lighting shall be allowed.
      (5)   The design of all signs shall be approved as part of a conditional
use permit, after a recommendation is received from the historic preservation
commission.
   (f)   non-conforming Circumstances:
Notwithstanding the requirements of chapter 8 of this chapter, existing non-
conforming conditions may be allowed to continue based upon specific aspects of
the site and the use proposed.
Sec 152-49-5 Historic Preservation Commission Review
Prior to considering a conditional use permit application under this chapter,
the application shall be reviewed by the historic preservation commission.
   (a)   Upon receipt of a complete application, the zoning administrator shall
submit a copy of the application to the historic preservation commission.
   (b)   Within thirty (30) days after receipt, the historic preservation
commission shall review the application with respect to the development
standards set forth in this chapter and standards for issuance of a conditional
use permit.
   (c)   Within ten (10) days after reviewing an application the commission
shall prepare and transmit a written recommendation to the zoning
administrator.
CHAPTER 50 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Sec
152-50-1 Short Title
Sec
152-50-2 Purpose
Sec
152-50-3 Scope
Sec
152-50-4 Definitions
Sec
152-50-5 Uses Allowed
Sec
152-50-6 Master Plan Required
Sec
152-50-7 Facility Types And Development Standards
Sec
152-50-8 Color
Sec
152-50-9 Additional Requirements
Sec
152-50-10 Accessory Buildings
Sec
152-50-11 Non-Maintained Or Abandoned Facilities
Sec
152-50-12 Application Requirements
Sec
152-50-13 Approval Process
Sec
152-50-14 Building Permits
Sec 152-50-1 Short Title
This chapter shall be known as the Hildale CITY WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS
TOWER AND FACILITIES ordinance and may be so cited and pleaded.
Sec 152-50-2 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish general requirements for the siting
of wireless telecommunications towers and facilities. The intent of this
chapter is to:
   (a)   Encourage the location of facilities in nonresidential areas.
   (b)   Minimize the total number of monopole and lattice tower facilities
throughout the community.
   (c)   Encourage the joint use of new and existing communication sites.
   (d)   Encourage providers of facilities to locate them where the adverse
impact on the community is minimal.
   (e)   Encourage providers of facilities to use innovative design to minimize
adverse visual impact.
   (f)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services to
provide such services to the community quickly, effectively, and efficiently.
Sec 152-50-3 Scope
This chapter shall apply to both commercial and private low power radio
services and facilities such as "cellular" or "pcs" (personal communications
services) communications and paging systems. All such facilities shall comply
with the requirements of this chapter, other applicable Hildale City
ordinances, the federal communications commission and the federal aviation
administration. This chapter shall not apply to the following types of
communications devices, although they may be regulated by other city ordinances
and policies:
   (a)   Amateur Radio:
Any tower or antenna owned and operated by an amateur radio operator licensed
by the federal communications commission.
   (b)   Satellite:
A device designed for the over the air reception of television broadcast
signals, multichannel multipoint distribution service or direct satellite
service.
   (c)   Cable:
Any cable television headend or hub towers and antenna used solely for cable
television services.
Sec 152-50-4 Definitions
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
set forth below and shall apply in addition to the terms defined in chapter 3
of this chapter:
ANTENNA: A transmitting or receiving device used in telecommunications that
radiates or captures signals.
COLLOCATION: The location of an antenna on an existing structure, tower or
building that is already being used for telecommunication service facilities.
GUYED TOWER: A tower that supports an antenna or antennas and requires guywires
or other stabilizers for support.
LATTICE TOWER: A self-supporting multiple sided, open steel frame structure
used to support telecommunications equipment.
MONOPOLE FACILITY: An antenna or series of individual antennas and any
associated equipment mounted on a single cylindrical pole. For the purposes of
this chapter, if a facility does conform to the definition of a roof or wall
mounted facility it shall be considered a monopole facility.
ROOF MOUNTED FACILITY: An antenna or series of individual antennas and any
associated equipment mounted on a flat or pitched roof, mechanical room or
penthouse of a building or structure.
STEALTH FACILITY: A wall, roof, or monopole facility disguised or concealed
from view, such as, but not limited to, artificial trees, synthetic rocks, or
architectural elements such as corners, steeples, and chimneys.
WALL MOUNTED FACILITY: An antenna or series of individual antennas and any
associated equipment mounted against the vertical wall of a building or
structure.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES ZONING TABLE:
Table 152-50-1 of section
152-50-5 of this chapter, incorporated herein by this reference.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY: An unmanned structure consisting of
equipment used primarily for the transmission, reception or transfer of voice
or data through radio wave or wireless transmissions which is typically
attached to a transmission support structure.
Sec 152-50-5 Uses Allowed
Permitted and conditional uses allowed within the various zones established by
this chapter shall be as set forth in table 152-50-1 of this section. Permitted
and conditional uses are indicated by a "P" or "C", respectively, in the
appropriate column. Uses not permitted are indicated by "N". Any use not shown
on table 152-50-1 of this section shall be prohibited unless the zoning
administrator determines the use is substantially the same as a permitted or
conditional use as provided in subsection
152-7-18E4 of this chapter.
TABLE 152-50-1
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES ALLOWED
Zone Wall Mount Wall Mount Collocated Monopole Lattice Stealth Guyed Tower
                                               Tower
Zone  Wall Mount Wall Mount Collocated Monopole Lattice Stealth Guyed Tower
                                                Tower
A-40  C          C          C          C        C       P       N
A-20  C          C          C          C        C       P       N
A-10  C          C          C          C        C       P       N
A-5   C          C          C          C        C       P       N
RA-1  P          P          C          C        C       P       N
RA-.5 P          P          C          C        C       P       N
R1-15 P          C          C          C        C       P       N
R1-10 P          C          C          C        C       P       N
R1-8  P          C          N          N        N       P       N
R1-6  P          C          N          N        N       P       N
RM-1  P          C          N          N        N       P       N
RM-2  P          C          N          N        N       P       N
RM-3  P          C          N          N        N       P       N
MH/RV C          N          N          N        N       P       N
NC    P          C          C          C        N       P       N
GC    P          C          C          C        N       P       N
HC    P          C          C          C        N       P       N
PC    P          C          C          C        N       P       N
POC   P          C          C          C        N       P       N
BMP   P          C          C          C        N       P       N
PO    P          C          C          C        N       P       N
M-1   P          P          C          C        C       P       N
M-2   P          P          C          C        C       P       N
OS    P          P          C          C        C       P       N
PF    P          C          C          C        N       P       N
Sec 152-50-6 Master Plan Required
All wireless telecommunication facility applicants shall submit a master plan
of the area being serviced by wall mounted, roof mounted, monopole, stealth
antenna, stealth tower or lattice tower facilities.
Sec 152-50-7 Facility Types And Development Standards
Wireless telecommunication facilities are characterized by four (4) general
types of antenna structures: wall mounted; roof mounted; monopole; and lattice
tower. Standards for the installation of each antenna types shall be as
follows:
   (a)   Wall Mounted Antenna:
The following provisions shall apply to a wall mounted antenna:
      (1)   A wall mounted antenna shall not extend above the wall line of the
building or structure or extend more than four feet (4') horizontally from the
face of the building or structure.
      (2)   The antenna, equipment and the supporting structure shall be
painted to match the color of the building or structure or the background
against which they are most commonly seen. An antenna and supporting structures
on buildings should be architecturally compatible with the building.
      (3)   An antenna mounted directly on existing parapet walls, with no
portion of the antenna extending above the roofline of such structure, shall be
considered a wall mounted antenna.
      (4)   Stealth wall mounted antennas are encouraged and are permitted in
all zones.
      (5)   Any front mounted wall antenna shall be deemed a stealth antenna.
      (6)   A wall mounted antenna shall be a permitted or conditional use, or
not permitted, as provided in
table 152-50-1 in section
152-50-5 of this chapter. A wall mounted antenna permitted as a conditional use
shall require a conditional use permit.
   (b)   Roof Mounted Antenna:
The following provisions shall apply to a roof mounted antenna:
      (1)   A roof mounted antenna and the antenna mounting structure shall not
extend more than eight feet (8') above the existing roofline and ten feet (10')
back of the exterior wall.
      (2)   An antenna and the antenna supporting structure mounted on a flat
roof shall not extend more than eight feet (8') high and ten feet (10') back of
the exterior wall.
      (3)   A roof mounted antenna on a pitched roof shall be allowed provided
the antenna is no more than five feet (5') above the roof pitch.
      (4)   A roof mounted antenna shall be constructed and/or colored to match
the surroundings where it is located.
      (5)   Stealth roof mounted antennas are encouraged and permitted in all
zones.
      (6)   Any front mounted wall or roof antenna shall be deemed a stealth
antenna.
      (7)   A roof mounted antenna shall be a permitted or conditional use, or
not permitted, as provided in
table 152-50-1 in section
152-50-5 of this chapter. A roof mounted antenna permitted as a conditional use
shall require a conditional use permit.
   (c)   Monopole:
The following provisions shall apply to a monopole:
      (1)   The height limit for a monopole shall be one hundred feet (100')
except where a greater height is allowed by a conditional use permit, provided
that:
         a.   The monopole shall blend in with surrounding structures, poles,
or trees and is compatible with surrounding uses.
         b.   The monopole shall be available for collocation of antennas owned
by other companies.
         c.   The monopole shall be set back at least three hundred feet (300')
from any residential zone boundary.
         d.   The height of the monopole shall be measured from the top of the
structure, including antennas, to the original grade directly adjacent to the
monopole.
      (2)   A monopole shall be set back from any residential structure a
distance equal to its height.
      (3)   Stealth monopole facilities are encouraged and shall be permitted
in all zones.
      (4)   A monopole shall be a permitted or conditional use, or not
permitted, as provided in
table 152-50-1 in section
152-50-5 of this chapter. A monopole permitted as a conditional use shall
require a conditional use permit.
   (d)   Guyed Tower:
A guyed tower shall not be allowed.
   (e)   Lattice Tower:
The following provisions shall apply to a lattice tower:
      (1)   The height limit for a lattice tower shall be one hundred feet
(100') except where a greater height is allowed by a conditional use permit,
provided that:
         a.   The lattice tower shall blend in with surrounding structures,
poles, or trees and be compatible with surrounding uses.
         b.   The lattice tower shall be available for collocation of antennas
owned by other companies.
         c.   The lattice tower will be set back at least three hundred feet
(300') from any residential zone boundary. The height shall be measured from
the top of the structure, including antennas, to the original grade directly
adjacent to the lattice tower.
      (2)   Lattice towers shall not be allowed in any residential zone.
      (3)   A lattice tower shall be a permitted or conditional use, or not
permitted, as provided in
table 152-50-1 in section
152-50-5 of this chapter. A lattice tower permitted as a conditional use shall
require a conditional use permit.
   (f)   Collocated Antennas:
The following provision shall apply to collocated antennas:
      (1)   Collocated antennas shall be permitted in any zone where a monopole
or lattice tower is permitted. Collocated antennas shall conform to all
applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (g)   City Rights Of Way:
Facilities locating in the city rights of way shall also comply with title 15,
chapter 156 of this code.
Sec 152-50-8 Color
Monopoles, lattice towers, antennas, towers, and any associated buildings or
equipment shall be painted to blend with the surroundings in which they are
most commonly seen. The color shall be determined on a case by case basis by
the planning commission for conditional uses and by the zoning administrator
for permitted uses. Within six (6) months after the facility has been
constructed, the planning commission or the zoning administrator may require
the color be changed if it is determined that the original color does not blend
with the surroundings.
Sec 152-50-9 Additional Requirements
   (a)   Compliance With FCC And FAA Regulations:
All operators of personal (private) wireless services facilities shall
demonstrate compliance with applicable federal communication commission (FCC)
and federal aviation administration (FAA) regulations, including FCC radio
frequency regulations, at the time of application and periodically thereafter
as requested by the zoning administrator. Failure to comply with applicable
regulations shall be grounds for revoking a site plan or conditional use permit
approval.
   (b)   Other Licenses And Permits:
The operator of every personal wireless services facility shall submit copies
of all licenses and permits required by other agencies and governments with
jurisdiction over the design, construction, location, and operation of the
facility to the zoning administrator, maintain such licenses and permits in
good standing, and provide evidence of renewal or extension thereof upon
request by the zoning administrator.
   (c)   Protection Against Climbing:
A monopole shall be protected against climbing by removing the climbing pegs
from the lower twenty feet (20') of the monopole.
   (d)   Miscellaneous Considerations:
The following shall be considered by the planning commission in connection with
a request for a conditional use permit for a wireless telecommunication
facility:
      (1)   Compatibility of the proposed structure with the height and mass of
existing buildings and utility structures.
      (2)   Locating the antenna on other existing structures in the same
vicinity, such as other monopoles, lattice towers, buildings, water storage
facilities, utility poles, athletic field lights, and parking lot lights, etc.,
where possible without significantly impacting antenna transmission or
reception.
      (3)   Location of the antenna in relation to existing vegetation,
topography including ridgelines, and buildings to obtain the best visual
screening.
      (4)   Spacing between monopoles or lattice towers which creates
detrimental impacts to adjoining properties.
      (5)   Installation of, but not limited to, curb, gutter, sidewalk,
landscaping, and fencing as required by this chapter.
      (6)   Color of facilities.
      (7)   Height of any lattice tower, including the antenna, over one
hundred feet (100').
      (8)   Any antenna, monopole, and/or lattice tower proposed for a location
within a historic district or landmark site shall have prior approval by the
historic preservation commission.
      (9)   Security lighting of monopoles and lattice towers shall comply with
FAA requirements for lighting. The planning commission may also require
security lighting for the site. If security lighting is used, the lighting
impact on surrounding areas, shall be minimized by using indirect lighting
where appropriate.
Sec 152-50-10 Accessory Buildings
Accessory buildings to antenna structures shall conform to required setback,
height and landscaping requirements of the zoning district in which they are
located. All utility lines leading to the accessory
building and antenna structure shall be underground.
Sec 152-50-11 Non-Maintained Or Abandoned Facilities
The building official may require a non-maintained or abandoned
telecommunications facility to be removed from the building or premises when
the facility has not been repaired or put to use by the owner or agent within
ninety (90) calendar days after notice of non-maintenance or abandonment is
given to the owner or agent, by certified mail, in person, or by personal
service. The applicant shall post a site specific bond when a permit is issued
to guarantee removal of the facility and site restoration. The type of bond and
amount shall be determined by the zoning administrator. No bond shall be
required for roof or wall mounted facilities. Failure to remove antennas,
monopoles, and/or lattice towers after receiving written notice to remove is a
violation of the terms of this chapter. The city may initiate criminal and/or
civil proceedings against any person, firm, entity or corporation, whether
acting as principal, agent, property owner, lessee, lessor, tenant, landlord,
employee, employer, or otherwise, for failure to remove antennas and monopoles
in accordance with this section. The city may seek a civil injunction requiring
the removal of any structures on the site in accordance with this section. Any
lease agreement with the city may also stipulate failure to remove antennas and
monopoles after receiving written notice to do so pursuant to this section
shall automatically transfer ownership of antennas, monopoles, towers, support
buildings and all other structures on the site to the city.
Sec 152-50-12 Application Requirements
Any person or entity desiring to develop, construct or establish a wireless
telecommunication service facility in Hildale City shall submit an application
which provides the following information. The application shall not be
considered until all required information has been provided.
   (a)   Site Plan:
A site plan shall be submitted as provided in section
152-7-10 of this chapter. In addition to the requirements of section
152-7-10 of this chapter an application for a wireless telecommunication
service facility shall include the following:
      (1)   Name of property owner and a written statement from the owner of
the property where the facility is proposed to be located, stating that the
owner has reviewed the plans for the proposed facility, understands the type of
facility that is being installed and the obligations the owner is undertaking,
and granting permission for the applicant to install and maintain the facility.
      (2)   Footprints of existing and proposed buildings and structures,
including a notation of unit's height above the grade.
      (3)   Location and size of existing and proposed antennas, with
dimensions to property lines.
   (b)   Written Information:
The following written information shall be provided:
      (1)   Signed lease agreement with property owner.
      (2)   Signed lease agreement with the city if site is located on city
property.
      (3)   A description of the anticipated maintenance needs for the
facility, including frequency of service, personnel, equipment needs, and
traffic noise or safety impacts of maintenance activity.
      (4)   A description of the service area for the antenna or tower and a
statement as to whether the antenna or tower is needed for coverage or
capacity.
      (5)   A map showing the site and nearest or associated telecommunication
facility sites within the network and a description of the distance between the
telecommunication facility
sites and how the proposed service area relates to the service network.
      (6)   Copies of all licenses and permits required by other agencies and
governments with jurisdiction over the design, construction, location, and
operation of the antenna.
      (7)   A written commitment to comply with applicable federal
communications commission radio frequency emission regulations.
      (8)   Contact information for a person who can respond to questions
concerning the application and the proposed facility, including name, address,
telephone number, facsimile number, and electronic mail address, if available.
   (c)   Additional Information Requirements For Monopoles And/Or Lattice
Towers:
If an applicant desires to construct a monopole or lattice tower, the applicant
shall also submit a detailed written description of why the applicant cannot
obtain coverage using existing buildings or structures.
   (d)   Additional Information Requirement For Facilities Not Located On
Highest Priority Site:
If an applicant desires to locate antennas on a site other than the highest
priority site, the application shall provide the following information to the
approving authority:
      (1)   The identity and location of any higher priority sites located
within the desired service area.
      (2)   The reason(s) why higher priority sites are not technologically,
legally, or economically feasible.
      (3)   Why the proposed site is essential to meet the service demands of
the proposed geographic service area and the citywide network.
Sec 152-50-13 Approval Process
An application for a wireless telecommunication facility which is a permitted
use in the zone where the facility is proposed to be located shall be reviewed
pursuant to the site plan review provisions of section
152-7-10 of this chapter. If the facility is a conditional use in such zone,
the review shall be pursuant to the conditional use permit process set forth in
section
152-7-9 of this title.
Sec 152-50-14 Building Permits
Building permits shall be issued pursuant to the provisions set forth in
section
152-7-13 of this chapter.
   (a)   General Requirements:
No tower or antenna structure shall be constructed until the applicant obtains
a building permit from the city. No building permit shall be issued for any
project for which a site plan or conditional use permit is required until the
site plan or conditional use permit has been approved by the appropriate
authority. If the design or engineering of an antenna support structure is
beyond the expertise of the Hildale City staff or planning commission, the city
may require third party review by an engineer selected by the city prior to the
issuance of a building permit. The applicant shall pay an additional fee to
cover the cost of the third party review.
   (b)   Special Requirements:
If the applicant is constructing a monopole, lattice tower or other tower type
structure, the applicant shall, if required by the city, submit a written
report from a qualified, structural engineer licensed in the state of Utah,
documenting the following:
      (1)   Height and design of the monopole or lattice tower, including
technical engineering, economic, and other pertinent factors governing
selection of the proposed design.
      (2)   Seismic load design and wind load design for the monopole or
lattice tower.
      (3)   Total anticipated capacity of the monopole or lattice tower and
demonstration that the site and setbacks are of adequate size to contain
debris.
      (4)   Soil investigation report, including structural calculations.
CHAPTER 51 BED AND BREAKFAST AND RESIDENTIAL HOSTING FACILITIES
Sec
152-51-1 Purpose
Sec
152-51-2 Scope
Sec
152-51-3 Conformity With Standards And Business License Required
Sec
152-51-4 Development Standards; Bed And Breakfast And Residential Hosting
Facilities
Sec 152-51-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for
bed and breakfast and residential hosting facilities to assure their
compatibility with adjoining uses, particularly when located in a residential
zone.
Sec 152-51-2 Scope
The requirements of this chapter shall apply to any bed and breakfast or
residential hosting facility within the City. Such requirements shall not be
construed to prohibit or limit other applicable provisions of this chapter,
this Code, and other laws.
Sec 152-51-3 Conformity With Standards And Business License Required
No bed and breakfast facility or residential hosting facility shall be
established unless:
   (a)   The facility can meet the development standards of this chapter;
   (b)   A business license has been issued in accordance with the regulations
in title 11 of this Code;
   (c)   Operation of a bed and breakfast or residential hosting facility
without a current Hildale City business license is considered a violation and
each day of operation shall be considered a separate offense.
Sec 152-51-4 Development Standards; Bed And Breakfast And Residential Hosting
Facilities
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to all bed and
breakfast and residential hosting facilities.
   (a)   Location:
A bed and breakfast or a residential hosting facility shall be located in an
existing residential structure deemed suitable for habitation. A bed and
breakfast inn, if a new structure is proposed, shall conform to the applicable
commercial construction codes as adopted by this code.
   (b)   Guestrooms:
Rentable guestrooms shall be limited to not more than ten (10) rooms for each
bed and breakfast or residential hosting facility. See definitions in Section
152-3-4 of this Chapter for specific limitations.
   (c)   Current Codes:
Guestrooms must meet current International Residential Code or International
Building Code standards, as applicable, for egress and be provided with smoke
and CO2 detectors. A fire exiting route plan must be posted in each sleeping
room.
   (d)   Meals:
If meals are offered, meals shall be served only:
      (1)   To overnight guests.
   (e)   Landscaping:
Landscaping shall be provided and maintained to minimize impact on neighboring
properties, to retain residential character, and to provide a visual buffer for
on site parking in relation to adjacent properties and the street. Landscaping
may include, but shall not be limited to, planting trees in the park strip.
   (f)   Parking:
Non-frontage, off street parking shall be provided as follows:
      (1) Two (2) spaces for owner.
      (2)   One (1) space per guest room.
      (3)   Parking must be located on the same property as the guestrooms.
      (4)   Tandem parking is permitted for one (1) space only.
      (5)   Off street parking may not be provided within the front yard
setback other than the existing driveway.
      (6)   Landscaping is required between parking and adjoining residential
properties.
   (g)   Signs:
Only one (1) sign not larger than one foot by two foot (1' x 2') in size may be
used to advertise a home bed and breakfast or residential hosting facility. The
sign may not be illuminated unless by a single down facing low wattage fixture.
   (h)   Street Standards:
A bed and breakfast or residential hosting facility shall be located on a
street that meets Fire Code requirements.
   (i)   Structural Modifications:
Structural modifications may not be made to separate sleeping rooms from the
remainder of the house.
   (j)   Other Regulations:
A bed and breakfast or residential hosting facility is subject to all other
applicable sections of this Code, including, but not limited to, Building and
Fire Codes, transient lodging facility regulations, and transient room tax
requirements.
CHAPTER 52 CAMPING HOSTING FACILITIES
Sec
152-52-1 Purpose
Sec
152-52-2 Scope
Sec
152-52-3 Definitions (Reserved)
Sec
152-52-4 Conformity With Standards And Business License Required
Sec
152-52-5 Development Standards; Camping Hosting Facilities
Sec 152-52-1 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to establish use and development regulations for
camping hosting facilities to minimize, as applicable, the impact on the
natural environment, and to assure the compatibility of camping hosting
facilities with adjoining uses.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-011 on 9/1/2021
Sec 152-52-2 Scope
The requirements of this chapter shall apply to any camping hosting facility
within the City. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or limit
other applicable provisions of this chapter, this Code, and other laws.
Sec 152-52-3 Definitions (Reserved)
HISTORY
Repealed by Ord. 2021-011 on 9/1/2021
Sec 152-52-4 Conformity With Standards And Business License Required
No camping hosting facility shall be established unless:
   (a)   The facility can meet the development standards of this chapter and
regulations of general applicability in this Code;
   (b)   A business license has been issued in accordance with the regulations
in title 11 of this Code;
   (c)   Operation of a camping hosting facility without a current Hildale City
business license is considered a violation and each day of operation shall be
considered a separate offense.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-011 on 9/1/2021
Sec 152-52-5 Development Standards; Camping Hosting Facilities
The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to all camping
hosting facilities.
   (a)   Location:
A camping hosting facility may be established in any zone where allowed as a
permitted or conditional use, and shall conform to applicable commercial
construction codes, zoning requirements, and the requirements of any other
applicable codes and/or ordinances adopted by Hildale City.
   (b)   Health Code Compliance:
Prior to and at all times after commencing operations, a camping hosting
facility shall obtain and maintain local public health department approval, and
shall comply with all applicable health codes.
   (c)   Property Manager:
The owner of a camping hosting facility shall appoint a property manager and
provide the Hildale City business licensing office with contact information for
the property manager, who shall be:
      (1)   Authorized to represent the owner with respect to all aspects of
the management and maintenance of the facility;
      (2)   Authorized to receive official notices on the owner's behalf,
including service of legal process; and
      (3)   Within a reasonable distance to enable the property manager to
appear and respond to emergencies during all times that the camping hosting
facility is occupied.
   (d)   Maximum Length of Stay:
No campsite in a camping hosting facility shall be occupied for any consecutive
period of more than twenty-nine (29) days. For purposes of this subsection, a
guest who has occupied any campsite in the same camping hosting facility for
twenty-nine consecutive days may not rent another campsite in the same camping
hosting facility for a period of at least forty-eight (48) hours.
   (e)   Number of Campsites:
Rentable campsites shall be limited to not more than eight (8) campsites per
acre.
   (f)   Fire Safety Requirements:
      (1)   Each rentable campsite will have at least (1) fire extinguisher
that meets the specifications deemed necessary by the Fire Chief of Hildale
City which shall be inspected annually by a qualified inspector.
      (2)   Open burning shall only be permitted within the confines of an
approved fire ring or fireplace, which shall be at least twenty-five (25) feet
from any tent, recreational vehicle, structure or other combustible material,
shall be completely extinguished whenever not attended, and shall be prohibited
when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous.
Guests shall be prominently notified of these restrictions.
      (3)   Charcoal, gas or other open-flame cooking devices, other than shall
be operated at least ten (10) feet from any tent, recreational vehicle,
structure or other combustible material. The minimum distance specified by this
subsection shall not apply between a recreational vehicle and a cooking device
designed to be affixed to that vehicle.
      (4)   There shall be a clearing with a horizontal radius of at least
fifteen (15) feet and a vertical height of at least eight (8) feet, which shall
be kept relatively free of trees, brush, and tall weeds and dry grass, around
any permanent structure, stationary recreational vehicle, or tent.
      (5)   To the extent that the requirements of this section may be
inconsistent with applicable building or fire codes, the provisions of the
building and fire codes shall apply.
   (g)   Tents:
Any tent provided by a camping hosting facility to overnight guests shall be
maintained in good repair, and shall be adequately roped, braced and anchored
to withstand the elements of weather and prevent against collapsing.
   (h)   Recreational Vehicles (RV's):
      (1)   Any recreational vehicle provide by a camping hosting facility to
overnight guests shall be maintained in good repair and, if designed to be
self-propelled, shall be capable of moving under its own power.
      (2)   No more than 50% of the campsites in a camping hosting facility may
be designated, marketed or used to accommodate a recreational vehicle.
      (3)   Any camping hosting facility having two (2) or more campsites
designated, marketed, or used to accommodate recreational vehicles shall, in
addition to the development standards set forth in this section, be subject to
the development standards set forth in Chapter 43 of this code applicable to
recreational vehicle parks. To the extent that the development standards
applicable to recreational vehicle parks conflict with the development
standards set forth in this section, the conflicting provisions of Chapter 43
shall apply.
   (i)   Numbering:
      (1)   Each structure and campsite used in connection with a camping
hosting facility shall be assigned a unique unit number, which shall be posted
prominently thereon, and shall be indicated by location on a map of the camping
hosting facility for emergency response purposes.
      (2)   The owner of the camping hosting facility shall keep the emergency
response map up to date and on file with the emergency dispatch center.
   (j)   Structures:
      (1)   Any structure used in connection with a camping hosting facility
shall be of permanent construction, meeting the requirements of Building Code.
      (2)   No structure shall be permitted on a lot containing a camping
hosting facility except for accessory uses permitted in, and conforming to the
development standards applicable to the zone in which the camping hosting
facility is located.
   (k)   Lighting:
Any exterior lighting shall comply with the following:
      (1)   All lighting devices shall be shielded or hooded so as to prevent
light from producing glare onto adjacent properties that may reasonably be
expected to result in visual discomfort or loss of privacy;
      (2)   Lighting devices shall be designed or shielded such that all light
emitted by the fixture is projected below a horizontal plane; and
      (3)   Parking spaces and aisles, roads and driveways shall be illuminated
only to the extent necessary to meet the functional needs of safe circulation
and protection of pedestrians.
   (l)   Meals:
If meals are offered, meals shall be served only to overnight guests.
   (m)   Landscaping:
Landscaping shall be provided and maintained to minimize impact on neighboring
properties, to retain residential character, and provide a visual buffer for on
site parking in relation to adjacent properties and the street. Landscaping may
include, but shall not be limited to, planting trees in the park strip.
   (n)   Parking:
Non-frontage, off street parking shall be provided as follows:
      (1) Two (2) spaces for owner.
      (2)   At least one (1) space per campsite.
      (3)   Parking must be located on the same property as the campsites.
      (4)   Tandem parking shall be counted as one (1) space for purposes of
this subsection.
      (5)   Off street parking may not be provided within the front yard
setback other than the existing driveway.
   (o)   Signs:
Only one on-site (1) sign not larger than two foot by three foot (2' x 3') in
size may be used to advertise a camping hosting facility. The sign may not be
illuminated unless by a single down facing low wattage fixture.
   (p)   Setbacks:
No tent, stationary recreational vehicle, or permanent structure shall be
located within any setbacks required under the development standards applicable
to the zone in which a camping hosting facility is located.
   (q)   Street Standards:
A camping hosting facility shall front upon a street that meets Fire Code
requirements as a fire apparatus access road.
   (r)   Sensitive Lands:
Development of any camping hosting facility, including driveways, roads,
trails, campsites, and common areas, is hereby expressly made subject to
Chapter 24 of this code, "Sensitive Lands."
   (s)   Drainage:
Any camping hosting facility shall be engineered to provide adequate surface
drainage to ensure that stormwater and wastewater will not be discharged onto
adjacent properties beyond naturally existing conditions.
   (t)   Other Regulations:
A camping hosting facility is subject to all other applicable sections of this
Code, including, but not limited to, Building and Fire Codes, noise ordinances,
transient lodging facility regulations, and transient room tax requirements.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 2021-011 on 9/1/2021
 
