KANARRAVILLE, UTAH
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
10.001   Title of code
   
10.002   Interpretation
   
10.003   Application to future ordinances
   
10.004   Construction of code
   
10.005   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.006   Severability
   
10.007   Reference to other sections
   
10.008   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.009   Errors and omissions
   
10.010   Reasonable time
   
10.011   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.012   Limitation periods
   
10.013   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.014   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.015   Captions
   
10.016   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.017   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.018   Numbering ordinances
   
10.019   Statutes or codes included and excluded
   
10.020   Purposes and principles of construction
Offenses and General Penalty
   
10.035   Crimes abolished
   
10.036   Strict construction rule not applicable
   
10.037   Procedure; governed by state and constitutional provisions liability
for civil damages not affected
   
10.038   Jurisdiction and venue
   
10.039   Limitation of actions
   
10.040   Multiple prosecution and double jeopardy; criminal joinder
   
10.041   Classification of offenses; sentencing in accordance with chapter
   
10.042   Designation of offenses
   
10.043   Misdemeanors classified
   
10.044   Infractions
   
10.045   Continuing violation
   
10.046   Sentences or combination of sentences allowed; civil penalties
   
10.047   Misdemeanor conviction; term of imprisonment
   
10.048   Infraction conviction; fine, forfeiture and disqualification
   
10.049   Fines of persons
   
10.050   Fines of corporations, associations, partnerships or governmental
instrumentalities
   
10.051   Hearings request
   
10.052   Form of hearings request
   
10.053   Hearings procedure
   
10.054   Not additional remedy
   
10.055   No liability on municipality
 
   
10.999   General penalty
Statutory reference:
 1    Burden of proof, see UCA §§ 76-1-501 through 76-1-504
   Criminal responsibility for conduct of another, see UCA §§ 76-2-201 through
76-2-205  2
   Culpability generally, see UCA §§ 76-2-101 through 76-2-105  3
   Defenses to criminal responsibility, see UCA §§ 76-2-301 through 76-2-308  4
   Definitions, see UCA § 76-1-601  5
   Justification excluding criminal responsibility, see UCA §§ 76-2-401 through
76-2-406  6
   Limitations and special provisions on sentences, see UCA §§ 76-3-401 through
76-3-405  7
 
Notes
1 Cite
2 Cite
3 Cite
4 Cite
5 Cite
6 Cite
7 Cite
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.001 TITLE OF CODE.
   The ordinances contained in this code and all ordinances of a general nature
hereafter adopted and inserted herein and all amendments, additions and changes
thereto shall be part of this code and shall be known and cited as the “Revised
Ordinances of Kanarraville Town”.
§ 10.002 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.003 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Application to future ordinances. All provisions of Title I compatible
with future legislation shall apply to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or
supplementing this code unless otherwise specifically provided.
   (B)   Offenses defined in this code.
      (1)   Application of code. The provision of this code shall govern the
construction of, the punishment for and the defense against any offense defined
in this code or, except where otherwise specifically provided or the context
otherwise requires, any offense defined outside this code, if the offense was
committed after the effective date of this code.
      (2)   Offenses prior to effective date. Any offense committed prior to
the effective date of this code shall be governed by the ordinances of this
municipality existing at the time of commission thereof, except that a defense
or limitation on punishment available under this code shall be available to any
defendant tried or retried after the effective date. An offense under this code
shall be deemed to have been committed prior to the effective date of this code
if any of the elements of the offense occurred prior to the effective date.
§ 10.004 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.005 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   In the construction of the ordinances of this municipality, the following
rules and definitions shall be observed and applied unless such construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of these ordinances.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation.
      (1)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and
understood according to the common use and understanding of the language; the
technical words and phrases and such other words and phrases as may have
acquired a particular meaning in law shall be construed and understood
according to such particular meaning.
      (2)   Gender - singular and plural. Unless otherwise indicated from the
context of the ordinance, all words used in the singular shall include the
plural and all words used in the masculine gender shall extend to and apply to
the feminine gender.
      (3)   Tenses. The use of any verb in the present tense shall include the
future and past tense when applicable.
      (4)   Joint authority. Words imputing joint authority to three or more
persons shall be construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons,
unless otherwise declared in the section giving the authority.
      (5)   Acts. Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an
agent or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of
the act by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS. Includes any trade, profession, calling, activity, operation or
enterprise for which a license is required by any ordinance of this
municipality.
      CLERK. The individual appointed to act as the Clerk of the Town of
Kanarraville.
      COUNTY. Iron County, Utah.
      HIGHWAY or ROAD. Includes public bridges, and may be equivalent to the
words “county way”, “county road”, “common road” and “state road”.
      LICENSE. Includes any certificate or license issued by this municipality.
      LOCATION. Whenever any act, conduct, or offense is prohibited or required
and no reference is made to location, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise, the act, conduct or offense prohibited or required shall be within
the boundaries of this municipality.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      OFFENSE. Any act, action or conduct prohibited by this code or the
failure to perform any acts required in this code.
      OFFICER or OFFICIALS. As used in this code, means any elected or
appointed person employed by the municipality unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of a whole or part of such
building or land.
      PERSON. Includes all individuals, both male and female; any governmental
agency; corporation; partnership; association; company; and every other form of
organization whether formed voluntarily or involuntarily.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      PROPERTY. Includes both real and personal property.
      STATE. The State of Utah.
      STREET. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places, sidewalks, gutters and culverts, crosswalks and
intersections.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall apply to any
person who occupies all or any part of such building or land either alone or
with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Kanarraville.
      TOWN COUNCIL. As used throughout this code, means the legislative body of
the Town of Kanarraville.
      TOWN MARSHAL or MARSHAL. As used in this code, all have the same meaning
and may be used interchangeably.
      WEEK. Any seven-day period.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.006 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the governing body that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional or without effect by any final
judgement or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, such judgement or
decree shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences,
paragraphs and sections of this code.
§ 10.007 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.008 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Town
Council refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer,
agency, authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or
following the effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed
with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named
board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
§ 10.009 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.010 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   Reasonable time. In all cases where any ordinance required that an act
be done in a reasonable time or that reasonable notice be given, such
reasonable time for such notice shall be deemed to mean such time as may be
necessary for the expeditious performance of such duty or compliance with such
notice.
   (B)   Time; how computed. The time within which an act is to be done as
provided in any ordinance or any resolution or order of this municipality, when
expressed in days, shall be determined by excluding the first day and including
the last day, except if the last day is a Sunday or a holiday, then the last
day shall be the day next following such Sunday or holiday which is not a
Sunday or holiday. When time is expressed in hours, Sunday and all holidays
shall be excluded.
§ 10.011 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   Repeal of existing ordinances.
      (1)   So far as the provisions of this code are the same as those of
previously existing ordinances, they shall be construed as continuations
thereof. All ordinances and resolutions of this municipality heretofore in
force, except such as are of a private, local or temporary nature, including
franchises, grants, dedications, bond issues, elections and special levies for
local assessments, hereby are repealed except as otherwise provided in division
(A)(2) below.
      (2)   Those ordinances of this municipality which are of a general nature
which are not repealed and which the Town Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to insert in the appropriate place in this code and which shall be
deemed part of this code are: none.
      (3)   The fees or charges established by the ordinances repealed by this
code of revised ordinances shall remain in effect until subsequently changed by
ordinance or resolution; except that. the fees and charges established by this
code shall prevail in the event of a conflict.
   (B)   Effect of repealing ordinances. The repeal of the ordinances, as
provided in division (A) above, shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded.
§ 10.012 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.013 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.014 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.015 CAPTIONS.
   The captions in this code immediately preceding each section are intended as
mere captions to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be part of the sections.
§ 10.016 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
         (UCA §             )
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see UCA §             
§ 10.017 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws. This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way; contracts entered into or franchises granted; the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway; and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
   (B)   Whenever this code or any ordinance of this town requires that an act
be done or prohibits an action by any officer, employee or agent of this town,
the failure to perform the act or the performance of act prohibited shall not
create any liability on the town or the officer.
§ 10.018 NUMBERING ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall, in so far as possible, assign all ordinances of
a general nature adopted after these revised ordinances a number which shall
conform to the numbering system used in this code and shall indicate upon the
face of the ordinance the date adopted.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Clerk shall keep all ordinances of a local, private or
temporary nature, including franchises, grants, dedications, bond issues and
tax levies, in a separate book of “special ordinances” properly indexed and
organized according to date adopted.
      (2)   The first number of such an ordinance shall be the last two digits
of the year the ordinance is adopted, followed by a dash which is followed by a
number which shall be sequential, ascending number indicating the order in
which such special ordinance was adopted during the year.
   (C)   Failure to comply with this section shall not affect or render invalid
any ordinance of this municipality.
§ 10.019 STATUTES OR CODES INCLUDED AND EXCLUDED.
   Any reference or citation to any statute shall not be interpreted or
construed to include, incorporate or make the citation or statute part of this
code unless the provisions of this code specifically include, incorporate or
make the citation or statute part of this code by reference or incorporation,
and any such reference or citation not specifically included or incorporated
may be changed, amended or deleted without publication on an order of the
governing body.
§ 10.020 PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The provisions of this code shall be construed in accordance with these
general purposes to:
   (A)   Forbid and prevent the commission of offenses;
   (B)   Define adequately the conduct and mental state which constitute each
offense and safeguard conduct that which without fault from condemnation as
criminal;
   (C)   Prescribe penalties which are proportionate to the seriousness of
offenses and which permit recognition of differences in rehabilitation
possibilities among individual offenders; and
   (D)   Prevent arbitrary or oppressive treatment of persons accused or
convicted of offenses.
OFFENSES AND GENERAL PENALTY
§ 10.035 CRIMES ABOLISHED.
   No conduct is a crime or an offense unless made so by this code or other
ordinances or other applicable statute.
§ 10.036 STRICT CONSTRUCTION RULE NOT APPLICABLE.
   The rule that a penal ordinance is to be strictly construed shall not apply
to this code, or any of its provisions, or other ordinances of this
municipality. All provisions of this code and offenses defined by it shall be
construed according to the fair import of their terms to promote justice and to
affect the objects of the law and general purposes of §
10.020.
§ 10.037 PROCEDURE; GOVERNED BY STATE AND CONSTITUTIONAL PROVISIONS LIABILITY
FOR CIVIL DAMAGES NOT AFFECTED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, the procedure governing the accusation,
prosecution, conviction and punishment of offenders and offenses is not
regulated by this code, but shall be in conformity with the laws of the state
and the Constitution of the United States.
   (B)   This code does not bar, suspend or otherwise affect any rights to or
liability for damages, penalty, forfeiture, impeachment or other remedy
authorized by law to be covered or enforced in a civil action, administrative
proceeding or otherwise, regardless of whether the conduct involved in the
proceeding constitutes an offense defined in this code.
§ 10.038 JURISDICTION AND VENUE.
   (A)   A person is subject to prosecution in this municipality for an offense
which he or she commits, while either within or outside the municipality, by
his or her own conduct or that of another for which he or she is legally
accountable, if:
      (1)   The offense is committed either wholly or partly within the
municipality;
      (2)   The conduct outside this municipality constitutes an attempt within
this municipality;
      (3)   The conduct outside this municipality constitutes a conspiracy to
commit an offense within this municipality and an act in furtherance of the
conspiracy occurs in this municipality; or
      (4)   The conduct within the municipality constitutes an attempt,
solicitation, or conspiracy to commit in another jurisdiction an offense under
this code and such other jurisdiction.
   (B)   An offense is committed partly within this municipality if either the
conduct which is an element of the offense, or the result which is such an
element, occurs within this municipality.
   (C)   An offense which is based on an omission to perform a duty imposed by
this code is committed within this municipality regardless of the location of
the offender at the time of the omission.
§ 10.039 LIMITATION OF ACTIONS.
   (A)   Embezzlement of public moneys; falsification of public records. A
prosecution for embezzlement of public moneys or the falsification of public
records may be commenced at any time.
   (B)   Misdemeanor; any infraction; commencement of prosecution.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, prosecutions for
other offenses are subject to the following periods of limitation:
         (a)   A prosecution for a misdemeanor must be commenced within two
years after it is committed; and
         (b)   A prosecution for any infraction must be commenced within one
year after it is committed.
      (2)   The prosecution is commenced on the filing of a complaint or
information.
   (C)   Fraud or breach of fiduciary obligation; misconduct by public officer
or employee. If the period prescribed in division (B)(1) above has expired, a
prosecution may nevertheless be commenced for:
      (1)   Any offense, a material element of which is either fraud or a
breach of fiduciary obligation, within one year after discovery of the offense
by an aggrieved party or by a person who has a legal duty to represent an
aggrieved party and who is himself or herself not a party to the offense, but
in no case shall this provision extend beyond the period of limitation
otherwise applicable by more than three years; and
      (2)   Any offense based on misconduct in office by a public officer or
employee at any time during the term of the defendant’s public office or the
period of his or her public employment or within two years thereafter, but in
no case shall this provision extend beyond the period of limitation otherwise
applicable by more than three years.
   (D)   Defendant out of state. The period of limitation does not run against
any defendant during any period of time he or she is out of the state following
the commission of an offense.
   (E)   Lesser included offense for which period of limitations has run.
Whenever a defendant is charged with an offense for which the period of
limitations has not run and the defendant should be found guilty of a lesser
offense for which the period of limitations has run, the finding of the lesser
and included offense against which the statute of limitations has run shall not
be a bar to punishment for the lesser offense.
§ 10.040 MULTIPLE PROSECUTION AND DOUBLE JEOPARDY; CRIMINAL JOINDER.
   (A)   “Single criminal episode” defined. In this code, unless the context
requires a different definition, SINGLE CRIMINAL EPISODE means all conduct
which is closely related in time and is incident to an attempt or an
accomplishment of a single criminal objective. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to limit or modify the joinder of offenses and defendants in criminal
proceedings.
   (B)   Incorporation by reference of provisions of state criminal code. The
provisions of UCA §§ 76-1-402 through 76-1-405  1 are hereby adopted as part of
this code and incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   Joinder of offenses and defendants.
      (1)   Two or more offenses under this code or the ordinances of this
municipality may be charged in the same citation or complaint in a separate
count for each offense if the offenses charged are of the same or similar
character or are based on the same act or transgression or on two more acts or
transactions connected together or constituting parts of a common scheme or
plan.
      (2)   Two or more defendants may be charged in the same citation or
complaint if they are alleged to have participated in the same act or
transaction or in the same series of acts or transactions. Such defendants may
be charged in one or more counts together or separately and all of the
defendants need not be charged in each count.
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 10.041 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES; SENTENCING IN ACCORDANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   (A)   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this municipality shall be sentenced in accordance with
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which involve
an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance with this
chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.042 DESIGNATION OF OFFENSES.
   Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or infractions.
§ 10.043 MISDEMEANORS CLASSIFIED.
   (A)   Misdemeanors are classified into two categories:
      (1)   Class B misdemeanors; and
      (2)   Class C misdemeanors.
   (B)   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or in an ordinance of this municipality
when no other specifications as to punishment or category is made is a class B
misdemeanor.
§ 10.044 INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   Infractions are not classified.
   (B)   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this municipality or which is expressly designated an infraction
and any offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this
municipality which is not designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty
is specified is an infraction.
§ 10.045 CONTINUING VIOLATION.
   In all instances where the violation of these ordinances or any ordinance
hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs or
continues to occur.
§ 10.046 SENTENCES OR COMBINATION OF SENTENCES ALLOWED; CIVIL PENALTIES.
   Within the limits prescribed by this code, a court may sentence a person
adjudged guilty of an offense to any one of the following sentences or a
combination of such sentences:
   (A)   To pay a fine;
   (B)   To probation; or
   (C)   To imprisonment.
§ 10.047 MISDEMEANOR CONVICTION; TERM OF IMPRISONMENT.
   The terms of imprisonment are as follows:
   (A)   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
months; and
   (B)   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding 90
days.
§ 10.048 INFRACTION CONVICTION; FINE, FORFEITURE, AND DISQUALIFICATION.
   (A)   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture, or both.
   (B)   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
§ 10.049 FINES OF PERSONS.
   A person who has been convicted of an offense may, in addition to any term
of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed $299 when the
conviction is of a class B or C misdemeanor or infraction.
§ 10.050 FINES OF CORPORATIONS, ASSOCIATIONS, PARTNERSHIPS OR GOVERNMENTAL
INSTRUMENTALITIES.
   The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon a corporation, association,
partnership, or governmental instrumentality for an offense defined in this
code or the ordinances of the municipality or for any offense defined outside
of this code over which this municipality has jurisdiction, for which no
special corporate fine is specified, shall be sentenced to pay an amount, fixed
by the court, not exceeding $299 when the conviction is for a class B or C
misdemeanor or infraction.
§ 10.051 HEARINGS REQUEST.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided in any ordinance of the municipality
or any code adopted by reference, a hearing before the governing body may be
requested by any person:
   (A)   Who is denied or refused a permit or license by any officer, agent or
employee of this municipality; or
   (B)   Whose permit or license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited
from that for which it was first issued.
§ 10.052 FORM OF HEARINGS REQUEST.
   The request for hearing must be made in writing to the Mayor or Recorder and
made within 30 days following the date notice denying, refusing, revoking,
qualifying, restricting or revoking the license or permit is mailed by the
municipality to the applicant or license holder at his or her address as it
appears on the application or license.
§ 10.053 HEARINGS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Following receipt of a request for hearing, the governing body shall
inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and place the hearing is to
be held.
   (B)   At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall have the right to hear and
examine any witnesses the municipality may produce to support its decision and
to present his or her own evidence in support of his or her contention.
   (C)   The governing body shall, within ten days following the conclusion of
the hearing, in writing, inform the person who requested the hearing of the
decision of the governing body.
§ 10.054 NOT ADDITIONAL REMEDY.
   This subchapter shall not be constructed so as to afford any aggrieved party
more than one hearing before the governing body nor shall the hearing provided
in this subchapter apply to any criminal complaint or proceeding.
§ 10.055 NO LIABILITY ON MUNICIPALITY.
   None of the provisions of this code shall create any civil liability on the
municipality, its officers or employees whether or not the code imposes
mandatory or directional duties and whether or not the municipality, its
officers or employees perform or do not perform such duties.
§ 10.999 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of this code for which
another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be subject
to the fines, imprisonment, or other penalties that apply to a conviction of a
class B misdemeanor pursuant to UCA § 76-3-301(1)(d)  1 or, if the violation
would constitute a class C misdemeanor, then the lesser class C fines pursuant
to UCA § 76-3-301(1)(e)Cite, imprisonment, or other penalties. If the violation
would constitute an infraction, then the person shall be subject to the lesser
fines or other penalties for such an infraction pursuant to UCA § 76-3-205Cite.
      (2)   Any firm or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to the fines, imprisonment, or other penalties which apply to a
conviction of a class B misdemeanor pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302(3)  2 or, if the
violation would constitute a class C misdemeanor, then the lesser class C fines
pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302(4)Cite or other penalties. If the violation would
constitute an infraction, then the firm or corporation shall be subject to the
fines or other penalties for such an infraction pursuant to UCA § 76-3-302
(4)Cite.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   If a penalty for a violation of an ordinance includes any possibility
of imprisonment, the county shall, under UCA § 78B-22-301  3 , provide for
indigent defense services, as that term is defined in UCA § 78B-22-102Cite.
 
Notes
1 Cite
2 Cite
3 Cite
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   TOWN MEETING PROCEDURES
      
32.   APPROVAL OF WRITTEN MINUTES
      
33.   ANNEXATION POLICY
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.001   Changing the form of election to a by-mail precinct
   
30.002   Eligibility and residency requirements
§ 30.001 CHANGING THE FORM OF ELECTION TO A BY-MAIL PRECINCT.
   The town hereby identifies a by-mail (absentee ballot) precinct, as per UCA
§ 20A-3a-201  1 , in which its population is less than 500 residents and would
eliminate the requirement for poll workers and election judges during the early
voting period and on all election days, including primary, special, and
general. An absentee ballot will be mailed to each valid registered voter
pursuant to UCA § 20A-3a-202Cite.
(Ord. 05-12-2011, passed 5-12-2011)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 30.002 ELIGIBILITY AND RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Declaration of candidacy. A person filing a declaration of candidacy
for a town office shall meet the requirements of UCA § 20A-9-203  1 .
   (B)   Registered voter. Any person elected to a municipal office shall be a
registered voter in the town.
   (C)   Residency.
      (1)   Each elected officer of the town shall maintain residency within
the boundaries of the town during the officer’s term of office.
      (2)   If an elected officer of the town establishes a principal place of
residence, as provided in UCA § 20A-2-105  2 , outside the town during the
officer’s term of office, the office is automatically vacant.
      (3)   If an elected town officer is absent from the town any time during
the officer’s term of office for a continuous period of more than 60 days
without the consent of the Town Council, the town office is automatically
vacant.
      (4)   For the purposes of renting the Town Hall or Cobble Crest or
purchasing grave sites at the resident rate, the following requirements shall
apply:
         (a)   One year of continuous residency;
         (b)   A valid Utah driver’s license showing a current Kanarraville
address; and
         (c)   Resident receives and pays a current Kanarraville town water
bill.
 
Notes
1 Cite
2 Cite
CHAPTER 31: TOWN MEETING PROCEDURES
Section
   31.001   Purpose
   31.002   The agenda
   31.003   Town Council and Planning Commission packets
   31.004   Open and closed meetings
   31.005   Minutes of Town Council, Planning Commission and other public
meetings
   31.006   Meeting procedure and decorum; general rules
   31.007   Mayor or Chairperson responsibilities
   31.008   Mayor or Chair Pro-tem responsibilities
   31.009   Council, member responsibilities
   31.010   Quorum
   31.011   Recorded vote
   31.012   Abstention from voting
   31.013   Recusing
   31.014   Conflicts of interest/disclosure statements
   31.015   Motions
   31.016   Adherence to Americans with Disabilities Act
   31.017   Town Council meetings time and place
   31.018   Allowing an extra town work meeting per month
§ 31.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In the state, a law called the Open and Public Meetings Act (OPMA)
ensures that public officials make all their decisions under the public eye.
OPMA specifies that every meeting of a quorum of a public body must be a public
meeting with very few exceptions.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby establishes rules of order and procedure for
public meetings of the town, including, but not limited to, the Planning
Commission and Town Council.
   (C)   These procedures and policies are to ensure a parliamentary order and
procedure as well as ethical behavior and civil discourse.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.002 THE AGENDA.
   (A)   Persons wanting to be placed on the agenda must contact the Town Clerk
to request a place on the agenda at least 24 hours prior to the meeting. A
brief description of the agenda topic must be given to the Town Clerk at this
time for inclusion on the agenda.
   (B)   Twenty-four hours prior to the meeting date, the Town Clerk will
prepare the agenda and post it in three different places around town (Town
Hall, the fire station and the power pole at 200 North and Main). In addition,
the Town Clerk must post the meeting agenda on the Utah Public Notice and town
websites.
   (C)   The state law for open and public meetings will be adhered to. All
agendas will comply with the state’s Open Meeting Act for posting requirements.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.003 TOWN COUNCIL AND PLANNING COMMISSION PACKETS.
   The Town Clerk will prepare supporting documentation for each Town Councilor
or Planning Commissioner and deliver it to the Council or Commission member 48
hours prior to the meeting. The packet will contain the minutes from any
meeting prior to this meeting, and any documents necessary for Council or
Planning Commission to help them make a decision on the agenda item.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.004 OPEN AND CLOSED MEETINGS.
   (A)   Town Council meetings will be held the second Thursday of each month
at 6:30 p.m., Planning Commission meetings will be held the first Thursday of
each month, at 7:00 p.m. All other public bodies will hold meetings as needed,
and according to the rules of the Open and Public Meetings Act. All meetings
will be recorded.
   (B)   No closed meeting is allowed, except those pertaining to matters
exempted by state law from open meeting requirements.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.005 MINUTES OF TOWN COUNCIL, PLANNING COMMISSION AND OTHER PUBLIC
MEETINGS.
   (A)   All public bodies of the town shall keep minutes of their proceedings.
All meetings will be recorded. These records will be kept at the office of the
Town Clerk and draft and approved copies shall be available to the public
during regular business hours for examination and copying.
   (B)   Minutes should be circulated to the members of the public body and
made available within a reasonable time after the meeting and are marked as
draft until approved. The minutes of the previous meeting will be approved the
following month at the next meeting of the public body. Grammatical or spelling
errors which do not change the substance of the text are not identified as
corrected minutes and the Town Clerk will make such corrections to the minutes
where needed.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.006 MEETING PROCEDURE AND DECORUM; GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   The purpose of these rules is to ensure fairness and common courtesy
to all members of the Council and public attending the meeting. These
procedures and policies are to ensure parliamentary order, ethical behavior and
civil discourse. The proceeds of the meeting will follow a simplified form of
Robert’s Rules of Parliamentary Procedure with the Mayor or Chairperson asking
for motions, the motion and a second followed by an all-in favor statement.
   (B)   Cell phones will be turned off or put on vibrate for the duration of
the meeting. The exception to this will be public safety officers present at
the meeting.
   (C)   The town public bodies will start the meeting as close to the
scheduled time as possible. If a quorum is present at the scheduled time, the
meeting will start. If an agenda participant is not present at the time his or
her agenda item comes up, it will be pushed back in the agenda until the
participant arrives. If the agenda participant fails to appear, he or she must
contact the Town Clerk to be put on next month’s agenda.
   (D)   The town encourages citizen input during public meetings. The Mayor or
Chairperson of the public body will invite the public to share their comments
at the appropriate time during the meeting or public hearing. A raised hand
will indicate a person with a comment. The Mayor or Chairperson of the public
body may also permit citizens to speak during individual agenda items, at his
or her discretion, when they feel that the comments will be pertinent to the
topic. Discourse is to be conducted in an orderly manner. The public will take
turns speaking, not interrupt the speaker and refrain from rude or disorderly
conduct.
   (E)   Members of all public bodies of the town shall not talk over one
another, interrupt or speak in a condescending manner to one another. Taking
turns speaking, deferring to someone who intends to speak and, in general,
maintaining civil rules of conduct toward one another, the staff and public is
expected.
   (F)   A person who is addressing the public body, after stating his, her or
their name, should only speak on the topic under discussion.
   (G)   Printed materials may be distributed to the public body during a
meeting, but must also include the Town Clerk for public record.
   (H)   No public body of the town will tolerate disorderly conduct which
includes insulting language or behavior by any person, including members of the
audience, the public body itself, or administration. No name calling, shouting
or booing is allowed during a meeting. The Mayor or Chairperson of the public
meeting may call the person to order or excuse them from the meeting.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.007 MAYOR OR CHAIRPERSON RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Mayor is the Chair of the Town Council meetings. A Chair shall be
designated for all other public bodies. The Mayor, or Chairperson as
applicable, will lead the meeting. The Mayor will open and facilitate
discussion on each agenda topic and summarization of main discussion points and
request motion.
   (B)   The Mayor, or Chairperson as applicable, at his or her discretion,
will recognize persons wishing to make comments or address the public body and
request them to address the public body at the podium, stating his or her name
and address for the official record. All comments should be directed to the
public body and not to others in attendance. Persons wishing to speak should
not interrupt while someone else is speaking or try to request recognition
until the speaker has finished.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.008 MAYOR OR CHAIR PRO-TEM RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Mayor or Chair Pro-tem will be established by a majority vote of
the Town Council or public body present.
   (B)   The Mayor or Chair Pro-tem will chair the meetings in the absence of
the Mayor or Chair and will conduct meetings in accordance with meeting
procedures earlier described.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.009 COUNCIL, MEMBER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It is the duty of the voting members of a public body:
   (A)   To consider interests of the municipality in its entirety;
   (B)   To prepare for the meetings by reviewing the agenda and supporting
materials;
   (C)   Respect the public process and decisions; and
   (D)   Maintain confidential information and discussion that is shared in
closed sessions per the Open Public Meeting laws.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.010 QUORUM.
   A quorum is any three members of Town Council or other public body,
including the Mayor and two Councilors, and may act and vote on all motions of
a public body.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.011 RECORDED VOTE.
   (A)   Each member of the public body has one vote each time a vote is held.
   (B)   The requirement for a recorded vote must include the vote of each
member and reason for abstention.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.012 ABSTENTION FROM VOTING.
   (A)   A member may decide not to vote either in favor or against a motion.
   (B)   Abstention may occur if a member has been absent and/or feels
insufficient information has been received on an issue.
   (C)   Abstention is not to be confused with voting against a matter.
   (D)   Members not abstaining carry the vote, as long as the motion receives
the minimum required affirmative votes.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.013 RECUSING.
   If a public body member should choose to recuse himself, herself or themself
from an agenda item, he or she will need to remove himself or herself from his
or her seat.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.014 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST/DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   All public body members will complete a written disclosure
statement annually or when there is a change to the nature of the conflict and
file it with the Town Clerk.
      (2)   All disclosure statements will adhere to the state’s Municipal
Officers and Employees Ethics Act.
   (B)   All disclosure statements are public information and may be inspected
by the public during normal business hours at the office of the Town Clerk.
   (C)   A conflict of interest must be made orally in an open meeting to the
members of the body of which they are a member immediately before the
discussion about the topic involved in the conflict of interest as per the
Municipal Officers and Employees Ethic Act.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.015 MOTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor or Chairperson of each public body requests, entertains or
asks for motions and may recommend language to the Town Council or other public
body for the motion.
   (B)   Motions should begin with “I move to...”.
   (C)   Amending a motion requires recognition by the Mayor or Chairperson.
The member must state the change clearly and specifically, and requires a
second.
   (D)   (1)   Agenda items needing more attention/investigation and/or
discussion may be referred to a committee or staff for further review.
      (2)   A motion should be made which identifies specifics of the committee
or staff on when and how they are to report on the matter.
      (3)   A motion to table the agenda item will follow.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.016 ADHERENCE TO AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   All meetings will adhere to the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and,
when notified in time, the Town Clerk will prepare for special assistance for
persons with disabilities to participate in public meetings.
(Ord. 08-11-11, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 31.017 TOWN COUNCIL MEETINGS TIME AND PLACE.
   The governing body shall hold one regular meeting, which shall be held on
the second Thursday of each month at 6:30 p.m., Mountain Standard Time, and 6:
30 p.m. during Daylight Saving Time.
(Ord. 08-15-12, passed 8-15-2012)
§ 31.018 ALLOWING AN EXTRA TOWN WORK MEETING PER MONTH.
   (A)   The governing body shall hold one regularly scheduled Town Council
meeting per month as follows: on the second Thursday of every month.
   (B)   The governing body will hold a second meeting throughout the month, as
needed, and convenient as amended in §§
31.001 to
31.016 or the Town Public Body Meeting Policy.
(Ord. 05-14-20, passed 5-14-2020)
CHAPTER 32: APPROVAL OF WRITTEN MINUTES
Section
   
32.001   Definitions
   
32.002   Policy for approval of minutes
§ 32.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply so long
as they are consistent with the definitions of the same terms found in the
state’s Open and Public Meetings Act. If a term is defined differently in the
state’s Open and Public Meetings Act, the definition found in that Act shall
apply.
§ 32.002 POLICY FOR APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
   The following shall be the policy and procedure for the approval of minutes
for this municipality.
   (A)   Written minutes shall be taken for all public meetings of any public
body of this municipality. The minutes of all public meetings of any public
body of this municipality shall be recorded and taken down by the Town Clerk
during the course of any public meeting of any public body.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall prepare and keep written minutes and recordings
of public meetings in accordance with the state’s Open and Public Meetings Act.
Minutes and recordings are to be made available to the public as required by
the Act.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall transcribe the minutes into a public document,
which will be as soon as possible after the meeting and definitely before the
next meeting of the public body, which document will be available to the public
and shall be clearly identified as awaiting formal approval, draft or
unapproved or with some other appropriate notice that the proposed minutes are
subject to change until formally approved.
   (D)   The public body shall consider the unapproved minutes at the next
meeting of the public body and they shall be approved by motion of the public
body, or vote to correct or amend the minutes, and vote to approve the amended
minutes after which the minutes become a public document available to any
member of the public who requests to read or copy the approved minutes.
   (E)   If the public body fails to consider the proposed minutes, or does not
take any action to approve the proposed minutes at the first public meeting
held by the public body immediately following the public body’s receipt of the
proposed minutes from the Clerk, the proposed minutes shall be deemed to have
been approved by the public body and will stand approved.
   (F)   Once the minutes have either been approved by the public body or have
been deemed to have been approved by the inaction of the public body, they
shall become the official record of the proceedings of the public body and
shall be signed by the Town Clerk of the meeting and shall be retained in the
official records of this municipality and shall be a public document available
for the inspection and copying by the public as appropriate under state law.
(Ord. 09-13-2012, passed 9-13-2012)
CHAPTER 33: ANNEXATION POLICY
Section
   
33.001   Amendment to annexation policy plan
   
33.002   Introduction
   
33.003   Character of the community
   
33.004   Expansion area map
   
33.005   Population
   
33.006   Policy/criteria
   
33.007   Development of services
   
33.008   The interest of all affected entities
   
33.009   Environmental and land use issues
   
33.010   Justification for excluding urban development within one-half mile of
town’s current boundary
   
33.011   Public comments
   
33.012   Procedures for submission of an annexation request
§ 33.001 AMENDMENT TO ANNEXATION POLICY PLAN.
   The town will amend the annexation policy plan map and include areas for
potential annexation in all directions rather than just to the west, as
specified on the new map, which will hereinafter be called Exhibit C. The
annexation policy plan map anticipates the possible annexation of 1,464.8 acres
contiguous to the town.
(Ord. 11-13-08, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 33.002 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of UCA § 10-2-400  1 , all
municipalities within the state, except in Salt Lake County, prior to annexing
property, are required to adopt an annexation policy plan. In this annexation
policy plan, the cities and towns are required to develop an expansion area map
or plan for the future growth of the community. The annexation area plan shall
incorporate the long-range planning objectives contained in the land use plan
of the community and shall represent a graphic illustration/ representation of
the areas that the town intends to provide services to.
   (B)   The annexation policy plan is created by the town to guide decision
making regarding future annexations. It also helps the town plan for future
expansion in conjunction with neighboring political entities. Open
communication between the town and other political entities, particularly the
county, is a priority in the process of developing the annexation policy plan.
   (C)   The annexation policy plan anticipates the annexation of the following
areas:
 
Area  1 - West 367.3 acres
Total          367.3 acres
 
(Ord. 11-13-08, passed 11-13-2008)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 33.003 CHARACTER OF THE COMMUNITY.
   (A)   The town is located about ten miles from the Cedar City area. The town
is a valley community which provides an excellent location for individuals and
families interested in an outdoor lifestyle surrounded by a scenic environment.
The relatively close commute to surrounding areas has attracted, and will
continue to attract people who want to live in this community but are willing
to commute to work and shopping within reasonable driving distances from the
town. This poses a rather unique problem for the community that affects its
growth and development. For this and other reasons, the town’s tax base needs
more diversification, specifically permanent jobs and commercial services.
Thus, developing an annexation policy that deals with the specific issues of
the town will have a significant impact on the future quality of life and
development of the town area.
   (B)   The town’s general plan indicates that the town will annex lands when
such annexation helps the town realize its vision and goals. To that end, the
town supports entering beneficial annexation agreements, interlocal agreements
and boundary management agreements with adjoining public entities. When the
annexed property is developed it should be done in accordance with the town’s
land management code (for example, general plan, zoning and subdivision
ordinances).
(Ord. 11-13-08, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 33.004 EXPANSION AREA MAP.
   The town shall adopt and maintain an expansion area map (Exhibit A) that
represents the growth boundary which include territories outside, but adjacent
to, the community that may be annexed into the town. This map is consistent
with the town’s general plan. These areas are not bordered by any other
municipality. Even though the proposed properties may lie within the expansion
area, there is no guarantee that the annexation request will be approved by the
town. The petition for annexation may require additional requirements than
those contained in the current annexation policy plan.
(Ord. 11-13-08, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 33.005 POPULATION.
   (A)   Population growth projections for the municipality and adjoining areas
for the next 20 years.
   (B)   The town’s growth projects are as follows:
 
Year Population Annexation Area
2000 311        0
2010 390        25
2020 480        50
 
(Ord. 11-13-08, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 33.006 POLICY/CRITERIA.
   The following are policy statements and criteria the town will use in
determining whether or not to approve future annexation petitions.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   Development in annexed areas to conform to general plan. All
annexations accepted by the town shall be found in conformance with the town’s
general plan. The town may exercise its initiative to adopt an area specific
master plan for future development in those extraterritorial areas of interest
for future annexation, as indicated in this policy declaration. These area
specific master plans would define proposed land uses as well as the nature and
density of development desired in each particular area. Once adopted, any
proposed development in an area to be annexed must conform to the master plan
and general plan, notwithstanding the said master plan may be amended from time
to time as deemed necessary and appropriate.
      (2)   Planning and Zoning Commission to review annexation. In order to
facilitate orderly growth and development in the town, the Planning Commission
shall review all proposed annexations and make recommendations to the Town
Council (as set forth in the state code) concerning the parcel to be annexed,
effects on the town’s general plan and the recommended zoning district
designation for the proposed annexed area.
      (3)   Annexation to be considered only in areas of potential urban
service. The town’s policy is to consider annexation only in those areas where
the town has the potential to provide urban service (either directly or through
interlocal cooperative agreement). These areas may include locations served or
to be served by the town’s water system, and emergency services, including fire
protection.
   (B)   Criteria.
      (1)   Areas to be annexed must be contiguous to the corporate limits of
the town at the time of submission of the annexation request.
      (2)   The town shall avoid gaps between or overlaps with the expansion
areas of other municipalities.
      (3)   Proposed annexations will not be approved if they create an island
or peninsula of the unincorporated area.
      (4)   Areas to be annexed shall not be located within the corporate
limits of another incorporated town or be part of a previously filed annexation
petition that has not been either denied, accepted or approved.
      (5)   When feasible, the town favors annexation along boundaries of
water, utility improvements, special service districts or other taxing
entities.
      (6)   It is not the town’s intent to annex territory for the sole purpose
of acquiring revenue.
      (7)   There has been no exclusion of urban development within the policy
plan. No urban development, as defined in UCA § 10-2-401(1)(I)  1 , exists
within one-half mile of the town boundary.
      (8)   The annexation petition must comply with the requirements of UCA §
10-2-403  2 .
      (9)   Annexations will facilitate the consolidation of overlapping
functions of local government by assuring jurisdiction is providing services to
an area.
      (10)   The town wishes to promote the efficient delivery of service by
clearly defining who will provide service to a particular area. Consideration
shall be given to encourage the equitable distribution of community resources
and obligations.
      (11)   The town desires to utilize a capital facilities master plan to
outline the provision of municipal services in the annexation policy plan area
and assure that the services will be equitably distributed.
(Ord. 11-13-08, passed 11-13-2008)
 
Notes
1 Cite
2 Cite
§ 33.007 DEVELOPMENT OF SERVICES.
   All areas included in the annexation policy plan will need municipal. The
county policy is that municipal services should be provided by cities and
towns, and not by the county. The town desires to utilize a “capital facilities
master plan” for water, sewer, streets, parks and storm drainage. This plan
would include the area outlined in the annexation policy plan. Line sizes and
the like must be increased to include these areas.
   (A)   Developer pays service extension. In areas where municipal services
are not presently extended, services will be extended on an as-needed basis at
the cost of the developer. All extensions of municipal services must comply
with all town ordinances and policy criteria and will be paid for by the
individual developer or property owner.
   (B)   Annexation agreements. An annexation agreement will be prepared
between the town and future developers outlining specific circumstances
relating to water, sewer, streets, electricity, telecommunications, fiber
optic/broadband and other specific improvements.
   (C)   Water rights.
      (1)   Water rights, of the type and quantity acceptable to the town, that
can be utilized for underground water rights (culinary, secondary) shall be
required to be conveyed to the town as a condition of development, subdivision
approval or issuance of a building permit on property annexed into the town
limits. It is the intent that land annexed to the town be accompanied by water
rights sufficient to accommodate the needs of the existing and potential
occupants of said land when development occurs. The water rights conveyance
requirements of development shall be in addition to any requirement that may be
imposed upon development of the land after annexation and in addition to
appropriate town impact fees, if applicable. Water requirements will be
established utilizing, among other things, Division of Drinking Water
standards. Specific requirements will be contained in the annexation agreement,
but the general guideline of one acre-foot of water per residential building
permit will be a minimum standard.
      (2)   The annexation will allow developers of the annexed property access
to culinary water and other services; provided, all developments meet town
specifications and comply with all applicable development ordinances and all
improvements are installed pursuant to the town standards.
   (D)   Financial implications.
      (1)   The manner in which these amenities are developed will have a
bearing on how they will be financed. Property taxes with increased valuation
of property and sales tax will contribute to the general fund to help defray
the added expenses the town may incur by annexing these properties. In summary,
the newly annexed developing areas shall finance the extension of needed
municipal services, such as new utilities, streets, curb and gutters, sidewalks
and other capital improvements as development occurs.
      (2)   It is not anticipated that the annexation will cause any adverse
consequences to the residents in the town or in the area annexed, except there
may be a slight reduction in general services to the town residents in the
present town limits as general services are expanded into the newly annexed
territory.
      (3)   It is anticipated that the residents in the territory to be annexed
will experience an increase in their property tax because of the difference in
the certified tax rates in the county and the town. It is further anticipated
that, as newly annexed territory property taxes are received by the town, the
town would expand the total services to include the total community.
Additionally, persons in the newly annexed territory may experience reductions
in their fire insurance rates and property insurance rates.
      (4)   As areas grow and become more populated, the demand and need for
services increase. Once this policy plan is adopted and areas begin to develop,
continual planning by the town will allow development to occur in an economical
manner, since homes, buildings, streets, and other amenities will be developed
in accord with the town specifications. The plan and time frame for the
extension of municipal services will be determined by the interest of the
property owners to subdivide and develop their property.
(Ord. 11-13-08, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 33.008 THE INTEREST OF ALL AFFECTED ENTITIES.
   (A)   The county. The county’s policy has been that municipal type
development should take place in cities. All of the land shown in the
annexation policy area would be able to be served by the town.
   (B)   BLM - Bureau of Land Management.
      (1)   Several of the annexations proposed in the annexation policy area
are adjacent to BLM lands.
      (2)   It is anticipated that the development of these lands would be
compatible with the BLM land in preserving open space and not having a negative
impact on the BLM land.
      (3)   It is anticipated that the area in the mouth of the canyons will
remain as a water shed and recreational area in the county and under the county
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The county school district. The county school district is involved in
the boundaries of the annexation area and it is anticipated that the county
school district will provide school service to the area.
   (D)   The county landfill and garbage collection. Provides landfill service
and garbage collection for the whole county. District facilities have been
sized to accommodate the growth of all cities.
   (E)   Central county water conservancy district. Addresses issues of water
shed protection and water resource development. The district requires detention
facilities so that run-off does not exceed historic flows.
   (F)   School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration (SITLA). Owns and
controls property near areas anticipated for annexation. It is anticipated that
the development of these lands would be compatible with the surrounding land
uses and take into consideration the preservation of open space that would not
have a negative impact on SITLA lands. SITLA lands are not considered open
space.
(Ord. 11-13-08, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 33.009 ENVIRONMENTAL AND LAND USE ISSUES.
   (A)   Unincorporated area surrounding the town should be analyzed in terms
of environmental and land use issues as it relates to possible annexations.
   (B)   The environmental and land use issues that were analyzed are included
in the general plan and are as follows.
      (1)   Development in sensitive lands will be limited in order to protect
and preserve environmentally and geologically sensitive lands in the town. New
development shall be prohibited above the elevation of 5,700-foot mean sea
level unless it be demonstrated that the development would not adversely
impact, or be impacted by, the following:
         (a)   Fault and earthquake hazards;
         (b)   Subsurface rock and soil types;
         (c)   Slope of the land;
         (d)   Ground water recharge areas and local groundwater conditions;
         (e)   Flood hazards and erosion types;
         (f)   Viewscapes;
         (g)   Floodplains;
         (h)   Elevation;
         (i)   Cost of city services;
         (j)   Wildlife habitat; and
         (k)   Water quality.
      (2)   The Planning Commission will analyze each area proposed for
annexation in accordance with the criteria outlined in the land use element of
the general plan and this annexation plan.
(Ord. 11-13-08, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 33.010 JUSTIFICATION FOR EXCLUDING URBAN DEVELOPMENT WITHIN ONE-HALF MILE OF
TOWN’S CURRENT BOUNDARY.
   There are no urban developments within one-half mile of the town’s current
boundary that would be excluded from this annexation policy plan.
(Ord. 11-13-08, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 33.011 PUBLIC COMMENTS.
   Copies of all written comments submitted by any interested party either
during public hearings or during the adoption process of this annexation policy
plan have been attached hereto.
(Ord. 11-13-08, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 33.012 PROCEDURES FOR SUBMISSION OF AN ANNEXATION REQUEST.
   The following steps reflect a general summary of requirements and procedures
for processing an annexation request in the town.
   (A)   An annexation petition shall be filed with the Town Clerk.
   (B)   An annexation petition shall contain the signatures of the owners of
private real property that is located within the area proposed for annexation,
that covers a majority of private land area within the area proposed for
annexation and is equal in value to at least one-third of the value of all
private real property within the area proposed for annexation.
   (C)   An annexation petition shall be accompanied by an accurate and
recordable map, prepared by a licensed surveyor, of the area proposed for
annexation.
   (D)   An annexation petition shall designate up to five of the signers of
the petition as sponsors, one of whom shall be designated as the contact
sponsor and indicate the mailing address of each sponsor.
   (E)   On the date of filing, the petition sponsors shall deliver or mail a
copy of the petition to the County Clerk.
   (F)   The Town Clerk, upon receipt of a properly prepared and completed
annexation petition accompanied by the proper plat, shall impose such fees to
recover the costs of processing said petition, as have been established by the
Town Council. The Town Clerk, at that time, shall place the petition on the
agenda for consideration at the next regular Town Council meeting.
   (G)   The Town Council shall review the annexation petition and either
accept the petition for further consideration or deny the petition.
   (H)   If the Town Council denies a petition, it shall, within five days of
the denial, mail written notice of the denial to the contact sponsor, the
County Clerk and the Chair of the Planning Commission.
   (I)   If the Town Council accepts a petition, the Town Clerk shall, within
30 days, determine whether the petition meets the requirements of an
annexation. If the petition meets the requirements, the Town Clerk shall
certify the petition and mail or deliver written notification of the
certification to the Town Council, the contact sponsor, the county legislative
body and the Chair of the Planning Commission. If the petition fails to meet
the requirements, the Town Clerk shall reject the petition and mail the
necessary written notification of the rejection and the reasons for the
rejection.
   (J)   The Town Council, within ten days after receipt of the Recorder’s
notice of certification, shall publish a notice of the proposed annexation at
least once a week for three consecutive weeks. Said notice shall contain
information about the proposed annexation and explain how written protest is to
be filed, within 30 days after the date of the Town Council’s receipts of the
certification notice.
   (K)   If no timely protest is filed, and after the Planning Commission has
made a recommendation to the Town Council regarding the annexation petition,
the Town Council shall hold a public hearing after giving at least seven days’
notice of the hearing. After the hearing, the Town Council may grant the
petition and by ordinance annex the area that is the subject of the annexation
petition.
   (L)   If a protest is filed, the Town Council may deny the annexation
petition or take no further action on the annexation petition until after
receipt of the County Boundary Commission’s notice of its decision on the
protest. Upon receipt of the Boundary Commission’s decision, the Town Council
may deny or approve the proposed annexation subject to the Boundary
Commission’s decision.
(Ord. 11-13-08, passed 11-13-2008)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   GARBAGE
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
Fees
   
50.001   Base water rate
   
50.002   Additional water charges
   
50.003   Water rates
   
50.004   Water connection charge
   
50.005   Charge for failure to pay
   
50.006   Restoration requirements
   
50.007   Re-connection fee
   
50.008   Unoccupied homes
   
50.009   Tampering
   
50.010   Obstruction of water meter
   
50.011   Impact fee
   
50.012   Fee for every water connection
Fixing of Fees Collected
   
50.025   Definitions
   
50.026   Fees collected
Water Department
   
50.040   Water Department created
   
50.041   Superintendent created
   
50.042   Duties of Superintendent
Application for Water Service
   
50.055   Application for water connection
   
50.056   Application for water connection by subdivider
   
50.057   Application for water service
   
50.058   Non-owner applicants
   
50.059   Rates and connection fees
   
50.060   Special rates
   
50.061   Board of Equalization
   
50.062   Non-payment use
   
50.063   Delinquency
Requirements for Water Connection
   
50.075   Water turn on
   
50.076   Separate connections
   
50.077   Unauthorized users
   
50.078   Visitors
   
50.079   Good repair of pipe
   
50.080   Quality of pipe
   
50.081   Pipe across lots
   
50.082   Faulty equipment
   
50.083   Sprinkling vehicles
   
50.084   Free access
   
50.085   Non-liability for damages
   
50.086   Motors, syphons
   
50.087   Sprinklers
   
50.088   Scarcity of water
   
50.089   Waste of water
   
50.090   Water meters
   
50.091   Permit for installation
   
50.092   Applications for installation permit
   
50.093   Moving or replacement of water lines
   
50.094   Discontinuance of service
   
50.095   Fire hydrants
   
50.096   Water main extension
   
50.097   Amount of cost deposited with Clerk
   
50.099   Extensions may be master-metered
   
50.100   Costs of extensions to be determined by Superintendent
   
50.101   Cross-connection protection
   
50.102   Distance of septic tanks from culinary well
FEES
§ 50.001 BASE WATER RATE.
   (A)   The base rate for 17,000 gallons of water or less will be $32.
   (B)   The overage rate tiers are as follows:
 
Cost per 1,000 Gallons
$2.50 17,001 to 25,999
$3    26,000 to 34,999
$3.50 35,000 to 43,999
$4    44,000 to 52,999
$4.50 53,000 to 9,999,999
 
(Res. 10-08-09, passed 10-8-2009; Res. 09-09-21A, passed 9-9-2021)
§ 50.002 ADDITIONAL WATER CHARGES.
   (A)   A water turn off charge of $25 shall be established and imposed
whenever it is required.
   (B)   A water reconnection charge of $250 shall be established and imposed
whenever it is required.
   (C) A deposit of $500 is required on all new Water Department accounts. On
final settlement and closing of the account, this deposit may be used to pay
for any outstanding or unpaid bills for prior service. Any unused balance at
the time of closing the account will be returned to the primary account holder.
(Res. 08-13-09, passed 8-13-2009)
§ 50.003 WATER RATES.
   Water rates shall be established at $32 per 17,000 gallons and overruns
shall be established starting at $2.50 per 1,000 gallons.
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 50.004 WATER CONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   A water connection charge of $2,500 will be paid to the water company
after such a connection is approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   The fee must be paid at the time of application.
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 50.005 CHARGE FOR FAILURE TO PAY.
   There is a $10 late fee if the bill is received after the tenth of every
month. In addition, any outstanding remaining balance will be charged 2%.
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 50.006 RESTORATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Water service will be not be restored until the delinquent billing has
been brought current, and the interest paid on the delinquent billing.
   (B)   Any debt incurred as part of the collection of the debt will also be
charged to the property owner listed on the account.
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 50.007 RE-CONNECTION FEE.
   A fee of $250 will be charged to re-connect the meter on an occupied home.
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 50.008 UNOCCUPIED HOMES.
   (A)   An unoccupied home that has delinquent billing will have the water
turned off and the meter locked.
   (B)   Before water will be reconnected, all delinquent bills and past fees
must be paid in addition to a $250 reconnection fee.
§ 50.009 TAMPERING.
   Anyone tampering with the water meter or putting a jumper in the line to
obtain water illegally may be found guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and
penalized up to $750.
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 50.010 OBSTRUCTION OF WATER METER.
   (A)   A fee of $50 may be charged to the customer’s water bill for any
obstruction of the water meter resulting in the inability to read or repair
said meter as needed.
   (B)   There must be at least a three feet unobstructed circumference around
the meter at all times.
(Res. 02-13-03, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 50.011 IMPACT FEE.
   The impact fee is $3,500, payable to “Kanarraville Town Impact Fee” by
separate check from the connection fee. This fee is to be entered into a
separate internal accounting category in the Enterprise Fund.
(Res. 05-13e-04, passed 5-13-2004)
§ 50.012 FEE FOR EVERY WATER CONNECTION.
   (A)   The base rate for 17,000 gallons of water or less will be $32.
   (B)   The overage tiers are as follows:
 
Cost per 1,000 Gallons Low Gallons High Gallons
$2.50                  17,001      25,999
$3                     26,000      34,999
$3.50                  35,000      43,999
$4                     44,000      52,999
$4.50                  53,000      9,999,999
 
(Res. 05-13b-04, passed 5-13-2004)
FIXING OF FEES COLLECTED
§ 50.025 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONNECTION FEE. The cost of materials and labor to install a connection to
the existing water system. The CONNECTION FEE should not exceed the actual cost
of the installation although it can be an average amount charged equally to
each account holder. The method of collecting moneys is to be determined by the
Town Council by resolution.
   DEPRECIATION FUND. The moneys collected from the monthly water payment for
the replacement of damaged pipes, water meters, telemetry lines, and the
purchase of replacement pumps or the repair of existing wells and springs. The
amount of moneys collected is to be determined by the Town Council by
resolution.
   IMPACT FUNDS. The moneys collected at the time the water permit is granted
that are reserved for the expansion of the water system that will serve
customers not now connected to the water system. The amount of moneys collected
is to be determined by the Town Council by resolution after the completion of
an impact fee study.
   PRIMARY ACCOUNT HOLDER. Refers to the person or persons listed as the
property owner on the application for water service and/or application for
water connection. Said property owner will be solely responsible for all bills,
charges and/or fees associated with said water account (including all garbage,
transfer station and administrative fees).
   PROPERTY OWNER. Person or persons listed as owner of the property and the
primary account holder on the water account.
(Ord. 02-12-04, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 50.026 FEES COLLECTED.
   (A)   (1)   The fees to be collected by the water company for connections
and depreciation and impact of growth shall be fixed, from time to time, by
resolution and by a majority vote of the Town Council with a quorum present.
      (2)   The Town Council may, from time to time, promulgate rules for
levying, billing, guaranteeing and collecting charges for culinary water
services and all other rules necessary for the management and control of the
system.
   (B)   (1)   Rates for services furnished shall be uniform with respect to
each class or classes of service established or that may hereafter be
established.
      (2)   Rates may be established at different levels for premises outside
the corporate boundaries of the town.
   (C)   Bank accounts for the Depreciation Fund and the impact fee will be
part of the Water Fund and will be recorded through internal accounting as
approved by the Town Council and can be revised and established as separate
accounts according to the desires of the Town Council without a resolution, but
by majority vote of a quorum.
(Ord. 02-12-04, passed 2-12-2004)
WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 50.040 WATER DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   The Water Department of the town is hereby created. It shall administer the
operation and maintenance of the water system of the town.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.041 SUPERINTENDENT CREATED.
   There is hereby created the position of Superintendent of the Water
Department.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.042 DUTIES OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Superintendent of the water system shall manage and supervise the
town water system pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and pursuant to
ordinances, rules and regulations adopted by the Town Council, from time to
time, prescribing his or her powers and duties and directing the manner and
frequency with which he or she shall make reports to the Mayor relating to the
water system.
   (B)   All of the functions and activities of the Superintendent shall be
carried on under the direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE
§ 50.055 APPLICATION FOR WATER CONNECTION.
   Any person, other than those seeking multiple water connections, who desires
or is required to secure a new connection to the town water system shall file
with the Water Department for each such connection a written and signed
connection application in substantially the following form:
 
KANARRAVILLE, UTAH
APPLICATION FOR WATER CONNECTION
 
 
TO THE TOWN OF KANARRAVILLE, UTAH
 
As Property Owner, I hereby apply to the Town of Kanarraville for permission to connect
my premises at ___________________________________ to the town’s water system and
hereby agree to the following:
 
1.   (a) Kanarraville Town gives permission for the above stated water connection from
its water main to the water meter, up to my property line, or to the meter if it’s
installed within my property. I agree to pay Kanarraville Town an Impact Fee of $3,500,
and a $2,500 Connection Fee. The Connection Fee includes the following costs associated
with the water connection to the main line (meter, meter barrel, lid, saddle, parts,
excavator fees, etc.) Any additional costs associated with reaching the connecting
point on the main line for the requested meter may be charged in addition to the $2,500
Connection Fee (such as: boring under or digging through the road, road repair,
additional piping, etc.) Separate checks in the amounts of $3,500 made out to
“Kanarraville Town Impact Fee”, and $2,500 made out to “Kanarraville Town” must be paid
to the Kanarraville Town Treasurer with the completed Water Connection Application. In
addition, the work of extending the water connection from the meter to the place at
which the water is to be used shall be the responsibility and cost of the Resident. (b)
The connection so made by the town, including the meter, shall remain the property of
the town, and the town shall have access thereto at all times.
2.   The location of the meter, whether on my premises, or at some point near my
premises, may be decided solely by the Town of Kanarraville, Utah.
3.   Before making connection with the water system, I shall cause the plumbing upon my
premises to be inspected by the town and if the plumbing is not approved, I will cause
the plumbing to be rectified at my own expense to meeting the requirements of the town
or of any other governmental agency having jurisdiction to regulate the water system
within the town.
4.   I will be bound by the rules, regulations, resolutions or ordinances enacted now
or hereafter by the Town of Kanarraville, Utah, applicable to the town’s water system.
5.   This water connection will be used for culinary purposes. The town shall have free
access to the lines and meters installed under this agreement and, at reasonable times,
through my property if necessary.
6.   Water will be turned on as soon as the meter has been installed, fees have been
paid, and all required paperwork has been filed with the Town Treasurer, unless the
Town Treasurer has been notified otherwise.
7.   Billing will commence as soon as the water has been turned on, and will continue
until the Primary Account Holder has informed the Town Treasurer otherwise.
8.   As Property Owner (landlord) I understand that I am the Primary Account Holder on
the water account and will be solely responsible for all charges and fees unless I have
notified the Town Treasurer to close my account and discontinue service.
 
Dated this ____________ day of __________________________, 20___.
 
                     _______________________________________
Property Owner (Primary Account Holder)
 
Dated this ____________ day of __________________________, 20___.
 
                     _______________________________________
Kanarraville Town Clerk
 
 
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.056 APPLICATION FOR WATER CONNECTION BY SUBDIVIDER.
   Whenever a subdivider or developer desires or is required to install water
connections and extensions for a subdivision or development, the subdivider or
developer shall enter into a written extension agreement which shall constitute
an application for permission to make the extensions and connections and an
agreement specifying the terms and conditions under which the water extensions
and connections shall be made and the payments that shall be required.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.057 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE.
   Any person who desires or is required to secure water service when such
service is available from the town water system shall file with the Water
Department a written application and agreement for the service, which shall be
in substantially the following form:
 
KANARAVILLE, UTAH
APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE
 
TO THE TOWN OF KANARRAVILLE, UTAH
The undersigned Property Owner hereafter referred to as the “Primary Account
Holder” hereby applies for water service from the Town of Kanarraville, Utah for
the premises located at:
 
Property Owner Name: _______________________________________________
Mailing Address: ____________________________________________________
Physical Address: ____________________________________________________
Email Address: ______________________________________________________
Best Contact Number: ________________________________________________
 
As Primary Account Holder, I hereby agree to the following:
1.   To pay charges for such water service, trash and landfill as are fixed from
time to time by the Town Council until such time as I shall direct such service to
be discontinued (see attached Fee Schedule).
2.   In the event of a failure to pay the charges within the due dates fixed by
the Town Council or of a failure to conform to the ordinances and regulations
established by the Town Council regulating the use of the water system, then the
town shall have the right to discontinue the water system service at its election,
pursuant to five days written notice delivered to the Primary Account Holder by
certified mail of the town’s intention, until all delinquencies and any re-
connection fees imposed are paid in full by the Primary Account Holder or until
any failure to conform to this ordinance or regulations issued thereunder is
eliminated.
3.   To be bound by the rules regulations, resolutions and ordinances enacted or
adopted by the Town Councilor applicable to the town’s water system: The Primary
Account Holder does hereby deposit $500 with the Town Treasurer on the filing of
this application for water service and on final settlement and closing the
account, this deposit may be used to pay for any outstanding or unpaid bills for
prior service. Any unused balance of the deposit at the time the account is closed
will be refunded to the Primary Account Holder.
4.   The deposit shall not be considered as an advance payment for any service.
Charges and unpaid accounts shall be considered delinquent notwithstanding the
existence of the deposit and the Primary Account Holder or user of water service
shall not have the right to compel the town to apply the deposit to any account to
avoid delinquency. The above-named Primary Account Holder understands that the
bill is considered delinquent after 30 days from date on the bill.
5.   To discontinue Water Service or change billing information on the above
listed account, contact the Kanarraville Town Treasurer at (435) 867-1852. The
above listed Property Owner is responsible for all charges and fees applied to the
account unless notified otherwise.
6.   Non-Owner Applicants: Landlords (Property Owners) are solely responsible to
see that renters pay their water billing. Any delinquent or unpaid bills will be
assessed against the Property Owner together with other charges or fees levied by
the Town Council of Kanarraville, Utah.
 
Dated this __________ day of ____________________________, 20___.
 
                     ______________________________________
Property Owner (Primary Account Holder)
 
Dated this __________ day of ____________________________, 20___.
 
            ______________________________________
Kanarraville Town Treasurer
 
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.058 NON-OWNER APPLICANTS.
   Landlords (property owners) are solely responsible to see that renters pay
their water billing. Any delinquent or unpaid bills will be assessed against
the property owner together with other charges or fees levied by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.059 RATES AND CONNECTION FEES.
   The rates, penalty fee for delinquency in payment, connection fee,
inspection fee and other charges incidental to connection and services from the
town water system shall be fixed, from time to time, by resolution enacted by
the Town Council. The Town Council may, from time to time, promulgate rules for
levying, billing, guaranteeing and collecting charges for water services and
all other rules necessary for the management and control of the water system.
Rates for services furnished shall be uniform with respect to each class or
classes of service established or that may hereafter be established.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.060 SPECIAL RATES.
   The Town Council may, from time to time, fix by agreement or resolution
special rates and conditions for users using exceptionally large amounts of
water service or making use of the water system under exceptional
circumstances, upon such terms and conditions as it may deem proper.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.061 BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.
   The Town Council is hereby constituted a Board of Equalization of water
rates to hear complaints and make corrections of any assessments deemed to be
illegal, unequal or unjust. It may, if it sees fit, rebate all or any part of
the water bill of any indigent person.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.062 NON-PAYMENT USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person by himself or herself, family, servants
or agents to utilize the town water system without paying therefor, as herein
provided, or, without authority, to open any fire hydrant, stopcock, valve or
other fixtures attached to the system of water supply unless it is done
pursuant to proper application, agreement or resolution. It shall be unlawful
to injure, deface or impair any part or appurtenance of the water system or to
cast anything into any reservoir or tank belonging to the water system.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see
§
10.999
§ 50.063 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   The Water Secretary shall furnish each account holder or mail to or
leave at his or her place of residence or usual place of business a written or
printed statement stating thereon the amount of water service charges assessed
against him or her once each month or at such other regular intervals as the
Town Council shall direct.
   (B)   The statement shall specify the amount of the bill for the water
service and the place of payment and date due. If any account holder fails to
pay the water charges in full within 60 days of the date due or fails to make a
payment arrangement with the Water Secretary, or incurs an accumulated bill of
$500 or more, the Water Secretary shall give the primary account holder notice
through email, text, call and/or letter of intent to discontinue the service to
the property unless the bill is paid in full within five days from the date of
notice.
   (C)   If the water service is thereafter discontinued for failure to make
payment, then before the water service to the premises shall again be provided,
all delinquent water charges and/or fees must have been paid to the Treasurer
or arrangements made for their payment in a manner satisfactory to the Town
Council. In the event water is turned off for non-payment of water charges,
then before the water service to the premises shall again be provided, the
primary account holder shall pay, in addition to all delinquent water charges,
such extra charge for turning the water on and off as the Town Council may have
established by resolution. In addition to such payments and penalties, a
delinquent primary account holder may be required to make and file a new
application and deposit if the previous deposit has theretofore been applied to
the payment of delinquent bills. The Water Secretary is hereby authorized and
empowered to enforce the payment of all delinquent water charges by an action
at law in the name of the town.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 12-11-08, passed 12-11-2008; Ord. 13-02-
03A, passed 8-12-2021)
REQUIREMENTS FOR WATER CONNECTION
§ 50.075 WATER TURN ON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, after the water has been turned off
from the premises for non- payment of water charges or other violation of the
ordinances, rules, regulations or resolutions pertaining to the water supply,
to turn on or allow the water to be turned on or used without authority from
the Superintendent or Water Secretary.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.076 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for two or more families or service users to be
supplied from the same service pipe, connection or water meter unless special
permission for such combination usage has been granted by the Town Council and
the premises served are owned by the same owner. In all such cases, a failure
on the part of any one of the users to comply with this section shall warrant a
withholding of a supply of water through the service connections until
compliance or payment has been made, and, in any event, the property owner
shall be primarily liable to the town for all water services utilized on all
such premises. Nothing herein shall be deemed to preclude the power of the town
to require separate pipes, connections or meters at a subsequent time.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.077 UNAUTHORIZED USERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any water service user to permit any person from
other premises or any unauthorized person to use or obtain water services
regularly from his or her premises or water facilities, either outside or
inside his or her premises.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.078 VISITORS.
   Individuals visiting the premises of an authorized user in a recreational
vehicle, not including a mobile home, and continuing to live therein during the
period of visitation may receive water service from the service pipes or
facilities of the host during the visitation period which shall not exceed
three weeks. Continued use thereafter shall be deemed unauthorized and in
violation of the provisions of this subchapter relating to separate connections
and unauthorized use.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.079 GOOD REPAIR OF PIPE.
   All users of water services shall keep his, her or their service pipes and
connections and other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost at his,
her or their own expense. No person, except under the direction of the Water
Superintendent, shall be allowed to dig into the street for the purpose of
laying, removing or repairing any service pipe.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.080 QUALITY OF PIPE.
   (A)   All service and other pipe used in conjunction with the water services
of the town shall be of such material, quality and specifications as the Town
Council may, from time to time, by resolution, provide, and shall be installed
at such distances below ground as may be specified by regulations relating to
the Water Department.
   (B)   All work, alterations or extensions affecting water pipes shall be
subject to the acceptance of the Water Superintendent and no connections with
any water mains shall be made without first obtaining a permit from the Town
Clerk or Water Superintendent.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.081 PIPE ACROSS LOTS.
   No consumer shall be permitted to conduct water pipes across lots or
buildings to adjoining premises without permission from the Water
Superintendent and subject to such requirements relating to controls as may be
imposed by the Water Superintendent.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.082 FAULTY EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any water user to:
   (A)   Waste water;
   (B)   Allow water to be wasted by stops, taps, valves, leaky joints or
pipes, or to allow tanks or watering troughs to leak or overflow;
   (C)   Wastefully run water from hydrants, faucets, or stops or through
basins, water closets, urinals, sinks or other apparatus; and
   (D)   Use the water for purposes other than for those which he or she has
applied or to use water in violation of the rules and regulations for
controlling the water supply.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021) Penalty, see
§
10.999
§ 50.083 SPRINKLING VEHICLES.
   Vehicles for sprinkling shall be regulated and controlled by the Water
Department through the Superintendent of the Water Department.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.084 FREE ACCESS.
   The Water Superintendent and his or her agents shall, at all ordinary hours,
have free access to any place supplied with water services from the town system
for the purpose of examining the apparatus and ascertaining the amount of water
service being used and the manner of its use.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.085 NON-LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   (A)   The town shall not be liable for any damage to a water service user by
reason of stoppage or interruption of his or her water supply service caused by
fires, scarcity of water, accidents to the water system or its mains or that
which occurs as the result of maintenance and extension operations or from any
other unavoidable cause.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to extend the liability of the
town, beyond that provided in the Governmental Immunity Act of the state, UCA §
63G-7  1 .
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 50.086 MOTORS, SYPHONS.
   No water shall be supplied from the pipes of the town water system for the
purpose of a driving motor, syphon, turbine or other wheels or any hydraulic
engines or elevators or for driving or propelling machinery of any kind
whatsoever, nor shall any license be granted or issued for any such purpose,
except by special permission of the Town Council.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.087 SPRINKLERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use such number of outlets
simultaneously or to use such sprinkler or combinations of sprinkler or outlets
as will, in the opinion of the Town Council, materially affect the pressure or
supply of the water in the town water system or any part thereof and the Town
Council may, from time to time, by resolution, specify combinations or numbers
of outlets which may have such effect.
   (B)   The Town Council shall, after determining that such improper use
exists, notify the affected water user or the owner of the premises whereon
such use occurs of such determination in writing, order such use discontinued,
and advise that such continued usage constitutes a violation of this section.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.088 SCARCITY OF WATER.
   In time of scarcity of water, whenever it shall in the judgment of the Mayor
and the Town Council be requisite, the Mayor shall, by proclamation, limit the
use of water to such extent as may be necessary. It shall be unlawful for any
person, his or her family, servants, or agents to violate any proclamation made
by the Mayor in pursuance of this section.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.089 WASTE OF WATER.
   (A)   (1)   Users of water from the town water system shall not permit water
to continue to run wastefully and without due efforts to conserve water.
      (2)   If, in the judgment of the Water Superintendent or of any of the
officers of the town, a user of the water system engages in practices which
result in the needless waste of water and continues so to do after reasonable
notice to discontinue wastefulness has been given, the Superintendent or any
officer may refer the matter to the Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Council may thereupon consider terminating the right of the
individual to use culinary water. If it elects to consider the matter of
termination, it shall give notice to the water user of the intention to
terminate his or her water connection at least five days prior to the meeting
of the Town Council at which termination of water service is to be considered.
The notice shall inform him or her of the time and place of the meeting and of
the charges which lead to the consideration of the termination.
   (C)   A water user whose right to utilize the town’s water is being reviewed
shall have opportunity to appear with or without counsel and present his or her
reasons why his or her water service should not be discontinued.
   (D)   (1)   After due hearing, the Town Council may arrive at a
determination.
      (2)   If the determination is to discontinue the wasteful water user’s
service connection, it shall notify him or her of the decision and of the
period during which the service will remain discontinued.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.090 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise expressly permitted by this subchapter, all
structures, dwelling units, establishments and persons using water from the
town water system must have such number of water meters connected to his, her
or their water system as are necessary in the judgment of the Superintendent to
adequately measure use and determine water charges to the respective users.
   (B)   Meters will be furnished by the town upon application for a connection
and upon payment of such connection fees and other costs as may be established
by the Town Council from time to time by resolution.
   (C)   Meters shall be deemed to be and remain the property of the town.
Whenever a dispute between Superintendent and the property owner arises as to
the appropriate number of meters to be installed on any premises, the matter
shall be heard and determined by the Town Council after due notice in writing
to the parties involved.
   (D)   The Superintendent shall cause meter readings to be taken regularly
and shall advise the Water Secretary thereof for the purpose of recording the
necessary billings for water service.
   (E)   Meters may be checked, inspected or adjusted at the discretion of the
town and they shall not be adjusted or tampered with by the customer. Meter
boxes shall not be opened for the purpose of turning on or off the water,
except by an authorized representative of the town unless special permission is
given by the town through its representatives to the customer.
   (F)   If a customer submits a request to the Water Secretary to test his or
her water meter, the town may, if under the circumstances it deems it advisable
and, in its discretion, order a test of the meter measuring the water delivered
to such customer. If such request is made within 12 months after the date of
the last previous test, the customer may be required to pay the cost of $25 for
such test. If the meter is found in such test to record from 97% to 103% of
accuracy under methods of testing satisfactory to the Town Council, the meter
shall be deemed to accurately measure the use of water.
   (G)   If the town’s meters fail to register at any time, the water delivered
during the period of failure shall be estimated on the basis of previous
consumption during a period which is not questioned. In the event a meter is
found to be recording less than 97% or more than 103% of accuracy, the town
shall make such adjustments in the customer’s previous bills as are just and
fair under the circumstances, and then the town will replace or fix the faulty
meter.
   (H)   All damages or injury to water lines, meters or other materials of the
town on or near the customer’s premises caused by any act or neglect of the
customer shall, in the discretion of the town, be repaired by and at the
expense of the customer and the customer shall pay all costs and expenses,
including a reasonable attorney fee, which may arise or accrue to the town
through its efforts to repair the damage to the lines, meters or to other
equipment of the Department or collect such costs from the customer.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.091 PERMIT FOR INSTALLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to lay, repair, alter or connect any
water line to the town culinary water system without first having received
approval from the Town Clerk and/or Town Council.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.092 APPLICATIONS FOR INSTALLATION PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   Applications for permits to make water connections or other
alteration or for laying or repairing lines connected directly or indirectly to
the town water system must be made in writing to the Town Council.
      (2)   The application shall be granted if the Town Council determines
that:
         (a)   The connection, repair, alteration or installation will cause no
damage to the street in which the water main is laid, or that it will not be
prejudicial to the interests of persons whose property has been or may
thereafter be connected to the water main; and
         (b)   The connection conforms to the ordinances, regulations,
specifications and standard of materials required by the town.
   (B)   Fees for permits or for inspection services shall be of such amounts
as the Town Council shall, from time to time, determine by resolution.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.093 MOVING OR REPLACEMENT OF WATER LINES.
   In the event that the town, in its sole discretion, determines that any
water line of the town must be moved or replaced, the town shall bear that
portion of the cost of such move or replacement which applies to main lines up
to the property line of the customer. The cost of reconnecting such new line or
lines from the house of the customer to his or her property line shall be borne
by the customer.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.094 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Any customer desiring to discontinue water service shall notify the town, in
writing, of such fact at least ten days before the date when such service shall
be discontinued. On giving such written notice, the customer shall not be
responsible for water bills incurred after the date specified in the notice.
Any credit balance in favor of the customer as a result of an advance payment
of bills or a deposit will be refunded upon discontinuance of service.
Customers who vacate their homes for extended periods of time will continue to
receive water bills and be expected to pay those bills as they are due. Any
water customer who requests a water disconnection will be required to pay a new
water hook-up fee to reconnect to the town’s water system. A new connection
will be subject to the availability of a new meter. Unoccupied homes with
unpaid bills will have their meters disconnected by the discretion of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.095 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Water for fire hydrants will be furnished free of charge by the town.
Installation on such hydrants shall be at the expense of developers and sub-
dividers and shall be made under the direction of the Town Council. Repairs on
hydrants will be at the expense of the town. All customers shall grant the
town, upon demand, a right-of-way or easement to install and maintain such
hydrants on his, her or their premises if the town concludes that hydrants
shall be so installed for the protection of the residents of the town.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.096 WATER MAIN EXTENSION.
   Any person or persons, including any sub-divider, who desires to have the
water mains extended within the town and is willing to pay in advance the whole
expense of such extension and receive the return of an agreed portion thereof,
as hereinafter provided, may make application to the Town Council by petition.
The petition shall contain a description of such proposed extension accompanied
by a map showing the location of the proposed extension together with an offer
to advance the whole expense thereof, which cost shall be verified by the Water
Superintendent. The Town Council may grant or deny the petition as, in its
discretion, seems best for the welfare of existing water users in the town.
Upon the receipt of such petition and map and before the petition is granted,
the Town Council shall obtain from the Water Superintendent a certified
statement showing the whole cost of expense of making such extension.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.097 AMOUNT OF COST DEPOSITED WITH CLERK.
   (A)   If the Town Council grants the petition, the amount of the cost of
making the extension, as certified by the Water Superintendent, shall be
deposited with the Town Clerk before any work shall be done on such extension.
   (B)   The deposit shall be made within 30 days or such other time as the
Town Council shall indicate after the granting thereof.
      (1)   At the time the Town Council decides whether or not to grant
petition for an extension, it shall also decide whether or not any portion of
the cost is to be refunded and the manner and circumstances under which such
refund shall be made or credited to the applicant, his or her successors, or
representatives. Such determination shall be duly recorded in writing and a
copy thereof furnished to the applicant.
      (2)   In the event any deposit remains unclaimed for a period of five
years after the depositor has discontinued water service, the deposit may be
forfeited and then transferred to the town’s Water Utility Fund.
      (3)   Any such extension shall be deemed the property of the town.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
§ 50.099 EXTENSIONS MAY BE MASTER-METERED.
   When an extension supplying more than one house or user outside the town
boundaries is connected to the town water mains, the Water Superintendent may
require a master-meter to be installed near the point where the connection is
to be made to the town main. This installation will be at the expense of the
persons served by such extension according to the regular rates for meter
installation. Responsible parties must agree to pay all bills for water served
through the meter at the applicable water rates.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 50.100 COSTS OF EXTENSIONS TO BE DETERMINED BY SUPERINTENDENT.
   Upon receipt of such petition and map and before the petition is granted,
the Town Council shall determine what portion, if any, of the extension of the
town water mains to the town limits the town shall construct, and shall obtain
from the Water Superintendent a verified statement showing the whole cost and
expense of making such extension. Such costs and expenses shall include
administrative and supervisory expenditures of the town’s Water Department,
which shall, in no event, be deemed to be less than 10% of the cost of
materials and labor.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003)
§ 50.101 CROSS-CONNECTION PROTECTION.
   (A)   All connections to the town water system shall conform to the
International Plumbing Code, as adopted by the state, and the state’s Public
Drinking Water Regulations.
   (B)   Water service to customers will be discontinued under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   A backflow prevention assembly is required pursuant to UCA § 19-4-
112  1 ;
      (2)   Service of water to any building or location may, at the discretion
of the Town Council, be discontinued if the backflow prevention assembly
required is not installed, tested, and maintained, or if a backflow prevention
assembly has been removed, bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection
exists at the building or location where the Water Superintendent or his or her
representative determines that the risk to the town water system is a serious
threat to health or safety, then he or she may immediately terminate water
service to a building or location;
      (3)   The town’s Water Department may refuse to restore water service to
such building or location until such conditions or defects are corrected;
      (4)   The town shall give reasonable notice to the customer and/or owner
of the building or location of the termination of water service to the property
and where the customer could not reasonably be so notified before termination,
then notice shall be given promptly afterwards; and/or
      (5)   Removed or vandalized backflow prevention assemblies that are
replaced by the Water Superintendent or representative will be charged against
the customer’s regular water bill for the cost of the assembly.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 50.102 DISTANCE OF SEPTIC TANKS FROM CULINARY WELL.
   (A)   No septic tank shall be constructed or in any way built within 400
feet north, west or south of the culinary well in town that is used for
drinking water. No septic tank shall be constructed or in any way built within
2,500 feet east of said culinary well in the town.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be deemed a nuisance and, upon
conviction of the same, the violator may be punished by imprisonment in the
county jail for a period of time not to exceed three months or by a fine
established by the Town Council or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   As it is in the interest of the health and welfare of the residents of
the town, in the event of violation of the distances established by the town,
the town specifically reserves the right to require the removal of any
construction commenced in violation of this section.
   (D)   The Town Council reserves the right to issue variances to septic tanks
existing before 1972 within the well protection zone.
(Ord. 13-02-03, passed 1-9-2003; Ord. 13-02-03A, passed 8-12-2021)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE
Section
Garbage Regulations
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   No accumulation of garbage
   
51.003   Closing of garbage containers required
   
51.004   Disposal of community waste
   
51.005   Burning of refuse prohibited
   
51.006   Dumping refuse prohibited
   
51.007   Limitations upon dumping
   
51.008   Regulations
Garbage Service District
   
51.020   Creation of town garbage area
   
51.021   Establishment under state code annotated
   
51.022   Name
   
51.023   Purpose
   
51.024   Rights, powers and authority
   
51.025   Solid waste disposal and collection
   
51.026   Governing board
   
51.027   Service charge
   
51.028   Failure to pay service fee
   
51.029   Unlawful to dispose
   
51.030   “Occupied residence” defined
GARBAGE REGULATIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL GARBAGE. Garbage produced in commercial establishments, public or
quasi- public institutions or establishments, including restaurants, hotels,
motels and similar establishments.
   COMMUNITY WASTE. Lawn cutting, clippings from bushes and shrubs, leaves and
trees and tree branches.
   CONTAINER or REGULATION CONTAINER. A type of garbage or trash container of
galvanized metal or other approved material and having a tight-fitting lid or
properly and sufficiently treated weather-resistant bag manufactured
specifically for use in garbage and refuse collection.
   GARBAGE. Waste from the preparation, handling, storing, cooking or
consumption of food and food products.
   REFUSE. All waste matter, except garbage, attending or resulting from the
occupancy of residences, apartments, hotels or other places of dwelling and
from the operation of a business. REFUSE shall not be deemed to include
industrial waste or waste matter resulting from the construction, demolition or
repair of a building or other structure.
   RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE. Garbage produced in places of private residence and
dining halls not open to the public.
§ 51.002 NO ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate garbage or refuse or
cause garbage or refuse to be deposited upon any street or alley or upon any
premises in the municipality.
   (B)   The Town Council may permit the feeding or processing of garbage or
refuse upon premises properly equipped and maintained so as to prevent the
creation of a nuisance or a hazard to health, or permit the depositing of ashes
and other dry material for filling purposes at such places as the Town Council
may designate and under such restrictions as the governing body may by
regulation impose.
   (C)   Additionally, no person will be given permission to sort, bail and/or
market trade waste upon the premises of the transfer station.
§ 51.003 CLOSING OF GARBAGE CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   All garbage and market waste must be placed in rain-proof and fly-proof
receptacles of the type herein required, and the receptacle shall be tightly
closed in such a manner as to prevent offensive odors or flies.
§ 51.004 DISPOSAL OF COMMUNITY WASTE.
   (A)   Community waste may be disposed of by residents and business
establishments in vehicles provided by them, subject to regulation by the
governing body as to the places of disposal and as to the type of vehicle used
to avoid spillage upon public ways of the municipality, hazards to safety and
the prevention of nuisances.
   (B)   The governing body, from time to time, may provide for the collection
and disposal of such types of community waste as it may decide to collect and
haul in connection with its regular garbage, waste collection and disposal
service. In the event community waste disposal service should require a charge
to be made by the municipality, the determination of the charge will be made by
negotiation with the residents or business enterprises and the residents or
business enterprises will be given an opportunity to choose from among services
offered by persons other than the municipality.
§ 51.005 BURNING OF REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn garbage, market waste, manure or
other refuse in the open air or in any furnace or stove within the
municipality.
§ 51.006 DUMPING REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or dump garbage,
ashes, market waste, paper boxes, cartons, trade waste, manure or night soil,
or any other refuse upon any lot within the municipality whether such lot is
occupied or vacant and whether such person so placing, depositing or dumping
such refuse is the owner, tenant, occupant or lessor thereof or has the same
under his or her jurisdiction and control.
§ 51.007 LIMITATIONS UPON DUMPING.
   Dumping waste and garbage shall be permitted only in such places as are
designated by the governing body. Dumping shall be subject to such rules and
regulations as may be formulated by the governing body.
§ 51.008 REGULATIONS.
   The governing body may adopt such regulations as, in its opinion, are
necessary to implement this subchapter and its objectives.
GARBAGE SERVICE DISTRICT
§ 51.020 CREATION OF TOWN GARBAGE AREA.
   Public health, convenience and necessity warrant the creation of a town
garbage area serving all property lying within the town limits.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.021 ESTABLISHMENT UNDER STATE CODE ANNOTATED.
   Said district is ordered and declared duly formed, organized and established
under and by virtue of the provisions of UCA Title 17, Chapter 34  1 , as
amended, and the same is hereby deemed a body corporate and politic and quasi-
municipal public corporation of the town.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 51.022 NAME.
   The corporate name of the district created hereby is and shall be hereafter
known as “Kanarraville Garbage District”, hereinafter referred to in this
subchapter as the “service area”.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.023 PURPOSE.
   The service area is created for the purpose of providing an extended town
service in the form of solid waste disposal and collection to the residents of
the town located within the service area, as described in §
51.020.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.024 RIGHTS, POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   The service area shall exercise through its proper officers all the rights,
powers and authority conferred upon service areas.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.025 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION.
   The service area is hereby empowered to provide and supply solid waste
disposal and collection within the area as such or deemed necessary and
desirable by the governing body thereof. The provisions of this service and the
necessary equipment, supplies, materials and facilities therefor may be
furnished by any means available by law to the service area as provided in the
municipal-type services to incorporated areas act or any amendments or
supplements thereto and any other applicable law.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.026 GOVERNING BOARD.
   The Council members of the town shall act as the governing board of the
service area. This Board shall have and are hereby vested with all the powers,
duties and responsibilities conferred upon such Board.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.027 SERVICE CHARGE.
   A service charge is hereby levied upon all occupied residences located
within said service area in an amount of $10.50 per month per can. The
governing board shall provide for the collection and enforcement of payments as
permitted by law.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.028 FAILURE TO PAY SERVICE FEE.
   The owner and/or occupant of lands located in the service area is hereby
determined to be liable for the payment of said service fee, if garbage
services are rendered or made available to such property. This fee shall be
delinquent 30 days from the date of billing. In the event the occupant fails to
make payment of the fee when due, then the owner shall be liable for payment of
the fee set forth in the last statement and billed accordingly and, if the fee
is not paid by the occupant or owner within 30 days, the said fee and
delinquencies as determined by the governing board shall be subject to
collection under the following method: the town service area may sue and
receive judgment for the amount due, including all delinquencies and expenses
in connection with the collection of said fee, together with interest at the
highest legal rate.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.029 UNLAWFUL TO DISPOSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of garbage, refuse,
animals or debris within the boundaries of the incorporated area of the town
after the service area collection system has been developed and put into
operation, except through the approved services provided by the service area,
unless such other disposal methods have been approved by the state’s Board of
Health.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to haul any garbage, refuse, rubbish, leaves,
tree limbs or other waste material in any vehicle upon a road located within
the town without having the material properly and adequately covered to prevent
the same from falling or being blown from said vehicle.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
§ 51.030 “OCCUPIED RESIDENCE” DEFINED.
   OCCUPIED RESIDENCES, as found in §
51.027, shall be defined as those residences that are inhabitable, have water,
electrical power and are occupied at least one day in a given year.
(Ord. passed 12-12-1991)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
[Reserved]
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
[Reserved]
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   CEMETERIES
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Definitions
   
150.002   Purchasing of plots
   
150.003   Name
   
150.004   Cemeteries covered
   
150.005   Traffic rules
   
150.006   Children
   
150.007   Animals prohibited
   
150.008   Decorum
   
150.009   Injury to cemetery property prohibited
   
150.010   Landscaping by private persons
   
150.011   Placement of markers
   
150.012   Additional rules and regulations
   
150.013   Errors may be corrected
   
150.014   Improper conduct prohibited
   
150.015   Livestock and dogs
Cemeteries Superintendent
   
150.030   Office of Cemetery Superintendent
   
150.031   Duties of Cemetery Superintendent
Regulation of Cemetery and Burials
   
150.045   Burials
   
150.046   Burial permit
   
150.047   Burials and disinterment
   
150.048   Vaults required
   
150.049   Sale subject to rule
   
150.050   Care reserved
   
150.051   Descent and inheritance of burial rights
   
150.052   Burials permitted
   
150.053   Funeral processions
   
150.054   Only one interment permitted
   
150.055   Markers
Fees and Charges
   
150.070   Collection of fees
   
150.071   Fees to be paid for opening grave
   
150.072   Purchase price and fees
   
150.073   Price for burial in urns
   
150.074   Free grave plot for 50 years of residency
   
150.075   Plots shall not be reserved
   
150.076   Cost of opening/closing a grave
   
150.077   Plot cost
Sale of Lots
   
150.090   Sale
   
150.091   Restriction of resale
   
150.092   Prices; liability of cemetery
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. Eight graves.
   LOT. Four graves.
   LOT OWNER OR PURCHASER and GRAVE OWNER OR PURCHASER. The owner or purchaser
of burial privileges or the collateral right of use of any burial lot evidenced
by a deed or burial right of use of any burial lot evidenced by a deed or
burial right for a described lot or by proved and recognized descent or devise
from the original owner.
   OPEN AND CLOSING. To be determined by the hired contractor.
   PLOT. One grave.
   RESIDENT. Someone who lives in the town limits as a primary resident,
regardless of how long, and who possess a driver’s license showing the town
address or who are registered as town voters.
   SECTION. Area divided by existing roads.
(Ord. passed 1-8-1985; Res. 07-14-05A, passed 8-11-2005; Res. 04-12-12, passed
4-12-2012)
§ 150.002 PURCHASING OF PLOTS.
   No more than four plots can be purchased at one time. Upon the payment in
full, the purchaser acquires the right of burial in the cemetery, subject to
the rules and regulations of the cemetery. No interment will be permitted or
marker allowed on any plot not fully paid.
(Res. 07-14-05A, passed 8-11-2005)
§ 150.003 NAME.
   The burial ground of this municipality shall be known and designated the
name of Kanarraville Cemetery.
§ 150.004 CEMETERIES COVERED.
   All cemeteries owned and/or maintained by the town, wherever situated, are
hereby declared subject to the provisions of this chapter.
§ 150.005 TRAFFIC RULES.
   (A)   The provisions of the municipal traffic ordinances relative to the
operation of vehicles and conduct of pedestrians shall be in effect in the
cemetery, except as herein otherwise modified by this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive within the
municipal cemetery at a speed greater than ten mph.
§ 150.006 CHILDREN.
   Children under the age of eight years shall not be allowed in cemeteries
unless accompanied by their parents or other adults, except for the purposes of
attending authorized funerals or, in the company of adults, placing flowers on
the grave of a deceased relative or friend, performing service or any other
customary evidence of respect in accordance with their religious principles.
§ 150.007 ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No animal shall be allowed in any cemetery, except in the confines of a
vehicle and must be, at all times, retained within the confines of said vehicle
while the vehicle remains in the cemetery.
§ 150.008 DECORUM.
   Cemetery grounds are sacredly devoted to the interment and repose of the
dead. Strict observance of decorum due such a place shall be required of all
persons.
§ 150.009 INJURY TO CEMETERY PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person may tie or attempt to tie any horse, or animal, to any
monument, gravestone, tablet, marker, tree, shrub, fence or enclosure on the
premises of the cemetery for the purpose of injuring, defacing or attempting
the removal of same.
      (2)   In addition, no person (except for authorized persons) may park any
type of motor vehicle on any plot or monument.
   (B)   It shall be an infraction for any person to injure, deface, break,
destroy or remove any headstone, tombstone, monument, tree, shrub or any other
property in the cemetery.
§ 150.010 LANDSCAPING BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   Except as provided by the rules and regulations of the governing body,
it shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any fence, corner
post, coping or boundary of any kind; to plant any vegetation upon any lot or
lots, street, alley or walk in the cemetery; or to grade the ground or land
thereof.
   (B)   The Cemetery Sexton shall, whenever required, furnish the true lines
of any lots according to official survey; shall prevent and prohibit any
markings of the same, except by official landmarks; and shall prevent and
prohibit any grading thereof that might destroy or interfere with the general
slope of the land.
§ 150.011 PLACEMENT OF MARKERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, place or cause to be placed
any marker or monument on any lot in cemetery in violation of the rules and
regulations promulgated by the governing body regarding the placement,
construction and design of all such markers.
§ 150.012 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The governing body may promulgate, by resolution, such additional
rules and regulations concerning the care, use, operation and maintenance of
the cemetery as it shall deem necessary.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor may, from time to time, as the Town Council deems
necessary, direct and publish a booklet of rules and regulations for the
convenience of the purchasers of lots in the municipal cemetery.
      (2)   Such rules and regulations shall constitute a part of the terms and
conditions under which owners and users may utilize the cemetery and shall form
a supplement to this chapter after they have been adopted as official by
resolution of the Town Council.
   (C)   Any change in the rules and regulations shall be adopted by the
governing body before such changes shall be official.
§ 150.013 ERRORS MAY BE CORRECTED.
   The Town Council shall have the right to correct any errors that may be made
concerning either disinterments or removal, or transfer or conveyance and
substituting and conveying, in lieu thereof, other interment property of equal
value and similar location as near as possible or as may be selected by the
Sexton or by refunding the amount of purchase of the plot.
(Res. 07-14-05A, passed 8-11-2005)
§ 150.014 IMPROPER CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   The town cemetery has been dedicated for the burial of the dead and any
behavior or conduct not in keeping with this purpose is expressly forbidden.
(Res. 07-14-05A, passed 8-11-2005)
§ 150.015 LIVESTOCK AND DOGS.
   (A)   Livestock and dogs are not permitted in the cemetery.
   (B)   The Town Council has entire charge of the cemetery.
   (C)   It may take such action necessary in order to protect the property of
graves and plot owners to prevent injury to the appearance of the plots, graves
and ground.
(Res. 07-14-05A, passed 8-11-2005)
CEMETERY SEXTON
§ 150.030 OFFICE OF CEMETERY SEXTON.
   There is hereby created the position of Cemetery Sexton.
§ 150.031 DUTIES OF CEMETERY SEXTON.
   The Cemetery Sexton shall have the general supervision and administration of
the municipal cemetery, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Recommending to the governing body such additional rules and
regulations as may be necessary for the operation, maintenance, use and
protection of the cemetery;
   (B)   Subdividing the cemetery into lots and grave sites;
   (C)   Maintaining a record of the location of graves and preventing any lot
from being used beyond its capacity;
   (D)   Keeping in proper repair the enclosure around the cemetery and
preventing its being entered by animals and, so far as practical, preventing
the destruction or defacing of any tablet or marker placed or erected therein;
   (E)   Keeping a duplicate plat of the cemetery and, at the request of any
person wishing to purchase any of the lots, pointing out any of the lots for
sale; and upon disposal of any lots thereof, notifying the Town Clerk of such
fact. The Town Clerk shall, after payment of the lot price has been received by
the Treasurer, issue a certificate of burial rights which shall describe the
lot or grave to which the right to burial is granted. The certificate shall be
signed by the Mayor and the Town Clerk;
   (F)   Opening and closing, or authorizing to open or close, any grave in the
cemetery;
   (G)   Removing floral pieces or displays left on any grave as deemed
necessary to the appearance of the cemetery, but such floral pieces or displays
shall not be removed sooner than five days after original placement, except in
emergency;
   (H)   Keeping the streets, alleys, walks and avenues in the cemetery in good
order and unobstructed; and
   (I)   Erecting a suitable marker firmly set upon the northwest corner of
each lot with the number of the lot inscribed thereon and which location shall
be shown on the cemetery records.
REGULATION OF CEMETERY AND BURIALS
§ 150.045 BURIALS.
   (A)   Permits. Before any deceased person is buried in the municipal
cemetery, a permit will be properly issued by the registrar of the registration
district in which the death occurred or, in the absence of such registrar, a
permit duly issued by the state’s Division Cemetery Sexton. After burial, the
Cemetery Sexton shall endorse upon the permit a description of the location
where the deceased is buried and shall enter all the information contained in
the permit in the cemetery records.
   (B)   Interment is limited to human remains. Interment will be made upon
written order of the owner of the plot or of persons representing the owner.
Direction for all interment must be given and all charges prepaid to the
Sexton, a designated Town Council member. The town will not be responsible for
errors arising from misinformation. The person giving an order must be able to
give the plot owner’s name and address, the name of the person to be buried,
the name of the Funeral Director or Funeral Home, the date and time of the
funeral and the number of the certificate. Notice for opening a grave shall be
given sufficiently early to allow at least two days for the work to be
completed. The Kanarraville Town shall not be responsible for any
miscommunication or misdirection when opening a grave. If, for any reason, a
grave cannot be opened where specified, the Sexton may by discretion, open such
location in the cemetery as it is deemed best and proper, so as not to delay
the funeral and affect the interment.
(Res. 07-14-05A, passed 8-11-2005)
§ 150.046 BURIAL PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury the body of a deceased person in
the town cemetery without first obtaining a certificate of burial right for the
lot used or producing satisfactory evidence of the right to burial based on a
properly acquired certificate of burial right.
§ 150.047 BURIALS AND DISINTERMENT.
   (A)   It is an infraction for any person to:
      (1)   Disinter anybody buried in any cemetery, except under the direction
of the Cemetery Sexton who shall, before disinterment, require a written
permission from both the municipal health officer and the owner of the lot or
his or her heirs, which written authorization shall be filed and preserved in a
record kept for such purposes; and
      (2)   Disinter or remove the body of a person who has died from a
contagious disease within two years after the date of burial, unless the body
was buried in a hermetically sealed casket or vault and is found to be so
incased at the time of disinterment.
   (B)   It is an infraction to inter anything other than the remains of human
bodies in cemeteries.
   (C)   It is an infraction to bury the body of any person within this
municipality, except in the municipal cemetery or a private cemetery, unless by
special permission of the governing body under such rules and regulation that
may prescribe.
§ 150.048 VAULTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unless in writing waived by the Cemetery Sexton, it shall be unlawful
for any person to be buried in the cemetery unless the casket shall be placed
in a vault made of concrete, fiberglass, steel or brick-lined or of such other
material approved by the governing body, substantially constructed and covered
with a similar durable material.
   (B)   No wood shall be used as a permanent part of the construction of any
part of the vault.
§ 150.049 SALE SUBJECT TO RULE.
   Every lot or single grave sold is subject to rules and regulations that have
been or may be adopted. The rules and regulations shall be subject to such
changes as are found necessary for the protection of lot owners, the remains of
the dead and the preservation of the cemetery.
§ 150.050 CARE RESERVED.
   The municipality reserves the right to enter upon any grave and to perform
all work necessary for the care and upkeep of all lots and graves in its
cemeteries.
§ 150.051 DESCENT AND INHERITANCE OF BURIAL RIGHTS.
   Upon the death of the plot owner, the plot descends to those named in the
will of the owner or to the heirs designated by law. The town shall in no way
be held responsible for a failure to properly determine the legal successorship
of the said owner. The heirs are entitled to the same use of the plot as the
original owners and are bound by the same rules and regulations.
(Ord. passed 1-8-1985; Res. 07-14-05A, passed 8-11-2005)
§ 150.052 BURIALS PERMITTED.
   No funeral or interment will be allowed in the cemetery on Sunday,
officially observed holidays or Memorial Day weekend (Friday-Sunday).
(Res. 07-14-05A, passed 8-11-2005)
§ 150.053 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   Funeral processions upon entering the cemetery shall be under the control
and subject to the direction of the Sexton.
(Res. 07-14-05A, passed 8-11-2005)
§ 150.054 ONLY ONE INTERMENT PERMITTED.
   One interment only shall be allowed in a casket except a father or mother
with an infant child or two children buried at the same time. Not more than one
casket is allowed in a grave; stacking will not be allowed.
(Res. 07-14-05A, passed 8-11-2005)
§ 150.055 MARKERS.
   Only single or double markers will be permitted on the grave. Markers shall
be at the head of the grave.
(Res. 07-14-05A, passed 8-11-2005)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 150.070 COLLECTION OF FEES.
   The Town Clerk, and such other persons as the governing body may designate,
are hereby authorized and required to collect, in advance, prices and fees for
the opening and closing of graves or other services which shall include, but
not be limited to, properly disinterring bodies and properly restoring the
earth and grounds, recording each burial, disinterment or removal, and raised
monument privileges. The fees shall be such amounts as are determined by the
governing body from time to time by resolution.
§ 150.071 FEES TO BE PAID FOR OPENING GRAVE.
   No grave shall be opened in the municipal cemetery until payment of a fee
for the labor and expense in so opening the grave has been paid to the Town
Sexton. The Town Sexton will ensure that each grave is opened and closed.
§ 150.072 PURCHASE PRICE AND FEES.
   The governing body shall, from time to time, by resolution, fix the size of
lots, the price at which burial rights shall be sold, and the fees which shall
be charged for various cemetery services to be provided.
§ 150.073 PRICE FOR BURIAL IN URNS.
   (A)   Persons being buried in urns shall pay the same price as persons being
buried in caskets for a plot, $100 per resident, and $1,500 per non-resident.
There will be no more than two urns per plot.
   (B)   An urn and a casket may be placed in the same cemetery plot, under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The urn be placed inside the casket at the time of burial; or
      (2)   The urn is cemented into the ground after the casket has been
buried.
   (C)   All urns buried in a cemetery plot must be encased in concrete. The
price to bury an urn in cement is $150.
   (D)   Ashes can be sprinkled over a grave, but not near water sources and
according to the sprinkling of ashes as dictated by the state’s Health
Department.
(Res. 04-12-12, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 150.074 FREE GRAVE PLOT FOR 50 YEARS OF RESIDENCY.
   A free grave plot shall be given to all persons who have resided in the town
for 50 continuous years.
(Res. 04-12-12, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 150.075 PLOTS SHALL NOT BE RESERVED.
   (A)   All plots must be paid for in full at the time of purchase. As of 4-
12-2012, a purchaser shall not purchase more than four plots. All unused plots
after the purchaser’s death go directly to the purchaser’s descendants through
the purchaser’s last will and testament as ordained in this chapter.
   (B)   A DESCENDANT is defined as a son, daughter, grandson and
granddaughter.
(Res. 04-12-12, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 150.076 COST OF OPENING/CLOSING A GRAVE.
   The cost of opening or closing a grave will be $300 and is subject to change
by a unanimous vote from the Town Council.
(Res. 04-12-12, passed 4-12-2012)
§ 150.077 PLOT COST.
   All cemetery plots will be $100 for residents and $1,500 for non-residents.
(Res. 07-14-05A, passed 8-11-2005)
SALE OF LOTS
§ 150.090 SALE.
   (A)   The Cemetery Sexton, and such other person as the governing body may
designate, are hereby authorized to sell the use of lots in the municipal
cemetery for burial purposes only and will give such sums to the Town Clerk for
recording. The Town Clerk will give all funds to the Town Treasurer for
deposit. The Cemetery Sexton shall be responsible for keeping a complete record
of all sales, which record shall describe the location of the lot purchased and
the price paid therefor. The Town Clerk, or designated person, shall mail or
deliver to each purchaser a certificate of burial rights for all lots
purchased, along with a copy of the cemetery rules and regulations.
   (B)   A certificate and rights to burial shall be exempt from execution,
taxation or assessment for care and maintenance from and after full payment of
the purchase price. Payments made pursuant to this section shall not be
construed to be in payment for cemetery services other than perpetual care or
prepaid maintenance.
   (C)   Perpetual care or prepaid continued maintenance shall be deemed to
include the filling of the grave, the placing of top soil upon the grave,
seeding the grave with grass and watering and cutting the grass. No other
services are included.
   (D)   No other improvements, changes or service, except perpetual care or
prepaid continued maintenance, shall be made on any lot without the certificate
holder or his or her heirs first submitting to and receiving from the Cemetery
Sexton, written approval for such improvements, changes or services, which
improvements, changes or services shall be subject to the rules and regulations
promulgated by the governing body.
§ 150.091 RESTRICTION OF RESALE.
   (A)   From and after 5-13-1986, the lots sold by this municipality shall not
be further sold, transferred, conveyed or assigned to any person except the
municipality. The municipality hereby agrees to buy back any municipal cemetery
grave lot which it may hereafter sell. The repurchase of such lots shall be for
the original price paid by the purchaser, or the current selling price of the
lot, whichever is less.
   (B)   Whenever a certificate to burial rights or logs reverts to the
municipality, as provided for in this subchapter, or becomes vested in the
municipality for any reason, before new certificates are issued, the original
certificate shall be cancelled or an assignment given, and the record shall be
so changed.
   (C)   The certificates shall be issued and signed by the Mayor and shall be
attested by the Town Clerk. All lots or parts of lots, as provided in this
section, together with all improvements, shall be exempt from execution and
from taxation and assessment for care and maintenance charges from and after
said payment.
§ 150.092 PRICES; LIABILITY OF CEMETERY.
   Prices of plots will be furnished upon request. The Town Council will, at
all times, exercise diligence and reasonable care in protection of the rights
and property of the plot owners and visitors.
(Res. 07-14-05A, passed 8-11-2005)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Short title
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Authority
   
151.004   Jurisdiction
   
151.005   Definition; applicability
   
151.006   Definitions
   
151.007   Subdivision procedures flow charts
Sketch Plans
   
151.020   Purpose of sketch plan
   
151.021   Planning Commission review
Preliminary Subdivision Application
   
151.035   Purpose
   
151.036   Requirements
   
151.037   Suitability of the areas for subdivision; information required
   
151.038   Determination of completed application
   
151.039   Preliminary subdivision plat approval; procedures
Final Subdivision Applications
   
151.050   Intent
   
151.051   Application requirements
   
151.052   Plat materials; size and copies
   
151.053   Multiple sheets and plat accuracy
   
151.054   Town Clerk to determine complete application
   
151.055   Lack of final subdivision application information
   
151.056   Review by Town Engineer
   
151.057   Final subdivision application approval
   
151.058   Nature and effective period of final subdivision approval
   
151.059   Site preparation work and building permits prohibited until final
subdivision application approved
Minor Subdivisions
   
151.070   Purpose
   
151.071   Definition
   
151.072   Approval
   
151.073   Applications; sketch plan required
   
151.074   Application
   
151.075   Town Clerk to determine complete minor subdivision application
   
151.076   Lack of minor subdivision application information
   
151.077   Approval; procedures
   
151.078   Effective period of minor subdivision approval
   
151.079   Minor subdivision approval
   
151.080   Site preparation work prohibited
Cluster Subdivision Option
   
151.095   Purpose and intent
   
151.096   Use regulations
   
151.097   General requirements
   
151.098   Development standards
   
151.099   Farm area and open space provision and maintenance
   
151.100   Submission of application
   
151.101   Town Council approval
Improvement Requirements
   
151.115   Design and documentation requirements
   
151.116   Required improvements
   
151.117   Subdivision costs and charges
Standards and Specifications
   
151.130   General provisions
   
151.131   Street design
   
151.132   Lots
   
151.133   Public use and service areas
   
151.134   Suitability of the land
   
151.135   Access to lots
Processing Fees
   
151.150   Sketch plan fee
   
151.151   Preliminary plat fee
   
151.152   Final plat fee
   
151.153   Zone change and annexation fees
   
151.154   Payment of fees
   
151.155   Refunds
General Subdivision Requirements
   
151.180   Drawings required (as builts)
   
151.181   Variances
   
151.182   Enforcement/penalties
   
151.183   Park fees and park development
   
151.184   Donation, gifting or procurement of and for parks
   
151.185   Administrative responsibilities
Guarantee of Performance
   
151.200   Applicability
   
151.201   Type and amount of guarantee
   
151.202   Duration of guarantee; durability retainage
   
151.203   Final disposition and release
   
151.204   Partial release permitted
   
151.205   Default
Lot Splits; Exemption from Plat Requirements
   
151.220   Purpose
   
151.221   Application requirements for lot split
   
151.222   Requirements for qualification
   
151.223   Certification by town for recording
   
151.224   Water availability required
Plat and Minor Subdivision Amendments
   
151.235   Amendment to recorded plats or minor subdivisions
   
151.236   Amendment by Town Council
   
151.237   Grounds for plat or minor subdivision amendments and recordation
   
151.238   Appeal of plat or minor subdivision amendment decisions
   
151.239   Lot line adjustments within a recorded plat or minor subdivision
Building Permits
   
151.250   Building permit issuance; legal lot required
   
151.251   Water, sewage and road requirements
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known an may be cited as the “Kanarraville Subdivision
Ordinance” and may be identified within this document as “the ordinance”, “this
chapter”, “the Subdivision Ordinance”or “the Kanarraville Subdivision
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is established to provide for the orderly division of land
within the town to secure the provision of necessary private and public
infrastructure and services, and to promote the health, safety and welfare of
residents of Kanarraville.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.003 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted and authorized under the provisions of UCA Title 10,
Chapter 9 et seq.  1 , as amended. This chapter, upon its adoption by the Town
Council, repeals any prior subdivision ordinance that may have been adopted in
whole or in part.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 151.004 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall govern and apply to the subdivision, platting and
recording of all lands lying within the incorporated area of the town.
 1    (B)   No person shall subdivide any land for development purposes except
in full compliance with this chapter,
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances and other applicable local, state and
federal laws. Any plat of a subdivision, filed or recorded without the
approvals required by this chapter, is void for the purposes of development, or
the issuance of a building permit, as required by UCA §§ 10-9-811 et seq., as
amended.
   (C)   No building permit shall be issued by the town for any lot or parcel
of land, located wholly or in part within the limits of the town, unless such
lot or parcel was legally created or was a legal lot of record existing prior
to the adoption date of this chapter.
   (D)   Any owner, or agent of the owner, of any land located in a
subdivision, as defined herein, who transfers or sells any land located within
the subdivision before the subdivision has been approved and recorded,
consistent with the requirements of this chapter, is in violation of this
chapter and UCA §§ 10-9-811 et seq.  2 , and other applicable local, state and
federal laws for each lot or parcel transferred or sold.
   (E)   A description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or
other documents used in the process of selling or transferring property for
development purposes does not exempt the transaction from a violation of this
chapter, nor the penalties or remedies provided by this chapter and other
local, state and federal laws.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 Cite
2 Cite
§ 151.005 DEFINITION; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, a SUBDIVISION shall be, and shall
mean: any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided into two
or more lots, plots, parcels, sites, units or other division of land for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease or development
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms and
conditions. SUBDIVISION includes the division or development of land whether by
deed, metes and bounds, description, devise and testacy, lease, map, plat or
other recorded instrument.
   (B)   SUBDIVISION does not include:
      (1)   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes, as defined at UCA §§ 59-2-502 et seq.  1 , as amended
and providing a minimum parcel size of 20 acres for each parcel created.
Irregular sectional lots created as a partition of agricultural purposes shall
be deemed to meet the 20-acre minimum requirement; provided, such lots are not
less than 19-1/2 acres. Bona fide division for agricultural purposes does not
include the division of any lands for the purposes of establishing a building,
structure or improvement to allow a single-family dwelling unit, recreational
use, cabin or other residential use or any commercial, industrial or public
use, and does not qualify for the issuance of a building permit to establish
such a use;
      (2)   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the
purpose of joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel
of unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel,
nor the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable
zoning ordinance;
      (3)   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties
adjusting their mutual boundary if:
         (a)   No new lot is created; and
         (b)   The adjustment does not result in a violation of applicable
zoning ordinances.
      (4)   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising the
legal description of more than one contiguous parcel of property into one legal
description encompassing all such parcels of property;
      (5)   A bona fide division or partition of land for the purpose of
siting, on one or more of the resulting separate parcels, an unmanned facility
appurtenant to a pipeline owned or operated by a gas corporation, interstate
pipeline company or intrastate pipeline company; and
      (6)   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided so as to subject the unsubdivided parcel
to this chapter.
   (C)   For the purposes of this chapter, DEVELOPMENT shall be, and shall mean
any use or activity proposed for any land, lot, building or structure that
requires the issuance of a building permit, as required by the adopted building
codes of the county.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 151.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING PERMIT. Written permission issued by the town (authorized by the
Planning Commission and Town Council) and its designated Building Official for
the construction, repair, alteration or addition to a structure.
   CLUSTER SUBDIVISION. A form of development that permits a reduction in lot
area requirements; provided, there is no increase in the number of lots
permitted under a conventional subdivision or increase in the overall density
of development, and the remaining land area is devoted to open space, active or
passive recreation, preservation of environmentally sensitive areas or
agriculture.
   COUNTY. The unincorporated area of Iron County or the political subdivision
of the State of Utah.
   GAS CORPORATION. The same meaning as defined in UCA § 54-2-1  1 , as
amended.
   INTERSTATE PIPELINE COMPANY. A person or entity engaged in natural gas
transportation subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission under the Natural Gas Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 717 et seq.
   INTRASTATE PIPELINE COMPANY. A person or entity engaged in natural gas
transportation that is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission under the Natural Gas Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 717 et seq.
   KANARRAVILLE. The Incorporated area within the Town of Kanarraville, Iron
County, Utah.
   KANARRAVILLE TOWN OR TOWN LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Kanarraville Town Council.
   LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT. The relocation of the property boundary line between
two adjoining lots with the consent of the owners of record.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A method of describing the boundaries of land by direction
(bounds) and distances (metes) from a known point of reference.
   MUNICIPALITY. An incorporated city or town.
   OFFICIAL MAP. The same meaning as provided in UCA § 72-5-401  2 , as
amended.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, organization, association,
trust, governmental agency or any other legal entity.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Kanarraville Town Planning Commission.
   PLAT. A map or other graphical representation of lands being laid out and
prepared in accordance with UCA §§ 10-9-801 through 10-9-811  3 , as amended.
   PLAT, FINAL. A map of all or a portion of a subdivision that is presented to
the Town Council for final approval.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A map indicating the proposed layout of the subdivision
that is submitted to the Kanarraville Planning Commission for recommendation
and to the Town Council for preliminary approval.
   RECORD OF SURVEY MAP. A map of a survey of land prepared in accordance with
UCA § 17-23-17  4 , as amended.
   SKETCH PLAN. A concept, informal map of the proposed subdivision of
sufficient accuracy to be used for the purpose of discussion and
classification.
   SPECIAL DISTRICT. All entities established under the authority of UCA Title
17A  5 , Special Districts, and any other governmental or quasi-governmental
entity that is not a county, municipality, school district or unit of the
state.
   STREET. A public rights-of-way, including highways, avenues, boulevards,
parkways, roads, lanes, walks, alleys, viaducts, subways, tunnels, bridges,
public easements and other ways.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided
into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other division of land
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease or
development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions. SUBDIVISION includes the division or development of land
whether by deed, metes and bounds description, devise and testacy, lease, map,
plat or other recorded instrument. SUBDIVISION does not include:
         (a)   A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes;
         (b)   A recorded agreement between owners of adjoining properties
adjusting their mutual boundary if:
            1.   No new lot is created; and
            2.   The adjustment does not result in a violation of applicable
zoning ordinances.
         (c)   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising
the legal description of more than one contiguous parcel of property into one
legal description encompassing all such parcels of property; or
         (d)   A bona fide division or partition of land in a county other than
a first class county for the purpose of siting, on one or more of the resulting
separate parcels, an unmanned facility appurtenant to a pipeline owned or
operated by a gas corporation, interstate pipeline company or intrastate
pipeline company.
      (2)   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided does not constitute a SUBDIVISION as to
the unsubdivided parcel of property or subject the unsubdivided parcel to the
county’s subdivision ordinance.
   TOWN CLERK. The administrative officer of Kanarraville Town designated to
administer the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Ordinance of Kanarraville.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The legislative body of the Incorporated Town of Kanarraville,
Iron County, Utah.
   UNINCORPORATED. The area outside of the incorporated boundaries of cities
and towns.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 Cite
2 Cite
3 Cite
4 Cite
5 Cite
§ 151.007 SUBDIVISION PROCEDURES FLOW CHARTS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f37daf0fb963ea9b3202a7ced06f335d3e0dc6a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-976.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f37daf0fb963ea9b3202a7ced06f335d3e0dc6a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-978.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/f37daf0fb963ea9b3202a7ced06f335d3e0dc6a6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-980.png]
 
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
SKETCH PLANS
§ 151.020 PURPOSE OF SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   To promote efficiency in the subdivision review and approval processes
of the town, all applicants tor subdivision approval shall present a sketch
plan of the proposed subdivision to the Planning Commission and town staff.
   (B)   The sketch plan is an informal discussion document only, designed to
allow the identification of town policies, issues, application procedures,
standards and other items that may be considered in the subdivision review and
approval processes once a subdivision application is received.
   (C)   The sketch plan shall consist of a simple layout of existing and
proposed streets, lots, major buildings (planned residential developments),
utilities, drainage channels and other features including existing utilities,
drainage and watercourses, including irrigation supply and waste ditches, in
relation to the existing and planned streets within one-fourth mile of the
development. The plan may be a pencil sketch or may be made directly on an
aerial photograph. The plan shall be prepared at a scale of not smaller than
one inch to 400 feet.
   (D)   After compiling the necessary data, the developer shall contact the
Planning Commission Secretary and request permission to make a presentation to
the Planning Commission and staff concerning plans and objectives of the
developer.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.021 PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW.
   (A)   In no way shall the sketch plan review with the Planning Commission be
construed as to constitute approval of the development. The primary purpose of
the sketch plan review process is to allow the petitioner to review with the
Planning Commission and town staff the general concept of the proposed
development and to receive informal feedback as to whether the development
appears feasible, whether there appears to be obvious defects in the
development scheme, and if the proposed development is in harmony with the
town’s General Plan, this chapter and Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
This meeting is intended to aid the developer in the preparation of the plans
and documents before incurring potentially unnecessary expenses of detailed
plat and plan preparation.
   (B)   At the conclusion of the sketch plan meeting with the Planning
Commission and town staff, if it is determined that a zone change is necessary,
an application for the zone change must first be filed by the petitioner
together with the fee determined by resolution. Upon receiving approval for a
zone change (if necessary), the developer may submit a preliminary plat
application to the Town Clerk. Said preliminary plat application shall be
attached to all maps, statements, documents and other information required in
this chapter, along with the submittal fee required by resolution.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATION
§ 151.035 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to facilitate the full and thorough
consideration by the town of all subdivision application, unless the
subdivision qualifies as a minor subdivision, as contained herein, ensuring the
protection of the public health, welfare and safety of existing and future town
residents, providing efficient procedures for subdivision applications,
providing for procedures and requirements consistent with engineering,
surveying and recordation practices and providing for compliance with
applicable local, state and federal laws.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.036 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following information is required for a complete preliminary
subdivision application, unless the proposed subdivision qualifies as a minor
subdivision, as contained herein.
   (B)   Items required for a complete preliminary subdivision application are:
      (1)   Signature, completion. A preliminary subdivision application,
provided by the Town Clerk, completed and signed by the owner(s), or authorized
agent of the owners), of the land proposed to be subdivided; and
      (2)   Preliminary subdivision plat.
         (a)   A preliminary subdivision plat shall be prepared by a licensed
land surveyor. The preliminary subdivision plat shall be prepared in pen and
the sheets shall be numbered in sequence if more than one sheet is used, or
required by the Town Clerk, at a size acceptable for filing in the office of
the County Recorder, but shall not be less than 24 inches by 36 inches. The
preliminary subdivision plat shall be drawn on Mylar and a minimum of ten paper
copies shall be presented to the Town Clerk, as part of the preliminary
subdivision application. The Town Clerk may request additional copies if
required.
         (b)   The preliminary subdivision plat shall show the following:
            1.   The layout of the proposed subdivision at a scale of no more
than one inch equals 100 feet, or as recommended by the Town Engineer;
            2.   Located at the top and center of the preliminary subdivision
plat the proposed name of the subdivision and the section, township, range,
principal median and town description of its location;
            3.   A title block, placed on the lower right-hand corner of the
plat showing:
               a.   Name and address of owner(s) of record and name and address
of the licensed land surveyor responsible for preparing the preliminary
subdivision plat; and
               b.   Date of preparation of the preliminary subdivision plat,
and any revision dates.
            4.   North arrow, graphic and written scale and basis of bearings
used;
            5.   Tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed subdivision,
showing the total number of proposed new lots and the areas of each lot. All
proposed lots are to be numbered in a system acceptable to the Town Engineer;
            6.   A vicinity map of the subdivision site at a minimum scale of
one inch equals 2,000 feet;
            7.   The legal description of the entire subdivision site boundary;
            8.   Surveyed boundary of the proposed subdivision; accurate in
scale, dimension and bearing, giving the location of and ties to the nearest
two control monuments. This information shall provide data sufficient to
determine readily the location, bearing and length of all lines and the
location of all proposed monuments. The names of all adjoining property owners
of record shall be shown;
            9.   As required by the Town Clerk, on the preliminary subdivision
plat or separate map, the topographic contour intervals, no greater than ten
feet, for the entire subdivision site;
            10.   The identification and location of known natural features on
the subdivision site including, but not limited to, wetlands as identified by
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, waterbodies, flood ways and drainage ways,
slopes exceeding 30%, and any other natural features as required by the Town
Clerk, Planning Commission or Town Council, including a tabulation of the acres
in each;
            11.   The location and dimensions of all existing buildings,
existing property lines and fence lines;
            12.   The location of all existing platted lots within, or
contiguous to, the subdivision site;
            13.   All rights-of way and easements proposed to be created by the
subdivision with their boundary, bearings, lengths, widths, name number or
purpose, shall be given;
            14.   All proposed new roads shall be shown, including the
dimensions of all rights-of-way with typical cross-sections. All proposed roads
shall be designed to comply with the road standards of the town;
            15.   Location and size of existing and proposed culinary water and
sewer lines and/or, the location of all wells proposed, active and abandoned,
and springs used for culinary water, the location of percolation test holes and
proposed septic systems and drain fields, as applicable, or connection to a
central sewer system, if available, and the location of fire hydrants, and
secondary water facilities, if proposed, shall be shown;
            16.   Location and size of existing and proposed irrigation canals,
ditches and easements, as applicable, and existing and proposed storm drainage
improvements for both surface and flood water, including, location, size and
depth of storm drainage facilities;
            17.   Location of existing power lines and power poles, telephone
lines and easements and proposed easements, other utilities with necessary
easements, equestrian, pedestrian and bicycle trails, existing livestock trails
and any farm areas or open space areas including the location and dimensions of
all property proposed to be set aside for public or private reservation, with
designation of the purpose of those set asides, and conditions, if any, of the
dedication or reservation;
            18.   Location of all existing drinking water source protection
zones located on the subdivision site;
            19.   As required by the Town Clerk, located on the preliminary
plat, or separate map, the identification of the required minimum building
setback lines for each lot; and
            20.   All plat notes identifying agricultural protection areas, and
other proposed, or required protective and restrictive covenants.
         (c)   Phasing schedule. A development phasing schedule (if
applicable), including the sequence for each phase, approximate size of each
phase, and proposed phasing of all private and public improvements;
         (d)   Payment. Payment of the non-refundable preliminary subdivision
application fee, as established by resolution by the Town Council;
         (e)   Evidence of water. Evidence must be provided to show that the
subdivision can be served by the town’s existing culinary water system;
         (f)   Other information and materials. When the Town Clerk, Planning
Commission or Town Council deem necessary, the applicant may be required to
provide other information, conduct studies and provide evidence indicating the
suitability of the area for the proposed subdivision, including, but not
limited to, ground water protection, plant cover maintenance, geologic or flood
hazard, erosion control, wildlife habitat and any other physical, public or
private services, or environmental matters necessary to identify the
suitability of the area for the proposed subdivision; and
         (g)   Evidence of suitability. The applicant must provide an analysis
of suitability of the area for a subdivision as provided in §
151.037(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.037 SUITABILITY OF THE AREAS FOR SUBDIVISION; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The following information is required to be presented as part of the
preliminary subdivision application, necessary to establish the suitability of
the site for the proposed subdivision:
      (1)   Endangered or threatened wildlife habitat. For any subdivision
proposed within the area of a habitat conservation plan, a letter from an
authorized state or local agency identifying compliance with the habitat
conservation plan; and
      (2)   Power and other utilities. A letter, or official comments from the
power company, telephone company and gas company, responsible for providing
these services to the proposed subdivision, identifying any items related to
providing the proposed subdivision with adequate power, telephone and gas
services.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the applicant for preliminary subdivision
application approval to request review and comments from the agencies and
independent service providers identified in division (A) above. To promote
efficiencies in the town’s review of preliminary subdivision applications, the
following is provided.
      (1)   Applicants shall request, by registered U.S. mail, review and
comments from each of the agencies and independent service providers identified
in division (A) above. Applicants shall request that the agencies and
independent service providers identified in division (A) above provide their
review and comments to the Town Clerk.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the request for review and comment of the
preliminary subdivision application, the agencies and independent service
providers identified in division (A) above are provided by this section 30 days
to provide comments and input on the preliminary subdivision application to the
Town Clerk. The agencies and independent service providers identified in
division (A) above may request additional time to provide subdivision review
comments to the town if required.
      (3)   Following the expiration of a minimum of 30 days, calculated from
the dates of the registered U.S. mail requesting review and comments from each
of the agencies and independent service providers, identified in division (A)
above, that the agencies and independent service providers will have provided
any applicable review and comments to the Town Clerk. If no review or comments
are received from the agencies and independent service provider, identified in
division (A) above, it is presumed by this section that such agencies and
independent service providers do not have any review and comments applicable to
the preliminary subdivision application.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.038 DETERMINATION OF COMPLETED APPLICATION.
   (A)   Prior to scheduling the preliminary subdivision application for
Planning, Commission review, the Town Clerk shall determine the preliminary
subdivision application is complete and contains all preliminary subdivision
application materials as required by §§
151.036 and
151.037 of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The lack of any information required for a preliminary
subdivision application, as specified in §§
151.035 to
151.037 of this chapter, shall be cause for the Town Clerk to find the
preliminary subdivision application incomplete, as allowed by this section.
      (2)   A Town Clerk determination of an incomplete preliminary subdivision
application shall prohibit the Planning Commission from considering any
material, items or other information related to the proposed preliminary
subdivision application. The Town Clerk shall notify the applicant of the
required information lacking from the preliminary subdivision application. The
Town Clerk shall allow 30 days from the date of notification of an incomplete
preliminary subdivision application for the applicant to provide the required
information and provide a complete application to the town. If the preliminary
subdivision application remains incomplete after 30 days from date of
notification of an incomplete preliminary subdivision application, the Town
Clerk shall return the incomplete preliminary subdivision application materials
to the applicant, accompanied by all preliminary subdivision application fees
paid.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.039 PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL; PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Planning Commission recommendation.
      (1)   Developer submits application for preliminary plan review.
Following the determination of a complete preliminary subdivision application
by the Town Clerk, the developer shall submit ten copies of the application
with all maps, charts, statements, documents and other information required on
the preliminary plan application to the Town Clerk together with the required
fees.
      (2)   Planning Commission agenda and notification. Consideration of the
preliminary plan shall not be placed on the Planning Commission agenda for a
given meeting unless the completed application was submitted no fewer than 30
days prior to said regularly scheduled meeting.
      (3)   Town Engineer reviews preliminary subdivision plat. Prior to the
Planning Commission meeting at which the preliminary subdivision application
will be considered, the Town Engineer shall review and return to the Town Clerk
the preliminary plat accompanied by recommendations pertaining to corrections,
additions and deletions necessary to bring the same into compliance with town
standards and good development practices.
      (4)   Planning Commission reviews and makes recommendation on preliminary
subdivision plat. Following receipt of the Town Engineer’s recommendation, the
Planning Commission shall review with the developer the report submitted by the
Town Engineer and/or other town staff. The Planning Commission may recommend
approval of the preliminary subdivision application as presented, recommend
approval of the preliminary subdivision application with revisions and/or
conditions or recommend denial of the preliminary subdivision application. The
determination of the Planning Commission shall be accompanied by findings of
fact. The Planning Commission may recommend on- site and off-site improvements,
facilities and amenities, and provided 100% by the applicant for subdivision
approval determined necessary by the Planning Commission and accompanied by a
finding of the Planning Commission that such on-site and off-site improvements,
facilities and amenities are required to protect the public health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the subdivision, or the existing residents of the
town, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Road improvements, grading and hard-surfacing, bridges,
culverts, road signs and lighting;
         (b)   Flood control areas and facilities;
         (c)   Culinary water facilities;
         (d)   Sanitary sewer facilities;
         (e)   Park, trails, open space areas and facilities;
         (f)   Fire protection facilities, including fire hydrants and water
storage facilities;
         (g)   Irrigation facilities;
         (h)   Electrical power, telephone and other utility facilities; and
         (i)   Fencing and livestock guards.
      (5)   Recommendation. The Planning Commission shall transmit its
recommendation to the Town Council for consideration.
   (B)   Town Council approval.
      (1)   Submission for review. Preliminary plat approval shall only be
accorded by the Town Council. Following a recommended approval of the
preliminary plat by the Planning Commission, three copies of the plat shall be
submitted for review by the Town Council.
      (2)   Public hearing. Before taking action on the plat, the Town Council
shall hold a public hearing. Said hearing shall be called by making legal
notice, in a newspaper having general circulation in the town, not more than 30
days, nor less than 15 days, prior to the date of the hearing and/or posted in
three public places within the town. The legal notice shall contain the date,
place and time of the hearing.
      (3)   Approval. After considering the proposed preliminary subdivision
application and all materials submitted and input and comments received, the
Town Council may approve the preliminary subdivision application as presented,
approve the preliminary subdivision application as recommended by the Planning
Commission, approve the preliminary subdivision application with revisions and/
or conditions or deny the preliminary subdivision application. The
determination of the Town Council shall be accompanied by findings of fact. The
Town Council may require on-site and off-site improvements, facilities and
amenities, and provided 100% by the applicant for subdivision approval
determined necessary by the Town Council and accompanied by a finding of the
Town Council that such on-site and off-site improvements, facilities and
amenities are required to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the subdivision, or the existing residents of the town including,
but not limited to:
         (a)   Road improvements, grading and hard-surfacing, bridges,
culverts, road signs and lighting;
         (b)   Flood control areas and facilities;
         (c)   Culinary water facilities;
         (d)   Sanitary sewer facilities;
         (e)   Park, open space areas and facilities;
         (f)   Fire protection facilities, including fire hydrants and water
storage facilities;
         (g)   Irrigation facilities;
         (h)   Electrical power, telephone and other utility facilities; and
         (i)   Fencing and livestock guards.
   (C)   Effect of preliminary subdivision application approval.
      (1)   Preliminary plat approval is not final approval. Approval of the
preliminary plat by the Town Council shall not constitute final approval of the
subdivision by the town, but allows the developer to prepare and submit the
final subdivision application and all required documents, according to all
procedures, requirements and standards relating to final plat approval, herein.
A preliminary subdivision application approval by the County Commission shall
not authorize the development of land or the issuance of any building permit
for the subdivision site or any proposed lots. No construction shall be
permitted, or lots sold, until final plat approval has been obtained.
      (2)   Effective period of preliminary plan approval. The approval of a
preliminary subdivision application shall be effective for a period of one year
from the date the preliminary subdivision application is approved by the Town
Council, at the end of which time the applicant must have submitted a final
subdivision application for approval. If a final subdivision application is not
submitted for approval within the one-year period, the preliminary subdivision
approval shall be void and the applicant shall be required to submit a new
preliminary subdivision application for review and approval, subject to the
then existing provisions of this chapter, Chapter 152 of this code of
ordinances and all other applicable local, state and federal requirements then
in effect.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATIONS
§ 151.050 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter that approval of a final subdivision
application be a ministerial action by the Town Council, or Town Council
authorized designee, accompanied with findings of fact and assuring compliance
with all applicable requirements of this chapter and any conditions imposed by
the Town Council for the approval of the preliminary subdivision application.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.051 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements generally. The following information is required for a
complete final subdivision application:
      (1)   A final subdivision application, as provided by the Town Clerk,
completed and signed by the owner(s), or authorized agent of the owner(s), of
the land parcel(s) proposed to be subdivided and possessing a valid preliminary
subdivision application approval by the Town Council;
      (2)   A final subdivision plat, prepared by a licensed land surveyor,
conforming to current surveying practice and in a form acceptable to the County
Recorder for recordation. The final subdivision plat shall be presented in ink
on reproducible Mylar at the same scale and contain the same information,
except contour lines but containing any changes, additions or revisions
required by the Town Council, for the approved preliminary subdivision plat.
All revision dates must be shown as well as the following:
         (a)   Notation of any self-imposed restrictions, or other restrictions
as required by the Town Council in accordance with this chapter;
         (b)   Endorsement by every person having a security interest in the
subdivision property that they are subordinating their liens to all covenants,
servitudes and easements imposed on the property;
         (c)   All monuments erected, corners and other points established in
the field in their proper places. The material of which the monuments, corners
or other points are made shall be noted. The legend for metal monuments shall
indicate the kind of metal, the diameter and length of the monuments;
         (d)   The owner’s certificate of consent including a legal description
of the subdivision’s boundaries and the dedication of all required public ways
or spaces. This certificate shall be signed, dated and notarized. The owner’s
certificate should include a reference to any covenants and blanks where the
County Recorder may enter the book and page number of their recording;
         (e)   A certificate showing the name and registration number of the
surveyor responsible for making the survey. This certificate shall be signed,
and dated;
         (f)   Signature blocks prepared for the dated signatures of the Mayor,
or authorized designee, Planning Commission Chair, County Recorder, Town
Engineer and Town Attorney;
         (g)   A signature block prepared for the dated signature of the town’s
Fire Chief, or other agency responsible for providing fire protection to the
proposed subdivision, identifying any items related to providing adequate fire
protection and suppression services. The proposed subdivision shall meet the
requirements for fire protection and suppression as adopted by the agency
responsible for fire protection, including the provision of fire hydrants,
adequate water supply, water storage and other facilities necessary for fire
protection and suppression; and
         (h)   Other final subdivision plat notes, as required by the Town
Council.
      (3)   Plans and specifications (improvement drawings) for the development
and construction of the proposed water system. As required by §
151.036(B)(2)(b)16. of this chapter, the location and size of the proposed
culinary water lines and the location of all wells, active and abandoned, and
springs used for culinary water shall be shown. Prior to final subdivision
approval by the Town Council the proposed culinary water system, including
water quantity and quality, shall be approved by the Southwest Utah Public
Health Department or the state’s Department of Environmental Quality as
applicable, identifying compliance with all rules for the provision of culinary
water, as adopted by the Southwest Utah Public Health Department or the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable;
      (4)   The location of the approved absorption site for all on-site
wastewater disposal systems shall be shown as an , or a similar symbol, on the
final subdivision plat as approved by the Southwest Utah Public Health
Department or the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable;
      (5)   Final design drawings, prepared by a licensed engineer, and
approved by the Town Engineer, for the road system and all other required
subdivision improvements, facilities and amenities. All such improvements shall
comply with the design and construction standards of the town, as established;
      (6)   Payment of the final subdivision application fee, as established by
resolution by the Town Council;
      (7)   Evidence of appropriate performance guarantees, as set forth in §§
151.200 through
151.205 of this chapter;
      (8)   A title report shall be provided with the final subdivision
application, prepared by a title company within 30 days of the submission of
the final subdivision application; and
      (9)   For all proposed subdivision, or subdivision phases, where on-site
wastewater disposal systems are proposed the final subdivision application
shall include final percolation test and soil exploration results for each lot
proposed over the signature of an engineer, or other person, qualified to
conduct such tests. Larger lots, than allowed by the zoning district in which
the proposed subdivision is located, may be required by the town to assure that
each lot will provide adequate on-site sewer treatment. The location of the
approved absorption site shall be shown as a , or a similar symbol, on the
final subdivision plat. In all cases where a proposed subdivision will not be
connected to an existing sewer system, approved by the Southwest Utah Public
Health Department or the town’s Department of Environmental Quality, approval
for the proposed sewage treatment method shall be obtained from the Southwest
Utah Public Health Department or the state’s Department of Environmental
Quality, as applicable.
   (B)   Suitability of the area for a subdivision. The following information
is required to be presented as part of the final subdivision application,
necessary to establish the suitability of the site for the proposed
subdivision.
      (1)   Soils suitability. A soils suitability report, prepared by a person
qualified to provide such a report, identifying the soils suitability of the
proposed subdivision site for building and construction.
      (2)   Police protection/ambulance services. A letter(s), or official
comments from the County Sheriff’s office and the county ambulance service,
identifying any items related to providing the proposed subdivision with
adequate police and medical response services.
      (3)   Solid waste disposal services. A letter, or official comments from
the waste disposal company or public agency responsible for solid waste
disposal, identifying any items related to providing the proposed subdivision
with adequate solid waste disposal services.
      (4)   State or federal roads. If the proposed subdivision is adjacent to
a state or federal road, letter or official comments from the state’s
Department of Transportation acknowledging the proposed subdivision and
identifying any potential impacts resulting from the proposed subdivision.
      (5)   Special service districts and special service areas. If the
proposed subdivision is located within the boundaries of a special service
district or a special service area a letter, or official comments form the
service district or service area governing board acknowledging the proposed
subdivision and identifying any potential impacts resulting from the proposed
subdivision.
      (6)   Irrigation company and canal company. If the proposed subdivision
is located within the boundaries of an irrigation company or canal company a
letter, or official comments from the governing board acknowledging the
proposed subdivision and identify any potential impacts resulting from the
proposed subdivision.
      (7)   Stock trails. A letter, or comments from the President of the Iron
County Livestock Association, identifying any items related to preserving
recognized livestock trails
   (C)   Information required by divisions (A) and (B) above. It is the
responsibility of the applicant for final subdivision application approval to
request review and comments from the agencies and independent service providers
identified in divisions (A) and (B) above. To promote efficiencies in the
town’s review of final subdivision applications, the following is provided.
      (1)   Applicants shall request, by registered U.S. mail, review and
comments from each of the agencies and independent service providers identified
in divisions (A) and (B) above. Applicants shall request that the agencies and
independent service providers identified in divisions (A) and (B) above provide
their review and comments to the Town Clerk.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the request for review and comment of the final
subdivision application, the agencies and independent service providers
identified in divisions (A) and (B) above are provided, by this subchapter, 30
days to provide comments and input on the final subdivision application to the
Town Clerk. The agencies and independent service providers identified in
divisions (A) and (B) above may request additional time to provide subdivision
review comments to the town if required.
      (3)   Following the expiration of a minimum of 30 days, calculated from
the dates of the registered U.S. mail requesting review and comments from each
of the agencies and independent service providers, identified in divisions (A)
and (B) above, that the agencies and independent service providers will have
provided and applicable review and comments to the Town Clerk. If no review or
comments are received from the agencies and independent service provider,
identified in divisions (A) and (B) above, it is presumed by this subchapter
that such agencies and independent service providers do no have any review and
comments applicable to the final subdivision application.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.052 PLAT MATERIALS; SIZE AND COPIES.
   Final subdivision plats shall be prepared on Mylar. Six paper copies shall
also be submitted along with the Mylar original copy. An 11-inch by 17-inch
black-line original shall also be provided. A computer disk copy, in a computer
format acceptable to the County Recorder, shall also be provided.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.053 MULTIPLE SHEETS AND PLAT ACCURACY.
   Multiple plat sheets may be used. All sheets shall be numbered and
referenced to an index map, and all required certificates shall appear on a
single sheet (along with the index and vicinity maps). Bearings shall be shown
to the nearest second; lengths to the nearest hundredth foot; areas to the
nearest hundredth acre.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.054 TOWN CLERK TO DETERMINE COMPLETE APPLICATION.
   Prior to scheduling the final subdivision application for Town Council
review, the Town Clerk shall determine the final subdivision application is
complete and contains all final subdivision application materials as required
by §
151.051(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.055 LACK OF FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   The lack of any information required by this subchapter shall be cause
for the Town Clerk to find the final subdivision application incomplete.
   (B)   A Town Clerk determination of an incomplete final subdivision
application shall prohibit the Town Council, or authorized designee, from
considering any material, items or other information related to the proposed
final subdivision application. The Town Clerk shall notify the applicant of the
information lacking from the final subdivision application. The Town Clerk
shall 30 days from the date of notification of an incomplete final subdivision
application for the applicant to provide the required information and provide a
complete final subdivision application to the Town Clerk. If the application
for final subdivision approval remains incomplete after 30 days from date of
notification of an incomplete final subdivision application, the Town Clerk
shall return the incomplete final subdivision application to the applicant,
accompanied by all final subdivision application fees paid.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.056 REVIEW BY TOWN ENGINEER.
   Before the final subdivision application is presented to the Town Council,
or authorized designee, for approval consideration, the Town Engineer shall:
   (A)   Review the final subdivision application and documents and cost
estimate in detail to verify compliance with all of the provisions of the town
ordinances and standards and with the approved preliminary subdivision
application; and
   (B)   Communicate with the developer regarding any changes that are required
on the final plat and documents to bring the same into compliance with all of
the provisions of town codes and standards and with the preliminary subdivision
approval.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.057 FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Town Council, or authorized designee, is identified as the final
approval authority for final subdivision applications.
   (B)   The Town Council, or authorized designee, may approve the final
subdivision application, approve the final subdivision with conditions or deny
the final subdivision application, accompanied by findings of fact.
   (C)   A Town Council, or authorized designee, action to deny a final
subdivision application shall be made with a finding, or findings of non-
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, or the revisions or
conditions of the preliminary subdivision application approval.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.058 NATURE AND EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF FINAL SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   After a final subdivision application has been approved by the Town
Council, or authorized designee of the Town Council, and recorded in the office
of the County Recorder, owners of lots within the recorded final subdivision
plat may apply for building permits consistent with the approved final
subdivision application and the requirements for a building permit.
   (B)   The approval of a final subdivision application shall be effective for
a period of one year from the date the final subdivision application is
approved by the Town Council, or authorized designee. If the approved final
subdivision plat is not recorded within one-year period of date of approval,
the final subdivision approval shall be void and the applicant shall be
required to submit a new preliminary subdivision application for review and
approval subject to the then existing provisions of this chapter, Chapter 152
of this code of ordinances and all other applicable local, state and federal
requirements.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.059 SITE PREPARATION WORK AND BUILDING PERMITS PROHIBITED UNTIL FINAL
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION APPROVED.
   No excavation, grading or regrading shall take place on any land, no lots
may be sold, and no building permits shall be issued, until a proposed
subdivision has received final subdivision approval from the Town Council or
authorized designee, and the approved final subdivision plat has been recorded
in the office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
§ 151.070 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of these requirements is to facilitate the review of
proposed subdivisions with nine or fewer lots and where no area of the proposed
subdivision is traversed by the mapped lines of a proposed road, or when the
dedication of any land for a road, or any other public purpose, is not required
or proposed.
   (B)   Subdivisions, proposing more than nine lots, or where any area of the
proposed subdivision site is traversed by a proposed road, or where land
dedications are proposed or required shall not be considered as a “minor
subdivision”.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.071 DEFINITION.
   A MINOR SUBDIVISION is a subdivision containing nine or fewer lots and where
no area of the proposed subdivision is traversed by the mapped lines of a
proposed road, or the dedication of any land for a road, or any other public
purpose, is not required or proposed.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.072 APPROVAL.
   An application for approval of a minor subdivision may be presented and
approved by the Town Council, or authorized designee of the Town Council, in
compliance with the requirements for a minor subdivision, as identified herein,
and following the receipt of a Planning Commission recommendation.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.073 APPLICATIONS; SKETCH PLAN REQUIRED.
   An application for a minor subdivision shall be initiated by presenting a
sketch plan, as required by §§
151.020 and
151.021 of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.074 APPLICATION.
   The following information is required for a complete minor subdivision
application:
   (A)   A minor subdivision application, provided by the Town Clerk, completed
and signed by the owner(s), or authorized agent of the owner(s), of the land
proposed to be subdivided; and
   (B)   (1)   A preliminary subdivision plat and final subdivision plat,
complying with the requirements of this chapter, or a record of survey of the
property proposed to be subdivided with a survey of each lot proposed, prepared
by a licensed land surveyor. The minor subdivision plat or minor subdivision
record of survey shall be prepared in pen and the sheets shall be numbered in
sequence if more than one sheet is used and shall be of such a size as is
acceptable for recordation in the office of the County Recorder. One Mylar copy
of the minor subdivision plat or survey shall be presented to the Zoning
Administrator, along with 15 paper copies. The Town Clerk may request
additional copies if required.
      (2)   The minor subdivision plat or record of survey shall show the
following:
         (a)   The layout of the proposed minor subdivision at a scale of no
more than one inch equals 100 feet, or as recommended by the County Surveyor;
         (b)   Located at the top and center of the minor subdivision plat or
record of survey the proposed name of the minor subdivision and the section,
township, range, principal median and address of its location;
         (c)   A title block placed on the lower right-hand corner of the plat
or survey showing:
            1.   Name and address of owner(s) of record and name and address of
the licensed land surveyor responsible for preparing the preliminary/final
subdivision plat or record of survey; and
            2.   Date of preparation of the plat or survey and any revision
dates.
         (d)   Signature blocks prepared, as required and provided by the town,
for the dated signatures of the Mayor, Planning Commission Chair, Town Engineer
and Town Attorney;
         (e)   North arrow, graphic and written scale, and basis of bearings
used;
         (f)   Tabulation of the number of acres in the proposed minor
subdivision, showing the total number of proposed new lots, and the areas of
each lot. All proposed lots are to be numbered in a system acceptable to the
Town Engineer;
         (g)   A vicinity map of the site at a minimum scale of one inch equals
2,000 feet;
         (h)   The legal description of the entire minor subdivision site
boundary;
         (i)   Surveyed boundary of the proposed minor subdivision; accurate in
scale, dimension and bearing, giving the location of and ties to the nearest
existing two government control monuments. This information shall provide data
sufficient to determine readily the location, bearing and length of all lines
and the location of all proposed monuments. A minor subdivision proposing a lot
or lots larger than 20 acres, and where such lots are not being created for
development purposes, as defined by §
151.005 of this chapter, and a note is provided on the minor subdivision
preliminary/final subdivision plat or record of survey of such restriction,
these lots may be described by metes and bounds description, but shown on the
minor subdivision preliminary/final subdivision plat or record of survey. The
names of all adjoining property owners of record shall be shown;
         (j)   As required by the Town Clerk, on the minor subdivision plat or
record of survey or separate map, the topographic contour intervals, no greater
than ten feet, for the entire subdivision site;
         (k)   Identification and location of known natural features on the
minor subdivision site, including, but not limited to, wetlands as identified
by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, waterbodies, flood ways and drainage ways,
slopes exceeding 30%, and any other natural features as required by the Town
Clerk, Planning Commission or Town Council, including a tabulation of the acres
in each;
         (l)   The location and dimensions of all existing buildings, existing
property lines and fence lines;
         (m)   The location of all existing platted lots within, or contiguous
to the subdivision site;
         (n)   All rights-of-way and easements created by the subdivision with
their boundary, bearings, lengths, widths, name, number or purpose, shall be
given. The addresses of all lots shall be shown;
         (o)   Location and size of existing and proposed culinary water and
sewer lines and/or, the location of all wells proposed, active and abandoned,
and springs used for culinary water, the location of proposed septic systems
and drain fields, as applicable, and the location of fire hydrants, and
secondary water facilities, if proposed, shall be shown;
         (p)   Location and size of existing and proposed irrigation canals,
ditches and easements, as applicable, and existing and proposed storm drainage
improvements for both surface and flood water, including, location, size and
depth of storm drainage facilities;
         (q)   Location of existing power lines and power poles, telephone
lines and easements, gas lines and easements, other utilities with necessary
easements, equestrian, pedestrian and bicycle trails, existing livestock trails
and any farm areas or open space areas including the location and dimensions of
all property proposed to be set aside for public or private reservation, with
designation of the purpose of those set asides, and conditions, if any, of the
dedication or reservation;
         (r)   Location of all existing drinking water source protection zones
located on the subdivision site; and
         (s)   As required by the Town Clerk, located on the deeds to be
recorded or record of survey, or separate map, the identification of the
required minimum building setback lines for each lot.
      (3)   A title report shall be provided with the minor subdivision
application, prepared by a title company within 30 days of the date of
submission of the minor subdivision application;
      (4)   Deeds shall be prepared and provided to the Town Council for
approval. When they are approved, they shall be stamped with a town approval
stamp before they can be recorded with the County Recorder;
      (5)   Payment of the non-refundable minor subdivision application fee, as
established by resolution by the Town Council;
      (6)   Evidence must be provided to show that the subdivision can be
served by the town’s existing culinary water system;
      (7)   Sewer disposal system:
         (a)   Where on-site wastewater disposal systems are proposed the minor
subdivision or record of survey shall include final percolation test and soil
exploration results for each lot proposed over the signature of an engineer, or
other person qualified to conduct such test. Larger lots than allowed by the
zoning district in which the proposed subdivision is located, may be required
by the town to assure that each lot will provide adequate on-site sewer
treatment. The location of the approved absorption site shall be shown as a ,
or a similar symbol, in the minor subdivision plat or record of survey; and
         (b)   In all cases where a proposed subdivision will not be connected
to an existing sewer system, the developer shall obtain approval for the method
of the proposed sewage treatment from the Southwest Utah Public Health
Department or the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable.
      (8)   When the Town Clerk, Planning Commission or Town Council deem
necessary, the applicant may be required to provide other information, conduct
studies and provide evidence indicating the suitability of the area fort the
proposed subdivision, including, but not limited to, ground water protection,
plant cover maintenance, geologic or flood hazard, erosion control, wildlife
habitat and any other physical, public or private services, or environmental
matters necessary to identity the suitability of the area for the proposed
subdivision; and
      (9)   The applicant must provide an analysis of suitability of the area
for a subdivision as provided in §§
151.037 and
151.051(A) and (B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.075 TOWN CLERK TO DETERMINE COMPLETE MINOR SUBDIVISION APPLICATION.
   Prior to scheduling the Planning Commission review of a minor subdivision
application, the Town Clerk shall determine and find that the minor subdivision
application is complete and contains all application materials as required by
§§
151.071 to
151.074 of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.076 LACK OF MINOR SUBDIVISION APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   The lack of any information required for a minor subdivision
application, as specified in §§
151.071 to
151.074 of this chapter, shall be cause for the Town Clerk to find the minor
subdivision application incomplete, as allowed by this section.
   (B)   A Town Clerk determination of an incomplete minor subdivision
application shall be processed as an incomplete, preliminary subdivision
application described in §
151.038 of this chapter.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.077 APPROVAL; PROCEDURES.
   Following the determination of a complete minor subdivision application by
the Town Clerk, the Town Clerk shall schedule the minor subdivision application
for consideration by the Planning Commission and Town Council as outlined in §
151.039 of this chapter for preliminary subdivision application.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.078 EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   The approval of a minor subdivision shall be effective for a period of one
year from the date of the approval of the Town Council, at the end of which
time the applicant must have submitted the approved minor subdivision to the
office of the County Recorder for recordation. If the approved minor
subdivision is not recorded within the one-year period, the minor subdivision
approval shall be void, and the applicant shall be required to submit a new
minor subdivision application for review and approval, subject to the then
existing provisions of this chapter,
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances and all other applicable local, state
and federal requirements.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.079 MINOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   After a minor subdivision has been approved by the Town Council and recorded
in the office of the County Recorder, the applicant may apply for building
permits consistent with the approved minor subdivision and the requirements for
a building permit.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.080 SITE PREPARATION OF WORK PROHIBITED.
   No excavation, grading or regrading, for the proposed minor subdivision site
shall take place and no building permits shall be issued, until a proposed
minor subdivision has received approval from the Town Council and the minor
subdivision has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
CLUSTER SUBDIVISION OPTION
§ 151.095 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The cluster subdivision option is provided and designed to encourage
flexibility and creativity in subdivision design and layout and to preserve and
protect the natural features and amenities of the town; to strengthen and
preserve farming and ranching activities; and to protect and enhance the
amenities and qualities of farm and ranch areas. To this end, the proposed
cluster subdivision should be planned as a unified development rather than an
aggregation of individual unrelated buildings located on separate unrelated
lots. Full compliance with all the provisions of this chapter,
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances and all other applicable requirements of
local, state and federal laws is required.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.096 USE REGULATIONS.
   The cluster subdivision option may be allowed in all zoning districts, at
the discretion of the Town Council, following the receipt of a Planning
Commission recommendation. An application for a cluster subdivision shall be
considered concurrently with a preliminary subdivision application or minor
subdivision application. All use requirements of the zoning district in which
the cluster subdivision is located shall apply.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.097 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The number of subdivision lots allowed in a cluster subdivision shall
be the same as the number permitted by the lot area requirements of the zoning
district, or districts, in which the cluster subdivision is located. Land used
for schools, churches and other non-residential buildings and uses shall not be
included in the area for determining the number of allowable lots. The
determination of the number of lots allowed shall also recognize any critical
area requirements that may be applicable to the subdivision site, as identified
in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The area and location of the area to be preserved and maintained
through the cluster subdivision option for farm use and/or open space uses
shall be of a size and location sufficient to achieve the purposes of the area
preserved and the purposes of the cluster subdivision option. As a guide only,
the area to be preserved and maintained through the cluster subdivision option
for farm uses and/or open space uses should be a minimum, and at least 50% of
the area of the entire subdivision site.
   (C)   The development shall be in a single or corporate ownership or the
subdivision application filed jointly by the owners of the property.
   (D)   The property adjacent to the cluster subdivision shall not be
adversely affected and to this end, the Planning Commission and Town Council
may require, that uses of least intensity or greatest compatibility be arranged
around the boundaries of the cluster subdivision area.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.098 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   The minimum lot area for dwellings may be reduced below the area
normally required by the zoning district regulations in which the cluster
subdivision is located, as recommended by the Planning Commission, and as
approved by the Town Council.
      (2)   The proposed lot size must be sufficient to meet the requirements
of the Southwest Utah Health Department and the state’s Department of
Environmental Quality for the provision of culinary water and sanitary sewer
services, as applicable.
   (B)   Minimum lot width and yard setback. The minimum lot width and yard
requirements may be reduced below the width and yard normally required by the
zoning district in which the cluster subdivision is located, as recommended by
the Planning Commission, and as approved by the Town Council. However, no
required side yard or rear yard shall be less than ten feet, no required front
shall be less than 30 feet, and no corner side yard shall be less than 30 feet.
   (C)   Use and height regulations. Use and height regulations shall be the
same as for the zoning district in which the cluster subdivision is located.
   (D)   Compliance. The proposed cluster subdivision shall comply with the
application and approval requirements for preliminary subdivision applications,
final subdivision applications and minor subdivision applications, as
applicable.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.099 FARM AREA AND OPEN SPACE PROVISION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All areas to be preserved for farm use and/or open space areas through
the cluster subdivision option shall be preserved, improved and maintained in
accordance with a plan, presented by the subdivider, reviewed and recommended
by the Planning Commission and approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   The applicant for cluster subdivision approval may be required to
provide a surety or cash bond, escrow or bank letter of credit in an amount
determined by the Town Council guaranteeing the completion of any required
improvements of the farm use or open space areas. When completed in accordance
with the approved plan, the bond shall be released. If uncompleted at the end
of two years, the town will review the progress and may proceed to use the bond
funds to make the required improvements to the farm use or open space areas.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.100 SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION.
   An application for a cluster subdivision shall be submitted to the town in
accordance with this chapter and shall be accompanied by a preliminary
subdivision plat application or minor subdivision application, as applicable,
and as required herein.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.101 TOWN COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   A preliminary and final plat or record of survey of the cluster subdivision
showing the areas to be permanently reserved for farm uses and/or open space,
and plans showing the proposed use, improvements and method of maintenance of
such areas shall be approved by the Town Council, consistent with all
requirements of this chapter,
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances and other applicable local, state and
federal laws.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.115 DESIGN AND DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The layout and design of all subdivision and engineering plans and the
content of all required documentation shall be in accordance with the minimum
town standards and specifications which are provided, herein.
   (B)   After the subdivider’s final plat has been approved, all required
improvements shall be constructed under the direction of the Town Engineer, as
herein specified. The subdivider shall also submit a performance guarantee to
the town guaranteeing the quality of the material and workmanship of the
improvements, as required in §§
151.200 through
151.205 of this chapter. The amount of the guarantee shall be set by the Town
Council upon recommendation from the Town Engineer, which recommendation shall
be based upon 110% of the estimated cost of the required improvements, plus
reasonable addition for estimated inflation of costs for the next 24 months.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.116 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   Before final acceptance of any subdivision lying within the town, the
following improvements shall be constructed in accordance with the town
specifications and under the inspection of the Town Engineer.
   (A)   Permanent markers. All subdivision boundary corners, all points
tangent and street intersections shall be definitely marked with metal
monuments approved by the Town Engineer.
   (B)   Streets. All streets shall be graded, graveled and hard-surfaced with
eight inches of road base and two and one-half inches of asphalt and compacted
to 95%.
   (C)   Curbs, cutters and sidewalks. In subdivisions in which one or more
lots have frontage, along a public street, curbs, gutters and sidewalks shall
be installed on both sides of all streets (except on streets bounding the
subdivision, curbs, gutters and sidewalks shall be required only on the
subdivision side); however, required curbs, gutters and sidewalks may be waived
by the Town Council upon recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Water lines and fire hydrants. In all subdivisions, a culinary water
supply, water lines and fire hydrants shall be required as follows.
      (1)   The subdivider shall have prior approval for connections to the
town system or other source, and shall make such water available to each lot
within the subdivided area. Sizes of water mains shall be subject to the
approval of the Town Engineer and shall be based upon fire protection
requirements, but in no case shall they have a diameter of less than eight
inches. Workmanship and details of construction shall be in accordance with
town specifications and requirements, and with the state’s Department of
Environmental Quality and the Southwest Utah Public Health Department, who
shall be the town’s experts in evaluating the proposed culinary water system.
      (2)   Fire hydrants shall be installed at intervals within the
subdivision in such a manner that no lot will be a distance greater than 250
feet from the closest hydrant, measured along the streets.
   (E)   Sewers. Sewer connections, subdivision sewer systems and individual
sewage facilities shall be installed in accordance with specifications set by
the Southwest Utah Public Health Department and the state’s Department of
Environmental Quality. The subdivider may be required to install sewer mains
and laterals to the property line of each lot, in accordance with requirements
established by the Planning Commission, Town Council and/or the Town Engineer,
so that a minimum of roadway excavation will be required to connect said
subdivision to a town sewer system.
   (F)   Gas, electricity, telephone services and any other utility. The
subdivider shall make natural gas, electricity, telephone services and any
other utility available to each lot in the subdivision area. These improvements
shall be completed before the streets are hard-surfaced. Installation shall be
approved by the utility company providing the service and the Town Council.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002; Ord. 02-08-07, passed 2-8-2007)
§ 151.117 SUBDIVISION COSTS AND CHARGES.
   Except as may otherwise be provided in this chapter, all costs and charges
for the development and planning of subdivisions shall be borne and paid by the
subdivider and shall not be paid by the town.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
§ 151.130 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All subdivisions in the town shall be subject to the design criteria
as set forth by the county, hereby adopted for the use in the town by
reference. These standards shall be strictly followed in the design and
construction of all improvements, including asphalt paving, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, utilities, storm drainage and any other improvements related to the
development of a subdivision. All subdivision plats submitted to the town’s
Planning Commission for approval will be reviewed by the Town Council and/or
the Town Engineer to determine compliance with these standards. The Town
Engineer, Building Inspector or other authorized personnel will inspect the
installation of improvements to assure compliance to these standards during
construction.
   (B)   If there are any conflicts or inconsistencies between the requirements
as set forth in this chapter, the General Plan and the standards set by the
county, whichever is more stringent shall prevail.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.131 STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   Street designs must conform to the adopted street plan for the area as
regards alignment and right-of-way widths. The layout of proposed streets for
any development must give due consideration to the extension of the street
network to abutting properties, developed or undeveloped, in order to produce a
safe, effective street network in conformity with the intent of the
transportation and circulation element of the General Plan once development of
the area has been completed. Insofar as possible, offset streets or jogs at
intersections shall be avoided in order to bring about the best development for
the area.
   (B)   Street right-of-way shall be as follows:
      (1)   Arterial roads: not less than 80 feet;
      (2)   Collector streets: not less than 66 feet;
      (3)   Local streets: not less than 50 feet; and
      (4)   Pedestrian walkways: not less than six feet.
   (C)   Roadway improvement widths from back of curb to back of curb shall be
as follows:
      (1)   Arterial street: not less than 60 feet;
      (2)   Collectors: not less than 50 feet;
      (3)   Local streets: not less than 32 feet; and
      (4)   Pedestrian walkways: not less than three feet.
   (D)   Grades on streets shall not exceed 8%.
   (E)   Streets shall intersect each other as nearly at right angles as
topography and other limiting factors of good design will permit.
   (F)   Every subdivided property shall be served from a dedicated public
street.
   (G)   On arterial and collector streets, the centerline radius and curvature
shall not be less than 500 feet.
   (H)   Streets shall not be designed to have one end permanently closed. No
cul-da-sacs will be permitted.
   (I)   Proposed streets shall bear the number, not a name, and any existing
street which it is in obvious alignment must have the same number.
   (J)   Blocks shall not be less than 495 feet in length.
   (K)   Sidewalks, curb and gutter are required on all subdivision lots
developed after the passage of this chapter, unless otherwise provided for.
   (L)   Streets shall be hard surfaced from curb to curb.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.132 LOTS.
   (A)   Lot alignment. Insofar as practical, side lot lines shall be at right
angles to street lines. Each lot shall front on a public street or road that is
on the state highway system, or that is dedicated to the town.
   (B)   Lot sizes. Residential lots shall conform to the zoning as established
in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances and the adopted zoning map.
   (C)   Thru lots. Lots which abut on two parallel streets shall be avoided,
except when one street is an arterial street; the lots may have the rear yard
abutting, without access, on the arterial street. No thru lots will be
permitted.
   (D)   Lot size. Lot size measurements will be considered as actual
measurements. It is not intended that all lot sizes in an area be of identical
size. Lot size denotes the minimum allowable under the zoning ordinances.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.133 PUBLIC USE AND SERVICE AREAS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may require easements not exceeding 20 feet in
width for poles, wires, conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water or
other utility lines along the front, rear and side lot lines.
   (B)   No irrigation ditches, canals or other waterway shall be located
within a dedicated public street, except to cross such street in a location
approved by the Town Engineer and/or the Town Council.
   (C)   All streets within the subdivision must be dedicated to the town.
   (D)   All canals and major ditches shall be fenced on both sides for public
safety, health and welfare with a six-foot chain link fence as specified by the
Town Engineer. All irrigation ditches running contiguous or within a property
or subdivision shall be piped and covered. Pipe size and quality shall be
determined by the Town Engineer and in consultation with the serving irrigation
company. Developers of any parcel of land must give due consideration in their
development plan to the location of any existing legally established irrigation
ditch, company or private, supply or waste water, and provided for the
continued supply of irrigation water to downstream users and disposal of
wastewater. Written approval by irrigation companies of alterations to
irrigation systems within proposed developments shall be submitted by
developers to the Town Engineer prior to recording the final plat.
   (E)   (1)   Dedication of all parks, school grounds and other public open
space within the subdivision will be required in accordance with the General
Plan of the town.
      (2)   Where this plan calls for larger amounts of public open space than
the subdivider’s fair amount, as established by the Planning Commission, the
additional land is to be reserved for acquisition by a public body; provided,
such acquisition is made within one year from the date of final approval.
      (3)   It will be the responsibility of the Town Council to determine
appropriate legislation in relation to this section.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.134 SUITABILITY OF THE LAND.
   No land shall be subdivided for residential use which is held by the
Planning Commission to be unsuitable for such use by reason of flooding or bad
drainage, excessive slope, unsuitable soils, historical significance,
endangered or threatened wildlife habitat, fire control, livestock trails or
any feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety or welfare of the future
residents in the proposed subdivision or of the community unless and until such
land is rendered suitable for residential use.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.135 ACCESS TO LOTS.
   (A)   Access to each and every lot shall be provided by a public street that
has been dedicated to the town. The street layout for any proposed development
must give due consideration to the future development of adjacent parcels of
ground. Reasonable access to adjacent properties must be provided. No parcel of
ground may be landlocked as a result of the development of any other parcel of
ground.
   (B)   The development of flag lots is discouraged (each lot should have
minimum frontage).
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
PROCESSING FEES
Editor’s note:
   The following provisions and standard fees shall be required and collected
with respect to new subdivisions and associated regulatory processes.
§ 151.150 SKETCH PLAN FEE.
   A fee shall be paid prior to submission of the said sketch plan to the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.151 PRELIMINARY PLAT FEE.
   (A)   For a preliminary plat presented to the Planning Commission for
consideration, with respect to each subdivision, there shall be a fee paid in
the amount set forth in the town’s resolution for fees and charges.
   (B)   The said fees shall provide for the following services:
      (1)   Review and verification of meets and bounds conformity of lots, to
code and planning standards;
      (2)   Planning review of layout and site planning placement of parks and
common areas if any, and verification of conformance of subdivision with
planning policy of the town, including General Plan conformity;
      (3)   Legal review of plat, bonding instrument, dedication of public
areas and conformity to ordinance; and
      (4)   Traffic review (pattern and scope).
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.152 FINAL PLAT FEE.
   (A)   A fee shall be collected for each lot shown upon the preliminary plan
approved by the Planning Commission. Fees are set forth in the town’s
resolution of fees and charges.
   (B)   The fees collected pursuant to this section shall pay for calculations
and verification of public improvement plat and town ordinances, in addition to
those items listed above and below:
      (1)   Legal review of plat, bonding instrument, dedication of public
areas, preliminary title report and conformity to ordinance;
      (2)   Review of public improvements design as to adequacy and placement;
and
      (3)   Review of capital impact of subdivision including revenue
projection and estimated costs of services.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.153 ZONE CHANGE AND ANNEXATION FEES.
   (A)   Each application for a zone change for any parcel of land regardless
of size shall be accompanied by a fee to pay for legal notices and preliminary
staff review of request.
   (B)   Annexation fees shall be based on a flat fee plus a fee per acre of
area annexed, plus fee for preparing an impact statement. These fees are
established by the town’s resolution of fees and charges.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.154 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   The fees set forth and required by §§
151.150 through
151.153 of this chapter shall be paid at the time application is made for each
subdivision or development process outlined above.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.155 REFUNDS.
   Fees once paid are not to be refunded. When an application is found to be
incomplete as described in §
151.154 of this chapter, the application fee shall be returned with the
application materials. The fees herein charged may be modified from time to
time by resolution of the Town Council.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
GENERAL SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.180 DRAWINGS REQUIRED (AS BUILTS).
   Plans showing the locations, size, grade, depth of all water and sewer
mains, water and sewer laterals, valves, manholes and other subsurface utility
and service lines and facilities installed by the developer/subdivider shall be
submitted to the town prior to the release of any performance guarantees. The
location of required survey monuments shall be approved by the Town Engineer,
before the release of any performance guarantees.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.181 VARIANCES.
   Where the subdivider can show that a provision of these general requirements
and minimum standards of design would cause unnecessary hardship if strictly
adhered to, and where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to
the site, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, a departure may be made
without destroying the intent of the provisions, the Planning Commission may
recommend to the Board of Adjustment that it consider/authorize a variance. Any
variance so authorized shall be stated on the final plat and the reasons for
such departure shall be entered in writing in the minutes of the Board of
Adjustment.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.182 ENFORCEMENT/PENALTIES.
   It shall be unlawful to record any plat of a subdivision in the office of
the County Recorder unless the same shall bear thereon the approval of the Town
Council and the town’s Planning Commission. Whoever, being the owner or agent
of the owner of any land located within a subdivision in the incorporated area
of the town, transfers or sells any land in such subdivision before the final
plat thereof has been approved by the Town Council and the Planning Commission
and recorded in the office of the County Recorder, or any parcel within the
outermost bounds of a recorded subdivision which does not conform to the
approved and recorded lot lines of the plat without first following the
procedure of amending the subdivision plat as require by UCA § 57-5-7  1 ,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for each lot or parcel of land transferred or
sold.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002) Penalty, see §
151.999
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 151.183 PARK FEES AND PARK DEVELOPMENT.
   The Town Council is responsible for the establishment and adjustment of park
fees. These fees are to be used for the procurement, development and
maintenance of parks in the community. One-half of the fees are to be collected
at the time of final plat and one-half at the time of issuance of a building
permit. The Town Council may accept property as described in this chapter in
lieu of payment of fees for park and open space development.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.184 DONATION, GIFTING OR PROCUREMENT OF AND FOR PARKS.
   (A)   A developer or a land owner may propose a park incorporated into his
or her development plan for purposes of donation or gifting, or for future sale
to the town, it will be the option of the Town Council to determine the need
and feasibility for such a design.
   (B)   When a park or recreational facility has been designated in the town’s
General Plan and is to be located in whole or in part within the proposed
subdivision to serve the immediate and future needs of the residents of the
neighborhood within which the subdivision is located, the subdivider or
developer may donate, gift or sell land for a local park sufficient in size and
topography to serve the residents of the neighborhood within which the
subdivision is located. Donated, gifted or sold land, for parks, will not be in
the computation of the lots allowable in their development.
   (C)   Such donation, gifts or procurements are at the option and discretion
of the Town Council and it may place conditions to the acceptance of such
property.
   (D)   It is the intent of this section to encourage incentives and
cooperation with developers in the implementation of the town’s General Plan as
it relates to parks and recreation properties. It will be the responsibility of
the Town Council to establish criteria for park development.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.185 ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITIES.
   All administrative officials of the town shall refrain from issuing building
permits or from opening, accepting, grading or paving a street or authorizing
the laying of sewers and water mains, making connections from the mains to such
lines in a street, which has not received the status of a public street or does
not correspond with a street on a subdivision plat tentatively approved by the
Planning Commission or having been submitted to the Planning Commission and
disapproved by it, has not been accepted by the Town Council by a favorable
vote of not less than a majority of its membership.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
GUARANTEE OF PERFORMANCE
§ 151.200 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall govern the provisions, nature, use and disposition of
all performance bonds or guarantees of performance which are required to be
posted with or deposited for the benefit of the town by any provision of this
chapter.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.201 TYPE AND AMOUNT OF GUARANTEE.
   (A)   The required performance guarantee shall be one of the following, at
the discretion of the Town Council:
      (1)   A deposit of cash in a separate escrow account in an amount not
less than 110% of the estimated cost of constructing the required improvement
or improvements, as determined by the town. Said account shall be made with a
financial institution acceptable to the Town Council and shall be established
in such a manner that any release therefrom shall require the advance written
consent of the town. All interest earned from the account shall be the property
of the subdivider; and
      (2)   A performance bond in an amount not less than 110% of the estimated
cost of constructing the required improvement or improvements as determined by
the town with such sureties as are acceptable to the Town Council.
   (B)   The town shall have discretion as to other terms, as may be required
from time to time, to adequately protect the town and assure final completion
of all public improvements.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.202 DURATION OF GUARANTEE; DURABILITY RETAINAGE.
   (A)   The duration of the performance guarantee covering the construction of
the required improvements shall be for a period of two years, unless a
different time period is prescribed by a particular section of this code which
requires such guarantee to be posted. The time period shall begin on the date
of final approval for the final plat by the Town Council. A provision shall be
provided for unconditional payment of the face amount of the guarantee within
30 days from the town’s declaration of default by the developer.
   (B)   A retainage of not less than 20% of the total amount of the guarantee
shall be retained by the town for a period of not less than two years following
the date of final acceptance of the improvements by the town. Such retainage
shall be a guarantee of the durability of all improvements. If, during the two-
year period, the durability of said improvements are found to be satisfactory,
the Town Council shall authorize release of said retainage. If, however, during
said period the condition, or material or workmanship of the improvement or
improvements fails or shows unusual depreciation, or if it becomes evident that
certain work was not completed, or that said improvements do not otherwise
comply with accepted standards of durability, as determined by the Town
Engineer, said condition shall be corrected by the person giving the
performance guarantee. If the corrections are not made within a reasonable
time, the Town Council may, in accordance with §
151.205 of this chapter, declare such a person in default and use the retainage
to defray the cost of any required work.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.203 FINAL DISPOSITION AND RELEASE.
   (A)   The subdivider, or other person giving the performance guarantee
provided for by this chapter, shall be responsible for all materials and
workmanship of the improvement. At the completion of the work, or not less than
ten days prior to the release date of the bond or other assurance, the person
giving the guarantee shall submit to the Town Engineer one copy of the drawings
of record of the improvement and a certificate of completion. The Town Engineer
shall then make an inspection of the improvements and shall submit a report to
the Mayor and Town Council setting forth the condition thereof.
   (B)   (1)   If the condition of said improvements is found to be
satisfactory and all liens are paid, the Mayor and Town Council shall issue a
final approval of the improvements.
      (2)   If the condition of material or workmanship shows unusual
depreciation or does not comply with the acceptable standards of durability, or
if the outstanding liens are not paid, the matter shall be deferred to the Town
Council; and in accordance with §
151.205 of this chapter, the Council may declare the person giving the
guarantee in default.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.204 PARTIAL RELEASE PERMITTED.
   The Town Council may, upon recommendation of the Town Engineer and
application of the person giving the guarantee, authorize from time to time a
partial release of the performance guarantee in accordance with the following
schedule:
 
                                         Maximum Percentage of Guarantee of
Percent of Work Completed                Performance Eligible for Release of
                                         Total Bond
50%                                      40% of total bond
75%                                      60% of total bond
100% and a satisfactory final inspection 80% of total bond
 
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.205 DEFAULT.
   (A)   (1)   When the Town Council shall determine that the person posting
the performance guarantee has failed or neglected to satisfactorily install the
required improvements or make required corrections, or to pay all liens in
connection with said improvements, the Council may, after a public hearing on
the matter, declare the performance guarantee, or any un-released portion
thereof, forfeited and thereafter may install or cause the required
improvements to be installed or repaired using the proceeds of the guarantee to
defray the expenses thereof.
      (2)   Two years after the completion of the required improvements, such
improvements shall be inspected by the Town Council and/or Town Engineer and if
found to be in satisfactory condition, the Town Engineer will certify the same
to the Town Council. Performance guarantee requirements continue for one year
after final acceptance.
   (B)   In the event that the un-released portion of the guarantee is not
sufficient to pay all the cost and expense of such installation or repair, the
town may maintain an action against the person giving the guarantee for the
excess.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
LOT SPLITS; EXEMPTION FROM PLAT REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.220 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these requirements is to facilitate the simplified review of
proposed lot splits of one existing lot into two lots, where no dedications are
required and the lots meet zoning restrictions.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.221 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR LOT SPLIT.
   The following information is required for a complete lot split application:
   (A)   A site plan showing the orientation and size of the of the original
lot and the proposed split with appropriate streets and relevant physical
features;
   (B)   A letter requesting the Town Clerk place the proposal on the Planning
Commission agenda for review; and
   (C)   Documents for the Town Council prepared to record showing new legal
descriptions of each lot (deeds).
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.222 REQUIREMENTS FOR QUALIFICATION.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter, a person may submit to the
County Recorder’s office for recording a document that subdivides a legally
existing lot (legally created and existing at the time of the passage of this
chapter) in the town by metes and bounds into two lots, without the necessity
of recording a plat or record of survey, if:
   (A)   A positive recommendation has been received from the Planning
Commission;
   (B)   The lot split has been approved by the Town Council;
   (C)   The parcels (existing lot and new lot) are not traversed by the mapped
lines of a proposed street as shown in the General Plan and does not require
the dedication of any land for street or other public purposes;
   (D)   If the lot split is located in a zoned area, each lot in the split
meets the frontage, width and area requirements of the zoning ordinance, or has
been granted a variance from those requirements by the Board of Adjustment;
   (E)   The lots from existing paved streets in the town and are accessible to
all other required improvements (an applicant may meet these conditions by
paving the streets and providing all other required improvements); and
   (F)   A stamp or written approval from the Town Council, as required herein,
is attached to the document to be recorded in the office of the County
Recorder.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.223 CERTIFICATION BY TOWN FOR RECORDING.
   Documents recorded in the County Recorder’s office that divide property by a
metes and bounds description do not create a subdivision allowed by this
subchapter unless the stamp of approval required by §
151.222(F) of this chapter appears on the document and it is signed and dated.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.224 WATER AVAILABILITY REQUIRED.
   For lots created under this subchapter, evidence must be provided to show
that the lots can be served by the town’s existing culinary water system.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
PLAT AND MINOR SUBDIVISION AMENDMENTS
§ 151.235 AMENDMENT TO RECORDED PLATS OR MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Town Council may, with or without a petition, consider any proposed
vacation, alteration or amendment of a recorded final subdivision plat or
record of survey, any portion of a final subdivision plat or minor subdivision,
or any road or lot, contained in a final subdivision plat or record of survey
by following and complying with all the requirements for vacating or changing a
subdivision plat, as identified at UCA § 10-9-808  1 , as amended, and UCA §
10-9-809Cite, as amended.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 151.236 AMENDMENT BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   When the town proposes to vacate, alter or amend a subdivision plat or minor
subdivision record of survey, or any road or lot contained in a subdivision
plat or record of survey, the Town Council shall consider the issue at a public
hearing after giving the notice, as required by UCA §§ 10-9-809 et seq.  1 , as
amended.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 151.237 GROUNDS FOR PLAT OR MINOR SUBDIVISION AMENDMENTS AND RECORDATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the public hearing, as required by UCA § 10-9-810
1 , as amended, the Town Council shall consider the petition.
   (B)   Consistent and complying with the requirements of UCA § 10-9-810  2 ,
as amended, and if the Town Council is satisfied that neither the public nor
any person will be materially injured by the proposed vacation, alteration or
amendment, and that there is good cause for the vacation, alteration or
amendment, the Town Council may, by ordinance, vacate, alter or amend the plat
or record of survey, any portion of the plat or survey, or any road or lot. The
Town Council shall provide that any plat or survey affected by a vacation,
alteration or amendment, passed by ordinance, is stamped, marked or signed,
indicating approval of such action by the Town Council. The Town Council shall
ensure that any approved vacation, alteration or amendment is recorded in the
office of the County Recorder.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 Cite
2 Cite
§ 151.238 APPEAL OF PLAT OR MINOR SUBDIVISION AMENDMENT DECISIONS.
   An aggrieved party may appeal the decision of the Town Council concerning a
plat or minor subdivision record of survey amendment to district court, as
provided in UCA §§ 10-9-1001 et seq.  1 , as amended.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 151.239 LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS WITHIN A RECORDED PLAT OR MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Petitions to adjust lot lines between adjoining properties may be
executed upon the recordation of an appropriate deed if:
      (1)   No new dwelling lot or housing unit results from the lot line
adjustment;
      (2)   That all adjoining property owners consent to the lot line
adjustment;
      (3)   The lot line adjustment does not result in a remnant piece of land
that did not exist previously;
      (4)   The lot line adjustment does not result in the violation of any
applicable zoning district requirements;
      (5)   No existing dwelling lot or housing unit is deleted by the lot line
adjustment; and
      (6)   All existing utility easements remain as shown on the original plat
or record of survey.
   (B)   Prior to recordation of the appropriate deed by the County Recorder,
the Town Clerk and Town Planning Commission shall ensure the requirements of
this subchapter are met.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 151.250 BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE; LEGAL LOT REQUIRED.
   The town’s Planning Commission and/or Town Council shall not authorize any
building permit for a proposed building or structure on any land or subdivided
lot within the town unless:
   (A)   The lot is within a subdivision and the lot was legally created
pursuant to this chapter, and a final plat or minor subdivision has been
recorded in the office of the County Recorder; and
   (B)   The lot is a legal lot of record, created prior to the adoption of
this chapter.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
§ 151.251 WATER, SEWAGE AND ROAD REQUIREMENTS.
   As required by this chapter, all applications for a building permit,
excepting agricultural buildings to the extent exempted by the provisions of
UCA § 58-56-4  1 , as amended, shall comply with the following requirements for
the provision of required basic infrastructure and services.
   (A)   Water requirements.
      (1)   The Southwest Utah Public Health Department and the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality shall be considered the town’s experts in
evaluating the proposed method of providing additional culinary water. It shall
be the responsibility of the applicant for a building permit to provide
information and materials as required by the Southwest Utah Public Health
Department or the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable,
necessary to evaluate the proposed culinary water system, if another source,
other than the town culinary water system, is proposed.
      (2)   (a)   All building permit applications must first obtain an
approved connection by the town to its culinary water system. If the town
authorizes use of another water source. the Southwest Utah Public Health
Department or the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable,
shall review and approve the proposed source of culinary water and determine
compliance with the requirements for:
            1.   Connection to a public water system;
            2.   Connection to an existing non-public water system; or
            3.   Provision of culinary water from a well or spring.
         (b)   The Southwest Utah Public Health Department or the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable, shall provide its
acceptance and approval of the proposed culinary water source to the town’s
Building Official prior to the approval of a building permit application. Every
effort should be made to secure water system extensions of an existing water
system, approved by the Southwest Utah Public Health Department or the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable.
      (3)   In addition to the requirements of the Southwest Utah Public Health
Department and the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, the following
information shall be provided to the town- designated Building Official,
necessary to evaluate the adequacy of the water system intended to serve the
proposed building or structure.
   (B)   Sewage requirements.
      (1)   The Southwest Utah Public Health Department and the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality shall be considered the town’s experts in
evaluating the proposed sewage treatment method. It shall be the responsibility
of the applicant for a building permit to provide information and materials as
required by the Southwest Utah Public Health Department or the state’s
Department of Environmental Quality, as applicable, necessary to evaluate the
proposed sewage treatment method.
      (2)   In all cases where a proposed building or structure will not be
connected to an existing sewer system, approved by the Southwest Utah Public
Health Department or the state’s Department of Environmental Quality, as
applicable, approval for the proposed sewage treatment method shall be obtained
from the Southwest Utah Public Health Department or the state’s Department of
Environmental Quality, as applicable.
    (C)   Roads and streets requirements.
      (1)   All lots proposed for the issuance of a building permit shall
provide direct access to a dedicated and/or public road or street, improved to
the minimum standards of the town.
      (2)   For all lots proposed for the issuance of a building permit having
access to a dedicated and/or public road or street, but not improved to the
minimum standards and complying with the requirements of the town’s improvement
specifications, the Town Council, or authorized designee, may authorize the
approval of a building permit application, on a case-by-case basis, by
requiring the applicant for a building permit to sign an agreement with the
town agreeing to the following;
         (a)   Acknowledging the required road and street improvements;
         (b)   Agreeing to participation, running with the property, in the
establishment of an improvement district, service district or other mechanism,
necessary for the installation of the required road and/or street improvements,
at a time determined necessary by the Town Council; and
         (c)   Recording such agreement in the office of the County Recorder,
with a copy of such recorded document being provided as part of the building
permit application.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, organization, corporation or other entity who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class C misdemeanor and is
punishable by a fine, imprisonment, or both, as determined by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 14-11-02, passed 11-14-2002)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Interpretation
   
152.004   Conflict
   
152.005   Effect on previous ordinances and maps
   
152.006   Building permit required
   
152.007   Building and zoning permit required
   
152.008   Site plans required
   
152.009   Inspection
   
152.010   Enforcement
   
152.011   Nuisance and abatement
   
152.012   Severability
   
152.013   Amendments
   
152.014   Hearing and publication and notice before amendment
   
152.015   Licensing
   
152.016   Fees
   
152.017   Zoning map
   
152.018   Adoption
   
152.019   Definitions
Planning Commission
   
152.030   Creation; number of members; appointment
   
152.031   Terms of office
   
152.032   Vacancies and removals for cause
   
152.033   Compensation
   
152.034   Officers
   
152.035   Meetings
   
152.036   Rules and regulations
   
152.037   Quorum and vote
   
152.038   Employees; expenditures
Board of Adjustment
   
152.050   Board; number of members; appointment; term and removal; vacancies
   
152.051   Officers
   
152.052   Duties and powers of Board
   
152.053   Meetings
   
152.054   Minutes
   
152.055   Quorum
   
152.056   Action to be taken
   
152.057   Vote necessary for reversal
   
152.058   Appeals to Board; time; persons entitled; transmission of papers
   
152.059   Stay of proceedings pending appeal
   
152.060   Decision on appeal
   
152.061   Rules
   
152.062   Judicial review of Board’s decision; time limitations
Home Occupations
   
152.075   Home occupation permit required
   
152.076   Procedure
   
152.077   Conditions
   
152.078   Fees
   
152.079   Non-compliance
   
152.080   Appeal
   
152.081   Business license required
   
152.082   Utah sales tax license
   
152.083   Awareness of neighbors
Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations
   
152.095   Effect of subchapter
   
152.096   Substandard lots at time of ordinance passage
   
152.097   Lot standards
   
152.098   Every dwelling to be on a lot; exceptions
   
152.099   Yard space for one building only
   
152.100   Private garage with side yard; reduced yards
   
152.101   Sale or lease of required space
   
152.102   Sale of lots below minimum space requirements
   
152.103   Yards to be unobstructed; exceptions
   
152.104   Area of accessory buildings
   
152.105   Additional height allowed
   
152.106   Exceptions to height limitations
   
152.107   Scenic vistas to be unobstructed
   
152.108   Minimum height of main building
   
152.109   Maximum height of accessory buildings
   
152.110   Clear view of intersecting street
   
152.111   Maximum height of fences, walls and hedges
   
152.112   Water and sewage requirements
   
152.113   Curbs, gutters and sidewalks
   
152.114   Beautification
Non-Conforming Buildings and Uses
   
152.125   Maintenance permitted
   
152.126   Repairs and alterations
   
152.127   Additions, enlargements and moving
   
152.128   Alteration where parking insufficient
   
152.129   Restoration of damaged buildings
   
152.130   One-year vacancy
   
152.131   Continuation of use
   
152.132   Occupation within one year
   
152.133   Change of use
   
152.134   Non-conforming use of land
   
152.135   Exceptions
Off-Street Parking
   
152.150   Off-street parking required
   
152.151   Number of parking spaces
   
152.152   Access requirements
   
152.153   Maintenance of parking lots
Conditional Uses
   
152.165   Purpose of conditional use provisions
   
152.166   Permit required
   
152.167   Application
   
152.168   Fee
   
152.169   Development plan
   
152.170   Planning Commission action
   
152.171   Town Council action
   
152.172   Expansion of a conditional use
   
152.173   Inspection
   
152.174   Time limitation
   
152.175   Revocation
Planned Unit Development
   
152.190   Purpose
   
152.191   Definition
   
152.192   Planned unit development permit
   
152.193   Required conditions
   
152.194   Uses allowed
   
152.195   General site plan
   
152.196   Review by Planning Commission
   
152.197   Scope of Planning Commission and Town Council action
   
152.198   Construction limitations
Design Review
   
152.210   Purpose
   
152.211   Application and review
   
152.212   Exceptions
   
152.213   Planning Commission approval
   
152.214   Consideration in review of applications
   
152.215   Conditions
   
152.216   Findings and decisions
   
152.217   Notification of approval or denial
   
152.218   Time limitations on approval
   
152.219   Transfer of approval upon change in use
   
152.220   Conformance to approval
   
152.221   Modifications
Construction Subject to Geologic, Flood or Other Natural Hazards
   
152.235   Purpose
   
152.236   Requirements
Mobile and Manufactured Homes, Mobile Home Parks and Mobile Home Subdivision
   
152.250   Purpose
   
152.251   Location and use
   
152.252   Mobile and manufactured homes placed as permanent residences
   
152.253   Mobile home parks
   
152.254   Approval
   
152.255   Application
   
152.256   Safety, sanitation and landscaping requirements
   
152.257   Permit required
   
152.258   Notification of neighboring property owners
Solar Access Protection and Incentives
   
152.270   Purpose
   
152.271   Protection of solar access in districts; RR-1, RR-2, RR-5
Zoning Districts
   
152.285   Establishment of zoning districts
   
152.286   Rules for locating boundaries
   
152.287   Supplementary regulations to all zones
   
152.288   Annexations
   
152.289   Listing of ordinance and map
Restricted Development Overlay (RDO)
   
152.300   Purpose
   
152.301   Permitted uses
   
152.302   Conditional uses
   
152.303   Other provisions
Open Space (OS)
   
152.315   Purpose
   
152.316   Use regulations
   
152.317   Site design regulations
   
152.318   Height regulations
   
152.319   Minimum area, width and yard regulations
Agricultural (A)
   
152.330   Purpose
   
152.331   Permitted uses
   
152.332   Conditional uses
   
152.333   Minimum area
   
152.334   Modifying regulations
   
152.335   Other provisions
Residential Agricultural (RA)
   
152.350   Purpose
   
152.351   Permitted uses
   
152.352   Conditional uses
   
152.353   Height regulations
   
152.354   Minimum area, width and yard requirements
   
152.355   Signs
   
152.356   Modifying regulations
   
152.357   Other provisions
Rural Residential Two Acre (RR-2)
   
152.370   Purpose
   
152.371   Permitted uses
   
152.372   Conditional uses
   
152.373   Height regulations
   
152.374   Minimum area, width and yard requirements
   
152.375   Signs
   
152.376   Modifying regulations
   
152.377   Other provisions
Rural Residential One-Half Acre (RR-1/2)
   
152.390   Purpose
   
152.391   Permitted uses
   
152.392   Conditional uses
   
152.393   Height regulations
   
152.394   Minimum area, width and yard requirements
   
152.395   Signs
   
152.396   Modifying regulations
   
152.397   Other provisions
Community Commercial District (CC)
   
152.410   Purpose
   
152.411   Permitted uses
   
152.412   Reserved
   
152.413   Maximum development intensities
   
152.414   Minimum area, width and yard requirements
   
152.415   Signs
Congregate Living and Treatment Facilities
   
152.430   Definitions
   
152.431   Residential facilities for persons with disability
   
152.432   Residential facilities for elderly persons
   
152.433   Protective housing, rehabilitation/treatment facilities (both
residential and non- residential), transitional housing, nursing homes and
assisted living facilities
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance of Kanarraville” and
may be so cited and pleaded.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the present and future residents of the town and to implement the
policies and realize the goals stated in the master plan of the town.
   (B)   This chapter is enacted with the intent to:
      (1)   Ensure that community growth and development occur in an orderly
and well-considered manner, consistent with the goals of the Master Plan;
      (2)   Provide adequate and economical infrastructure and community
services;
      (3)   Mitigate or prevent manmade and natural hazards;
      (4)   Promote order and beauty in the community;
      (5)   Maintain the community’s economic base and property values; and
      (6)   Preserve the unique rural, historic and scenic character of the
town.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.003 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, the
requirements contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for
the purposes set forth.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.004 CONFLICT.
   This chapter shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants,
agreements or other ordinances or laws, but shall prevail notwithstanding such
provisions which are less restrictive.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.005 EFFECT ON PREVIOUS ORDINANCES AND MAPS.
   Any existing ordinances covering zoning, in their entirety and including the
maps heretofore adopted and made a part of said ordinances are hereby
superseded and amended to read as set forth herein; provided, however, that,
this chapter, including the attached map, shall be deemed a continuation of
previous ordinances and not a new enactment, insofar as the substance of
revisions of previous ordinances is included in this chapter, whether in the
same or in different language; and this chapter shall be so interpreted upon
all questions of construction relating to tenure of officers and boards
established by previous ordinances and to questions of conforming or non-
conforming uses and buildings and structures, and to questions as to the dates
upon which such uses, buildings or structures became conforming or non-
conforming.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.006 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The construction, alteration, repair or removal of any building,
structure, or part thereof as provided or as restricted in this chapter shall
not be commenced or continued, except after the issuance of a zoning permit by
the town’s Zoning Administrator and a written permit from the town’s Building
Inspector.
   (B)   The building permit and zoning permit shall not be issued if the
proposed construction, alteration, repair or removal of building or part
thereof shall be in violation of the restrictive covenants effective as to the
property or lot. Work not started within six months will require a new permit
and fee.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.007 BUILDING AND ZONING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation, or the agent of either, shall erect,
construct, reconstruct, alter, repair or remove any building or other structure
in the town without having first obtained a building and zoning permit from the
town’s designated Building Inspector and Zoning Administrator. The town
officials charged with the administration of this chapter or any other town
official shall not grant a permit for the erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair or removal of any building or structure if
such building or structure would be in violation of any provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any permit granted in violation of this or any other applicable town
ordinance or code shall be null and void.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.008 SITE PLANS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A detailed site plan, with scale and sheet size determined by the
town’s Planning Commission or the town’s Zoning Administrator, when authorized,
shall be filed as part of any application, prior to request for a zoning
permit.
   (B)   It shall show, where pertinent:
      (1)   Scale of plan and direction of north point;
      (2)   Lot lines, adjacent streets, roads, rights-of-way, easements;
      (3)   Location of all existing structures on subject property and
adjoining properties, with utility lines, poles and the like, fully
dimensioned;
      (4)   Location of proposed construction and improvements, with location
and dimension of all signs;
      (5)   Any parking lot to be built new or re-modeled must be built to
plan, have proper drainage, and must have a building permit. Building permit
fee shall be determined by the Town Council;
      (6)   Motor vehicle access, circulation patterns, with individual parking
stalls, and curb, gutter and sidewalk location;
      (7)   Necessary explanatory notes;
      (8)   Name, address, telephone number of builder and owner; and
      (9)   All other information required as determined by the town’s Planning
Commission or designated authorized individual.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.009 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The town’s Zoning Administrator is authorized to inspect or to have
inspected all buildings and structures in the course of their construction,
modification or repair, and to inspect land uses to determine compliance with
zoning ordinance provisions.
   (B)   The town’s Zoning Administrator or any authorized employee of the town
shall use the right to enter any building for the purpose of determining the
use, or to enter premises for the purpose of determining compliance with the
said ordinance; provided that, such right of entry is to be used only at
reasonable hours.
   (C)   In no case shall entry be made to any occupied building in the absence
of the owner or tenant thereof without written permission of an owner or
written order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.010 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town’s Zoning Administrator and/or Building Inspector is
authorized as the enforcing officer for this chapter, and shall enforce all
provisions, entering actions in court if necessary, and his or her failure to
do so shall not legalize any violations of such provisions.
   (B)   The Town Council may, by resolution or ordinance, from time to time
entrust administration of this chapter, in whole or in part, to another officer
of the town, without amendment to this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.011 NUISANCE AND ABATEMENT.
   Any building or structure erected, constructed, altered, enlarged,
converted, moved or maintained contrary to provisions of this chapter, and any
use of land, building or premise established, conducted or maintained contrary
to provisions of this chapter shall be, and the same hereby is, declared to be
unlawful and a public nuisance; and the local attorney shall, upon request of
the governing body, at once commence action or proceedings for abatement and
removal or enjoinment thereof in a manner provided by law, and take other steps
and apply to such courts as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will
abate and remove such building or structure, and restrain or enjoin any person,
firm or corporation from erecting, building, maintaining, or using said
building or structure or property contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.012 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid, such holding shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portion of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.013 AMENDMENTS.
   The town may from time to time amend the number, shape, boundaries or areas
of any district, or regulation, or other provision of this chapter, but any
such amendment shall not be made or become effective until after 15 days’
notice and public hearing and unless the same shall have been proposed by or be
first submitted to the town’s Planning Commission for its recommendation, which
shall be returned within 30 days.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.014 HEARING AND PUBLICATION AND NOTICE BEFORE AMENDMENT.
   Before finally adopting any such amendment, the Town Council shall hold a
public hearing thereon, at least 15 days’ notice of the time and place of which
shall be given by at least one publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the town.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.015 LICENSING.
   All departments and public employees of the town which are vested with duty
or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the provisions of
this chapter and shall issue no permit or license for uses, buildings or
purposes where the same would be in conflict with the provisions of this
chapter and any such permit or license, if issued in conflict with the
provisions of this chapter, shall be null and void.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.016 FEES.
   (A)   Fees may be charged to applicants for building, occupancy and
conditional use permits, and planned development approval, Town Planning
Commission and Town Board of Adjustment hearings, and such other services as
are required by this chapter to be performed by public officers or agencies.
   (B)   Such fees shall be established by the town and be in amounts
reasonably needed to defray costs to the public.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.017 ZONING MAP.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.018 ADOPTION.
   This chapter shall become effective 30 days from its passage or 20 days from
its first posting, whichever is the most remote from the passage thereof.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.019 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future; the singular number shall include
the plural, and the plural the singular; the word “building” shall include
“structure”; the words “used” or “occupied” shall include arranged, designed,
constructed, altered, converted, rented, leased or intended to be used or
occupied; the word “shall” is mandatory and not directory, and the word “may”
is permissive; the word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual; the word
“lot” includes the word plot or parcel. Words used in this chapter, but not
defined herein, shall have the meaning as defined in any other ordinance
adopted by the local jurisdiction.
   ACCESSORY USE OF BUILDING. A use or building on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
building.
   AGRICULTURE. The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and
gardening; breeding, grazing and keeping or raising of domestic animals and
fowl, except household pets, and not including any agricultural industry or
business, such as fruit packing plants, fur farms, animal hospitals or similar
uses.
   AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRY OR BUSINESS. An industry or business involving
agricultural products in manufacturing, packaging, treatment, sales, intensive
feeding or storage, including, but not limited to, animal feed yards, fur
farms, food packaging or processing plants, commercial poultry or egg
production and similar uses as determined by the Planning Commission.
   ALLEY. A public accessway less than 26 feet in width, which is designed to
give secondary access to lots or abutting properties; an ALLEY shall not be
considered a street for the purposes of this chapter.
   ANIMALS. The following: horses; cows; sheep; and goats; excluding pigs and
exotic animals.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline, or any other motor fuel
or lubricating oil or grease for operating motor vehicles is offered for sale
to the public and deliveries are made directly into motor vehicles, and where
services performed may include tube and tire repair, battery charging, storage
of merchandise, lubricating of automobiles, replacement of spark plugs, lights,
fans and other small parts, but not including major auto repair.
   AVERAGE PERCENT OF SLOPE. An expression of rise or fall in elevation along a
line perpendicular to the contours of the land, connecting the highest point of
land to the lowest point of land within an area or within a lot. A vertical
rise of 100 feet between two points 100 feet apart, measured on a horizontal
plane is a 100% slope.
   BASEMENT. A story whose floor is more than 12 inches below the average level
of the adjoining ground, but where no more than one-half of its floor-to-
ceiling heights is above the average contact level of the adjoining ground. A
BASEMENT shall be counted as a story for purposes of height measurement, and as
a half-story for the purpose of side-yard determination.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An establishment which provides overnight accommodations
and a breakfast meal for consideration. In order to qualify as a BED AND
BREAKFAST INN, an establishment must meet the following criteria.
      (1)   The establishment may be housed in an existing or in a new
structure suitable to the purpose of a BED AND BREAKFAST INN. The structure
must comply with the Uniform Building Code and all other applicable state and
local statutes, ordinances and regulations.
      (2)   The establishment must not have more than four guest rooms for
rent.
      (3)   The owner and/or manager must reside on the premises.
      (4)   Off-street parking must be provided as noted: two spaces for the
owner and/or manager, and one space per guest room.
      (5)   There may be no more than one sign denoting the name and nature of
the establishment. The sign may not be larger than nine square feet; it must be
made of wood, stone and/or brick; and it may be artificially illuminated only
by external, low-intensity, screened lamps.
      (6)   The establishment must be on a street that meets town standards and
Fire Code width requirements.
      (7)   Entrances to all guest rooms must be on the interior of the
structure. Secondary, exterior entrances to guest rooms may be permitted only
for access to patios, verandas or balconies.
      (8)   The architectural style and physical size of the structure should
be in harmony with the residential character of the community as determined by
the Planning Commission. The structure must not exceed the height restrictions
which apply in the zone in which it is located.
      (9)   The site must be planned and landscaped so as to minimize the
impact on neighboring properties and in order to retain the residential
character of the neighborhood.
   BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION. The placing of concrete footings for a building
or structure.
   BLOCK. The land surrounded by streets or other rights-of-way, other than an
alley, or land which is designed as a block on any recorded subdivision plat.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided; except that, land with an average grade exceeding 15% shall not
be considered BUILDABLE AREA unless it is approved by conditional use permit
for construction, after study by a geologist, soils engineer or sanitarian as
required by the Planning Commission.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended to be used for the shelter, or
enclosure of persons, animals or property.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A building which is subordinate to, and the use of
which is incidental to, that of the main building or use on the same lot.
   BUILDING, FARM. An agricultural structure assembled for a purpose relating
to livestock or crops.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the average finished grade
surface to the highest point of the building roof or coping.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The official designated as the BUILDING INSPECTOR for
the town by the Town Council. Must be certified by professional society.
   CARPORT. A private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the
purposes of this chapter, a CARPORT shall be subject to all the regulations
prescribed for a private garage.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses,
maintained and controlled by a duly-recognized religious organization where
persons regularly assemble for worship.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use of land for which a conditional use permit is
required, pursuant to this chapter.
   CORRAL. A space, other than a building, less than one acre in area, used for
the confinement of animals or fowl.
   COVERAGE, BUILDING. The percent of the total site area covered by buildings.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the territory of the town, established as a zoning
district by this chapter, within which certain uniform regulations and
requirements or various combinations thereof apply under the provisions of this
chapter; also includes ZONE and ZONING DISTRICT.
   DRIVEWAY. A private roadway, the use of which is limited to persons
residing, employed or otherwise using or visiting the parcel on which the
driveway is located.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used as the more or
less permanent residence or sleeping place of one or more persons or families,
but not including a tent, recreational coach, hotel, hospital or nursing home.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. See MOBILE HOME.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
one family, the structure having only one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
families, the structure having only two dwelling units.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
more than two families, and having more than two dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a dwelling, apartment hotel or apartment
motel, designed for or occupied by one family for living or sleeping purposes
and having one, but not more than one, kitchen or set of fixed cooking
facilities, other than hot plates or other portable cooking units.
   EARTH SHELTER HOME. A dwelling specifically designed for energy saving
purposes to be below the finished grade. A lived in basement of a uncompleted
single-family dwelling shall not constitute an EARTH SHELTER HOME.
   EASEMENT. That portion of a lot or lots reserved for present or future use
by a person or agency other than the legal owner(s) of said property(ies). The
EASEMENT may be for use under, on or above said lot or lots.
   ESSENTIAL FACILITIES. Utilities or sanitary and public safety facilities
provided by a public or other governmental agency for overhead or surface or
underground services, excluding any building, electrical sub-station or
transmission line of 50 KV or greater capacity, except by conditional use
permit.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   FENCE. A physical barrier to delineate, contain or designate an area
designed for a specific use (i.e., an enclosure for a dwelling unit; an area
for storage and the like).
   FLOOD HAZARD. A hazard to land or improvements due to inundation or overflow
water having sufficient velocity to transport or deposit debris, scour the
surface soil, dislodge or damage buildings or erode the banks of watercourses.
   FRONTAGE, LOT. The lineal measurement of the front lot line.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building, or a portion of a main
building, used or intended to be used for the storage of motor vehicles,
recreational coaches, boats or other recreational vehicles, but not including
the parking or storage of trucks or vans having a capacity in excess of one and
one-half tons, and not including space for more than a total of four such
vehicles for each dwelling unit on the premises.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A structure or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
used for the repair of self-propelled vehicles, trailers or boats, including
general repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines, motor vehicles,
recreational coaches and minor collision service, but not including major body,
frame or fender repairs or overall automobile or truck painting.
   GEOLOGICAL HAZARD. A hazard inherent in the crust of the earth, or
artificially created, which is dangerous or potentially dangerous to life,
property or improvements, due to the movement, failure or shifting of the
earth.
   GRADE.
      (1)   For buildings adjoining one street only, the elevation of the
sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street;
      (2)   For buildings adjoining more than one street, the average of the
elevations of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls adjoining the streets;
      (3)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the centers of all
exterior walls of the building; and
      (4)   Any wall parallel or nearly parallel to and not more than five feet
from a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street.
   GOVERNING BODY. The elected legislative body of the Town of Kanarraville.
   HALF-ACRE LOT. A lot that is 0.45 acres or 19,640 square feet.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any accessory use, clearly incidental and secondary to the
use of a dwelling for dwelling purposes and which does not change the
residential character thereof, conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried
out by persons residing in the dwelling unit.
   HOUSEHOLD PETS. Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house and kept
for company or pleasure, such as dogs, cats and canaries. HOUSEHOLD PETS shall
not include the keeping of dangerous animals.
   JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper trash, rubber
debris or other waste or salvage materials; dismantled, junked or wrecked
automobiles or parts thereof; and old or scrap ferrous or non-ferrous metal
materials.
   LOCAL ATTORNEY. The attorney employed by or officially representing the
town.
   LOCAL BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Kanarraville Town Building Inspector employed
by or officially representing the town.
   LOCAL ENGINEER. The engineer employed by or officially representing the
town.
   LOCAL JURISDICTION. The Town of Kanarraville.
   LOCAL PLANNER. The planner employed by or officially representing the town.
   LOT. A parcel or unit of land described by metes and bounds and held or
intended to be held in separate lease or ownership, or a parcel or unit of land
shown as a lot or parcel on a recorded subdivision map, or shown on a plat used
in the lease or sale or offer of lease or sale of land resulting from the
division of a larger tract into three or more smaller units.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection
or upon two parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the same street
forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot lines
measured in the main direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT LINES. The property lines bounding the lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. For an interior lot, the lot line adjoining the street; for
a corner lot or through lot, the lot line adjoining either street, as elected
by the low owner.
   LOT LINE, REAR. Ordinarily, that line of a lot which is opposite and most
distant from the front line of the lot. In the case of a triangular or gore-
shaped lot, a line ten feet in length within the parcel parallel to and at a
maximum distance from the front lot line. In cases where these definitions are
not applicable, the town’s Building Inspector shall designate the REAR LOT
LINE.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front or rear lot line. A SIDE
LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots in an interior side lot
line; a SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is a street side lot line.
   LOT, RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land of not less than 16 feet in width
connecting a lot to a street for use as private access to that lot.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure built after 6-15-1876, transportable in one
or more sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used
as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical systems contained therein.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure built prior to 6-15-1876, transportable in one or
more sections, which is eight body feet or more in width and 32 body feet or
more in length and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to
required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and
electrical systems contained therein.
   MOBILE HOME AWNING OR COVER. A light-weight, overhead structure used in
conjunction with a mobile home for the purpose of shading or weather protection
of areas such as carports, patios, porches, windows and similar uses.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. An approved residential development together with certain
accessory buildings and uses providing for the enjoyment and benefit of the
residents of the park, in which individual spaces are provided for the
placement of a mobile home for a dwelling unit or sleeping purposes, whether or
not a charge is made for such accommodations.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE. A parcel of land within an approved mobile home park
which is designed and intended for the accommodation of one mobile home.
   MODULAR HOME. A structure built in accordance with the standards set forth
in the Uniform Building Code adopted and in effect at the time of construction
which is composed of components substantially assembled in a manufacturing
plant and transported to the building site for final assembly on a permanent
foundation.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings for the drive-in accommodation of
transient guests, comprising individual sleeping or living units, and designed
and located to serve the motoring public.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or a structure which does
not conform to regulations for height, coverage or yards of the district in
which it is situated, but which was in conformity with applicable regulations,
if any, at the time of its erection.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. The use of a building or structure or land which does
not conform to use regulations for the district in which it is situated, but
which was in conformity with applicable regulations, if any, at the time of its
establishment.
   OFFICIAL MAP. A map which has been adopted as the official map of the town,
showing existing public streets, streets on plats of subdivisions which have
been approved by the town’s Planning Commission, and/or other street
extensions, widening, narrowing or variations which have been accurately
surveyed and definitely located.
   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. The space required to park one passenger vehicle,
which space shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
   OPEN SPACE. The use of land which leaves soil generally undisturbed and upon
which natural vegetation, whether or not native to the area, occupies the major
visible aspect of the land. OPEN SPACE is designated as such with the intent to
minimize flooding, erosion and other environmental hazards; to protect the
natural scenic character of areas not suitable or not yet suitable for
development; and to promote the well-being of present and future residents of
the town.
   PARKING LOT. An open area, other than a street, used for the parking of more
than four automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for
compensation or accommodation for clients or customers.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. Development characterized by a unified site design
for a number mousing units, clustering of buildings and providing common open
space density increases and a a mix of building types and land uses.
   PLOT PLAN. A plat of a lot, drawn to scale, showing its actual measurements,
the size and location of any existing buildings or buildings to be erected, the
location of the lot in relation to abutting streets, and such other information
as may be required by the town’s Planning Commission.
   RECREATIONAL COACH. A vehicle, such as a travel trailer, tent camper, camp
car or other vehicle, with or without motive power, designed and/or constructed
to travel on the public thoroughfare in accordance with the provisions of the
Utah Vehicle Code, and designed for use as human habitation for a temporary and
recreational nature.
   SIGN. A presentation or representation of words, letters, figures, designs,
picture or colors, publicly displayed so as to give notice relative to a
person, a business, an article of merchandise, a service, an assemblage, a
solicitation or a request for aid; also, the structure or framework or any
natural object on which any sign is erected or is intended to be erected or
exhibited or which is being used or is intended to be used for sign purposes.
   SIGN AREA. The area in square feet of the smallest rectangle enclosing the
total exterior surface of a sign having but one exposed exterior surface.
Should the sign have more than one surface, the SIGN AREA shall be the
aggregate of all surfaces measured as above which can be seen from any one
direction at one time.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION AND INFORMATION. A sign displayed to indicate the name
or nature of a building or of a use.
   SIGN, DEVELOPMENT. A sign indicating the name of, and information pertinent
to, new construction.
   SIGN, CIVIC. A sign identifying name and/or function of a public building.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign identifying property for sale, lease or rent.
   SIGN RESIDENTIAL. A sign identifying a residence.
   SITE PLAN. A plan required by, and providing the information required by §
152.008 of this chapter.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Any mechanism that heats or provides electricity to a
residence or other building, using energy from the sun.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. Any stable where horses are boarded and/or kept for hire.
   STORY, HALF. A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls do not extend more than
four feet above the floor of such story, and the ceiling area of which does not
exceed two-thirds of the floor area of the same HALF STORY.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires fixed location on
the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed location upon the ground;
includes BUILDING.
   YARD. A required open space on a lot, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
ground upward, except as permitted elsewhere in this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A space on the same lot with a building, between the front line
of the building and the front lot line, and extending across the full width of
the lot. The “depth” of the FRONT YARD is the minimum distance between the
front lot line and the front line of the building.
   YARD, REAR. A space on the same lot with a building, between the rear line
of the building and the rear lot line, and extending the full width of the lot.
The “depth” of the REAR YARD is the minimum distance between the rear lot line
and the rear line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. A space on the same lot with a building, between the side line
of the building, and the side lot line and extending from the front yard to the
rear yard. The “width” of the SIDE YARD shall be the minimum distance between
the side lot line and the side line of the building.
   ZONE. See DISTRICT.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The local official designated by the Town Council to
enforce the regulations of this chapter.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The Kanarraville Town Zoning Ordinance or this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord. 04-10-03A, passed 4-10-2003; Ord. 09-
09-04-B, passed 9-9-2004)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 152.030 CREATION; NUMBER OF MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT.
   The Town Planning Commission shall consist of five members, each to be
appointed by the Town Mayor with the advice and consent of the Town Council.
The Town Council may designate, by resolution, the composition of the Town
Planning Commission. It is the intent of this chapter that the Town Planning
Commission not consist of members, all of whom are from the same field of
expertise. The five members of the Town Planning Commission shall own property
within the boundaries of the town and can attend the regularly scheduled
planning meetings. At least three of the five members shall hold no other
public office or position within the town. The Town Council shall appoint a
representative from among its members to act as a liaison between the Town
Council and the Town Planning Commission. One member, but not more than one, of
the Town Board of Adjustment shall be a member of the Town Planning Commission.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord. 06-12-03, passed 6-12-2003)
§ 152.031 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The terms of office for the five Town Planning Commission members shall be
for four years. The Town Planning Commission members terms shall be staggered
so that no two members terms shall expire every other year. The term of office
for the Town Council member designated liaison for the Town Planning Commission
shall correspond to his or her tenure of office as the Town Council member.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.032 VACANCIES AND REMOVALS FOR CAUSE.
   (A)   Vacancies of appointed members occurring otherwise than through the
expiration of terms shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by
appointment of the Town Council. The Town Council shall have the right to
remove any member of the Town Planning Commission for misconduct and may remove
any member for non-performance of duty.
   (B)   Non-performance of duty shall include a repeated failure to attend
Town Planning Commission meetings.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.033 COMPENSATION.
   The Town Planning Commission shall serve without compensation; except that,
the Town Council shall provide for reimbursement of the Town Planning
Commission for actual expenses incurred, upon presentation of proper receipts
and vouchers.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.034 OFFICERS.
   The Town Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson
from among its members, whose terms shall be for four years.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.035 MEETINGS.
   The Town Planning Commission shall conduct regularly scheduled meetings. All
meetings of the Town Planning Commission shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.036 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Planning Commission may adopt such rules and procedures as it may
deem necessary for the proper conduct of its business. The Town Planning
Commission shall keep a record of its proceedings, such record shall be open to
inspection by the public at all reasonable times.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.037 QUORUM AND VOTE.
   A quorum shall consist of two members and a Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson.
Evidence shall not be presented unless a quorum is present. A majority vote
shall be constituted of at least a majority of members present.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.038 EMPLOYEES; EXPENDITURES.
   The Town Planning Commission may, upon the approval of the Town Council,
employ experts and staff, including consultants and a secretary, and pay such
expenses, exclusive of gifts, as may be reasonable and necessary for carrying
out the duties defined in this chapter; providing that, such expenditures may
not exceed the amount appropriated for the operation of the Town Planning
Commission by the Town Council.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 152.050 BOARD; NUMBER OF MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT; TERM AND REMOVAL; VACANCIES.
   The Town Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members, each to be
appointed by the Town Council for the term of five years; provided that, the
term of one member shall expire each year. Any member may be removed for cause
by the appointing authority upon written charges and after public hearing, if
such public hearing is requested. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired
term of any member whose term becomes vacant. One member, but not more than
one, of the Town Planning Commission shall be a member of the Town Board of
Adjustment.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.051 OFFICERS.
   The Town Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-
Chairperson from among its members, who shall serve for a term of one year.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.052 DUTIES AND POWERS OF BOARD.
   The Town Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the administrative
official in the enforcement of this article or of any ordinance adopted
pursuant thereto;
   (B)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such Board is required to pass under the provisions of this chapter;
and
   (C)   To authorize upon appeal such variance from the terms of this chapter
as will not be contrary to the public interest, where owing to special
conditions a literal enforcement of the provisions of this chapter will result
in unnecessary hardship; provided that, the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed and substantial justice done. Before any variance may be authorized,
however, it shall be shown that:
      (1)   The variance will not substantially adversely affect the town’s
Master Plan or this chapter and that adherence to the strict letter of this
chapter will cause difficulties and hardships, the imposition of which upon the
petitioner is unnecessary in order to carry out the general purpose of the
Master Plan;
      (2)   Special circumstances are attached to the property covered by the
application which do not generally apply to other property in the same
district; and
      (3)   That because of said special circumstances, property covered by
application is deprived of privileges possessed by other properties in the same
district; and that the granting of the variance is essential to the enjoyment
of a substantial property right that is possessed by other property in the same
district.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.053 MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Town Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson, and at such other times as the Board may determine. The
Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All
meetings of the Town Board of Adjustment shall be properly advertised and shall
be open to the public. Notice of Board of Adjustment meetings shall be mailed
to all property owners appearing on the latest ownership plat in the County
Recorder’s Office within a 300-foot radius of any property for which an action
of the Board of Adjustment is being requested. It shall be the responsibility
of the applicant for such action to provide the stamped, addressed envelopes
necessary to provide such notice. The Chairperson may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.054 MINUTES.
   The Town Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing,
the vote of each member on each question, or if absent or failure to vote,
indicating such fact and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall be filed with the Town Clerk and shall be
public record.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.055 QUORUM.
   A quorum shall be considered three members of the Town Board of Adjustment,
and no evidence shall be presented to the Board unless a quorum is present.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.056 ACTION TO BE TAKEN.
   Approval or disapproval, rejection or modified approval of an application
shall be based upon findings which shall be made a part of the official record.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.057 VOTE NECESSARY FOR REVERSAL.
   The concurring vote of three members of the Town Board of Adjustment shall
be necessary to remove any order, requirement or determination of any such
administrative official, or to decide in favor of the appellant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under this chapter or to effect any variation
in the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.058 APPEALS TO BOARD; TIME; PERSONS ENTITLED; TRANSMISSION OF PAPERS.
   (A)   Appeals to the Town Board of Adjustment may be taken by any person
aggrieved or by any officer, department or board of the town affected by any
decision of the administrative officer. Such appeal shall be taken within 15
days as provided by the rules of the Board by filing with the officer from whom
the appeal is taken and with the Town Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof.
   (B)   The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to
the Town Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from was taken.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.059 STAY OF PROCEEDINGS PENDING APPEAL.
   (A)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Town
Board of Adjustment after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him
or her that, by reason, offsets stated in the certificate a stay would in his
or her opinion cause imminent peril to life or property.
   (B)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
restraining order which may be granted by the Town Board of Adjustment or by
district court on application and notice and on due cause shown.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.060 DECISION ON APPEAL.
   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Town Board of Adjustment may
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from and may make such offer, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.061 RULES.
   The Town Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the regulation of its
procedure and the conduct of its duties not inconsistent with the provisions of
this chapter or of the state law. Such rules, to become effective, shall be
first approved by the town.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.062 JUDICIAL REVIEW OF BOARD’S DECISION; TIME LIMITATIONS.
   The town or any person aggrieved by any decision of the Town Board of
Adjustment may have and maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in any
court of competent jurisdiction; provided, petition for such relief is
presented to the court within 30 days after the filing of such decision in the
office of the Board.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
HOME OCCUPATIONS
§ 152.075 HOME OCCUPATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   To assure compliance with provisions of this chapter and to protect the
character of residential neighborhoods in the town, a home occupation
application shall be obtained from the Town Clerk before a dwelling unit in a
residential zone may be used for business purposes.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.076 PROCEDURE.
   Applications for home occupation permit shall be submitted to the Town
Planning Commission. Applications will be reviewed by the Town Planning
Commission and forwarded to the Town Council with the Planning Commission’s
recommendations for action. The Town Council will then act upon the
application. Upon approval of an application a home occupation permit will be
issued, which permit shall state the home occupation permitted, the conditions
attached thereto and any time limitations imposed thereon. The permit shall not
be issued unless the Planning Commission is satisfied that the applicant will
meet all of the conditions listed below, and that the applicant has agreed in
writing to comply with all said conditions.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.077 CONDITIONS.
   Each and every, one of the following conditions must be observed at all
times by the holder of a home occupation permit.
   (A)   Not more than one person is employed in the home occupation or office
of a professional person on the premises in addition to the residing family.
   (B)   The home occupation shall be conducted wholly within the structures on
the premises and shall not exceed 25% of the total ground floor area of the
home. The home occupation shall not occupy any area within said structure which
is required for off-street parking by the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Inventory and supplies for the home occupation shall not occupy more
than 50% of the permitted area, or 12% of the ground floor area of the home.
   (D)   No business signs are used with the exception of one unlighted sign
concerned with the home occupation or office of a professional person not to
exceed three square feet which shall be attached to the exterior wall of the
structure in a manner deemed by the Planning Commission and Town Council not to
detract from the residential character of the dwelling or the neighborhood in
which the home occupation is to be located.
   (E)   No display of any kind shall be visible from the exterior of the
premises.
   (F)   No mechanical or electrical apparatus, equipment or tools shall be
permitted, except those items which are commonly associated with a residential
use or as are customary to home crafts or home occupations.
   (G)   The home occupation shall not generate pedestrian or vehicular traffic
in excess of that customarily associated with the zone in which the use is
located.
   (H)   There shall be complete conformity with fire, building, plumbing,
electrical and health codes and to all state and town laws and ordinances.
   (I)   The home occupation shall not cause a demand for municipal or utility
services or community facilities in excess of those usually and customarily
provided for residential uses.
   (J)   The home occupation shall not alter the residential character of the
premises or unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet, including radio and
television reception, or the neighborhood by reason of color, design,
materials, construction, lighting, sounds, noises, vibrations, dust, odors,
noxious fumes and the like.
   (K)   Any special condition established by the Planning Commission and made
of record in the home occupation permit, as it deems necessary to carry out the
intent of this chapter shall be met.
   (L)   All home occupation permits shall be valid for one year, and may be
renewed annually; provided, there have been no reported violations, complaints
or detrimental characteristics which may, in the opinion of the Planning
Commission, require termination of said home occupation, or revocation of home
occupation permit. Signatures and public hearing will not be needed on
renewals.
   (M)   Retail sales on the premises shall be limited to merchandise directly
related to the services offered by the home occupation; otherwise, there shall
be no delivery or resale to customers of retail merchandise on the premises.
   (N)   Premises shall be subject to inspection by the Planning Commission,
after reasonable notice is given with due cause.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.078 FEES.
   A fee of $25 shall accompany the initial application for a home occupation
permit and thereafter shall be due and payable at the time of business license
renewal.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.079 NON-COMPLIANCE.
   Any home occupation permit shall be revoked by the Planning Commission upon
violation of any requirements of this chapter, or upon failure to comply with
any of the conditions or limitations of the permit, unless such violation is
corrected within ten days of receipt of written notice thereof. A permit may be
revoked for repeated violations of the requirements of this chapter,
notwithstanding compliance to the violation notice.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.080 APPEAL.
   In the event of denial of any permit, or of the revocation thereof or of
objection to the limitations placed thereon, appeal may be made to the Board of
Adjustments in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.081 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A home occupation permit is not a business license, and the granting of said
permit shall not relieve the permittee of any other license requirement of the
town or of any other public agency.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.082 UTAH SALES TAX LICENSE.
   If required by the state, a state sales tax license will be required with
the town listed as a business location.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.083 AWARENESS OF NEIGHBORS.
   All applications must have signatures of neighboring land owners within one
block of the exterior boundaries of the property involved. Signatures must
indicate that neighbors are aware of the home occupation.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
§ 152.095 EFFECT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The regulations hereinafter set forth in this subchapter qualify or
supplement, as the case may be, the zone regulations appearing elsewhere in
this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.096 SUBSTANDARD LOTS AT TIME OF ORDINANCE PASSAGE.
   Any lot legally held in separate ownership at the time of passage of this
chapter, which lot is below the requirements for lot area or lot width for the
district in which it is located may be used for a single-family dwelling if
such lot is located in a district which permits single-family dwellings. The
width of each of the side yards for such a dwelling may be reduced to a width
which is not less than the same percentage of the lot width as the required
side yard would be of the required lot width; provided that, in no case shall
the smaller of the two side yards be less than five feet or the total width of
the two side yards be less than 13 feet.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.097 LOT STANDARDS.
   Except as provided in this chapter, every lot, existing or intended to be
created, shall have such area, width and depth as is required by this chapter
for the district in which such lot Is located and shall have frontage upon a
dedicated or publicly-approved street or upon a private street or right-of-way
approved by the Town Planning Commission, before a building permit may be
issued.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.098 EVERY DWELLING TO BE ON A LOT; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every dwelling structure shall be located and maintained on a separate lot
having no less than the minimum area, width, depth and frontage required by
this chapter for the district in which the dwelling structure is located. Group
dwellings, cluster dwellings, condominiums and other multi-structure dwelling
complexes under single ownership and management, which are permitted by this
chapter and have approval from the Town Planning Commission, may occupy one lot
for each such multi-structure complex.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.099 YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY.
   No required yard or other open space around an existing building or which is
hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this chapter shall be considered as providing a yard or open
space for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space
on an adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot
whereon a building is to be erected or established.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.100 PRIVATE GARAGE WITH SIDE YARD; REDUCED YARDS.
   On any interior lot where a private garage, containing a sufficient number
of parking spaces to meet the requirements of this chapter, has a side yard
equal to the minimum side yard required for a dwelling in the same district,
the width of the other side yard for the dwelling may be reduced to equal that
of the minimum required side yard; and on anywhere such garage has such side
yard, the rear yard of the dwelling may be reduced to 15 feet; provided, the
garage also has a rear yard of at least 15 feet.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.101 SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE.
   No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
requirements of this chapter for lot or building may be sold or leased away
from such lot or building.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.102 SALE OF LOTS BELOW MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area
requirements for the district in which it is located may be cut off from a
larger parcel of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of building
or development as a lot.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.103 YARDS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky, unobstructed except
for accessory buildings in a rear yard, the ordinary projections of skylights,
sills, belt courses, cornices, chimneys, flues and other ornamental features
which project into a yard not more than two and one-half feet, and open or
lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fire-proof outside stairways and balconies
opening upon fire towers projecting into a yard not more than five feet.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.104 AREA OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No accessory building or group of accessory buildings in any residential
district shall cover more than 25% of the rear yard.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.105 ADDITIONAL HEIGHT ALLOWED.
   Public and quasi-public utility buildings, when authorized in a district,
may be erected to a height greater than the district height limit by
conditional use permit.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.106 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks,
ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the
building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles,
chimneys, smokestacks, water tanks, wireless or television masts, theater
lofts, silos or similar structures may be erected above the height limits
herein prescribed, but no space above the height limit shall be allowed for
purposes of providing additional floor space. All height exceptions are subject
to conditional use permit.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.107 SCENIC VISTAS TO BE UNOBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   All height exceptions (subject to conditional use permit) shall in no
way inhibit or obstruct a scenic vista of surrounding neighbors.
   (B)   All conditional use permits made to the Town Planning Commission shall
include the notification and signatures of potentially affected neighbors
within 500 feet.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.108 MINIMUM HEIGHT OF MAIN BUILDING.
   No building, excepting farm buildings, which is accessory shall be erected
to height less than one story above grade. Exceptions shall be made to a bona
fide earth shelter home. See §
152.006.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.109 MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   No building which is accessory to a one-family, two- family, multi-family
dwelling shall be erected to a height greater than one story or 20 feet.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.110 CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREET.
   In all districts which require a front yard, no obstruction to view in
excess of two feet in height shall be placed on any corner lot within a
triangular area formed by the street property lines and a line connecting them
at points 40 feet from the intersection of the street lines, except a
reasonable number of trees pruned high enough to permit unobstructed vision to
automobile drivers; and pedestal-type identification signs and pumps at
gasoline service stations.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.111 MAXIMUM HEIGHT OF FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES.
   (A)   Fences, walls and hedges may be erected or allowed to the permitted
building height when located within the buildable area; provided that, any
physical structure over six feet in height shall require approval of Planning
Commission and Town Council.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provisions herein, no fence, wall or hedge
exceeding four feet in height shall be erected or allowed closer to any street
line than the required building setback line.
   (C)   For purpose of this section, single shrub planting shall not
constitute a hedge if the closest distance between the foliage of any two
plants is and remains at least five feet.
   (D)   Where a fence, wall, or hedge is located along a property line
separating two lots and there is a difference in the grade of the properties on
the two sides of the property line, the fence, wall or hedge may be erected or
allowed to the maximum height permitted on either side of the property line.
   (E)   Fencing and walls eight feet in height, including protective gates,
shall be required around swimming pools, Jacuzzis and similar structures.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.112 WATER AND SEWAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   All proposed building or proposed use shall be connected to an approved
water system within the town limits. All proposed building or proposed use
within the town shall be connected to an approved individual septic system or
sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.113 CURBS, GUTTERS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The installation of curb, gutter and sidewalks of a type approved by
the Town Council may be required on any existing or proposed street adjoining a
lot on which a building is to be constructed or remodeled, or on which a new
use is to be established.
   (B)   Such curbs, gutters and sidewalks may be required as a condition of
building or use permit approval.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.114 BEAUTIFICATION.
   (A)   Buildings, uses and lots shall be maintained in such a manner as to
enhance community pride and beautification.
   (B)   No junk, rubbish, weeds or other unsightly material or conditions
shall be permitted on any lot, right-of-way or easement or as a part of any
building or use.
   (C)   No inoperable or unlicensed vehicles are allowed within the public
right-of-way.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
§ 152.125 MAINTENANCE PERMITTED.
   A non-conforming building or structure may be maintained. A building
constructed before the year 2000 and the passing of the Zoning Ordinance may
continue as a compliant building if it complies to the present zoned use and
may be altered according to the present zoning law and building codes whether
it has been occupied or not.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord. 04-10-03A, passed 4-10-2003)
§ 152.126 REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS.
   Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a non-conforming building
or to a building housing a non-conforming use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.127 ADDITIONS, ENLARGEMENTS AND MOVING.
   A building or structure occupied by a non-conforming use and a building or
structure non- conforming as to height, area or yard requirements shall not be
added to or enlarged in any manner unless such addition or enlargement conforms
or is made to conform to all regulations of the zone in which it is located,
except as permitted by the Town Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.128 ALTERATION WHERE PARKING INSUFFICIENT.
   A building or structure lacking sufficient automobile parking space in
connection therewith as required by this chapter may be altered or enlarged;
provided, additional automobile parking space is supplied to meet the
requirements of this chapter for such alteration or enlargement. All parking
spaces shall be on the site or adjacent to the site.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.129 RESTORATION OF DAMAGED BUILDINGS.
   A non-conforming building or structure or a building or structure occupied
by a non-conforming use which is damaged by fire, flood, wind, earthquake or
other calamity or Act of God, or the public enemy, may be restored and the
occupancy or use of such building, structure or part thereof, which existed at
the time of such damage may be continued or resumed; provided that, such
restoration is started within a period of one year and is diligently prosecuted
to completion.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.130 ONE-YEAR VACANCY.
   A building or structure or portion thereof occupied by a non-conforming use,
which is, or hereafter becomes, vacant and remains unoccupied by a non-
conforming use for a continuous period of one year shall not thereafter be
occupied, except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the district
in which it is located.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.131 CONTINUATION OF USE.
   The occupancy of a building or structure by a non-conforming use, existing
at the time this chapter became effective, may be continued.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.132 OCCUPATION WITHIN ONE YEAR.
   A vacant building or structure may be occupied by a use for which the
building or structure was designed or intended, if so occupied within a period
of one year after the use became non-conforming.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.133 CHANGE OF USE.
   The non-conforming use of a building or structure may not be changed, except
to a conforming use; but where such change is made, the use shall not
thereafter be changed back to a non-conforming use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.134 NON-CONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   The non-conforming use of land, existing at the time this chapter became
effective, may be continued; provided that, no such non-conforming use of land
shall in any way be expanded either on the same or on adjoining property; and,
provided that, is such non-conforming use of land, or any portion thereof, is
abandoned or changed for a period of one year or more, any future use of such
land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.135 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following non-conforming structures and uses shall be amortized in
a period not exceeding that stated below, effective from the date of adoption
of this chapter.
      (1)   Trash, junk, debris or similar material shall be removed from any
residential zone within two years.
      (2)   Non-conforming signs shall be removed from any zone in which said
signs are non- conforming within one year.
   (B)   Non-conforming structures or uses not removed within the specified
time, effective of the date of adoption of this chapter, shall be removed by
the town and the costs incurred by the town in doing so shall be billed to the
owner of the property or structure.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 152.150 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED.
   At the time any commercial business or enterprise, or public meeting space
is erected or enlarged or increased in capacity or any commercial business or
enterprise, or public meeting space is established, there shall be provided
off-street parking spaces for automobiles adjacent to the commercial business
or enterprise, public meeting space, or use in accordance with the following
requirements.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.151 NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES.
   The number of off-street parking spaces required shall be as follows:
 
Churches or meeting halls         1 parking stall for each 3 seats of maximum
                                  seating capacity
Commercial business or enterprise As determined by Town Planning Commission,
                                  based on nearest comparable standards
 
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.152 ACCESS REQUIREMENTS.
   Adequate ingress and egress to and from all commercial businesses or
enterprises shall be provided as follows.
   (A)   Not more than two driveways shall be used for each 100 feet or
fraction thereof of building frontage.
   (B)   No two of said driveways shall be closer to each other than 12 feet
and no driveway shall be closer to a side property line than three feet.
   (C)   No driveway shall be closer than 25 feet from any intersection at any
corner as measured along the property line.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.153 MAINTENANCE OF PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Surfacing. Each off-street parking lot shall be surfaced with a
surface adequate in relation to location and use. Parking lots serving a high
volume of traffic shall be surfaced in such a way to provide a dustless
surface. The parking area shall be graded so as to dispose of all surface water
in a manner approved by the town.
   (B)   Landscaping. Each parking lot shall be adequately landscaped and
permanently maintained.
   (C)   Lighting. Lighting used to illuminate any parking lot shall be
arranged to reflect the light away from adjoining premises and away from street
traffic.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 152.165 PURPOSE OF CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS.
   Certain uses which may be harmonious under special conditions and in
specific locations within a district, but be improper under general conditions
and in other locations, are classed as conditional uses within the various
districts and require conditional use permits for approval.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.166 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as
conditional uses in the district regulations or elsewhere in this chapter. A
conditional use permit may be revoked upon failure to comply with conditions
precedent to the original approval of the certificate. No building permit or
other permit or license shall be issued for a use requiring conditional use
without first being reviewed and/or approved by the Town Planning Commission or
the Town Council.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.167 APPLICATION.
   A conditional use permit application shall be made to the town’s Planning
Commission as provided in this chapter. Applications for a conditional use
permit shall be accompanied by maps, drawings, statements or other documents as
required by the town’s Planning Commission.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.168 FEE.
   A $150 fees is required to process any conditional use application in the
town.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.169 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The application for a conditional use permit shall prepare a site plan with
evaluations (as may be necessary) for the site being proposed for development.
The plan shall be drawn to scale and show all existing and proposed buildings,
roads, parking and other information that the town’s Planning Commission may
deem necessary.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.170 PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION.
   (A)   The town’s Planning Commission may recommend approval or denial of the
conditional use permit.
   (B)   In recommending approval of any conditional use, the town’s Planning
Commission shall suggest regulations and conditions which are necessary to
protect the public health, safety and welfare. In recommending approval of a
conditional use permit, the town’s Planning Commission shall find:
      (1)   The proposed use is necessary or desirable and will contribute to
the general well-being of the community;
      (2)   The use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or welfare of
persons residing, or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or
improvements in the vicinity;
      (3)   The proposed use will comply with the regulations of this chapter;
and
      (4)   The proposed use is in harmony with the intent and purpose of the
town’s Master Plan or that the plan shall have first been amended through
public hearing.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.171 TOWN COUNCIL ACTION.
   Upon denial of a conditional use permit by the town’s Planning Commission,
the applicant may appeal in writing within 30 days to the Town Council. The
Town Council may approve, modify and approve or deny the conditional use
application in a public meeting. In approving any conditional use, the Town
Council shall impose regulations and conditions as are necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare. The Town Council shall follow the same
conditions as stated in §
152.170.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.172 EXPANSION OF A CONDITIONAL USE.
   No structure in which a conditional use is located may expand without the
approval of the town’s Planning Commission and the Town Council. Before
expanding, the applicant shall present to the town’s Planning Commission a
development plan meeting the requirements of §
152.169. No public hearing need be held. However, the town’s Planning
Commission may deem a hearing necessary.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.173 INSPECTION.
   Following the issuance of a conditional use permit for a use which requires
a building permit, the town’s Building Inspector shall approve an application
for a building permit, and shall insure that development is undertaken and
completed in compliance with said conditional use and all other applicable
codes and ordinances.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.174 TIME LIMITATION.
   All conditional use permits shall expire within a maximum period of one year
of issuance, unless there shall have been substantial performance toward the
completion of the conditions set forth in the permit. The Planning Commission
may recommend and the Town Council may grant a maximum extension of six months
under exceptional circumstances. In the event that a conditional use permit is
granted on a temporary basis, the Planning Commission may recommend and the
Town Council may issue a permit for six months, with one maximum extension of
six months. A conditional use permit shall be non-transferrable.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.175 REVOCATION.
   A conditional use permit may be revoked upon failure to comply with the
conditions imposed with the original approval of the permit and the applicant
shall be so notified of revocation by the town. The permit may be reinstated
upon determination by the Town Council that the cause for revocation has been
corrected and that the applicant intends to proceed according to the plans
approved by the town’s Planning Commission at the time the permit was
originally issued, or as they might have been properly amended by the town’s
Planning Commission from time to time during the period of the conditional use.
Revocation or reinstatement of a conditional use permit is the responsibility
of the Town Council, upon recommendation by the town’s Planning Commission.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 152.190 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the planned unit development is to allow diversification in
the relationship of various uses and structures to their sites, and to permit
more flexibility in the use of such sites. The application of planned
development concepts is intended to encourage good neighborhood, housing or
area design, thus insuring substantial compliance with the intent of the
district health, safety and general welfare, and at the same time securing the
advantages of large-scale site planning for residential, commercial or
industrial development or combinations thereof.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.191 DEFINITION.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, for the purposes of this chapter, shall mean an
integrated design for development of residential, commercial or industrial
uses, or combinations of such uses, in which one or more of the regulations,
other than use regulations, of the district in which the development is to be
situated, is waived or varied to allow flexibility and initiative in site and
building design and location, in accordance with an approved plan and imposed
general requirements as specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.192 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   Planned unit developments may be allowed as a conditional use by the town’s
Planning Commission. No such planned unit development permit shall be granted
unless such development will meet the use limitations of the zoning district in
which it is to be located, including planned unit developments in planned
districts, and meet the density and other limitations of such districts, except
as such requirements may be lawfully modified as provided by this chapter or by
district regulations. Compliance with the regulations of this chapter in no
sense excuses the developer from the applicable requirements of Chapter 151,
except as modifications thereof are specifically authorized in the approval of
the application for the planned unit development.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.193 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No planned unit development shall have an area less than that approved
by the town’s Planning Commission as adequate for the proposed development.
   (B)   A planned unit development which will contain uses not permitted in
the zoning district in which it is to be located will require a change of
zoning district and shall be accompanies by an application for a zoning
amendment; except that, any residential use shall be considered a permitted use
in a planned unit development which allows residential uses and shall be
governed by density, design and other requirements of the planned unit
development permit.
   (C)   The development shall be in single or corporate ownership at the time
of application, or the subject of an application filed jointly by all owners of
the property.
   (D)   The town’s Planning Commission shall require such arrangements of
structures and open spaces within the site development plan as necessary to
assure that adjacent properties will not be adversely affected.
      (1)   Density of land use intensity shall in no case be more than 25%
higher than allowed in the zoning district, except not more than 10% higher in
residential districts.
      (2)   Where feasible, least height and intensity of buildings and uses
shall be arranged around the boundaries of the development.
      (3)   Lot area, width, yard, height, density and coverage regulations
shall be determined by approval of the site development plan.
   (E)   Preservation, maintenance and ownership of required open spaces within
the development shall be accomplished by:
      (1)   Dedication of the land as a public park or parkway system;
      (2)   Granting to the town a permanent, open space easement on and over
the said private open spaces to guarantee that the open space remain
perpetually in recreational use, with ownership and maintenance being the
responsibility of an owners’ association established with articles of
association and bylaws which are satisfactory to the Town Council; or
      (3)   Complying with the provisions of the Condominium Ownership Act of
1963, UCA Title 57, Chapter 8  1 , as amended, which provides for the payment
of common expense for the upkeep of the common areas and facilities.
   (F)   Landscaping, fencing and screening related to the several uses within
the site and as a means of integrating the proposed development into its
surroundings shall be planned and presented to the town’s Planning Commission
for approval, together with other required plans for the development.
   (G)   The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and the
intensity and direction of area or floodlighting shall be detailed in the
application.
   (H)   A grading and drainage plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission with the application.
   (I)   A planting plan showing proposed tree and shrubbery plantings shall be
prepared for the entire site to be developed.
   (J)   The proposed use of the particular location shall be shown as
necessary or desirable, to provide a service or facility which will contribute
to the general well-being of the neighborhood and the community.
   (K)   It shall be shown that under the circumstances of the particular case,
the proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general
welfare of persons residing in the vicinity of the planned unit development.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 152.194 USES ALLOWED.
   Subject to the review and approval of the town’s Planning Commission, uses
allowed in a planned unit development shall be those uses allowed in the
planned district or other zoning district in which the planned unit development
is to be located; provided that, for the purposes of this chapter and
ordinance, multiple-family dwellings may be allowed in a planned unit
development approved in a single-family zoning district; provided, the overall
density of the development does not exceed 10% above the density normally
allowed for single-family dwellings in said district.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.195 GENERAL SITE PLAN.
   Application shall be accomplished by a general site plan showing, where
pertinent:
   (A)   The use or uses, dimensions, sketch elevations and locations of
proposed structures;
   (B)   Dimensions and locations of areas to be reserved and developed for
vehicular and pedestrian circulation, parking, public uses such as schools and
playgrounds, landscaping and other open spaces;
   (C)   Architectural drawings and sketches outlining the general design and
character of the proposed uses and the physical relationship of the uses; and
   (D)   Such other pertinent information, including residential density,
coverage and open space characteristics, shall be included as may be necessary
to make a determination that the contemplated arrangements of buildings and
uses makes it desirable to apply regulations and requirements differing from
those ordinarily applicable under this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.196 REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   In order that it may approve a planned unit development, the town’s Planning
Commission shall have authority to require that the following conditions (among
others it deems appropriate) be met by the applicant:
   (A)   The proponents of the planned unit development have demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the town’s Planning Commission that they are financially
able to carry out the proposed project;
   (B)   The proponents intend to start construction within one year of the
approval of the project and any necessary zoning district change, and intend to
complete said construction, or approved stages thereof, within four years from
the date construction begins;
   (C)   That application for planned unit development in planned districts
meet the requirements of such districts, including the requirements of the
general development plan;
   (D)   The development is planned as one complex land use rather than as an
aggregation of individual and unrelated buildings and uses; and
   (E)   The development as planned will accomplish the purpose outlined in §
152.165.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.197 SCOPE OF PLANNING COMMISSION AND TOWN COUNCIL ACTION.
   In carrying out the intent of this chapter, the town’s Planning Commission
shall consider the following principles.
   (A)   (1)   It is the intent of this chapter that site and building plans
for a planned unit development should be prepared by a designer or team of
designers having professional competence in urban planning as proposed in the
application.
      (2)   The Commission may require the applicant to engage such a qualified
designer or design team.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this section that control of the design of a
planned unit development by the town be so rigidly exercised that individual
initiative be stifled and substantial additional expense incurred; rather, it
is the intent of this section that the control exercised be the minimum
necessary to achieve the purpose of this chapter.
   (C)   The town’s Planning Commission may recommend approval or disapproval
of an application for a planned unit development. In recommending approval, the
town’s Planning Commission may attach such recommendations as it may deem
necessary to secure compliance with the purposes set forth in §
152.190. The approval or disapproval of a planned unit development conditional
use permit rests with the Town Council.
   (D)   Landscaping, fencing and screening related to the several uses within
the site and as a means of integrating the proposed development into its
surroundings shall be planned and presented to the town’s Planning Commission
for approval, together with other required plans for the development.
   (E)   The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and the
intensity and direction of area or floodlighting shall be detailed in the
application.
   (F)   A grading and drainage plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission with the application.
   (G)   A planting plan showing proposed tree and shrubbery plantings shall be
prepared for the entire site to be developed.
   (H)   The proposed use of the particular location shall be shown as
necessary or desirable, to provide a service or facility which will contribute
to the general well-being of the neighborhood and the community.
   (I)   It shall be shown that under the circumstances of the particular case,
the proposed use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general
welfare of persons residing in the vicinity of the planned unit development.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.198 CONSTRUCTION LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Upon approval of a planned unit development, construction shall
proceed only in accordance with the plans and specifications approved by the
Town Council, and in conformity with any conditions attached.
   (B)   Amendments to approved plans and specifications for a planned unit
development shall be obtained only by following the procedures here outlined
for first approval.
   (C)   The town’s Building Inspector shall not issue any permit for any
proposed building, structure or use within the project unless such building,
structure or use is in accordance with the approved development plan and with
any conditions imposed in conjunction with its approval.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
DESIGN REVIEW
§ 152.210 PURPOSE.
   The purpose and intent of design review is to secure the general purposes of
this chapter and the town’s Master Plan and to ensure that the general
appearance of buildings and structures and the development of the land shall in
no case be such as would impair the orderly and harmonious development of the
neighborhood or impair investment in the occupation of the neighborhood. It is
the intent of this chapter to specify minimum architectural design features in
order to preserve the overall traditional single-family residential features of
the town and to encourage compatibility of any particular development with its
surroundings.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.211 APPLICATION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   All applications for building permits for all buildings and structures
shall be accompanied by architectural and site development plans to scale,
which shall show building locations, landscaping, prominent existing trees,
general treatment, fences, off-street parking and circulation, location and
size of the adjacent streets, north arrow and property lines, drawings of the
major exterior elevations, the building materials, proposed exterior color
scheme, existing grades and proposed new grades. All such drawings and sketches
shall be reviewed by the town’s Planning Commission; except that, the review
and approval of such permits by the town’s Zoning Administrator may be
authorized by the town’s Planning Commission when the application meets all
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   All of the above required architectural and site development plans
shall have been reviewed and approved prior to the issuance of a building
permit.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.212 EXCEPTIONS.
   For buildings and uses covered by conditional use permits design review
shall be incorporated within such conditional use permit and need not be a
separate application; provided, the requirements of this chapter are met.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.213 PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
   The town’s Planning Commission shall determine whether the proposed
architectural and site development plans submitted are consistent with this
chapter and with the general objectives of this chapter, and shall give or
withhold approval accordingly. Denial of approval by the town’s Planning
Commission may be appealed to the Town Council, as provided for in the appeals
section of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.214 CONSIDERATION IN REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   The town’s Planning Commission shall consider the following matters, and
others when applicable, in their review of applications.
   (A)   Considerations relating to traffic safety and traffic congestion.
      (1)   The effect of the site development plan on traffic conditions on
abutting streets;
      (2)   The layout of the site with respect to locations and dimensions of
vehicular and pedestrian entrances, exits, drives and wall ways;
      (3)   The arrangement and adequacy of off-street parking facilities;
      (4)   The circulation patterns within the boundaries of the development;
and
      (5)   The surfacing and lighting of off-street parking facilities.
   (B)   Consideration relating to outdoor advertising. The number, location,
color, size, height, lighting and landscaping of outdoor advertising signs and
structures in relation to the creation of traffic hazards and the appearance
and harmony with adjacent development.
   (C)   Consideration relating to landscaping.
      (1)   The location, height and materials of walls, fences, hedges, screen
plantings to insure harmony with adjacent development, or to conceal storage
areas, utility installations or other unsightly development;
      (2)   The planting of ground cover or other surfacing to prevent dust and
erosion; and
      (3)   The unnecessary destruction of existing healthy trees.
   (D)   Considerations relating to buildings and site layout.
      (1)   Consideration of the general silhouette and mass, including
location on the site, elevation and relation to natural plant coverage, all in
relationship to the neighborhood; and
      (2)   Consideration of exterior design in relation to adjoining
structures in height, bulk and area openings, breaks in facade facing on the
street (or streets), line and pitch of roofs and the arrangement of structures
on the parcel.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.215 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The town’s Planning Commission shall decide all applications for
design review.
      (2)   Design approval may include such conditions consistent with the
consideration of this chapter as the town’s Planning Commission or town’s
Zoning Administrator deem reasonable and necessary under the circumstances to
carry out the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   In the case of primary, single-family, mobile, manufactured or modular
home structures the Planning Commission shall impose conditions as follows:
      (1)   The structure shall be on a permanent foundation;
      (2)   The roof pitch of the structure shall be a minimum of 4/12;
      (3)   The distance of the length of the structure shall be no more than
twice the distance of the width of the structure;
      (4)   All construction shall be in compliance with the Uniform Building
Code unless otherwise so designated;
      (5)   The size of the principle structure shall be no less than 1,000
square feet; and
      (6)   The Planning Commission shall give approval for the project.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.216 FINDINGS AND DECISIONS.
   Upon a finding by the town’s Planning Commission or the town’s Zoning
Administrator, when authorized, that the application meets the intent of this
chapter, the design approval shall be granted, subject to such conditions as
are necessary; otherwise, approval shall be denied.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.217 NOTIFICATION OF APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   Upon the granting of design approval, the secretary of the town’s Planning
Commission shall prepare and mail or deliver to the applicant a formal
statement thereof, stating the fact of the grant and any conditions attached
thereof, or the fact of denial and the reasons thereof.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.218 TIME LIMITATIONS ON APPROVAL.
   If construction in harmony with the permit for any development for which
design approval has been granted has not been commenced within one year from
date of notification of approval, the approval shall be deemed automatically
revoked. Upon application, an extension of time may be granted by the town’s
Planning Commission or by the town’s Zoning Administrator, when authorized.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.219 TRANSFER OF APPROVAL UPON CHANGE IN USE.
   Design approval shall be deemed revoked if the buildings erected or the
classification of their use or the classification of the use of land for which
the approval was granted is changed, unless the approval is transferred by the
town’s Planning Commission, or the town’s Zoning Administrator, when authorized
to do so. If the transfer is not approved, a new application must be filed.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.220 CONFORMANCE TO APPROVAL.
   Development for which design approval has been granted shall conform to the
approval and any conditions attached thereto.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.221 MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Upon request of the applicant, modifications in the approved plan may
be made by the town’s Planning Commission or the town’s Zoning Administrator
when authorized to do so, if it is found that the modifications will meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The town’s Planning Commission may revoke or modify a design approval
which does not conform to any requirements of the approved permit.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
CONSTRUCTION SUBJECT TO GEOLOGIC, FLOOD OR OTHER NATURAL HAZARDS
§ 152.235 PURPOSE.
   To protect the general public from geologic, flood or other natural hazards
that might be detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of the town. Any application for a conditional use or building permit
which has, in the opinion of the town’s Planning Commission or the town’s
Zoning Administrator, when authorized, potential soils, earthquake, flood or
other discernible hazards may be required to provide a report addressing such
hazards and possible mitigation measures.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.236 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The report shall be prepared at the applicant’s expense by a
registered or licensed geologist, soils engineer or civil engineer, and shall
show the suitability of the soils on the property to accommodate the proposed
construction, and any discernible flood or earthquake hazards.
   (B)   Whenever a professional expert indicates a parcel may be subject to a
potential or actual hazard, the applicant shall meet the special conditions
required by the town’s Planning Commission or the town’s Zoning Administrator,
when authorized, to reduce or eliminate such hazards.
   (C)   If, based on the report of the professional expert, a hazard exists
which cannot be mitigated to the satisfaction of Planning Commission and which
would continue to pose a threat, existing or potential, to the health, safety
and welfare of present and future citizens of the town, neither a conditional
use permit nor a building permit will be issued by the town for the proposed
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES, MOBILE HOME PARKS
AND MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS
§ 152.250 PURPOSE.
   The intent of this subchapter is to ensure that the present residential
character of the town is maintained and enhanced and, to this end, that mobile
homes are accommodated in the town subject to conditions which will meet this
intent and which will be in accordance with the community goals set forth in
the Master Plan of the town. This chapter is also intended to provide
compatibility between adjacent land uses.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.251 LOCATION AND USE.
   No mobile home shall be located, placed, used or occupied in any district
other than within an approved mobile home park, mobile home subdivision or
where allowed by this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.252 MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOMES PLACED AS PERMANENT RESIDENCES.
   (A)   Mobile and manufactured homes may be placed as permanent residences in
zoning districts on residential lots so long as they meet all requirements of
this chapter. A building permit shall be required for any permanent placement
of a mobile, manufactured or modular home.
   (B)   Any mobile or manufactured home shall be allowed on a residential lot
outside of a mobile home park; provided that, it meets the following criteria:
      (1)   The standards of UCA Title 58, § 56  1 , the Uniform Building
Standards Act, shall be complied with;
      (2)   The structure shall be placed on a permanent foundation meeting the
requirements of the Uniform Building Code;
      (3)   The structure shall be tied down in a manner which meets
manufacturer’s recommendations, or if no such recommendations are available, as
required by the Building Official;
      (4)   The structure shall meet all zoning district requirements for the
applicable zone;
      (5)   The dwelling must be connected to water, power and wastewater
systems as any other single-family dwelling; and
      (6)   The wheels and running gear shall be removed.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 152.253 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   A mobile home development shall be located only within designated
zoning districts.
   (B)   No part of any park shall be used for non-residential purposes, except
as allowed by planned unit development application and approval.
(Ord. 13, passed 8-4-1986; Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.254 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Mobile home parks may not be constructed unless first approved by the
Town Council, after review of plans for said mobile home park by the town’s
Planning Commission which ensure that the said development will:
      (1)   Be in keeping with the general character of the district within
which the development is to be located;
      (2)   Be located on a parcel of land containing not less than five acres,
or on two or more parcels separated by a street or alley only, and totaling at
least five acres;
      (3)   Have at least five spaces completed and ready for occupancy before
first occupancy is permitted;
      (4)   Meet all standards and requirements effective upon the adoption of
the Mobile Home Park Ordinance of the town;
      (5)   Shall be connected to the culinary water and wastewater facilities
as stated in §
152.112 of this chapter; and
      (6)   Should be developed according to plans prepared by a professional
team. In all cases it is recommended that professional design and other
assistance be obtained early in the program including (as needed) a geologist
or soils engineer, an urban planner, a lawyer, a financial expert or others. It
is the intent of the town that the developer solve problems associated with the
development before approval is given and construction begins. Determination of
qualifications of required professional individuals or firms shall be made by
the town’s Planning Commission.
   (B)   In a mobile home park, the number of mobile homes shall be limited to
two units per acre. The mobile homes may be clustered; provided that, the total
number of units does not exceed the number permitted on one acre, multiplied by
the number of acres in the development given ideal soil conditions. The
remaining land not contained in individual lots, roads or parking, shall be set
aside and developed as parks, playground, service areas for common use and
enjoyment of occupants of the development and of the visitors thereto.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.255 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All mobile homes shall be installed on an approved permanent
foundation, and if necessary shall be skirted with material matching the design
and color of the respective manufactured or mobile home within 60 days of
installation. All skirting shall be kept in place and in good repair at all
times.
   (B)   An overall plan for development of a mobile home park shall be
submitted to the town’s Planning Commission for review. The plan shall be drawn
to a scale no smaller than one connection.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.256 SAFETY, SANITATION AND LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No electrical line shall be allowed to lay on the ground, and all
electrical connections as in this paragraph shall be subject to periodic
inspections by the designated municipal officer for safety purposes.
   (B)   Fire hydrants shall be located within 400 feet of every lot within the
mobile home park area; all skirting of the foundations around each and every
mobile home unit shall be of non-flammable material. The location, manner of
emplacement, connection and other parameters regarding containers of fuel, such
as petroleum and liquified gas, shall be executed in accordance with recognized
industry and government standards regarding hazardous and flammable materials.
The location of such petroleum and liquified gas and/or other related
containers within the mobile home unit shall be expressly prohibited. The
accumulation of litter around or underneath said mobile home unit shall be
subject to periodic inspections by the Municipal Fire Inspector for safety
purposes.
   (C)   Not less than 5% of the area within said mobile home park is to be set
aside for play space, and is to be planted in lawn, or otherwise equipped with
play apparatus for children.
   (D)   The owner/operator of said mobile home park shall provide metal
garbage containers with tight lids, which shall be located and secured in an
area and in such a manner as to prevent littering. Said owner and/or operator
shall dispose of all refuse and garbage accumulated within the mobile home park
at least once a week.
   (E)   The owner of said mobile home shall provide adequate fencing or
screening of the property. Fencing or screening shall be a minimum of six feet
high and shall be constructed of site obscuring materials along the perimeter
of the project.
   (F)   The owner and/or operator of said mobile home shall provide
additional, communal parking for the residents of the mobile home park in the
amount of 0.75 auto parking spaces per mobile home space.
   (G)   All other necessary infrastructure improvements shall be as required
for single-family residential areas.
(Ord. 13, passed 8-4-1986; Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.257 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit to maintain and/or operate an approved mobile home park within the
limits of the municipality shall be issued to any person obtaining a municipal
business license for such a purpose and duly registering with the local board
of health. Said permit to maintain and/or operate a mobile home park may be
revoked by the local health officer upon conviction of any of the provisions of
the municipal ordinances pertaining to health, sanitation and/or nuisance, and
arising out of the maintenance and/or operation of said mobile home park. The
local health officer is hereby authorized to make regular inspections of said
mobile home park areas for the purpose of health and sanitation.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.258 NOTIFICATION OF NEIGHBORING PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   The application for a conditional use permit to establish a mobile
home park within the town shall include a statement showing that adjacent
property owners have been informed as to the intention of a mobile home park
being established. Applicants for conditional use permits for mobile home parks
are required to give written notification to all property owners within 300
feet of the nearest point of the property involved of the pending action.
   (B)   The written notification should describe the location and nature of
the proposed development. It must inform neighboring property owners of the
opportunity to comment upon the application in a meeting of the Planning
Commission. The time, date and place of the meeting at which the application
will be considered should be noted. Notification may be delivered in person or
by mail. Notification must be accomplished at the applicant’s expense.
Notification must be accomplished at least one week prior to the scheduled
meeting of the Planning Commission at which the application will be discussed.
(Ord. 13, passed 8-4-1986; Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
SOLAR ACCESS PROTECTION AND INCENTIVES
§ 152.270 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the solar access incentives and protection is to
encourage and protect the use of passive and active solar energy systems.
   (B)   It is the opinion of the town that solar energy systems will become an
important contribution to energy production in the near future, particularly in
residential uses.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.271 PROTECTION OF SOLAR ACCESS IN DISTRICTS; RR-1, RR-2, RR-5.
   (A)   No building, chimney, trees, shrubs or other large objects shall be
constructed or placed in such a manner so as to obstruct the sun from reaching
not less than 80% of an existing solar energy system from 8:00 a.m. to 3:00
p.m. on any day.
   (B)   Where an existing solar energy system is in place on an adjacent lot,
no building permit shall be issued by the Building Inspector for a building
that will infringe on neighboring solar access.
   (C)   Where there is question as to whether or not an infringement of solar
access to an existing solar system will take place, the property owner/
developer must prove, to the Planning Commission, before being issued a
building permit that no such infringement will take place, and if such an
infringement does occur after construction, the owner/developer is responsible
for corrective measures being carried out.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000) Penalty, see §
152.999
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.285 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the territory of the town to which this
chapter applies is divided into zoning districts as follows:
   (A)   Rural Residential (RR-1/2);
   (B)   Rural Residential (RR-2);
   (C)   Residential Agricultural (RA);
   (D)   Agricultural (A);
   (E)   Open Space (OS);
   (F)   Restricted Development - Overlay Zone (RD); and
   (G)   Community Commercial (CC).
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.286 RULES FOR LOCATING BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
town map, the following shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines and
in the event of change in the centerline shall be construed as moving with the
centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the right-of-way lines
of streets, highways or alleys shall be constructed to follow such right-of-way
lines, and in the event of a change in the right-of-way line shall be construed
as moving with the right-of-way line.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed to follow such lot lines.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (C) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official map shall be determined by the scale
of the map.
   (E)   In case any further uncertainty exists, the town’s Board of
Adjustments shall determine the location of such boundaries.
   (F)   Boundaries of each of the said zones are hereby established as
described herein or as shown on the map entitled “Kanarraville Town Zoning
Map”, which map is on file with the Town Clerk and all boundaries shown thereon
are made by this reference as much a part of this chapter as is fully described
and detailed herein.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.287 SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS TO ALL ZONES.
   No trash, rubbish, weeds, junk, debris or other similar material shall be
allowed to remain on any lot outside of approved containers or any zone after
passage of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000) Penalty, see §
152.999
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, see §
152.135
§ 152.288 ANNEXATIONS.
   All annexed property will come into Kanarraville zoned open space, pending
future changes recommended by the town’s Planning Commission and approved by
the Town Council.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.289 LISTING OF ORDINANCE AND MAP.
   This chapter and map shall be filed in the custody of the Town Clerk and may
be examined by the public subject to the reasonable regulations established by
said Clerk.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
RESTRICTED DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY (RDO)
§ 152.300 PURPOSE.
   To provide for protection of property owners in areas of existing zones
which are subject to development constraints as a result of environmental
conditions.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.301 PERMITTED USES.
   No uses are specifically permitted in this zone.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.302 CONDITIONAL USES.
   All potential uses are subject to a special conditional use permit granted
by the town’s Planning Commission.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.303 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Areas falling under the provisions of this section are shown generally
on the official zoning map for the town. Specific boundaries of this district
shall be determined by the town’s Planning Commission.
   (B)   Applicants for special conditional permits within this zone must
present detailed engineering studies as required by the Planning Commission
relating to potential problems of developing these areas.
   (C)   Applicants for special conditional use permits within this zone must
show what measures will be employed to mitigate flood and flash flood dangers
in these zones. Such measures must be developed through consultation with an
engineer, planner, architect and other professionals experienced with
development proposals.
   (D)   Factors to be considered in evaluating proposed uses within the
overlay zone include, but are not limited to: visual disruption of skylines and
vistas; disturbance of natural vegetation and wildlife habitats; location in
relation to flood zones and drainages, steep slopes and rockfall areas; and
other considerations which may have potential adverse consequences for the
health, safety and welfare of present and future citizens of the town.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
OPEN SPACE (OS)
§ 152.315 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Open Space Zone is to minimize flooding, erosion and
other environmental hazards; to protect the natural scenic character of areas
not suitable for development; to promote the well-being of present and future
residents of the town; and to ensure the efficient expenditure of public funds.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.316 USE REGULATIONS.
   In the Open Space Zone, no property shall be used and no building shall be
erected or altered so as to be arranged, intended or designed to be used for
other than one or more of the following uses:
   (A)   Livestock grazing;
   (B)   Public or private recreation facilities, parking lots and restrooms
which will not significantly alter the natural form of the landscape;
   (C)   Emergency equipment routes to provide essential emergency services
such as fire control;
   (D)   Single family dwellings; provided that, the applicant can demonstrate
conclusively to the Planning Commission that any hazards and limitations of the
site can be overcome in such a manner as to prevent hazard to life or limb,
hazard to property, adverse effects on the safety and use or stability of a
public way or environment; and
   (E)   Public utilities and transmission lines.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord. 07-08-2010, passed 7-8-2010)
§ 152.317 SITE DESIGN REGULATIONS.
   All site design elements are subject to conditional use review and approval
of the Planning Commission and Town Council as outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.318 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No building shall exceed 35 feet or two and one-half stories in height.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.319 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS.
 
District Area    Width    Yards in Feet
                          Front Side Rear
OS       20 acre 500 feet 50    30   50
 
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
AGRICULTURAL (A)
§ 152.330 PURPOSE.
   To promote and preserve in appropriate areas conditions favorable to
agriculture.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.331 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Animals and fowl;
   (B)   Agricultural uses, farming and gardening; and
   (C)   Barns, corrals, pens, coops, machinery sheds and other buildings
incidental to agricultural operations.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.332 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Single-family homes; and
   (B)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to single-family
homes.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.333 MINIMUM AREA.
   (A)   Minimum area in the Agricultural District is 43,560 square feet (one
acre).
   (B)   Minimum area, width and yard and other requirements for approved
single-family home conditional use shall be the same as stated in §§
152.370 through
152.377 of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.334 MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   Stables, corrals, barns and chicken coops shall be located at least 50 feet
from the nearest dwelling or public street.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.335 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Exceptions to these regulations are provided in §§
152.095 through
152.114 of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL (RA)
§ 152.350 PURPOSE.
   To provide for dwellings on large lots on agricultural areas while
maintaining conditions favorable to agriculture.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.351 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Animals and fowl;
   (B)   Agricultural uses, farming and gardening;
   (C)   Barns, corrals, pens, coops, machinery sheds and other buildings
incidental to agricultural operations;
   (D)   Single-family homes;
   (E)   Household pets; and
   (F)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to residential
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.352 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Public utilities, essential services;
   (B)   Home occupation (see §§
152.075 through
152.083); and
   (C)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the conditional
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.353 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No buildings may exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height. No
dwelling shall be less than one story in height.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.354 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
 
District Area   Width    Yards in Feet
                         Front Side Rear
RA       5 acre 100 feet 40    18   40
 
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.355 SIGNS.
   Signs permitted in the rural residential district shall be limited to the
following:
   (A)   One real estate sign, not to exceed eight square feet in sign area;
   (B)   One residential sign, not to exceed two square feet in sign area; and
   (C)   One home occupation sign, not to exceed three square feet in sign
area.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.356 MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Side yard. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street shall
not be less than 20 feet.
   (B)   Rear yard. All accessory buildings shall be located at the rear of and
at least ten feet from the main building and shall have a rear yard of at least
ten feet.
   (C)   Livestock and animals.
      (1)   All livestock or animals shall be housed in enclosed corrals,
stables or other enclosures with open fenced exercise areas.
      (2)   Corrals, stables and other enclosures shall be located no nearer
than 50 feet from any dwelling.
   (D)   Temporary placement of mobile homes. No mobile home, as herein
defined, shall be located, placed, used or occupied for permanent residential
purposes in any district except within an approved mobile home park and except
as otherwise provided herein. Temporary placement of a mobile home on a
residential lot may be permitted by a temporary conditional use permit which is
subject to the time limitations stated in this chapter. A temporary conditional
use permit for the placement of a mobile home on a residential lot will be
issued only for lots upon which a permanent dwelling is being constructed for
which a valid building permit has been issued.
   (E)   Temporary placement of recreational coach. No recreational coach as
herein defined shall be located, placed, used or occupied for permanent
residential purposes in any district. Temporary placement of a recreational
coach on a residential lot may be permitted by a temporary conditional use
permit which is subject to the time limitations stated in this chapter. A
temporary conditional use permit for the placement of a recreational coach on a
residential lot will be issued only for lots upon which a permanent dwelling is
being constructed for which a valid building permit has been issued.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.357 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Exceptions are provided in §§
152.095 through
152.114 of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
RURAL RESIDENTIAL TWO ACRE (RR-2)
§ 152.370 PURPOSE.
   To provide for neighborhoods of a rural character for small farms, hobby
farms and large lot residential use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.371 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agriculture:
      (1)   Tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and
gardening for personal use; and
      (2)   Animals and fowl for recreational use or family food production for
the primary use of persons residing on the premises, excluding the keeping or
raising of dangerous animals.
   (B)   Single-family homes;
   (C)   Household pets; and
   (D)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the permitted
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.372 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Agricultural business or industry;
   (B)   Public stable;
   (C)   Bed and breakfast inn;
   (D)   Park and playground;
   (E)   Planned unit development;
   (F)   Public buildings;
   (G)   Public utilities, essential services;
   (H)   Church;
   (I)   School;
   (J)   Cemetery;
   (K)   Home occupation (see §§
152.075 through
152.083);
   (L)   Mobile home parks (ten-acre minimum park size); and
   (M)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the conditional
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.373 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No buildings may exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height. No
dwelling shall be less than one story in height.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.374 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
 
District Area   Width    Yards in Feet
                         Front Side Rear
RR-2     2 acre 100 feet 40    15   10
 
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.375 SIGNS.
   Signs permitted in the rural residential district shall be limited to the
following:
   (A)   One identification sign, not to exceed 16 square feet in sign area;
   (B)   One development sign, not to exceed eight square feet in sign area;
   (C)   One civic sign, not to exceed 16 square feet in sign area;
   (D)   One real estate sign, not to exceed eight square feet in sign area;
   (E)   One residential sign, not to exceed two square feet in sign area; and
   (F)   One home occupation sign, not to exceed three square feet in sign
area.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.376 MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Side yard. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street shall
not be less than 20 feet.
   (B)   Rear yard. All accessory buildings shall be located at the rear of and
at least ten feet from the main building and shall have a rear yard of at least
ten feet.
   (C)   Livestock and animals. The raising or keeping of livestock or animals
is permitted on lots of one-half acre in size in this district and subject to
the following regulations: all livestock or animals shall be housed in enclosed
corrals, stables or other enclosures with open fenced exercise areas.
   (D)   Temporary placement of mobile homes. No mobile home, as herein
defined, shall be located, placed, used or occupied for permanent residential
purposes in any district except within an approved mobile home park and except
as otherwise provided herein. Temporary placement of a mobile home on a
residential lot may be permitted by a temporary conditional use permit which is
subject to the time limitations stated in this chapter. A temporary conditional
use permit for the placement of a mobile home on a residential lot will be
issued only for lots upon which a permanent dwelling is being constructed for
which a valid building permit has been issued.
   (E)   Temporary placement of recreational coach. No recreational coach as
herein defined shall be located, placed, used or occupied for permanent
residential purposes in any district. Temporary placement of a recreational
coach on a residential lot may be permitted by a temporary conditional use
permit which is subject to the time limitations stated in this chapter. A
temporary conditional use permit for the placement of a recreational coach on a
residential lot will be issued only for lots upon which a permanent dwelling is
being constructed for which a valid building permit has been issued.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.377 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Exceptions to these regulations are provided in §§
152.095 through
152.114 of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
RURAL RESIDENTIAL ONE-HALF ACRE (RR-1/2)
§ 152.390 PURPOSE.
   To provide for neighborhoods of a rural character for home production farms
and large lot residential use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.391 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Agriculture:
      (1)   Tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and
gardening for personal use; and
      (2)   Animals and fowl for recreational use or family food production for
the primary use of persons residing on the premises, excluding the keeping or
raising of dangerous animals.
   (B)   Single-family homes;
   (C)   Household pets; and
   (D)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the permitted
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.392 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast inn;
   (B)   Park and playground;
   (C)   Planned unit development;
   (D)   Public buildings;
   (E)   Public utilities, essential services;
   (F)   Church;
   (G)   School;
   (H)   Cemetery;
   (I)   Home occupation (see §§
152.075 through
152.083); and
   (J)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the conditional
use.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.393 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   No buildings may exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height. No
dwelling shall be less than one story in height.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.394 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
 
District Area    Width Yards in Feet
                       Front Side Rear
RR-14    14 acre NA    30    15   10
 
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.395 SIGNS.
   Signs permitted in the rural residential district shall be limited to the
following:
   (A)   One identification sign, not to exceed 16 square feet in sign area;
   (B)   One development sign, not to exceed eight square feet in sign area;
   (C)   One civic sign, not to exceed 16 square feet in sign area;
   (D)   One real estate sign, not to exceed eight square feet in sign area;
   (E)   One residential sign, not to exceed two square feet in sign area; and
   (F)   One home occupation sign, not to exceed three square feet in sign
area.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.396 MODIFYING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Side yard. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street shall
not be less than 20 feet.
   (B)   Rear yard. All accessory buildings shall be located at the rear of and
at least ten feet from the main building and have a rear yard of at least five
feet and a side yard of at least five feet.
   (C)   Livestock and animals. The raising or keeping of livestock or animals
is permitted on lots of one-half acre in size in this district and subject to
the following regulations: all livestock or animals shall be housed in enclosed
corrals, stables or other enclosures with open fenced exercise areas.
   (D)   Temporary placement of mobile homes. No mobile home, as herein
defined, shall be located, placed, used or occupied for permanent residential
purposes in any district, except within an approved mobile home park and except
as otherwise provided herein. Temporary placement of a mobile home on a
residential lot may be permitted by a temporary conditional use permit which is
subject to the time limitations stated in this chapter. A temporary conditional
use permit for the placement of a mobile home on a residential lot will be
issued only for lots upon which a permanent dwelling is being constructed for
which a valid building permit has been issued.
   (E)   Temporary placement of recreational coach.
      (1)   No recreational coach as herein defined shall be located, placed,
used or occupied for permanent residential purposes in any district.
      (2)   Temporary placement of a recreational coach on a residential lot
may be permitted by a temporary conditional use permit which is subject to the
time limitations stated in this chapter.
      (3)   A temporary conditional use permit for the placement of a
recreational coach on a residential lot will be issued only for lots upon which
a permanent dwelling is being constructed for which a valid building permit has
been issued.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000; Ord. 05-08-14, passed 5-8-2014; Ord. 07-14-
16, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 152.397 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   Exceptions to these regulations are provided in §§
152.095 through
152.114 of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
COMMUNITY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 152.410 PURPOSE.
   The Community Commercial designation is intended to provide for single
residences, traditional merchandising, home occupation and retailing
establishments that serve the needs of the local residents.
(Ord. 08-11-16, passed 9-8-2016)
§ 152.411 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in any Main Street and commercial
districts:
   (A)   Medical offices or clinics, hospitals, convalescent hospitals,
residential facility skilled nursing facilities, social rehabilitation
facility, community treatment facility, congregate care facilities, licensed
community care facilities, adult day care;
   (B)   Administrative, business or professional offices;
   (C)   Single-family residence;
   (D)   Home occupations;
   (E)   Personal services establishments including, but not limited to, beauty
or barber shops, photography studios, shoe repair, dry cleaners, laundromats,
tailors, dressmaking shops or pet grooming;
   (F)   Retail stores including but not limited to, nurseries, green houses,
grocery stores, convenience markets, appliance or furniture stores, bookshops,
drugstores, florist shops, hardware stores, clothing stores, variety stores,
shoe shops, thrift shops and second hand shops;
   (G)   Delicatessens, bakeries or walk-in restaurants, high or low turnover;
   (H)   Banks, financial institutions or savings and loan institutions;
   (I)   Antique shops and second hand shops;
   (J)   Day care centers;
   (K)   Public parks or recreational facilities;
   (L)   Museums, art galleries and botanical gardens;
   (M)   Clubs, lodges or halls;
   (N)   Household appliance repair including, but not limited to,
refrigerator, washers, dryers, televisions or radios;
   (O)   Churches;
   (P)   Auto related uses, but not limited to, repair garages, gasoline/
service stations and drive through restaurants or markets;
   (Q)   Public or private schools or educational institutes;
   (R)   Public utility structures;
   (S)   Any other use deemed by the Planning Commission to be in harmony with
listed permitted uses and the purpose and intent of this district; and
   (T)   Hotels and motels.
(Ord. 12-12-13, passed - -; Ord. 07-14-16, passed 7-14-2016)
§ 152.412 RESERVED.
§ 152.413 MAXIMUM DEVELOPMENT INTENSITIES.
   (A)   All commercial (and residential) plans must be engineered and
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission two weeks in advance of the
first meeting.
   (B)   An owner/builder cannot erect a commercial building according to state
law.
   (C)   Because residential and commercial are often spot zoned right next to
each other: commercial buildings are subject to the same setbacks and
restrictions as residential: 30 feet in the front, 15 on the sides and ten in
the rear. Commercial setbacks for corner lots on the sides shall be 20 feet.
   (D)   No buildings will be over two stories in height. Height exceptions for
commercial buildings and accessory buildings are subject to approval by
Planning and Zoning and Town Council bearing in mind scenic vistas and views
not to be obstructed, offences to neighbors. Corner lot main and accessory
buildings must be constructed so as not to obstruct traffic views.
   (E)   Lighting is to be unobtrusive. Lighting used to illuminate any parking
lot or commercial building shall be arranged to reflect the light away from
adjoining premises and away from street traffic. There shall be no up lighting.
Every effort should be made to protect and preserve public safety, employee
safety and the comfort of neighbors.
   (F)   Parking for hotels and motels shall be one space for every sleeping
unit; for restaurants, two spaces for every table, plus one for every 35 square
feet of area, plus one space for every employee on the largest shift, or if not
a restaurant or hotel/ motel, one space for every 35 square feet. All
businesses must provide parking for Americans with Disabilities Act and in
compliance with current ADA standards which are for every one through 25
spaces, one handicap van space; for every 26 to 50 parking spaces, one standard
handicap space, plus one van handicap space. For further ADA standards or
current standards, see ADA Handicap parking spaces.
   (G)   Commercial lots shall have no more than one sign of up to 60 by 50
inches. This can be a free standing sign so long as it does not obstruct
traffic and is not over six feet in height. All signs shall be neighborhood
appropriate.
   (H)   All commercial buildings shall have compaction and over-excavation.
   (I)   All commercial buildings must have sprinkling systems in compliance
with county regulations.
(Ord. 9-14-17, passed 9-14-2017)
§ 152.414 MINIMUM AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   Minimum area, width and yard requirement shall be determined by compliance
with all provisions of this chapter, the Uniform Building Code and all other
applicable codes adopted by the town.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
§ 152.415 SIGNS.
   Signs permitted in the Main Street district shall be limited to the
following:
   (A)   One construction/development sign per project, during the period of
construction and not more than ten days past the date of completion of the
project. The sign shall not exceed ten feet in height or be greater than eight
square feet in size;
   (B)   One real estate sign, which must be removed not more than ten days
after the sale of the property, not to exceed eight square feet in area;
   (C)   If home occupation, one home occupation identification sign, not to
exceed six square feet in sign area; and
   (D)   If retail or traditional merchandising, not more than two
identification signs, the aggregate total of which shall not exceed 15 square
feet and which shall comply with the following.
      (1)   One of the maximum of two signs may be a pole sign not exceeding
ten feet in height.
      (2)   One of the maximum of two signs may be a monument sign not
exceeding two and one-half feet in height.
      (3)   Two of the maximum signs may be wall signs which must be painted on
or otherwise securely fastened to the building and which may not protrude from
the building to extend over any public right-of-way or more than one foot from
the building surface, whichever is less.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
CONGREGATE LIVING AND TREATMENT FACILITIES
§ 152.430 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning. The
following definitions shall apply to all sections of this chapter and shall
supersede any other definition of the same name contained in §
152.019.
   ADULT DAYCARE FACILITY. Any building or structure furnishing care,
supervision and guidance for three or more adults unaccompanied by guardian for
periods of less than 24 hours per day.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY.
      (1)   A residential facility, licensed by the state, with a home-like
setting that provides an array of coordinated support of personnel and health
care services, available 24 hours per day, to residents who have been assessed
under the state’s Department of Health or the state’s Department of Human
Services Rules to need any of these services. Each resident shall have a
service plan based on the assessment, which may include:
         (a)   Specified services of intermediate nursing care;
         (b)   Administration of medication; and
         (c)   Support services promoting residence independence and self
sufficiency.
      (2)   Such a facility does not include adult day care provided in
conjunction with a residential facility for elderly persons or a residential
facility for persons with a disability.
   BOARDER. A person living in a rented room in a boarding house. The boarding
house operator or member of his or her immediate family who reside on the
premises with the operator, shall not be considered to be a BOARDER.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A portion thereof where, for compensation, rooms are rented
together with meals for not more than 15 boarders who generally do not directly
utilize kitchen facilities. The operator of a BOARDING HOUSE must reside on the
premises of the BOARDING HOUSE. The work shall include compensation in money,
services or other things of value. A BOARDING HOUSE does not include a
residential facility for disable persons or a residential facility for the
elderly. A BOARDING HOUSE does not include a non-residential facility, such as
a rehabilitation/treatment facility, where the primary purpose of the facility
is to deliver rehabilitation, treatment, counseling, medical, protective or
other similar services to the occupants.
   BUILDING, PUBLIC. For purposes of this section only, a PUBLIC BUILDING is a
building owned and operated or owned and intended to be operated by the town, a
public agency of the United States of America, the State of Utah or any of its
political subdivisions. The use of a PUBLIC BUILDING, with immunity, is non-
transferrable and terminates if the structure is devoted to a use other than as
a PUBLIC BUILDING with immunity. A PUBLIC BUILDING referred to as with immunity
under the provisions of this subchapter includes:
      (1)   Properties owned by the state or the United States Government which
are outside of the jurisdiction of the town’s zoning authority as provided
under UCA Title 9, Chapter 10, § 105  1 , as amended; and
      (2)   The ownership or use of a building which is immune from the town’s
zoning authority under the supremacy clause of the United States Constitution.
   COMMUNITY CORRECTIONAL FACILITY. A facility licensed or contracted by the
state to provide temporary occupancy for previously incarcerated persons which
assists such persons in making a transition from a correctional institution
environment to independent living.
   CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION. A prison, jail, juvenile detention facility or
juvenile secure facility.
   DISABILITY. A physical or mental impairments that substantially limits one
or more of a persons major life activities, including a person having a record
of such a problem or being regarded as having such an impairment. The following
definitions are incorporated into the definition of DISABILITY:
      (1)   Disability does not include current illegal use of, or addiction
to, any federally controlled substance as defined in § 102 of the Controlled
Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. § 802, or as defined under UCA Title 58, Chapter 37
2 , as amended;
      (2)   A physical or mental impairment includes the following, to wit:
         (a)   Any psychological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement
or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems:
neurological, musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including
speech organs; cardiovascular, reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic
and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
         (b)   Any mental or physiological disorder, such as mental
retardation, organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness and specific
learning disabilities; or
         (c)   Such diseases and conditions as orthopedic, visual, speech and
hearing impairments, cerebral palsy, autism, epilepsy, muscular dystrophy,
multiple sclerosis, cancer, heart disease, diabetes, human immunodeficiency
virus, (HIV), mental retardation, emotional illness, drug addiction (other than
addiction caused by current, illegal use of controlled substances) and
alcoholism.
   DOMESTIC STAFF. Persons employed or residing on the premises of a dwelling
or other residential facility to perform domestic services or to assist
residents in performing major life activities.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof containing one or more dwelling
units occupied as or designated or intended for occupancy as a residence by one
or more families.
   DWELLING. MULTIPLE-FAMILY. Any building arranged or designed to include
three or more dwelling units, each to be occupied by one family.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. Any building arranged or designed to include only
one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY/DUPLEX. A building arranged or designed to include two
dwelling units, each to be occupied by one family.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any building or portion thereof designated, occupied or
intended as a residence for a family with complete and independent facilities
for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. Any elementary or secondary school, seminary,
parochial school or private educational institution having a curriculum similar
to that ordinary-given in grades one through 12 in public school systems. The
term EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION for the purpose of this title does not include
post high school educational facilities or educational facilities which include
residential facilities for its students.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION WITH HOUSING. A public or private educational
institution with residential facilities or housing for its students and or
staff.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 60 years or older, who desires or needs to
live with other elderly persons in a group setting, but who is capable of
living independently.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption or
guardianship, or a group of not more than four unrelated persons living
together as a single non-profit housekeeping unit, together with any incidental
domestic staff who may or may not reside on the premises. FAMILY does not
exclude the care of foster children.
   FRATERNITY OR SORORITY HOUSE. A building occupied by and maintained
exclusively for students affiliated with an academic or professional college or
university or other recognized institution of higher learning who are
associated together in a fraternity or sorority that is officially recognized
by such institution and who receives lodging and/or meals on the premises for
compensation.
   HOSPITAL. An institution licensed by the state which provides diagnostic,
therapeutic, and rehabilitative services to individuals on both an inpatient
and out patient basis by or under the supervision of one or more physicians. A
medical clinic or professional office which offers any in-patient or overnight
care, or operates on a 24-hour basis shall be considered to be a HOSPITAL. A
HOSPITAL may include necessary support service facilities such as laboratories,
out-patient units and training and central services, together with staff
offices necessary to operate the HOSPITAL.
   HOTEL. A building designed for or occupied as the more or less temporary
abiding place of individuals who are, for compensation lodged with or without
meals.
   JAIL. A place of incarceration owned and operated by the county.
   JUVENILE DETENTION FACILITY. A place of temporary detention for delinquent
juveniles, which either is owned or operated by the state or is under contract
with the state.
   JUVENILE SECURE FACILITY. A place of incarceration for delinquent juveniles
which is either owned or operated by the state or is under contract with the
state.
   MAJOR LIFE ACTIVITIES. Functions such as caring for ones self, performing
manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning and
working.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. A facility wherein no persons will be
housed on an overnight basis, and provides services including rehabilitation,
treatment, counseling or assessment and evaluation services related to
delinquent behavior, alcohol abuse, drug abuse, sexual offenders, sexual abuse
or mental health. Associated educational services may also be provided to
juvenile occupants.
   NURSING HOME. An intermediate care/nursing facility or a skilled nursing
facility licensed by the state, for the care of individuals who, due to
illness, advance stage, disability or impairment require assistance and/or
supervision on a 24-hour per day basis. Such a facility does not include an
adult day care facility or adult day care provider in conjunction with
residential facilities for elderly persons or a residential facility for
persons with a disability.
   PRISON. A place of incarceration owned or operated by the state.
   PRIVATE PRISONS. A correctional facility established or operated under a
contract with the state under the provisions of the Private Correctional
Facilities Act, UCA Title 64, Chapter 13C  3 , as amended.
   PRIVATE JAIL. A place of incarceration established or operated under a
contract with the county.
   PROTECTIVE HOUSING FACILITY. A facility either:
      (1)   Operated, licensed or contracted by a governmental entity; or
      (2)   Operated by a charitable, non-profit organization, where no
compensation, temporary, protective housing is provided to:
         (a)   Abused or neglected children waiting placement of foster care;
         (b)   Pregnant or parenting teens;
         (c)   Victims of sexual abuse; or
         (d)   Victims of domestic abuse.
   REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION. A change in any rule, policy, practice or service
necessary to afford a person with a disability equal opportunity to use and
enjoy a dwelling. The following words have the following definitions, to wit:
      (1)   REASONABLE. A requested accommodation that will not undermine the
legitimate purpose of existing zoning regulations notwithstanding the benefit
that the accommodation will provide to a person with a disability;
      (2)   NECESSARY. The applicant must show that, but for the accommodation
one or more persons with a disability likely will be denied an equal
opportunity to enjoy the housing of their choice; and
      (3)   EQUAL OPPORTUNITY. Achieving equal results as between a person with
a disability and a non-disabled person.
   RECORD OF IMPAIRMENT. Having a history of, or having been misclassified as
having a mental or physical impairment that substantially limits one or more
major life activities.
   REGARDED AS HAVING AN IMPAIRMENT. A person is regarded as having an
impairment when:
      (1)   The person has a physical or mental impairment that does not
substantially limit one or more major life activity, but is treated by another
person as having such a limitation;
      (2)   Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one
or more major life activities only as a result of the attitudes of others
towards such an impairment; or
      (3)   Has none of the impairments defined in this section, but is treated
by another person as having such an impairment.
   REHABILITATION/TREATMENT FACILITY. A facility licensed or contracted by the
state to provide temporary occupancy and supervision of individuals (adults
and/or juveniles) in order to provide rehabilitation, treatment or counseling
services. Without limitation, such services may include rehabilitation,
treatment, counseling or assessment and evaluation services related to
delinquent behavior, alcohol abuse, drug abuse, sexual offenders, sexual abuse
or mental health. Associated educational services may also be provided to
juvenile occupants.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS. A dwelling unit that is occupied
on a 24-hour per day basis by eight or fewer elderly persons in a family type
arrangement. A RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS shall not include any
of the following, to wit:
      (1)   A facility which is operated as a business; provided that such
facility may not be considered to be operated as a business solely because a
fee is charged for food or for actual and necessary costs of preparation and
maintenance of the facility; and
      (2)   A facility where persons being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse
are placed; a facility where placement is not on a strictly voluntary basis or
where placement is part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation or
treatment in a correctional institution; or a facility which is a health care
facility as defined by UCA Title 26, Chapter 2, § 21  4 , as amended; or a
facility which is a residential facility for persons with a disability.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY. Any residence in which
more than one person with a disability resides and which is:
      (1)   Licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services under UCA
Title 62A, Chapter 2  5 , licensor for programs and facilities; or
      (2)   Licensed or certified by the Department of Human Health under UCA
Title 26, Chapter 21  6 , Health Care Facilities Licensing and Inspection Act.
   RESIDENTS, RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. Any building or portion thereof where an
individual is actually living at a given point and time and intends to remain,
and not a place of temporary sojourn or transient visit.
   RETIREMENT HOME. A residential facility designated, occupied and intending
for residents 50 years of age or older where common facilities for cooking and
dining are available to all residents in independent facilities are provided
for living, sleeping and sanitation.
   SHELTERED WORKSHOP. An on-site supervised educational or vocational training
facility for persons with a disability and does not provide any residential
facilities.
   SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS. Charitable lodging or sleeping rooms provided on a
temporary basis (usually on a daily basis) to those members of society lacking
other safe, sanitary or affordable shelter. A SHELTER FOR THE HOMELESS may also
include kitchen and cafeteria facilities.
   TRADE OR VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. A post high school educational or vocational
training facility.
   TRANSITIONAL HOUSING FACILITY. A facility owned, operated or contracted by a
governmental entity or a charitable, not for profit organization, where, for no
compensation, temporary housing (usually three to 24 months, but in no event
less than 30 days) is provided to homeless persons, while they obtain work, job
skills or otherwise take steps to stabilize their circumstances. A TRANSITIONAL
HOUSING FACILITY shall not include a shelter for the homeless, a dwelling unit
provided to a family for the exclusive use as part of a transitional housing
program, for more than 30 days, shall not be considered to be a TRANSITIONAL
HOUSING FACILITY.
(Ord. 14-08-04, passed 11-13-2014)
 
Notes
1 Cite
2 Cite
3 Cite
4 Cite
5 Cite
6 Cite
§ 152.431 RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITY.
   (A)   Applicability. This section shall be deemed to govern any facility,
residence or other circumstance that meets the definition of a residential
facility as set forth in this subchapter, and the definition of a disabled
person as set forth in this subchapter for the requirements of this section
shall govern the same notwithstanding any other provisions of town ordinance.
   (B)   Purpose. The purposes of this section are:
      (1)   To comply with UCA Title 10, Chapter 9, § 605  1 , as amended; and
      (2)   To avoid discrimination and housing against persons with
disabilities as provided in the Utah Fair Housing Act and the Fair Housing
Amendments Act as interpreted by the courts having jurisdiction over the town.
   (C)   Permitted. A residential facility for persons with a disability shall
be a permitted use in any zoning district where a dwelling is allowed. Each
such facility shall conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   The facility shall comply with all building, safety and health
regulations, the American with Disabilities Act, fire regulations and all
applicable state core standards and licensing requirements, and any standards
set forth in any contract with a state agency.
      (2)   The following site development standards and parking standards
shall be applicable.
         (a)   Each facility shall be subject to minimum site development
standards applicable to a dwelling unit in the zone in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be the same
as the number required for a dwelling with similar occupancy density in the
same zone.
      (3)   No facility shall be made available to an individuals who has
demonstrated, as a resident, that they:
         (a)   Constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other
individuals; or
         (b)   Engage in conduct resulting in substantial physical damage to
the property of others.
      (4)   Prior to occupancy of the facility, the person or entity licensed
or certified by the Department of Human Services or the Department of Health to
establish and operate the facility shall:
         (a)   Provide a certified copy of such license to the Town Clerk;
         (b)   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a business license, compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act;
         (c)   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with the application for
a business license, that no person will remain in the facility whose behavior
has demonstrated a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals,
or whose behavior has resulted in substantial physical damage to the property
of others.
      (5)   The use permitted by this section is non-transferrable and shall
terminate if:
         (a)   A facility is devoted to or used as other than a residential
facility for persons with a disability; or
         (b)   The license or certification issued by the Department of Human
Services or Department of Health terminates or is revoked; or
         (c)   The facility fails to comply with the conditions set forth in
this section.
      (6)   In all residential zoning districts (RR-1/2, RR-2, RA), no
residential facility for persons with a disability shall exceed four residents
not including staff or the family that owns the residence.
      (7)   In a CC Zoning District, no residential facility for persons with
disabilities shall exceed eight and shall be required to obtain a conditional
use permit.
   (D)   Reasonable accommodations. None of the foregoing conditions shall be
interpreted to limit reasonable accommodations necessary to allow the
establishment or occupancy of a residential facility for person(s) with a
disability.
      (1)   Any person or entity who wishes to request a reasonable
accommodation shall make application to the Planning and Zoning Board for a
conditional use permit. Said applications shall specifically articulate, in
writing, the following:
         (a)   The name, mailing address and phone number of the applicant;
         (b)   The nature and extent of the disability;
         (c)   An exact statement of the ordinance or policy from which the
applicant needs a reasonable accommodation;
         (d)   The applicant’s proposed reasonable accommodations;
         (e)   A statement detailing why a reasonable accommodation is
necessary; and
         (f)   The physical address of the property where the applicant intends
on living.
      (2)   When considering wether or not to grant a reasonable accommodation,
the Planning and Zoning Board shall use the following factors:
         (a)   The zoning ordinance applicable to the property;
         (b)   The parking, traffic and noise impact on the neighborhood if the
reasonable accommodation is granted;
         (c)   Wether or not the accommodation will be an undue burden or
expense to the town;
         (d)   The extent to which the accommodation will or will not benefit
the applicant;
         (e)   The extent to which the accommodation will or will not benefit
the community;
         (f)   Weather or not the accommodation fundamentally alters the town-
wide zoning ordinance;
         (g)   Has the applicant demonstrated that the accommodation will
affirmatively enhance the applicant’s life or ameliorate the effects of the
applicant’s disability;
         (h)   Without the accommodation, is similar housing available in the
town for the applicant or group of applicants; and
         (i)   Given the scope of the accommodation requested, what is the
impact on the immediate neighborhood.
      (3)   Written findings and conclusions of the Planning and Zoning Board
shall be sent to the applicant within 90 days.
      (4)   If a request for a reasonable accommodation is denied, such
decision may be appealed to the Town Council.
(Ord. 14-08-04, passed 11-13-2014)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 152.432 RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY PERSONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this code is to comply with UCA Title 10,
Chapter 9, § 605  1 , as amended.
   (B)   Definition. A RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR ELDERLY PERSONS shall comply
with the following requirements.
      (1)   The facility shall meet all applicable building codes, safety
codes, zoning regulations, the Americans with Disabilities Act and health
ordinance applicable to similar dwellings.
      (2)   Minimum site development standards shall be the same as those for a
dwelling unit in the zone in which the facility is located.
      (3)   The facility shall be capable of being used as a residential
facility for elderly persons without structural or landscaping alterations that
would change the structures residential character.
      (4)   The use granted and permitted by this section is non-transferrable
and terminates if the structure is devoted to any use other than as a
residential facility for the elderly or if the structure fails to comply with
the applicable health, safety and building codes.
(Ord. 14-08-04, passed 11-13-2014)
 
Notes
1 Cite
§ 152.433 PROTECTIVE HOUSING, REHABILITATION/TREATMENT FACILITIES (BOTH
RESIDENTIAL AND NON-RESIDENTIAL), TRANSITIONAL HOUSING, NURSING HOMES AND
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Any newly constructed, or remodeled facility in a residential zone or
immediately abutting a residential zone shall comply with the following design
standards.
      (1)   All setbacks shall be according to the requirements of the
residential zone in which the facility sits, or if the facility is in a
commercial zone abutting a residential zone the setbacks shall be those of the
abutting residential zone.
      (2)   All required or accessory parking areas shall be located either in
the rear yard area of the lot or behind the main building or garage.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the maximum height restrictions of the individual
residential zone. New building or additional buildings shall not exceed 110% of
the average height of the closest dwellings on both sides of the proposed
structure.
      (4)   In order for new construction to reflect the design and character
of the existing neighborhood, the following standards shall be met.
         (a)   The roof design of the proposed structure or remodel roof shall
be a pitched roof of the same slope as the most common roof slope of the homes
on the side of the block which the building is proposed on.
         (b)   The type of exterior materials shall be of the traditional home
finished materials of brick, siding or stucco. The use of these materials shall
be applied in such a manner as to blend in with the neighborhood where the
building is located and not draw undue attention to the building because of the
materials, their color and combination being uncharacteristic of the other
buildings in the neighborhood.
   (B)   Protective housing, rehabilitation/treatment facilities (both
residential and non-residential), transitional housing, nursing homes, and
assisted living facilities are all permitted uses in areas zoned commercial.
Non-residential treatment facilities shall not be a permitted use in a RR-1/2,
RR-2 or RA Zone, Each permitted facility shall conform to the following
requirements.
      (1)   The facility shall comply with all building, safety and health
regulations, the American with Disabilities Act, fire regulations and all
applicable state core standards and licensing requirements, and any standards
set forth in any contract with a state agency.
      (2)   The following site development standards and parking standards
shall be applicable.
         (a)   Each facility shall be subject to minimum site development
standards applicable to a business in the zone in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   The minimum number of parking spaces required shall be the same
as the number required for an office building with similar size, occupancy and
density in the same zone.
      (3)   Prior to occupancy of the facility, the person or entity licensed
or certified by the Department of Human Services or the Department of Health to
establish and operate the facility shall:
         (a)   Provide a certified copy of such license with the Town Clerk;
and
         (b)   Certify, in a sworn affidavit submitted with application for a
business license, compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
(Ord. 14-08-04, passed 11-13-2014)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation (as principal, agent, employee or otherwise)
violating, causing or permitting violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and punishable by not more than six months in
jail and/or a fine not to exceed $299. Such person, firm or corporation
intentionally violating this chapter shall be deemed to be guilty of a separate
offense for each day during which any portion of any violation of this chapter
is permitted or continued by such person, firm or corporation, and shall be
punishable as herein provided.
(Ord. 03-09-2000, passed 3-3-2000)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Utah Code Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO UTAH CODE ANNOTATED
UCA Cite Code Section
UCA Cite                    Code Section
Title 9, Chapter 10, § 105 152.430
10-2-400                    33.002
10-2-401(1)(I)              33.006
10-2-403                    33.006
Title 10, Chapter 9 et seq. 151.003
Title 10, Chapter 9, § 605 152.431;
                            152.432
10-9-801 through 10-9-811   151.006
10-9-808                    151.235
10-9-809                    151.235
10-9-809 et seq.            151.236
10-9-810                    151.237
10-9-811 et seq.            151.004
10-9-1001 et seq.           151.238
17-23-17                    151.006
Title 17, Chapter 34        51.021
Title 17A                   151.006
19-4-112                    50.101
20A-2-105                   30.002
20A-3a-201                  30.001
20A-3a-202                  30.001
20A-9-203                   30.002
Title 26, Chapter 2         152.430
Title 26, Chapter 21        152.430
54-2-1                      151.006
57-5-7                      151.182
Title 57, Chapter 8         152.193
Title 58, Chapter 37        152.430
Title 58, Chapter 56        152.252
58-56-4                     151.251
59-2-502 et seq.            151.005
Title 62A, Chapter 2        152.430
63G-7                       50.085
Title 64, Chapter 13C       152.430
72-5-401                    151.006
76-1-402 through 76-1-405   10.040
76-1-501 through 76-1-504   Ch. 10
76-1-601                    Ch. 10
76-2-101 through 76-2-105   Ch. 10
76-2-201 through 76-2-205   Ch. 10
76-2-301 through 76-2-308   Ch. 10
76-2-401 through 76-2-406   Ch. 10
76-3-205                    10.999
76-3-301(1)(d)              10.055
76-3-301(1)(e)              10.055
76-3-302(3)                 10.999
76-3-302(4)                 10.999
76-3-401 through 76-3-405   Ch. 10
78B-22-102                  10.999
78B-22-301                  10.999
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
                      50.003—
02-13-03  1-9-2003    50.007;
                      50.009;
                      50.010
05-13b-04 5-13-2004   50.012
05-13e-04 5-13-2004   50.011
                      150.001;
                      150.002;
                      150.013—
                      150.015;
07-14-05A 8-11-2005   150.045;
                      150.051—
                      150.055;
                      150.077;
                      150.092
08-13-09  8-13-2009   50.002
10-08-09  10-8-2009   50.001
                      150.001;
04-12-12  4-12-2012   150.073—
                      150.076
09-09-21A 9-9-2021    50.001
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
12-12-13   - -         152.411;
                       152.412
-          1-8-1985    150.001;
                       150.051
                       152.253;
13         8-4-1986    152.255;
                       152.258
-          12-12-1991  51.020—
                       51.030
                       152.001—
                       152.019;
                       152.030—
                       152.038;
                       152.050—
                       152.062;
                       152.075—
                       152.083;
                       152.095—
                       152.114;
                       152.125—
                       152.135;
                       152.150—
                       152.153;
                       152.165—
                       152.175;
                       152.190—
                       152.198;
                       152.210—
                       152.221;
                       152.235;
                       152.236;
03-09-2000 3-3-2000    152.250—
                       152.255;
                       152.257;
                       152.258;
                       152.270;
                       152.271;
                       152.285—
                       152.289;
                       152.300—
                       152.303;
                       152.315—
                       152.319;
                       152.330—
                       152.335;
                       152.350—
                       152.357;
                       152.370—
                       152.377;
                       152.390—
                       152.397;
                       152.414;
                       152.415;
                       152.999
                       151.001—
                       151.007;
                       151.020;
                       151.021;
                       151.035—
                       151.039;
                       151.050—
                       151.059;
                       151.070—
                       151.080;
                       151.095—
                       151.101;
                       151.115—
                       151.117;
14-11-02   11-14-2002  151.130—
                       151.135;
                       151.150—
                       151.155;
                       151.180—
                       151.185;
                       151.200—
                       151.205;
                       151.220—
                       151.224;
                       151.235—
                       151.239;
                       151.250;
                       151.251;
                       151.999
                       50.040—
                       50.042;
13-02-03   1-9-2003    50.055—
                       50.063;
                       50.075—
                       50.102
04-10-03A  4-10-2003   152.019;
                       152.125
06-12-03   6-12-2003   152.030
02-12-04   2-12-2004   50.025;
                       50.026
09-09-04-B 9-9-2004    152.019
02-08-07   2-8-2007    151.116
11-13-08   11-13-2008  33.001—
                       33.012
12-11-08   12-11-2008  50.063
07-08-2010 7-8-2010    152.316
05-12-2011 5-12-2011   30.001
08-11-11   8-11-2011   31.001—
                       31.016
08-15-12   8-15-2012   31.017
09-13-2012 9-13-2012   32.002
05-08-14   5-8-2014    152.396
14-08-04   11-13-2014  152.430—
                       152.433
                       152.396;
07-14-16   7-14-2016   152.411;
                       152.412
08-11-16   9-8-2016    152.410
9-14-17    9-14-2017   152.413
05-14-20   5-14-2020   31.018
                       50.040—
                       50.042;
13-02-03A  8-12-2021   50.055—
                       50.063;
                       50.075—
                       50.102
 
