COUNTY CODE
OF
KANE COUNTY, UT
2011
Code current through:
Ord. O-2025-20, passed 6-10-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the County of Kane County, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance O-2025-20, passed June 10, 2025. Ordinances of the
County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
County office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the
code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. O 2025-25
AN ORDINANCE REVISING KANE COUNTY LAND USE ORDINANCE CHAPTER 21 SUBDIVISION
REGULATIONS ARTICLE E SECTION 9 B 3 AND ARTICLE F SECTION 3 DEDICATON OF
NONSUBDIVISON RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND ROADWAYS
 
WHEREAS, after a duly noticed public hearing, the Kane County Planning
Commission recommended changes to Chapter 21 Subdivision Regulations in
Articles E and F of the Kane County Land Use Ordinance; and
 
WHEREAS, the Kane County Planning Commission recommends deleting the 500 feet
wording and matching state code to state the addition each property owner of
record within the portion of the subdivision that is proposed to be amended to
Chapter 21 Article E Section 9 B 3; and
 
WHEREAS, the Kane County Planning Commission recommends removing Commission and
inserting Administrative Land Use Authority for road dedication plats in
Chapter 21 Article F Section 3; and
 
WHEREAS, the Kane County Board of Commissioners desires to implement the
recommendations of the Planning Commission and amend the Kane County Land Use
Ordinance Subdivision Regulations with the additional changes and other
modifications; and
 
WHEREAS, the Kane County Commission desires to stay in compliance with Utah
State Code regulations in particular with Utah Code §17-27a-600 Subdivisions
607 and 609.5; and
 
WHEREAS, the authority for this ordinance is found in Utah Code §17-27a-101 et.
al., and §17-27a- Part 6 Subdivisions 607 and 609.5; and
 
NOW THEREFORE, THE COUNTY LEGISLATIVE BODY OF KANE COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH,
ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:   
Section 1.   Ordinance Amendment.
 
Kane County Code Title 9 Chapter 21 Subdivision Regulations Kane County Land
Use Ordinance is amended to read as follows.  Additions to the ordinance are
indicated with an underline, and deletions from the ordinance are indicated
with a strike-through. Instructions to the codifiers are italicized and inside
parenthesis.
 
 
//
 
9-21E-9: VACATING OR AMENDING A SUBDIVISION OR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PLAT:
   
       3.   If the application for an amended plat includes a request to
further subdivide or to create any additional lots, the application may only be
approved if:
    B.   Submission Items:
      
       3.   Provide names and addresses of all property owners within 500 feet
of the affected property;
 
 
   each property owner of record within the portion of the subdivision that
      is proposed to be amended.
 
 
 
//
9-21F-3: DEDICATION OF NONSUBDIVISION RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND ROADWAYS:
The Kane County Commission, on recommendation from the Kane County Land Use
Authority, may accept Master Transportation Plans for areas in Kane County.
Once a Master Transportation Plan is in place for an area the property owner(s)
within the Master Transportation Plan area may dedicate the planned road(s) to
Kane County. Kane County Administrative Land Use Authority, Roads Supervisor
and Government Affairs Coordinator will negotiate and initiate any additional
sections into the Master Transportation Plan. The and Kane County Commission
may accept the dedicated roads by the recording of a road dedication plat.
(Ord. O-2019-2, 1-14-2019)
//
 
Section 2.   Severability.
 
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct,
and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this ordinance.
 
Section 3.   Effective Date
 
This ordinance is effective fifteen (15) days after adoption, and after
publication and notice are completed as set forth below.
 
Section 4.   Publication and Notice.
 
This Ordinance shall be deposited in the Office of the Kane County Clerk. The
Kane County Clerk is directed to publish a short summary of this Ordinance with
the name of the members voting for and against, together with a statement that
a complete copy of the ordinance is available at the Office of the Kane County
Clerk, for at least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county, or as otherwise permitted and required by Utah State Law.
 
End of Ordinance.
 
 
ADOPTED this 26th day of August, 2025.
 
 
                     ____________________________
   Celeste Meyeres, Chair
ATTEST:   Board of Commissioners
Kane County
 
_________________________   Commissioner Brown voted      ____
CHAMEILL LAMB   Commissioner Meyeres voted      ____
Kane County Clerk               Commissioner Kubeja voted      ____
 
Effective 5/7/2025
17-27a-608.  Subdivision amendments.
         
 
    (a)
    A fee owner of a lot, as shown on the last county assessment roll, in a plat
    that has been laid out and platted as provided in this part may file a
    petition with the land use authority to request a subdivision amendment.
    (b)
    Upon filing a petition to request a subdivision amendment under Subsection (1)
    (a), the owner shall prepare and, if approved by the land use authority,
    record a plat in accordance with Section 17-27a-603 that:
    (i)
    depicts only the portion of the subdivision that is proposed to be amended;
    (ii)
    includes a plat name distinguishing the amended plat from the original plat;
    (iii)
    describes the differences between the amended plat and the original plat; and
    (iv)
    includes references to the original plat.
     
    (c)
    (i)
    The land use authority shall provide notice of a petition filed under
    Subsection (1)(a) by mail or email to:
    (A)
    each affected entity that provides a service to a property owner of record of
    the portion of the plat that is being amended; and
    (B)
    each property owner of record within the portion of the subdivision that is
    proposed to be amended.
     
    (ii)
    The notice described in Subsection (1)(c)(i)(B) shall include a deadline by
(1) which written objections to the petition are due to the land use authority,
    but no earlier than 10 calendar days after the day on which the land use
    authority sends the notice.
     
    (d)
    The land use authority shall hold a public hearing within 45 days after the
    day on which a petition is filed under Subsection (1)(a) if:
    (i)
    any property owner within the subdivision that is proposed to be amended
    notifies the county of the owner's objection in writing by the deadline for
    objections, as described in Subsection (1)(c)(ii); or
    (ii)
    a county ordinance requires a public hearing if all of the owners within the
    portion of the subdivision proposed to be amended have not signed the proposed
    amended plat.
     
    (e)
    A land use authority may approve a petition for subdivision amendment no
    earlier than:
    (i)
    the day after the day on which written objections were due to the land
    authority, as described in Subsection (1)(c)(ii); or
    (ii)
    if a public hearing is required as described in Subsection (1)(d), the day on
    which the public hearing takes place.
     
    (f)
    A land use authority may not approve a petition for a subdivision amendment
    under this section unless the amendment identifies and preserves any easements
    owned by a culinary water authority and sanitary sewer authority for existing
    facilities located within the subdivision.
     
 
    The public hearing requirement of Subsection (1)(d) does not apply and a
    land use authority may consider at a public meeting an owner's petition for
    a subdivision amendment if:
    (a)
    the petition seeks to:
    (i)
    join two or more of the petitioning fee owner's contiguous lots;
    (ii)
    subdivide one or more of the petitioning fee owner's lots, if the
    subdivision will not result in a violation of a land use ordinance or a
    development condition;
    (iii)
    on a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an internal lot
(2) restriction imposed by the local political subdivision; or
    (iv)
    alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing boundaries or
    other attributes of lots within the subdivision that are not:
    (A)
    owned by the petitioner; or
    (B)
    designated as a common area; and
     
     
    (b)
    notice has been given to adjoining property owners in accordance with any
    applicable local ordinance.
     
 
Effective 5/14/2019
17-27a-607.  Dedication by plat of public streets and other public places.
 
    A plat that is signed, dedicated, and acknowledged by each owner of record,
    and approved according to the procedures specified in this part, operates,
(1) when recorded, as a dedication of all public streets and other public
    places, and vests the fee of those parcels of land in the county for the
    public for the uses named or intended in the plat.
 
    The dedication established by this section does not impose liability upon
    the county for public streets and other public places that are dedicated in
    this manner but are unimproved unless:
    (a)
(2) adequate financial assurance has been provided in accordance with this
    chapter; and
    (b)
    the county has accepted the dedication.
     

AS in this section refers to the Subdivision part of Utah State code
 
Effective 5/3/2023
17-27a-604.1.  Process for subdivision review and approval.
 
    (a)
    As used in this section, an "administrative land use authority" means an
    individual, board, or commission, appointed or employed by a county,
(1) including county staff or a county planning commission.
    (b)
    "Administrative land use authority" does not include a county legislative
    body or a member of a county legislative body.
     
 
    (a)
    This section applies to land use decisions arising from subdivision
    applications for single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or
    townhomes.
(2) (b)
    This section does not apply to land use regulations adopted, approved, or
    agreed upon by a legislative body exercising land use authority in the
    review of land use applications for zoning or other land use regulation
    approvals.
     
 
 
    A county ordinance governing the subdivision of land shall:
    (a)
    comply with this section and establish a standard method and form of
    application for preliminary subdivision applications and final subdivision
    applications; and
    (b)
    (i)
(3) designate a single administrative land use authority for the review of
    preliminary applications to subdivide land; or
    (ii)
    if the county has adopted an ordinance that establishes a separate procedure
    for the review and approval of subdivisions under Section 17-27a-605, the
    county may designate a different and separate administrative land use
    authority for the approval of subdivisions under Section 17-27a-605.
     
     
 
    (a)
    If an applicant requests a pre-application meeting, the county shall,
    within 15 business days after the request, schedule the meeting to review
    the concept plan and give initial feedback.
    (b)
    At the pre-application meeting, the county staff shall provide or have
    available on the county website the following:
    (i)
(4) copies of applicable land use regulations;
    (ii)
    a complete list of standards required for the project;
    (iii)
    preliminary and final application checklists; and
    (iv)
    feedback on the concept plan.
     
     
 
(5) A preliminary subdivision application shall comply with all applicable
    county ordinances and requirements of this section.
 
(6) An administrative land use authority may complete a preliminary subdivision
    application review in a public meeting or at a county staff level.
 
    With respect to a preliminary application to subdivide land, an
    administrative land use authority may:
    (a)
(7) receive public comment; and
    (b)
    hold no more than one public hearing.
     
 
    If a preliminary subdivision application complies with the applicable
(8) county ordinances and the requirements of this section, the administrative
    land use authority shall approve the preliminary subdivision application.
 
    A county shall review and approve or deny a final subdivision plat
    application in accordance with the provisions of this section and county
    ordinances, which:
    (a)
(9) may permit concurrent processing of the final subdivision plat application
    with the preliminary subdivision plat application; and
    (b)
    may not require planning commission or county legislative body approval.
     
 
 
     If a final subdivision application complies with the requirements of this
(10) section, the applicable county ordinances, and the preliminary subdivision
     approval granted under Subsection (9)(a), a county shall approve the final
     subdivision application.
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. O 2025-26
 
 
AN ORDINANCE REVISING KANE COUNTY LAND USE ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 20 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT REVISING SECTIONS 2, 3, 11
AND 12
 
WHEREAS, after a duly noticed public hearing, the Kane County Planning
Commission recommended changes to Chapter 20 Planned Unit Development in
Sections 2, 3, 11 and 12 of the Kane County Land Use Ordinance; and
 
WHEREAS, the Kane County Planning Commission recommends deleting the terms
Planning Commission and Commission for approval on plat processes and changing
the updated name to Kane County Construction Design Standards; and
 
WHEREAS, the Kane County Planning Commission recommends removing Planning
Commission and Commission and inserting Administrative Land Use Authority for
PUD preliminary and final plats in Chapter 20; and
 
WHEREAS, the Kane County Board of Commissioners desires to implement the
recommendations of the Planning Commission and amend the Kane County Land Use
Ordinance Planned Unit Development sections with the additional changes and
other modifications; and
 
WHEREAS, the Kane County Commission desires to stay in compliance with Utah
State Code regulations in particular with Utah Code §17-27a-600 Subdivisions
607 and 609.5; and
 
WHEREAS, the authority for this ordinance is found in Utah Code §17-27a-101 et.
al., and §17-27a- Part 6 Subdivisions 607 and 609.5; and
 
NOW THEREFORE, THE COUNTY LEGISLATIVE BODY OF KANE COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH,
ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:   
Section 1.   Ordinance Amendment.
 
Kane County Code Title 9 Chapter 20 Planned Unit Development in Kane County
Land Use Ordinance is amended to read as follows.  Additions to the ordinance
are indicated with an underline, and deletions from the ordinance are indicated
with a strike-through. Instructions to the codifiers are italicized and inside
parenthesis.
 
 
 
 
 
//
 
9-20-2: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS:
A.   Planned unit development zone changes may be approved by the Kane County
Land Use Authority in PUD overlay zones. An application for a PUD overlay zone
change to develop property under the provisions of this article shall be filed
for a zone change on the standard PUD zone change form provided by the County.
A Planned Unit Development application shall be filed in conjunction with the
zone change application. The zones are Planned Unit Development Residential 1,
2, and 5, Planned Unit Development Light Commercial, Commercial 1 and 2 and
Planned Unit Development Multi-Residential. The overall density shall coincide
with the density of the existing zone. At the time of the zone change
application a conceptual development site plan shall be submitted with the zone
change request. Compliance with the regulations of this title in no way excuses
the developer from the applicable requirements of the subdivision ordinance or
the Kane County Standard Specifications and Drawing Details for Design and
Construction Design Standards; except as modifications thereof are specifically
authorized in the approval of the application for the planned unit development.
No exceptions shall be approved that are less restrictive than applicable State
and local ordinances or regulations. An applicant shall secure and follow the
provisions outlined in the Land Use Authority's procedures for a planned unit
development zone change.
 
9-20-3: REZONE AND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION APPROVAL PROCESS:
 
A.   Application for a PUD Zone Change: Any person desiring to develop property
under the provisions of this article shall first file an application for a PUD
overlay zone change on the standard form provided by the County. A Planned Unit
Development application shall be filed in conjunction with the zone change
application.
 
9-20-11: SCOPE OF LAND USE AUTHORITY ACTION:
In carrying out the intent of this chapter the land use authority shall
consider the following principles:
 
   B.   The land use authority may approve or disapprove an application for a
planned unit development zone change. In an approval, the land use authority
may attach such conditions as it may deem necessary to secure compliance with
this section. The denial of an application for a planned unit development zone
change by the land use authority may be appealed to the appeal authority.
Appeal must be filed within thirty (30) days of receipt of written reason for
denial.
 
   D.  Preliminary and Final Subdivision Plat: A preliminary and final
subdivision plat as described in the Subdivision Ordinance in effect at the
time of application shall be submitted for a recommendation of approval or
disapproval to the Administrative Land Use Authority Planning Commission, who
shall forward their recommendation to the County Commission for final plat
approval as outlined elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-
27-2013; amd. Ord. O-2022-41, 7-26-2022)
//
 
Section 2.   Severability.
 
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct,
and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this ordinance.
 
Section 3.   Effective Date
 
This ordinance is effective fifteen (15) days after adoption, and after
publication and notice are completed as set forth below.
 
Section 4.   Publication and Notice.
 
This Ordinance shall be deposited in the Office of the Kane County Clerk. The
Kane County Clerk is directed to publish a short summary of this Ordinance with
the name of the members voting for and against, together with a statement that
a complete copy of the ordinance is available at the Office of the Kane County
Clerk, for at least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county, or as otherwise permitted and required by Utah State Law.
 
End of Ordinance.
 
 
ADOPTED this 16th day of September, 2025.
 
 
                     ____________________________
   Celeste Meyeres, Chair
ATTEST:   Board of Commissioners
Kane County
 
_________________________   Commissioner Brown voted      ____
CHAMEILL LAMB   Commissioner Meyeres voted      ____
Kane County Clerk               Commissioner Kubeja voted      ____
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. O 2025-27
 
 
AN ORDINANCE REVISING KANE COUNTY LAND USE ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 22 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND ADDING ROAD POLICY STANDARDS TO TITLE 6
SECTION 4 ROAD POLICY
 
WHEREAS, after a duly noticed public hearing, the Kane County Planning
Commission recommended changes to Chapter 22 Performance Standards adding in
the road maintenance policy for Kane County in Title 6 Public Ways and
Property; and
 
WHEREAS, the Kane County Planning Commission recommends deleting the outdated
term Standard Specifications and Drawing Details for Design and Construction to
read Construction Design Standards; and
 
WHEREAS, the Kane County Board of Commissioners desires to implement the
recommendations of the Planning Commission and amend the Kane County Land Use
Ordinance Chapter 22 Performance Standards with the additional changes and
other modifications; and
 
WHEREAS, the Kane County Commission desires to encourage public knowledge of
the adopted road maintenance policy; and
 
WHEREAS, the authority for this ordinance is found in Utah Code §17-27a-101 et
seq., and §17-27a- Part 6 Subdivisions 607;
 
NOW THEREFORE, THE COUNTY LEGISLATIVE BODY OF KANE COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH,
ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:   
Section 1.   Ordinance Amendment.
 
Kane County Code Title 9 Chapter 22 Performance Standards in Kane County Land
Use Ordinance is amended to read as follows. Additions to the ordinance are
indicated with an underline, and deletions from the ordinance are indicated
with a strike-through. Instructions to the codifiers are italicized and inside
parenthesis.
 
//
 
CHAPTER 22
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
 
9-22-3: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS PROCEDURE:
The Zoning and/or Land Use Administrator or County Engineer may require
performance standards review for compliance of any use in any zone when there
is reason to believe that such use or the manner of its operation will not or
may not conform to the performance standards adopted by Kane County, to
include, but not limited to, "Kane County Standard Specifications and Drawing
Details for Design and Construction Design Standards", Federal, State and local
EPA standards, ICC Codes, etc. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd.
Ord. O-2022-07, 2-22-2022)
9-22-4: COMMERCIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES:
    A.   All commercial developments shall comply with the Kane County Standard
Specifications and Drawing Details for Design and Construction Design Standards
for Roads.
//
 
(Add these sections)
(Insert new chapter 4 into Title 6. Name of Chapter 4 should be ROAD
MAINTENANCE POLICY)
 
SECTION:
6-4-1: Road Maintenance Policy Overview
6-4-2: Road Maintenance and Repairs
6-4-3: Prioritization of Road Maintenance and Repairs
6-4-4: Table of Kane County Class B Roads
6-4-5: Drainage Policy
6-4-6: Collaboration with Homeowners Associations (HOAs), Special Service
Districts and Local Entities
6-4-7: Personal Improvements and County Right of Way
6-4-1: ROAD MAINTENANCE POLICY OVERVIEW:
 
A.   Kane County provides a more basic level of road services than those
typically associated with municipal governments. While municipalities often
manage local road networks with a focus on highly specific and frequent
services, Kane County's role is focused on maintaining its primary road
infrastructure, with an emphasis on roads classified as Class B roads.
 
B.   The County’s top priority is to maintain Class B roads to meet state
standards for safety, accessibility, and functionality. These roads are
critical for the movement of goods, emergency services, daily commuters, and
their condition has a direct impact on public safety and the economic vitality
of the County. In this context, Kane County recognizes the importance of cost-
effective, long-term road maintenance solutions which balance available
resources.
 
C.   Kane County encourages local cooperation with Homeowners Associations
(HOAs), Special Service Districts and other local entities, and strives to
maintain clear guidelines for maintaining roads and addressing issues such as
drainage, safety, and infrastructure needs.
 
6-4-2: ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS:
 
County roads will be maintained based on assessed needs, with priorities
determined by the Kane County Roads Supervisor in consultation with relevant
County departments and stakeholders.
 
A.      Determining Maintenance Needs: Road maintenance is carried out as
needed, with inspections and assessments conducted regularly by the County’s
Roads Supervisor to determine road conditions and identify areas requiring
repairs. Maintenance can include, but is not limited to, blading, resurfacing,
patching, snow removal, and vegetation control along roadways.
 
B.      Emergency Repairs: In cases of unexpected damage (e.g., severe weather,
accidents, or infrastructure failures), emergency repairs will be initiated as
quickly as possible, based on severity and public safety concerns.
 
C.      Routine Maintenance Schedule: Routine maintenance will be scheduled and
prioritized to ensure that roads remain safe, passable, and functional for the
traveling public taking into account, funding, equipment availability and
availability of road crew personnel.
 
6-4-3: PRIORITIZATION OF ROAD MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS:
 
The County will prioritize road repairs and maintenance to ensure the safety,
functionality, and accessibility of its road network.
 
A.   Priority Criteria: The priority for road maintenance and repairs will be
determined based on:
 
1.   Class of Road: Class B County roads will be prioritized to meet state
standards of          maintenance.
 
2.   Traffic Volume: Roads with relatively higher traffic volumes may be given
higher priority for maintenance or repair.
 
3.   Safety Issues: Roads showing signs of deterioration that pose a safety
risk will be    prioritized for repair.
 
 
4.   Condition Assessment: Roads with the most significant wear and tear, based
on regular inspections, will be prioritized for repair or resurfacing.
 
5.   Weather and Seasonal Considerations: Road conditions affected by weather
events will be addressed according to the severity and seasonality of
the issue.
 
B.   Road Features (e.g., culverts, cattle guards) will be maintained on an as
needed basis and will be prioritized secondary to class B road maintenance and
emergency maintenance.
 
C.   Class D Roads, and County Rights of Way will be repaired on an as needed
basis to ensure that they are passable by off highway vehicles as time,
equipment and funding allow.
 
D.   Annual Review of Priorities: The County will review and update its road
maintenance priorities on a not less than annual basis, ensuring that critical
repairs are addressed and that the maintenance schedule aligns with available
budget and resources.
 
E.   Public Input: The County encourages input from residents,
businesses, and other
stakeholders regarding road conditions and potential maintenance needs.
 
Requests for road repairs can be submitted through email
to roads@kane.utah.gov, and concerns will be evaluated based on the
priority criteria.
 
6-4-4: Table of Kane County Class B Roads:
 
Zion Road           Desert View Drive   Lakeside Drive      Ridge View Avenue
Zion Narrows        Debonair Drive      Lake Drive          Ridge Drive
Trailhead
Yellow Creek Spur   Deadwood Court      Kosherm Way         Remington Road
Wyatt Earp Lane     Deadwood Avenue     Kodachrome State    Redwood Road
                                        Park
Woodchuck Road      Dead Horse Loop     Knoll Road          Red Knoll Road
Wing Drive          Dead horse Circle   Knoll Avenue        Red Hills Avenue
Wind Drive          Cutler Point Spring Kitchen Corral Road Red Cliffs Drive
Winchester Road     Cutler Point        Kim Circle          Rawhide Circle
Willis Creek Road   Crosby Canyon       Kenner Drive        Ranch Drive
Willis Creek Circle Crimson Road        KCR# 1204           Quaking Aspen Drive
Wild Bill Hickok    Crestwood Drive     Kanosh Way          Primrose Path
Lane
White Sands Loop    Crestline Avenue    Kaneplex Road       Prairie Circle
White Pine Road     Crest Court         Kaneplex Drive      Powerline Road
Whispering Pines    Crescent Butte      KANAB CANYON        Poverty Wash Road
Drive               Trail
West Ridge Drive    Cree Way            Kaibab Trail        Porcupine Drive
Wells Road          Coyote Canyon Way   Kaibab Circle       Porcupine Circle
Wapiti Drive        Cove Road           K8001               Ponderosa View
                                                            Drive
Vista Avenue        Cottonwood Canyon   K7065               Ponderosa Drive
Valleycrest Drive   Corsair Drive       K7060               Plateau road
Valley View Drive   Corral Canyon Road  K4361               Piute Drive
Utes Way            Consumers Street    K4000               Piper Circle
Ute Lane            Conifer Circle      K3995               Pioneer Road
Upper Slickrock     Concorde Lane       K3900 Alton Coal    Pinon Drive
                                        Bypass
Upper Alton Road    Commerce Avenue     K3285               Pinon Circle
Uintah Flat Road    Comanche Drive      K3280               Pinetree Trail
Uintah Drive        Colt Road           K3207               Pinecrest Drive
Tule Circle         Coal Hill Gravel    K3205               Pine Ridge Drive
 
Troys Road          Cliff View Lane    K3200               Pine Loop
Tonto Trail         Clark Bench Road   K3075               Pine Knoll Loop
Tommy Water         Circle Drive       K3035               Pine Knoll Circle
Timber Mountain     Church Drive       K2480               Pine Cliffs Drive
Spur
Timber Mountain     Christensen Road   K2435               Pine Circle
Timber Lane         CHIPPEWA DR        K2410               Petrified Hollow
                                                           North
The Plains          Chipmunk Boulevard K2375               Petrified Hollow
                                                           East
Tenny Creek         Cherokee Lane      K1535               Petrified Hollow
Taxiway Drive       Cessna Street      K1175               Penny Lane
Swallow Park / Park Centurion Circle   Juniper Cliffs      Pecos Drive
Wash                                   Drive
Swains View Trail   Cedar View Circle  Johnson Canyon      Paul Fulmer Drive
Swains Creek/       Cedar Mountain
Orderville          Road               House Rock Valley   Paria Town Site Road
Gulch
Sunset Drive        Cedar              Horse Flat Road     Paria Movie Loop
                                                           Road
Sundance Kid Lane   Cascade Falls      Hopi Way            Paria Cemetery Road
Sunburst Lane       Canyon View Drive  Hole in the Wall    Paria Cemetery Loop
                                       Road                Road
Summit Circle       Canyon Avenue      Hole In the Rock    Papoose Road
                                       Road
Sugar Pine Road     Butte Avenue       Hog Canyon Road     Panorama Avenue
Strawberrycreek     Butch Cassidy Lane Hidden Lane         Ouray Circle
Drive
Strawberry Point    Burr Circle        Henry Road          Old Highway 89 / The
Road                                                       Seeps
Strawberry Knolls   Bunting Ranch Road Heavenly Drive      Old Highway 89 /
Circle                                                     Sands
Strawberry Creek    Bugle Lane         Heaton Ranch Road   Ocho Lane
Circle
Stout Canyon        Bugle Drive        Havasuipai Drive    Oak Canyon
Steep Drive         Buckskin Lane      Harris Springs Road North Plains
Spruce Loop         Brycewoodlands     Harris Spring Road  North Fork Road
                    No name
Spruce Drive        Bryce Woodland     Harris Rim Road     North End Kaibab
                    Drive
Spring Drive        Bryce View Road    Harris Ranch Drive  No Name
Spotted Pony Trail  Bryce Circle       Harris Ranch Circle Nipple Lake
South Plains        Bryce Canyon Way   HANCOCK ROAD        Nipple Canyon
South Mossberg Road Browning Road      Gulfstream Drive    New Paria
                                                           Subdivision
Smokey Mountain     Broad Hollow       Grassy Trail        Nephi Pasture Road
Road
Smokey Hollow Road  Bristlecone Street Grassy Circle       Navajo Loop
Smith and Wesson    Brinkerhoff Ranch  Grandpas Road Tee   Navajo Lane
Loop                Road
Sleepy Meadow Lane  Box Canyon Road    Grandpas Road       Muddy Canyon Road
Skyline View Drive  Boulder Bluff      Grande Vermilion    Movie Ranch Road
                    Boulevard          Avenue
Skyline Circle      Bonnie Green Drive Grand View Drive    Mountain View Drive
 
Skutumpah Road     Bonanza Road        Grand Circle          Mossberg Road
Silvertip Lane     Bonanza Hill        Goshute Way           Moquie Court
SILVER SPURR TRAIL Boeing Drive        Glendale Bench        Monument Road
Sidehill Drive     Bluebird Lane       George Mountain Road  Moccasin Lane
Shoshone Lane      Blackjack Drive     Front Avenue          Mirror Drive
Shivwitts Lane     Black Rock Road     Fourmile Canyon       Mineral
                                       Four Mile / Last
Shivwits Court     Bills Place         Chance                Mill Creek
                                       Road
Sheep Creek        Big Timber Drive    Forest Drive          Merriam Circle
Seneca Court       Bettys Place        FoPaved_Asphalttree   Meadow View Road
                                       Road
Seaman Wash Road   Beechcraft Drive    Flintlock Circle      Meadow View Lane
Seaman Spring Road Bear country Road   Five Mile Mountain    Meadow Ranch Drive
                                       Road
Savage Circle      Batt Masterson Road Ferry Swale           Meadow Lane
Sandy Ridge Road   Bald Knoll Road     Fawn Circle           Meadow Canyon
Sand Dunes Road    Bach Drive          Evergreen Drive       Marlin Circle
Runway Drive       Aspen Road          Evergreen Circle      Marjay Trail
Ruger Lane         Aspen Drive         Empty Saddle Road     Manzanita Court
Royal Drive        Ash                 Elk Ridge Estates     Manitobin Trail
Round Valley       Arrowhead Trail     Elk Ridge Drive       Magma Circle
Roosevelt Lane     Arapahoe Drive      ELK MEADOWS DRIVE     Lydias Canyon
Rockchuck Road     Appaloosa Drive     Elephant Cove Road    Lost Creek Road
Rock Springs Bench Apollo Trail        Eight Mile Gap        Long Canyon
Roads
Rock Ledge Lane    Apache Trail        Duck Creek Ridge Road Lone Rock Road
Rock Ledge Drive   Antelope Trail      Dry Valley Road       Lodgepole Circle
Robbers Roost Road Alton South Fields  Dry Farm Road         Lion Head Way
Roadrunner Circle  Alton Road          Douglas Trail         Lion Head Circle
Rim Road           Airport Drive       Doc Holliday Lane     Leach Ranch Road
Ridge View Road    Airplane Drive      Dixie Drive           Lava Road
                                                             Larkspur Road
                                                             Lambs Fields
 
6-4-5: DRAINAGE POLICY:
 
Kane County's primary responsibility related to drainage is to ensure that
water does not damage County-owned roads. Drainage features such as ditches,
culverts, and other infrastructure will be placed in locations that do not
disrupt the natural flow of water, in order to minimize the impact on the
surrounding properties and prevent damage to County roadways.
 
A.   Maintaining Drainage: The County is responsible for maintaining drainage
features that are essential for preserving the integrity of its roads. These
features will be designed and placed in the natural flow of water, as much as
possible, to prevent the alteration of local water drainage. This ensures that
water is managed in a way that protects roads from flooding and erosion, while
preserving the natural water flow.
 
B.   Private Property Drainage: The County does not manage or maintain drainage
systems on private property or within subdivisions, except where drainage
systems directly impact public roadways.
 
C.   Homeowners Associations (HOAs) or private property owners are responsible
for maintaining and managing drainage systems located on private property or
within their subdivisions, including storm water retention features, culverts,
or drainage ditches not directly linked to County roads.
 
D.      Review of Drainage Modifications: Any changes to drainage systems
within subdivisions that may affect water flow or require County approval will
be subject to review by the Kane County Roads Department. This review ensures
that any modifications do not negatively impact public infrastructure, roads,
or the surrounding environment. All drainage work must comply with local,
state, and federal regulations.
 
6-4-6: COLLABORATION WITH HOMEOWNERS’ ASSOCIATIONS (HOAs), SPECIAL SERVICE
DISTRICTS AND LOCAL ENTITIES:
 
Kane County recognizes the importance of community collaboration in maintaining
and improving local infrastructure. The County encourages and supports
Homeowners Associations (HOAs), Special Service Districts and local entities to
take an active role in road improvements and maintenance, particularly in areas
where resources and responsibilities may exceed the standard services provided
by the County.
 
A.   Incentives for Local Entities:
 The County will work to incentivize local organizations,
and private entities to take on desired road improvements, maintenance, and upgrades beyond the level of
service provided by the County. This may
include offering technical assistance, recommending best practices, or
helping secure funding for eligible projects.
 
B.   Joint Initiatives: Where feasible, the County may collaborate with
local entities to jointly fund or co- manage road maintenance and improvement
projects. In such cases, a formal memorandum of understanding 
(MOU) may be created to outline the responsibilities, funding sources,
and project expectations of each party.
 
6-4-7: PERSONAL IMPROVEMENTS AND COUNTY RIGHT OF WAY:
 
Kane County encourages property owners to maintain and improve their personal
driveways, but it is important that any improvements made by citizens do not
impede or obstruct the County-owned right of way. The County-owned right of way
is larger than the disturbed surface or the improved road way and most often
includes the area along County roads that is necessary for road construction,
maintenance, drainage, and other public purposes. To determine the width of the
county-owned right of way, contact the county roads supervisor at
roads@kane.utah.gov.
 
A.   Improvements Impacting Right of Way: Any personal improvements, such as
driveway extensions, landscaping, fences, or other structures, made within the
County right of way that interfere with road
access, drainage, or maintenance activities, may be
subject to damage. Property owners should ensure that their improvements do
not obstruct or interfere with County-owned infrastructure or create safety
hazards.
 
B.   Liability for Damage: If personal improvements are made within the County
right of way and these improvements cause damage due to maintenance activities
or roadwork, the County will not be responsible for repair or replacement of
those improvements. This includes any damage resulting from snow removal,
drainage maintenance, road repairs, or other necessary activities conducted by
the County.
 
C.   Permitting and Approval: Property owners are encouraged
to contact the County Roads Department prior to making any improvements that
could potentially impact the right of way. In some cases, permits or
approval may be required to ensure compliance with County standards
and to avoid future conflicts with road maintenance activities.
 
 
D.   Restoration and Access: In cases where County Road maintenance activities
require access to or work within the right of way, the County may need to
temporarily remove or modify improvements made by property owners. The County
will not be responsible for restoring personal improvements within the right of
way after such activities, and property owners will bear the cost of
restoration if desired.
 
//
Section 2.   Severability.
 
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct,
and independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this ordinance.
 
 
 
Section 3.   Effective Date
 
This ordinance is effective fifteen (15) days after adoption, and after
publication and notice are completed as set forth below.
 
Section 4.   Publication and Notice.
 
This Ordinance shall be deposited in the Office of the Kane County Clerk. The
Kane County Clerk is directed to publish a short summary of this Ordinance with
the name of the members voting for and against, together with a statement that
a complete copy of the ordinance is available at the Office of the Kane County
Clerk, for at least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county, or as otherwise permitted and required by Utah State Law.
 
End of Ordinance.
 
 
ADOPTED this 16th day of September, 2025.
 
 
                     ____________________________
   Celeste Meyeres, Chair
ATTEST:   Board of Commissioners
Kane County
 
_________________________   Commissioner Brown voted      ____
CHAMEILL LAMB   Commissioner Meyeres voted      ____
Kane County Clerk               Commissioner Kubeja voted      ____
 
 
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
KANE COUNTY ORDINANCE No. 2013-8
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE 2011 KANE COUNTY UTAH, COUNTY CODE ALONG WITH THE
2012 AMENDMENTS
WHEREAS, the Kane County board of commissioners in 2011 contracted with
Sterling Codifiers to create a codification of all previously adopted county
ordinances; and
WHEREAS, Sterling Codifiers presented to the county a codification of all
county ordinances up to 2011 and then in 2012 codified additional updates to
county ordinances; and
WHEREAS, said codification is entitled "KANE COUNTY, UTAH: COUNTY CODE," and
WHEREAS, the Kane County board of commissioners did not adopt the codification
in 2011 or 2012 due to the process of updating the Kane County land use
ordinance and the Kane County nuisance ordinance, and because there were some
discrepancies between previous ordinances and the proposed codification; and
WHEREAS, the Kane County board of commissioners now desires to adopt the
codification but allow for additional clarification regarding previous
ordinances that are still in effect which need to be included in future
codifications and ordinances that are still in effect but do not need to be
codified; and
WHEREAS, Utah Code §17-53-208 (4) allows "any ordinance printed by authority of
the county legislative body in book form ... or any general revision of county
ordinances printed in book form ... may be adopted by an ordinance making
reference to the printed ordinance or revision if a copy of the ordinance or
revision is filed in the office of the county clerk at the time of adoption for
use and examination by the public." and
WHEREAS, a copy of the codification in book form, titled "KANE COUNTY, UTAH:
COUNTY CODE," which was created in 2011 and includes updates from 2012, is
currently filed in the office of the county clerk and is available for use and
examination by the public;
NOW THEREFORE, THE COUNTY LEGISLATIVE BODY OF KANE COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH,
ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:
The codification of county ordinances in book form titled "KANE COUNTY, UTAH:
COUNTY CODE," created in 2011 by Sterling Codifiers, with updates from 2012,
currently on file in the office of the county clerk for use and examination by
the public, is adopted.
In accordance with title 1 chapter 1 section 1 of the aforementioned
codification, it shall be referred to as the "Kane County Code." Any reference
to a portion of the Kane County code on official county documents and
subsequent county ordinances may be abbreviated as KCC followed by the title,
chapter, section, and subsection where necessary.
The following is a list of previous ordinances that are currently contained in
the Kane County code and remain in effect as set forth in the Kane County code:
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1961-3 An ordinance setting the day, place, and
time for holding regular meetings of the board of county commissioners of Kane
County, Utah
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1962-1 (1-1962) An ordinance combining the county
offices of auditor and clerk and of recorder and treasurer
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1971-7 (7-71) Title 1 - large public assemblies
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1973-23 (23) An ordinance providing for the
licensing, care and control of dogs within the county of Kane
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1977-30 (30) An ordinance separating the office
of county recorder and county treasurer in Kane County, Utah
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1960-1 An emergency interim succession ordinance
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1980-1 An ordinance regulating the use of public
and private sewers and drains, and providing penalties for violation
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1986-1 An ordinance providing for the
acquisition, management and disposal of county-owned property
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1989-2/64 Flood damage prevention ordinance
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1989-4/66 An ordinance separating the offices of
Kane County recorder and Kane County surveyor and designating the recorder's
office as a depository for survey plats
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1990-1/68 An ordinance imposing a one % municipal
sales and use tax and providing penalties for violation
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1991-1/69 An ordinance establishing the amounts
of the official bonds for the county and precinct officers and employees
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1994-1/76 An ordinance providing for a fence law
within Kane County, Utah
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1994-3/78 An ordinance of the board of
commissioners of Kane County enacting an amendment to the revised ordinances of
Kane County to establish an agriculture protection area advisory board
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1996-5/85 An ordinance establishing drinking
water source protection zones
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1997-1 An ordinance establishing and creating the
Kane County council on aging
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1998-3 An ordinance establishing the rules and
procedures for the Kane County board of equalization
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1998-7 An ordinance prohibiting snow removal from
county roads during certain periods without prior approval
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2000-1 An ordinance establishing a minimum
taxable value for real property located within Kane County
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2002-3 Residential property tax exemptions
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2003-1 An ordinance authorizing recovery of
expenses incurred in responding to hazardous materials emergencies
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2003-6 An ordinance approving of Kane County
granting certain authority to the Kane County library board of directors and
establishing procedures
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2004-5 This ordinance is to amend and update Kane
County ordinance 1998-2 in establishing a resource development committee to
study and advise the board of Kane County commissioners regarding planning,
management, development, and conservation of resources found in Kane County
including resources from public lands administered by federal and state
agencies lying within Kane County.
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2005-1 Kane County hospital sales tax
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2005-3 Off-highway vehicles: An ordinance to
designate and regulate the use of off-highway vehicles, pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated, title 41 chapter 22, Utah Code Annotated 1953 as amended
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2005-4 Ordinance adopting the most current
international building code (IBC), international residential code (IRC),
international plumbing code (IPC), international mechanical code (IMC),
international fire code (IFC), and other building ordinances
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2006-2 An ordinance adopting the international
urban wildland interface code, as amended by Utah administrative rules
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2006-4 Sale of beer: An ordinance of Kane County,
state of Utah, providing for the issuance of licenses and the collection of
fees and also providing for the regulation and enforcement for the sale of beer
within Kane County, state of Utah: repealing all other ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict therewith.
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2006-5 An ordinance of Kane County providing for
the licensing, control, and regulation of businesses within Kane County and
repealing other ordinances in conflict therewith
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2006-7 An ordinance repealing and reenacting Kane
County ordinance nos. 1971-18, 1982-7, 1989-7 and 1996-4 as amended, imposing a
transient room tax and providing collection and appeal procedures
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2007-2 An ordinance relating to optional county
sales and use tax
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2007-4 Kane County fire safety ordinance
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2007-6 An ordinance establishing a uniform system
for addressing in Kane County
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2008-7 An ordinance imposing a one % sales tax on
the sale of beverages and prepared foods by restaurants in Kane County
Notwithstanding KCC
1-2-1, the following list of ordinances, although not yet contained in the Kane
County code, shall not be repealed by this ordinance and shall remain in
effect:
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2004-4 An ordinance providing a comprehensive
means for defining, identifying and abating nuisances
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2007-5 Kane County Duck Creek Days ordinance
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2011-2 An ordinance establishing rules of order
and procedure for public meetings of the Kane County planning commission
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2012-8 Primary residency tax exemption amendment
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2013-5 An ordinance repealing all previous land
use ordinances and adopting and enacting the 2013 Kane County land use
ordinance
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2013-6 An ordinance amending chapter 10 of the
Kane County land use ordinance to prohibit smoke shops
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2013-7 An ordinance prohibiting the use of any
and all tobacco products on county property
In accordance with KCC
1-2-1 the following is a list of ordinances that are not contained in the Kane
County code and shall not be added in the future, but qualify as a type of
ordinance that is not repealed by the Kane County code under KCC
1-2-1:
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1971-1 An ordinance granting a commercial ferry
franchise to Lake Powell Ferry Service, Inc.
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1977-28 An ordinance establishing a county
service area: 28
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1989-5 An ordinance granting to Garkane Power
Association, Inc., an electric light, heat and power franchise
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1992-2 An ordinance granting a right of way to
Church Wells special service district for utility purposes
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1993-1A An ordinance providing for the county-
wide funding of an E911 emergency telephone system in cooperation with cities
located within Kane County
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1995-1 Ordinance establishing Cedar Mountain fire
protection district
•   Kane County ordinance no. 1996-3 An ordinance granting to South Central
Utah Telephone Association, Inc., a franchise for a telephone system, lines,
stations and accessories
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2002-4 Abandonment of road claims on a certain
private property
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2003-3 Abandonment of road - south half of SW 1/4
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2003-4 Abandonment of road - beginning at NE
corner
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2004-3 An ordinance taking the following actions
with respect to the Cedar Mountain fire protection district (1) authorizing the
district to provide emergency access snow removal; (2) emergency medical
service; (3) approving an amended and restated charter for the district; (4)
confirming and restating the boundaries of the district
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2007-1A Background checks re: applicants for
county employment; an ordinance authorizing the Kane County sheriff's office to
do background checks on applicants for county employment
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2007-1B Background checks re: applicants for
county employment; an ordinance amending the Kane County policies manual to
provide for the Utah criminal history dissemination - right of access
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2008-2 An ordinance to establish a long term
closure of a portion of county road no. K2991, the Glendale Bench Road
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2008-3 An ordinance to establish a one year
temporary closure of a portion of county road no. K2502, the Hog Spring Road
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2008-4 An ordinance to establish a long term
closure of a portion of county road no. K2595, the East Hog Canyon Road
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2008-6 An ordinance confirming the assessment
list and levying an assessment against certain properties in Kane County, Utah
special improvement district no. 2005-1 (Vermillion Cliffs Estates)
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2012-2 An ordinance vacating the Chamberlain
Ranch amended plat
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2012-11 An ordinance vacating Zion View Mountain
Estates unit C, lot 70
•   Kane County ordinance no. 2012-12 An ordinance vacating a cul de sac in
Zion View Mountain Estates Subdivision, unit D
This ordinance shall take effect on August 27th, 2013.
The county clerk is ordered to publish this ordinance in accordance with Utah
state law.
   ADOPTED this 12th day of August, 2013.
            /s/   
            DIRK CLAYSON, Chair,
ATTEST:         Board of Commissioners,
            Kane County
/s/         
KARLA JOHNSON      Commissioner Matson voted   aye
Kane County Clerk/Auditor   Commissioner Clayson voted   aye
            Commissioner Heaton voted   aye
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
KANE COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the county commission, this code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official county code of Kane County. This
code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the KANE COUNTY CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the county commission and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the county as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2011 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the county of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2011 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2011 Code)
1-1-4: ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
county commission. The county clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the county
clerk. Any person having custody of a copy of this code shall make every effort
to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such
person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when
such are delivered or made available to such person through the office of the
county clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the county and
shall be returned to the office of the county clerk when directed so to do by
order of the county commission. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the county passed prior
to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the county; and all special ordinances.
   B.   Effect Of Repealing Ordinances: The repeal of the ordinances provided
in subsection A of this section shall not affect any debt or fee which is
accrued, any duty imposed, any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding
commenced under or by virtue of the ordinances repealed or the term of office
of any person holding office at the time these ordinances take effect; nor
shall the repeal of any ordinance have the effect of reviving any ordinance
heretofore repealed or superseded. (2011 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2011 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Now Pending: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the county herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the county under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2011 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The county commission hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2011 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the county commission may be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other county officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May/Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is mandatory.
   H.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   I.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   J.   Officers And Employees: Whenever any officer or employee is referred by
title, such reference shall be construed as if followed by the words "of Kane
County".
   K.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   L.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
county has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection", or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the county's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2011
Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The county code of Kane County.
COUNTY: Kane County, state of Utah.
COUNTY COMMISSION: The county commission of Kane County, Utah.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the county for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation or other activity subject to county regulation,
authorization or limitation.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the county, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Utah.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2011 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2011
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Sentencing
1-4-2: Offenses Designated; Classified
1-4-1: SENTENCING:
   A.   Penalty For Violation Of Ordinance 1 :
      1.   Specified: The county commissioners may enforce obedience to
ordinances by punishment, not to exceed the maximum fine for a class B
misdemeanor under Utah Code Annotated section 76-3-301, imprisonment, or by
both fine and imprisonment.
      2.   Traffic; Parking:
         a.   Except as specifically authorized by statute, the county
legislative body may not impose a civil penalty for the violation of a county
traffic ordinance.
         b.   Subsection A2a of this section does not apply to an ordinance
regulating the parking of vehicles on a highway.
   B.   Term Of Imprisonment For Misdemeanors 2 : A person who has been
convicted of a misdemeanor may be sentenced to imprisonment as follows:
      1.   In the case of a class B misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding six
(6) months;
      2.   In the case of a class C misdemeanor, for a term not exceeding
ninety (90) days.
   C.   Infractions 3 :
      1.   A person convicted of an infraction may not be imprisoned but may be
subject to a fine, forfeiture and disqualification, or any combination.
      2.   Whenever a person is convicted of an infraction and no punishment is
specified, the person may be fined as for a class C misdemeanor.
   D.   Fines Of Persons 4 : A person convicted of an offense may, in addition
to any term of imprisonment imposed, be sentenced to pay a fine not to exceed:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) when the
conviction is of a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: Seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) when the conviction is of a class C misdemeanor conviction or
infraction conviction.
   E.   Fines Of Corporations 5 : The sentence to pay a fine, when imposed upon
a corporation, association, partnership or governmental instrumentality for an
offense defined in this code, or the ordinances of the county, or for an
offense defined outside of this code over which this county has jurisdiction,
for which no special corporate fine is specified, shall be to pay an amount
fixed by the court, not exceeding:
      1.   Class B Misdemeanor: Five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) when the
conviction is for a class B misdemeanor conviction; and
      2.   Class C Misdemeanor; Infraction: One thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
when the conviction is for a class C misdemeanor conviction or for an
infraction conviction. (2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 17-53-223.
2 2. UCA § 76-3-204.
3 3. UCA § 76-3-205.
4 1. UCA § 76-3-301.
5 2. UCA § 76-3-302.
1-4-2: OFFENSES DESIGNATED; CLASSIFIED:
   A.   Sentencing In Accordance With Chapter:
      1.   A person adjudged guilty of an offense under this code or the
ordinances of this county shall be sentenced in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter.
      2.   Ordinances enacted after the effective date of this code which
involve an offense should be classified for sentencing purposes in accordance
with this chapter, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   B.   Designation Of Offenses: Offenses are designated as misdemeanors or
infractions.
   C.   Misdemeanors Classified 1 :
      1.   Misdemeanors are classified into two (2) categories:
         a.   Class B misdemeanors;
         b.   Class C misdemeanors.
      2.   An offense designated as a misdemeanor or any act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful in this code or any ordinance of this county when no
other specification as to punishment or category is made, is a class B
misdemeanor.
   D.   Infractions:
      1.   Infractions are not classified.
      2.   Any offense which is made an infraction in this code or other
ordinances of this county, or which is expressly designated an infraction and
any offense designated by this code or other ordinances of this county which is
not designated as a misdemeanor and for which no penalty is specified is an
infraction.
   E.   Continuing Violation: In all instances where the violation of this code
or any ordinance hereinafter enacted is a continuing violation, a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation
occurs or continues to occur. (2011 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. UCA § 76-3-104.
CHAPTER 5
COUNTY COMMISSION
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meetings
1-5-2: Legislative Powers And Actions
1-5-3: Executive Powers And Actions
1-5-4: Delegation Of Authority
1-5-5: Administrative Actions
1-5-6: Electronic Meetings
1-5-7: Rules Of Order And Procedure
1-5-8: Minimum Notice Requirements For County Commission Appointments
1-5-1: MEETINGS:
A regular meeting of the board of county commissioners for the purpose of
handling all matters and transacting all the business of the county to come
before and be transacted by the board of county commissioners shall be held a
minimum of twice of month on a regular basis in the commissioners' room in the
county courthouse at Kanab, Utah, as further established by resolution of the
board of county commissioners provided, that any regular meeting of the board
of county commissioners may, having been convened, be recessed, continued or
adjourned from hour to hour, day to day, or time to time unless forbidden in a
particular case by law at the judgment and discretion of the board of county
commissioners. (Ord. 8/1961-3, 5-8-1961; amd. Ord. O-2020-7, 3-23-2020)
1-5-2: LEGISLATIVE POWERS AND ACTIONS:
   A.   Legislative powers, functions, or actions, include, but are not limited
to, discussing and passing ordinances or resolutions whether civil, criminal or
other, discussing and creating countywide personnel policies of general
applicability or other policies relating to the operation of government,
creating and passing a countywide budget, opening the budget, receiving
official reports or audits on the budget, appropriating funds in any manner,
discussing and passing any rule or regulation, appointing an individual to
serve on any board or other county organization, having the consent power over
deputy county officers, levying taxes, examination and auditing of accounts,
setting fees for services, opening the board of equalization, and investigating
any matter pertaining to county business.
   B.   All legislative powers, functions, and actions are held and retained by
the county commission. Any deliberation or final action on a legislative action
must be done in an open public meeting in accordance with the requirements and
exemptions of the Utah state open and public meetings act.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall limit or prohibit any individual
commissioner from gathering information, receiving comment, or discussing
legislative matters with other elected officials, county personnel, or the
public, so long as the commission is not convening a meeting. Nothing in this
chapter shall affect the statutory authority of any other county elected
official. (Ord. O-2017-2, 2-13-2017)
1-5-3: EXECUTIVE POWERS AND ACTIONS:
   A.   Executive powers, functions, or actions, include, but are not limited
to, collective bargaining, personnel, litigation, the purchase, exchange or
lease of real property, sale of real property, carrying laws and ordinances
into effect and securing their due observance, enforcing the law, reviewing,
investigating, approving or denying claims against the county, directing and
organizing the management of the county in accordance with established laws,
carrying out programs and policies established by legislative actions, ensuring
compliance with all applicable laws, supervising all county departments not
under another elected official, appointing and removing department heads,
exercising administrative and auditing control over all funds and assets,
supervising and directing centralized budgeting, accounting, personnel
management, purchasing and other service functions of the county, conducting
planning studies and making recommendations for legislation regarding
financial, administrative, procedural, and operational plans, programs, and
improvements in county government, maintaining a continuing review of
expenditures and of the effectiveness of departmental budgetary controls,
developing systems and procedures, not inconsistent with statute, for planning
programming, budgeting, and accounting for all activities of the county,
reviewing, negotiating, approving and executing contracts, executing deeds,
issuing executive orders to establish an executive policy, implementing an
executive practice, and executing a legislative policy or ordinance so long as
the executive order is not inconsistent with the law or narrows or expands
legislative action.
   B.   Executive powers, functions, and actions are held and retained by the
county commission except as set forth in section
1-5-4 of this chapter. Any deliberation or final action on an executive action
taken by the county commission must be done in an open public meeting in
accordance with the requirements and exemptions of the Utah state open and
public meetings act, except as delegated in section
1-5-4 of this chapter or exempt under section
1-5-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall limit or restrict the delegation of
authority to the county budget officer established under Utah code title 17
chapters 16, 19a, and 36, or the delegation of the building department to the
county assessor, or the statutory authority of any other elected official.
(Ord. O-2017-2, 2-13-2017)
1-5-4: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY:
The county commission may by resolution assign and delegate areas of general
executive authority to individual commissioners. Individual commissioners may
take executive actions unilaterally, without approval of the entire commission,
so long as the executive action does not involve the expenditure of funds that
are not already appropriated and the action is within the delegation of
authority and complies with an already established county ordinance,
resolution, policy, or executive order. (Ord. O-2017-2, 2-13-2017)
1-5-5: ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS:
In accordance with the Utah state open and public meetings act, the county
commission may meet and take executive actions in areas where authority has not
been delegated under section
1-5-4 of this chapter outside of an open public meeting so long as no public
funds are appropriated for expenditure during the meeting and the meeting is
solely for the discussion or implementation of administrative or operational
matters for which no formal action by the commission is required or that would
not come before the commission for discussion or action. (Ord. O-2017-2, 2-13-
2017)
1-5-6: ELECTRONIC MEETINGS:
   A.   The following definitions shall apply to this section. All other words
shall carry their normal and natural meaning.
      ACT: The Open and Public Meetings Act established in Utah Code title 52
chapter 4.
      ANCHOR LOCATION: A location or locations for the public meeting to take
place, where interested persons and the public may attend and monitor the open
portions of the meeting, and if public comment is accepted, to participate in
the meeting, at least one of said locations is the commission chambers at the
Kane County Courthouse, unless changed by resolution.
      BOARD: Kane County Board of County Commissioners or Kane County
Commission.
      ELECTRONIC MEANS: Any system or combination of systems that is reasonably
available to the county clerk or other appropriate county staff to operate,
including a phone, one or more phones or phone systems or other electronic or
video system or combination of systems, that would allow one or more
commissioners to participate in a board meeting, which system or systems allow
all commissioners to adequately hear each other and allow interested persons
and the public to attend and monitor the open portions of the meeting and if
public comment is accepted to participate in the meeting.
   B.   The intent of this policy is to: 1) allow the greatest leeway for
commissioners to participate in any meeting by electronic means, and 2) allow
the public to participate in all open meetings where appropriate, and 3) fully
comply with the Act.
   C.   Any commissioner may participate by electronic means at any meeting of
the district by giving advance notice to the county clerk prior to the county
clerk posting the agenda for the meeting twenty four (24) hours in advance of
the meeting.
   D.   Commissioners who participate in a meeting by electronic means shall be
counted towards the quorum requirements of the Act.
   E.   A meeting may be conducted entirely by electronic means with no
commissioners present at the anchor location.
   F.   For any meeting, whether one or all commissioners are participating by
electronic means, the county shall provide adequate personnel to be present at
all anchor locations to ensure that interested persons and the public may
attend and monitor the open portions of the meeting and if public comment is
accepted to participate in the meeting.
   G.   The county clerk may establish more than one anchor location so long as
each location is sufficient to comply with the Act and at least one anchor
location is the commission chambers at the Kane County Courthouse, unless
changed by resolution.
   H.   In addition to the regular notice requirements for a meeting under the
Act, when one or more commissioners will participate by electronic means, the
county clerk shall include this information on the notice posted at the anchor
location and in the notice provided twenty four (24) hours in advance of the
meeting on the Utah Public Notice Website.
   I.   If one or more commissioners have given notice to the district clerk to
participate by electronic means, the county clerk shall give notice of this
information to the other commissioners at least twenty four (24) hours in
advance of the meeting and shall provide the information on how the
commissioner will participate.
   J.   The anchor location for any meeting shall have adequate space for
interested persons and the public to attend and monitor the open portions of
the meeting and, if comment from the public will be accepted, to participate.
   K.   The county clerk shall otherwise ensure that all recording requirements
of the Act are complied with for any electronic meeting.
   L.   The county may hold a closed meeting entirely by electronic means if
requested by all commissioners so long as all items on the meeting agenda
qualify for a closed meeting under the Act and the county clerk has provided
all notice requirements under the Act.
   M.   No commissioner may participate by electronic means, and no board
meeting shall be conducted entirely by electronic means unless the electronic
means are adequate to fully comply with the Act. (Ord. O-2020-7, 3-23-2020)
1-5-7: RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   These Rules of Order and Procedure apply to all meetings of the Kane
County Commission ("Commission") required to be conducted in accordance with
the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act. These Rules of Order and Procedure shall
be posted on the county website and shall be available to the public at each
meeting of the Commission in accordance with state statute.
   B.   Officers:
      1.   Chair:
         a.   Election of Chair. At the first regular meeting of each calendar
year, the Commission shall elect from among its members a Chair to serve for
one year or until a subsequent Chair is elected whichever is later. The
Commission may also elect from its members a Vice Chair and additional officers
that will assume the duties of Chair, in a pre-determined order of succession,
when the elected Chair is absent or otherwise unable to conduct the duties of
Chair. Nothing in this rule shall prevent the Chair from being replaced at any
time.
         b.   Duties of Chair. The Chair shall preside at all meetings of the
Commission conducted under these Rules of Order and Procedure. As the presiding
officer, the chair shall assure proper order of the Commission and public
during the meeting which includes the following duties:
            (1)   Review the proposed agenda for each meeting and approve the
agenda for publication;
            (2)   Convene meetings of the County Commission as set forth in
these rules;
            (3)   Announce the item of business before the Commission in the
order in which it is to be acted upon;
            (4)   Recognize persons wishing to have the floor for presentation
or discussion;
            (5)   Receive and submit to the Commission all motions presented by
the Commission;
            (6)   Receive documents to be placed into the record, and assure
all records available to the Commission at the meeting are also made available
to the public as applicable;
            (7)   Review each motion made to determine if the motion is in
order;
            (8)   After appropriate discussion and deliberation, put each
motion to a vote;
            (9)   Announce the result of each vote of the Commission;
            (10)   Rule on any point of order or procedure, after receiving
advice from the Commission's legal counsel, if requested, with such ruling
being final;
            (11)   Maintain order at meetings; and
            (12)   Manage the meeting efficiently, moving the agenda along
including holding down redundancy in discussion and calling the question when
appropriate.
         c.   Acting as the presiding officer of a meeting in no way limits or
precludes the Chair from participating in each meeting as a member of the
Commission, including the right to participate in discussion, debate and make
motions.
      2.   Clerk or Secretary:
         a.   Clerk of the Commission. The Kane County Clerk is the Clerk of
the Commission. The County Clerk or any Deputy County Clerk, in the discretion
of the County Clerk, must perform the duties of the Clerk of the Commission.
         b.   Duties of Clerk. The Clerk shall attend all meetings of the
Commission. The Clerk to the Commission shall perform the following duties:
            (1)   Oversee the process for persons to request an item be placed
on the agenda;
            (2)   Draft an agenda for each meeting of the Commission and
provide the draft to the Chair with adequate time for their review and approval
prior to noticing the agenda;
            (3)   Provide notice of each meeting in accordance with state
statute, including providing notice of the agenda with at least 24 hours'
notice;
            (4)   Assemble a packet of information for each meeting, provide
such packet to the members of the Commission in advance of the meeting, and
assure at least one copy of the packet is available for public inspection at
the meeting;
            (5)   Assure these Rules of Order and Procedure are available for
public inspection at each meeting of the Commission;
            (6)   Assure the anchor location of each meeting is accessible for
the public to reasonably observe the meeting;
            (7)   Coordinate systems to allow members of the Commission, and
members of the public if necessary under these rules, to attend or observe the
meeting electronically;
            (8)   Take minutes of each meeting of the Commission, assuring that
draft minutes are available within a reasonable period after the meeting, that
a draft of minutes are provided to the Commission at the next regular meeting
of the Commission for their approval, and that approved minutes are available
to the public within three days of the date approved by the Commission;
            (9)   Make recordings of each meeting which are unaltered and
unedited, mark the recordings with the date and time of the meeting and assure
the recording is available to the public within a reasonable period after the
meeting; and
            (10)   Provide the Chair all necessary affidavits, statements and
other documents for the Chair's signature in conjunction with meetings.
   C.   Calling and Convening a Meeting
      1.   Regular Meetings:
         a.   Regular meetings of the Kane County Commission will be held at
the times, dates, and locations as set forth in the annual meeting notice
required by Utah Code § 52-4-202(2)(2024, and as further amended). A regular
meeting may be cancelled or rescheduled to another date, time, and location at
the discretion of the County Commission.
         b.   Regular meetings are convened when the Chair, or in the Chair's
absence, one of the other remaining County Commissioners, calls the meeting to
order at the date, time, and location specified in the annual notice, or as
rescheduled by formal or administrative action of the Commission, and as set
forth in the 24-hour notice required by the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.
      2.   Special Meetings:
         a.   A special meeting of the County Commission is called in
accordance with Utah Code § 17-53-205 (2024, and as further amended), namely:
            (1)   A special meeting may be called by two commissioners or by
the chair;
            (2)   An order calling a special meeting shall be signed by the
members or the chair calling the meeting; entered in the minutes for the County
Commission; and specify the business to be transacted at the meeting;
            (3)   No business other than that specified in the order may be
transacted at a special meeting unless all members of the County Commission are
present and give their consent.
            (4)   The Chair, or two Commissioners, shall provide the order for
the special meeting to the County Clerk, and the County Clerk shall give notice
of the special meeting to each commissioner who did not sign the order, at
least five days prior to the special meeting.
         b.   A special meeting is convened when the Chair, or in the Chair's
absence one of the other remaining County Commissioners, calls the meeting to
order at the date, time, and location specified in the order as set forth in
section C1a(2) and required by Utah Code § 17-53-205(2)(2024, and as further
amended), and as set forth in the 24 hour notice required by the Utah Open and
Public Meetings Act.
      3.   Nothing in this section affects the Commission's duty to comply with
the Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah Code § 52-4-101 et. seq. (2024, and as
further amended).
   D.   Quorum:
      1.   Calculating a Quorum. A quorum of the Commission shall be required
to call a meeting to order, and to continue conducting business as the
Commission. A quorum of the Commission is a simple majority of the number of
individuals currently holding a position on the Commission. A member of the
Commission participating in a meeting electronically, in accordance with the
Commission's electronic meeting policy, is considered in attendance for
purposes of determining a quorum. Proxy voting is not allowed under these Rules
of Order and Procedure, and no claim of a proxy vote shall be used in
determination of a quorum.
      2.   Loss of a Quorum During a Meeting. If during the course of a meeting
that was properly called to order with a quorum, members of the Commission
leave the meeting to the extent that a quorum is lost, the Chair should
immediately announce that a quorum has been lost and the Commission may not
conduct business until a quorum is regained. The Chair may call a recess of the
meeting to allow time for a quorum to be regained, may move to purely
administrative items on the agenda, or may rule the meeting to be adjourned if
it is clear a quorum will not be regained in a reasonable period of time. Any
motion made, deliberation on an action or attempt to vote on a motion when a
quorum is not present must be ruled out of order by the Chair. When a quorum is
regained after being lost during a meeting, the Chair should announce a quorum
is present and should return to business at the point the quorum was lost.
   E.   Agenda:
      1.   Agenda Creation. Any Commissioner may place an agenda item on the
agenda by submitting the agenda item to the County Clerk. Other County staff
may also request that an item be placed on the agenda. The Clerk for the
Commission shall prepare a draft agenda for each meeting. The Chair shall
review the draft and approve a final agenda for the Clerk to include with the
required notice of each meeting. Each agenda item shall describe the item with
reasonable specificity. Items may not be added to the agenda unless such items
can be added with adequate time for the revised agenda to be noticed to the
public in accordance with the Open and Public Meetings Act.
      2.   Consent Agenda. The Commission may use a consent agenda to move the
meeting along more efficiently by handling regular administrative
authorizations and approvals as one item rather than as several different
items. Items often included on a consent agenda include approval of prior
minutes, approval of payments made and to be made, acceptance of reports from
staff and consultants and other common administrative approvals. The consent
agenda may also include any item where the Commission voted unanimously at a
previous meeting to place the item on the consent agenda of the following
meeting. Any member of the Commission may request that an item be removed from
the consent agenda and considered separately and such request shall be honored
as if it had passed by majority vote. Items on the consent agenda are deemed
passed upon passage of a unanimous vote of the Commission as if each item had
been voted on separately. The Consent Agenda item on the agenda should list
each specific item included in the Consent Agenda so if a member asks for an
item to be removed from the consent agenda to be acted upon individually, the
item has been properly noticed with reasonable specificity, allowing the
Commission to act on it. If the Consent agenda does not pass unanimously, each
item must be addressed individually.
   F.   Parliamentary Process:
      1.   Announce Agenda Item. The Chair should announce the next agenda item
to be considered by the Commission. The Chair may clarify the scope of the
item, assuring that deliberation and action on the item is within the scope of
the description of the item on the noticed agenda. Items on the agenda may be
taken out of the order shown on the noticed agenda at the Chair's discretion.
      2.   Reports on Agenda Items. After announcing the item, the Chair should
recognize staff and/or invitees to provide a report on the item, if
appropriate. The Chair may also allow another member of the Commission who is
assigned to the agenda item to provide a report and in turn recognize staff
and/or invitees. Invitees may be consultants, vendors or others the Chair or
other member of the Commission has determined can assist in providing an
effective report to assist the Commission in making an informed decision on the
item. The Chair should recognize members of the Commission to ask clarifying
questions of staff and others providing reports, and may do so during or after
the report, at the Chair's discretion.
      3.   Public Comment on Agenda Item. The Chair, in the Chair's discretion,
may recognize members of the public in attendance to comment on the item,
unless the item is of a nature that comment is not appropriate. The Chair may
limit public comment by limiting the total amount of time for comment on an
item or the amount of time that individuals may comment, or both, at the
Chair's discretion. The Chair should consider the duty to move the meeting
along efficiently when imposing limits on public comment. If a large number of
individuals indicate they wish to comment, the Chair should endeavor to
identify a reasonable number of persons to comment and have an equal number of
persons on each side of the issue be recognized to comment. The Chair should
also endeavor to eliminate duplication of comments. The Chair may recognize
members of the Commission to ask clarifying questions of those commenting, but
should not allow this privilege to be used to extend comment of those on one
side of the issue.
      4.   Discussion by Members of the Commission. If discussion of the item
by members of the Commission prior to a motion being made is allowed, the Chair
should recognize members of the Commission who wish to make comment on the
item.
      5.   Making of a Motion - Motion First. When all reports, comment and
discussion on the item are complete, the Chair should solicit a motion from the
Commission. The Chair should recognize the first member of the Commission that
indicates they are ready to make a motion, and that individual should state
their motion clearly and concisely to the Chair and Commission. A motion made
that takes action on the item (not a procedural motion) is considered the main
motion before the Commission. No second is required for any motions.
      6.   Repeat the Motion Before the Commission. When a motion has been
made, the chair should have the motion repeated clearly to the Commission by
repeating the motion, having the maker of the motion repeat it, or having the
Clerk repeat the motion. Once repeated the motion is before the Commission for
debate.
      7.   Ruling on Motions. For each motion made, the Chair should consider
if the motion is in order, or out of order, and provide a ruling to the
Commission. The Chair may begin debate while making the determination. If the
Chair rules a motion to be out of order, the motion is dead, and the Chair
should solicit an alternative motion. A motion may be out of order if it is not
made timely, if it does not pertain to the agenda item currently under
consideration, if it is outside the scope of the description of the agenda item
properly noticed for the meeting, if the motion raises the same question as a
motion already acted upon by the Commission at the meeting, or if it is a
motion not allowed by these Rules of Order and Procedure. The Chair may consult
with the Commission's legal counsel in determining if a motion is in order, and
must rule on the motion before a final vote is taken. Ruling a motion to be out
of order is not meant to be used as a veto power by the Chair.
      8.   Debate on Motion by Members of the Commission. Once a motion has
been made, the Chair should solicit debate on the motion by members of the
Commission. The Chair should first recognize the maker of the motion to begin
debate on the motion, and then continue to recognize members of the Commission
in the order they indicate they wish to be recognized for debate on the motion.
Each member of the Commission should be recognized for debate before a member
is recognized a second time during debate. The Chair should keep order during
debate, and assure all debate is germane to the motion. A member of the
Commission may ask pertinent questions of staff during debate, and the Chair
may allow staff to answer questions during debate.
      9.   Amending Motions. During debate a main motion may be amended by a
motion to amend. If the maker of the main motion decides the motion should be
amended, they may withdraw their motion to allow for a new main motion to be
made, or may make a motion to amend the main motion. If a member of the
Commission other than the maker of the main motion wished to amend the motion,
they may do so by asking for a friendly amendment, or by making a motion to
amend. A friendly amendment can be made by the member of the Commission
identifying the simple amendment they propose. The Chair should ask the maker
of the main motion if they agree with the amendment. If the maker of the main
motion agrees, the motion is amended and debate may continue on the amended
motion. If the maker of the main motion does not agree to an amendment, or if
the member of the Commission wants to make the amendment by separate motion,
they may make a motion to amend. A friendly amendment or a motion to amend may
only amend the main motion by adding words, striking words, or a combination of
striking and adding words. Amendments should be simple in nature and germane.
If the motion to amend is not considered germane to the main motion, the Chair
should rule it out of order. If a motion to amend is complex or is not germane
to the main motion, it should be made as a motion to substitute the main
motion. Once a motion to amend has been made, the maker of the motion to amend
should be allowed to speak to the amendment. The Chair should then seek debate
on the motion to amend. When debate on the motion to amend is complete, the
Chair should put the motion to amend to a vote. If the motion to amend passes,
the motion is amended, and debate may continue on the amended motion. If the
motion to amend fails, the Chair should return the Commission to debate on the
original main motion. There may not be a motion to amend an amendment. Instead
a second motion to amend should be made after a vote on the first amendment.
      10.   Substitute Motions. During debate after a main motion has been
made, a member of the Commission may make a motion to substitute. A substitute
motion may replace the main motion entirely, rather than amending the main
motion, and need not be germane to the main motion, only to the item under
consideration. If a motion to substitute is made, the Chair should recognize
the maker of the substitute motion to speak to the substitute. The Chair should
then seek debate on the substitute motion. A motion to amend a substitute
motion should follow the same procedures as for an amendment on a main motion.
When debate on the substitute motion is complete, the Chair should put the
substitute motion to a vote. If the substitute motion passes, the main motion
is considered moot and the Chair can move on to the next item on the agenda. If
the substitute motion fails, the Chair should return to debate on the main
motion. A motion to amend a substitute motion should follow the same procedures
as for an amendment on a main motion. Only one motion to substitute may be open
at a time, but is subject to a motion to amend.
      11.   Ending Debate on a Motion. When the Chair feels adequate debate has
been provided on a motion, the Chair may announce that debate is closed and put
the motion to a vote. The Chair should not end debate on a motion until each
member of the Commission has had an opportunity to speak at least once on the
motion.
      12.   End Debate and put the Motion to a Vote (Calling the Question). A
member of the Commission may make a motion to end debate and put the motion to
a vote if they feel the debate on the motion should end. The Chair should
recognize a motion to end discussion and put the motion to a vote as a
secondary motion to be dealt with prior to the main motion. The Chair may refer
to the motion as "calling the question". If the Chair agrees that adequate
debate has been provided, the Chair may end debate and put the motion to a
vote. If the Chair is not certain debate should end, the motion to end debate
and put the motion to a vote, which is not debatable or amendable, should be
put to a vote. A vote of 2/3 of the Commission is necessary for a motion to
call the question to pass.
      13.   Putting the Motion to a Vote. After repeating the motion to be
acted upon the Chair should conduct the voice vote by asking all those in favor
to signify by saying "aye", and then asking all those opposed to signify by
saying "nay". If the Chair considers the vote to be unanimous, the Chair should
announce the result as motion passes or motion fails. If the vote is not
unanimous, the Chair should clarify the negative and affirmative votes for the
record.
      14.   Announce Outcome of Vote. After the vote has been conducted, the
Chair should announce the outcome of the vote, whether the motion passes or the
motion fails. If the motion fails, the Chair should solicit a new motion on the
item and the process begins anew for the new motion. If the motion passes, the
Chair should move forward to the next item on the agenda.
      15.   Motion to Reconsider. Prior to adjournment of the meeting a member
of the Commission that voted in the majority on a motion may make a motion to
reconsider the motion. If a motion to reconsider passes, the Chair should
restate the original motion made, and put the motion to a vote following the
same procedures as if the motion was being voted on for the first time.
      16.   Procedural Motions. There are several acceptable motions that are
procedural in nature, rather than a motion to take an action on an agenda item.
Some procedural motions are non-debatable, meaning the Chair should put these
motions to a vote immediately.
         a.   Motion to Adjourn. This motion is made when a member of the
Commission feels the Commission has conducted all business for the meeting. The
motion is non-debatable, should be put to an immediate vote, and if the motion
passes with a simple majority, the Chair should rule the meeting adjourned. If
the motion fails the Chair should continue the business before the Commission.
         b.   Motion to Recess. This motion is made when a member of the
Commission wishes to recess the meeting for a period of time, usually set by
the Chair, after which the meeting will resume. If the recess will be for an
extended period of time or if the meeting will resume in another location, the
Chair should announce those details prior to the vote being taken. This motion
is non-debatable and should be put to an immediate vote. A motion to recess
passes with a simple majority vote.
         c.   Motion to Fix the Time to Adjourn. This motion is made when a
member of the Commission wishes to set the time at which the meeting will be
adjourned. This motion is non-debatable and should be put to an immediate vote.
If the Commission does not agree with the time identified in the motion, the
motion must be defeated and a new motion to fix the time to adjourn made to a
different time. A motion to fix the time to adjourn passes with a simple
majority vote.
         d.   Motion to Table. This motion is made when a member of the
Commission wishes to have all discussion on the item end and the item be put on
hold. This motion is non-debatable and should be put to an immediate vote,
which passes with a simple majority.
         e.   Motion to Postpone. This motion is made when a member of the
Commission wishes to have all discussion on the item end and to entertain the
item at another meeting. The motion should include a specific meeting to hear
the item again. If no specific time is included the motion is treated like a
motion to table. This motion is non-debatable and should be put to an immediate
vote, which passes with a simple majority.
         f.   Motion to Strike an Item. This motion is made when a member of
the Commission wishes to preclude any discussion, debate or action being taken
on an item, usually because they feel no action is necessary. This motion is
non-debatable and should be put to an immediate vote, which passes with a
simple majority.
      17.   Motions Allowed as Interruptions. When a person has been recognized
by the Chair, generally they should not be interrupted except by the Chair to
call them into order, at which point the speaker should yield the floor back to
the Chair. The following motions may be made by other members of the Commission
as an interruption of a person that currently has the floor.
         a.   Point of Privilege. The proper interruption would be "point of
privilege". The Chair should ask the interrupter to "state your point".
Appropriate points of privilege relate to anything that would interfere with
the normal comfort of the meeting, for example, the room may be too hot or
cold, or a noise might be interfering with a member's ability to hear. The
Chair should take appropriate action to deal with the point and then return the
floor to the speaker who was interrupted.
         b.   Point of Order. The proper interruption would be "point of
order". The Chair should ask the interrupter to "state your point". Appropriate
points of order relate to anything that would not be considered appropriate
conduct of the meeting, for example if the Chair called for a vote on a motion
that permits debate without allowing any discussion or debate. The Chair should
immediately rule on the point of order issue, take action to correct the point
of order, and then return the floor to the speaker who was interrupted, if
appropriate.
         c.   Motion to Appeal. If the Chair makes a ruling that a member of
the Commission disagrees with, that member may appeal the ruling by stating
"motion to appeal' immediately after the ruling, which is debatable. If passed
by a unanimous vote of members other than the Chair, the ruling of the Chair is
reversed.
         d.   Call for Orders of the Day. The proper interruption would be
"call for orders of the day', but "call to return to the agenda" is also
acceptable. This interruption is made when a member of the Commission feels the
discussion has strayed from the agenda and wishes to stop discussion and have
the Chair return the Commission to the proper business on the agenda. A call
for orders of the day does not require a vote but should be ruled on by the
Chair.
         e.   Withdraw a Motion. During debate and discussion on a motion, but
prior to a vote on the motion, the original maker of the motion may at any time
interrupt a speaker to withdraw their motion. The motion is immediately deemed
withdrawn and discussion or debate ceases. The Chair should then solicit a new
motion on the item. A motion to withdraw a motion cannot be made after a vote
has been taken, the appropriate motion by the original maker would be to make a
motion to reconsider.
   G.   Public Hearings. If a Commission conducts a public hearing as part of a
regular public meeting, the Chair should open and conduct the public hearing
when it comes up on the agenda. The Chair shall allow all persons wishing to
speak time to have the floor. The Chair may place reasonable limits on the
amount of time each person has to speak. The Chair may also ask that members of
the public wishing to speak not repeat the same comments others have made.
      The Chair should keep order during the public hearing and should not
allow the use of profanity or obscene language, and should assure persons in
the audience keep quiet to allow the person providing comment to be heard. When
all persons wishing to provide comment have been recognized, or the reasonable
time limits have expired, the Chair should end the public hearing and turn to
the next item on the agenda. If the Commission allows public to observe
meetings electronically, members of the public observing electronically may not
be recognized to comment during the hearing.
   H.   Public Comment. The Commission prefers that members of the public that
have issues they wish to have the Commission consider reach out to an
individual Commissioner to discuss the matter and allow the Commissioner to
place an item on the agenda of a subsequent meeting. Each meeting, however will
have a public comment period. Members of the public should limit comments to
issues under the authority and jurisdiction of the Commission. Comments should
be discouraged on issues that the Commission may have to consider in a quasi-
judicial capacity. Public comment may be limited by the Chair to a maximum time
limit for all comment or the maximum time allowed per person. Comments should
be made to the Commission as a whole, and should not single out a member of the
Commission, the audience, or a staff member.
   I.   Closed Session
      1.   Motion to Close the Meeting. When an agenda item to conduct a closed
session is opened, a member of the Commission should make a motion to close the
meeting or enter into closed session, and state the specific reason(s), as
allowed by state statute, for closing the meeting to the public. The Chair
should put the motion to a vote, and if the motion passes by a 2/3 majority,
the Chair should announce that the meeting is closed to the public, state the
reason for the closed session as stated in the motion, ask all members of the
public and others that are not invited to be part of the closed session to exit
the meeting, and indicate they will be notified when the closed session is
complete and meeting resumes in open session. The Chair should provide
instruction as to where the public and others should wait to be notified the
meeting is resuming open session.
      2.   Beginning a Closed Session. The Chair, or other person presiding
over the closed session if not the Chair, should call the session to order by
repeating on the recording for the record the time, date and place the closed
session is being held, and the reason, as stated in the motion to close the
meeting, for holding the closed session. The Chair should then call for reports
and discussion on the item.
      3.   Minutes. No minutes are taken of closed session other than the
minimum requirements of the Open and Public Meetings Act.
      4.   Recordings. Closed session are required to be recorded with two
exceptions. The exceptions are sessions to discuss the professional competency
or physical or mental health of an individual or the discussion of deployment
of security equipment or personnel. If a closed session is not recorded by way
of an authorized exemption, the Chair or person presiding over the closed
session must sign an affidavit attesting that discussion was limited to the
reason allowed to hold the closed session.
      5.   Limitation of Discussion. The Chair or person presiding over the
closed session must assure that discussion is limited to the scope of the
reason for which the closed session is being held. The Chair or person
presiding over the closed session should stop any discussion beyond the scope
of the reason for holding the closed session, as well as any deliberation on
action to be taken once the Commission reconvenes its regular meeting.
      6.   No Final Actions During Closed Session. No motions may be made,
other than a motion to end the closed session, during a closed session.
Discussion must be limited to information on the issue and deliberation on any
potential action to be taken. Any motion for a final action to be taken must be
conducted in open session, if the item is on the agenda properly noticed. If
the agenda does not include an item to allow for action to be taken related to
the issue the closed session was held for, action must wait for a future
meeting where the item has been properly noticed on the agenda.
      7.   Ending a Closed Session. The only proper motion that may take place
during a closed session of a meeting is a motion to end the closed session and
to return to the open session of the meeting. Any member may make the motion
and the Chair must call for a vote.
   J.   Electronic Meetings:
      1.   Quorum. Members of the Commission attending a meeting electronically
are considered in attendance for all purposes of the meeting, including
calculation of a quorum.
      2.   Anchor Location. Electronic meetings should be held at an anchor
location, usually the normal meeting place of the Commission, which should be
shown on the noticed meeting agenda. The anchor location should accommodate
members of the public to observe the meeting. When the Chair determines that a
meeting will be held electronically without an anchor location, the Chair shall
follow all procedures required by statute to hold such a meeting.
      3.   Public Access to Observe Via Electronic Means. Public access to
observe a meeting via electronic means will be provided when a meeting is held
without an anchor location for the public to attend or when the Commission has
adequate capability to provide this service. If a meeting is held without an
anchor location in accordance with the exceptions allowed by statute, and the
Commission is unable to provide the public electronic access due to technical
or financial limitation allowed by statute, the meeting may be held without
such access.
      4.   Proxy Voting. No member of the Commission may provide a proxy to
another member of the Commission or any other individual, and no member of the
Commission may vote a proxy vote for another member. Proxy voting for a member
of the Commission is in violation of state law.
   K.   Rules of Conduct for Meeting - Decorum. The Chair is charged with the
duty to maintain proper decorum during all meetings of the Commission. Other
than members of the Commission requesting to be recognized, all persons must
wait to be recognized by the Chair before speaking, and must immediately stop
speaking when the Chair orders them to yield the floor, which can be done by
use of the gavel. Use of obscene, vulgar, profane, or threatening language,
should not be allowed.
   L.   Amendment of Rules. These rules may only be amended by action of the
Commission taken in open meeting when the agenda includes an item to amend the
rules.
   M.   Enforcement of Rules
      1.   Chair's Control. The Chair is responsible to enforce these rules of
order and procedure at each meeting of the Commission. The Chair may rule on
these rules of order and procedure when there is division among the members of
the Commission on the interpretation or enforcement of a rule. The Chair may
consult with the Commission's legal counsel on a ruling and/or may allow input
or debate on the rule from members of the Commission prior to making a ruling.
Chair's ruling is final unless a member of the Commission immediately upon the
Chairs ruling moves to appeal a ruling which was made without support of legal
counsel and/or input or debate from the members of the Commission. A motion to
appeal requires a unanimous vote, other than the Chair, to overturn the Chair's
ruling.
      2.   Warning by the Chair. The Chair may rule any person (Commission
member, staff member or audience member) to be in violation of these rules, and
warn them to be silent or otherwise cease their violation.
      3.   Removal of Persons Disrupting Meeting. After providing a warning,
the Chair may have a person, other than a member of the Commission, removed
from a meeting if the Chair believes the person is willfully disrupting the
meeting to the extent that orderly conduct is compromised.
      4.   No Enforcement by Third Parties. Strict compliance with these rules
is not required. Instead, these rules are intended to give general direction
for process and procedure to help ensure that the Commission has orderly
meetings and to help ensure that it is clear when the Commission has taken any
action and the substance of that action. No action taken by the Commission may
be invalidated or voided for failure to comply with these rules. Failure to
conduct a meeting in strict accordance with these Rules of Order and Procedure
does not create a claim for civil action, nullification of actions taken or any
other compliance violation available for persons to take action on, with the
exception of a member of the Commission making a motion to reconsider based on
an action taken in violation of these Rules of Order and Procedure. (Ord. O-
2023-27, 6-13-2023; amd. Ord. O-2024-20, 7-9-2024)
1-5-8: MINIMUM NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR COUNTY COMMISSION APPOINTMENTS:
   A.   Scope: This section does not apply in any circumstance where the County
Commission is authorized and intends to appoint one of the County Commissioners
to a specific position, or when the appointed position is limited to existing
county officials or personnel. This section applies to any other circumstances
where the County Commission is authorized or required to appoint an individual
to serve in any of the positions set forth below.
      1.   A board member, trustee, director or other similar position for any
governing body or other similar multi-member governing body organized under the
Kane County Commission either by county ordinance or resolution or under state
law.
      2.   An appointed board member of an administrative control board of a
Special Service District or an appointed trustee for the board of trustees of a
Special District.
      3.   A board member, trustee, director or other similar position for any
governing body or other similar multi-member governing body that is not
organized under the County Commission but requires appointment by the Kane
County Commission.
      4.   All appointed offices or positions of Kane County held by an
individual.
   B.   Minimum Notice Requirement: Whenever an appointed position that falls
under the scope of subsection A becomes vacant or is otherwise due for
appointment or reappointment, the following minimum notice requirements apply.
      1.   The notice required by this section must include:
         a.   The duties and expectations of the appointed position;
         b.   The qualifications to be appointed to the position;
         c.   An estimated time commitment for the position; and
         d.   The purpose and function of the position or the entity, whichever
is applicable.
      2.   The notice must comply with the Class A notice as set forth in Utah
Code § 63G-30-102, namely, the notice must be posted on the Utah Public Notice
Website, on the official Kane County website, and a physical copy in one public
location. The public location must be within the jurisdiction of the position
and in a location that is reasonably likely to be seen by residents of the
area.
      3.   The notice must be posted for a minimum of seven days prior to
closing applications.
      4.   The County Commissioner who is the liaison for the appointed
position or delegated the assignment for the position may choose to publish the
notice in a newspaper of general circulation, or to provide notice using other
methods such as social media, mass emailing, or direct solicitation. Any
additional methods of notification under this subsection 4 are not required.
   C.   Other Procedures:
      1.   Applications and any accompanying information will be forwarded to
all County Commissioners. The commissioner who is assigned to or is a liaison
for the appointed position may conduct interviews of qualifying applicants or
may request another County Commissioner to conduct interviews. For individuals
who are being appointed for the first time to a position, they must be
interviewed by one commissioner prior to being appointed. Individuals who are
being reappointed at the end of a term do not need to be interviewed by a
commissioner.
      2.   The commissioner who is assigned to or is a liaison for the
appointed position, or under circumstances where another commissioner is asked
to conduct interviews, the commissioner who conducts interviews, must give a
recommendation to the County Commission regarding who should be appointed.
After giving this recommendation, the commissioner should give notice of the
recommendation to all applicants and notification of the date of the commission
meeting where the appointment will be heard by the County Commission.
      3.   At a subsequent County Commission meeting, the Commission will first
vote on whether to appoint the individual that is recommended as set forth
above. If that vote fails, then any commissioner may move to appoint any other
qualified applicant. Subsequent motions and votes may take place until an
applicant is appointed. County staff, when preparing the notice and agenda for
the meeting should draft the notice and agenda in such a way that the Open and
Public Meetings Act will allow for appointment of any of the applicants, not
just the recommended applicant.
   D.   Conflict with State Law or County Ordinance:
      1.   If any provision of state law conflicts with this section, the
minimum notice of this section will still apply and the requirements of state
law must also be complied with.
      2.   If any other provision of Kane County Code conflicts with this
section, the section that requires greater notice shall apply. (Ord. O-2024-3,
1-9-2024; amd. Ord. O2024-23, 9-24-2024)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Bonds, Insurance, Premiums Paid
1-6-2: County Clerk-Auditor Offices Combined
1-6-3: County Recorder And County Treasurer Offices Separated
1-6-4: County Recorder And County Surveyor Offices Separated
1-6-5: County Recorder's Office Designated Depository For Documents
1-6-1: BONDS, INSURANCE, PREMIUMS PAID:
   A.   No fidelity bonds are required under this section, unless an individual
bond is required under a contract entered into by the County or by State law.
All other officers shall be covered by theft or crime insurance secured by the
County.
   B.   Before entering upon the discharge of their respective offices, the
following officers shall be covered by theft or crime insurance with a per
occurrence limit of not less than the amounts required by State law, as
follows:
Office Penalty/Coverage
Office              Penalty/Coverage
Assessor            $20,000.00
Attorney            5,000.00
Auditor             5,000.00
Clerk               5,000.00
Commissioners       5,000.00
Constable           5,000.00
Deputies/assistants 2,500.00
Justice Court Judge 5,000.00
Recorder            5,000.00
Sheriff             20,000.00
Surveyor            5,000.00
Treasurer           As set by the State Money Management Council
 
   C.   If any of the offices listed are combined in accordance with section
17-16-3 of the Utah Code the combined office shall not require multiple
policies of insurance and the coverage limit for theft or crime insurance for
the combined office shall not be less than the highest requirement of the
offices so combined.
   D.   If any of the offices listed are held by an appointed officer under
contract with the County, the limit of coverage for theft or crime insurance
required shall be as agreed to under such contract.
   E.   Theft or crime insurance covering County officials under this section
shall be provided by an admitted or surplus lines insurance carrier or an
interlocal cooperative agency acting as a public agency insurance mutual, or
Joint Reserve Fund. Any bonds required under contract shall be approved by the
County Legislative Body, recorded by the County Recorder, and filed and kept in
the Office of the County Clerk. Any theft or crime insurance secured for the
purpose of complying with this section shall be approved by the County
Legislative Body.
   F.   County officials and personnel of this County, except any officials who
may be required by State Statutes to give an individual bond or be covered by
theft or crime insurance to qualify for office, may be covered by blanket theft
or crime insurance coverage rather than separate individual policies or
coverage. Said theft or crime insurance shall provide a minimum coverage limit
of the maximum coverage required by State Statute or County ordinance of any
person covered by such blanket theft or crime insurance.
   G.   As required by section 17-16-11 of the Utah Code, the premium of any
bond or theft or crime insurance referred to herein, shall be paid from County
funds. (Ord. O-2018-26, 11-19-2018)
1-6-2: COUNTY CLERK-AUDITOR OFFICES COMBINED:
The County Offices of Auditor and Clerk are hereby consolidated and the duties,
acts, powers, authority, functions, responsibilities and liabilities of these
two (2) offices shall, from and after the first Monday of January 1963, be
vested in and discharged by one person. (Ord. 12/1962-1, 5-14-1962)
1-6-3: COUNTY RECORDER AND COUNTY TREASURER OFFICES SEPARATED:
The County Office of Recorder-Treasurer, which has heretofore been a combined
office under the provisions of State law, is hereby separated into two (2)
offices, to be known as the County Recorder and the County Treasurer. (Ord. 30,
3-14-1977)
1-6-4: COUNTY RECORDER AND COUNTY SURVEYOR OFFICES SEPARATED:
   A.   The Office of the County Surveyor is herewith separated from the Office
of the County Recorder.
   B.   The Office of the County Surveyor shall be the responsibility of the
County Commission and the offices are hereby consolidated. The County
Commission shall assign the duties, responsibilities and oath of Office of the
County Surveyor to a four (4) year Commissioner on an annual basis. (Ord. 66/
1989-4, 8-21-1989)
1-6-5: COUNTY RECORDER'S OFFICE DESIGNATED DEPOSITORY FOR DOCUMENTS:
   A.   The County Recorder's Office is designated as a "depository" for all
documents filed to comply with Utah Code Annotated title 17, chapter 23, as
amended.
   B.   The County Recorder's Office acting as the depository shall collect a
filing fee in such amount as established by resolution of the County Commission
for each survey plat filed. (Ord. 66/1989-4, 8-21-1989; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 7
EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSION
SECTION:
1-7-1: Title
1-7-2: Purpose
1-7-3: Definitions
1-7-4: Designation Of Successors
1-7-5: Oath Of Office
1-7-6: Exercise Of Powers And Duties
1-7-7: Administration
1-7-8: Emergency Interim Succession For County Commissioners
1-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the EMERGENCY INTERIM EXECUTIVE SUCCESSION
ORDINANCE. (Ord. A-1, 11-14-1960)
1-7-2: PURPOSE:
The Board of Commissioners hereby declares that this chapter is adopted to
achieve the following, among other purposes:
   A.   To provide for emergency interim successors for all County officers in
the event any or all of such officers and duly appointed deputies become
unavailable during a disaster that seriously disrupts normal governmental
operations.
   B.   To provide for the manner in which vacancies of County officer
positions shall be filled. (Ord. O-2019-17, 7-9-2019)
1-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ABSENT: Not physically present and not able to be communicated with for forty
eight (48) hours.
EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSOR: A person designated under this chapter to exercise
the powers and discharge the duties of an office when the person legally
exercising the powers and duties of the office is unavailable.
OFFICER: Includes all County officers, the duties of which are defined by the
Constitution, statutes, or ordinances.
UNAVAILABLE: Absent from the place of governance during a disaster that
seriously disrupts normal governmental operations, whether or not that absence
or inability would give rise to a vacancy under existing constitutional or
statutory provisions. (Ord. O-2019-17, 7-9-2019)
1-7-4: DESIGNATION OF SUCCESSORS:
All County officers other than County Commissioners shall designate by title or
by named person, three (3) emergency interim successors and specify their order
of succession. Each officer shall review, update, and return the list of
emergency interim successors to the County Emergency Manager by June 1 of each
year. (Ord. O-2019-17, 7-9-2019)
1-7-5: OATH OF OFFICE:
At the time of their designation, emergency interim successors shall take such
oath as may be required for them to exercise the powers and discharge the
duties of the office to which they may succeed. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, no person, as a prerequisite to the exercise of the powers or
discharge of the duties of an office to which he succeeds, shall be required to
comply with any other provision of law relative to taking office. (Ord. A-1,
11-14-1960)
1-7-6: EXERCISE OF POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   In the event that any officer is unavailable as defined herein, the
powers of the office shall be exercised and duties shall be discharged by the
designated emergency interim successors in the order specified. The emergency
interim successor shall exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the
office to which designated until such time as a vacancy which may exist shall
be filled in accordance with the Constitution or statutes; or until the officer
(or a preceding emergency interim successor) again becomes available to
exercise the powers and discharge the duties of the office.
   B.   Until such time as the persons designated as emergency interim
successors are authorized to exercise the powers and discharge the duties of an
office in accordance with this chapter, said persons shall serve in their
designated capacities at the pleasure of the designating authority and may be
removed and replaced by the said designating authority at any time, with or
without cause. (Ord. O-2019-17, 7-9-2019)
1-7-7: ADMINISTRATION:
The County Emergency Manager shall be responsible to ensure that the provisions
of this chapter are complied with and to ensure that emergency interim
successors are notified as to the unavailability of their designator. By July 1
of each year, the County Emergency Manager shall forward the list of emergency
interim successors for each office to the Utah State Division of Emergency
Management. (Ord. O-2019-17, 7-9-2019)
1-7-8: EMERGENCY INTERIM SUCCESSION FOR COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   In the event that a County Commissioner is unavailable as defined
herein, their executive duties and delegation of authority assigned under
section
1-5-4 of this title shall be delegated to an emergency interim successor in the
following order: the Chair of the Commission, the Vice Chair of the Commission,
the third unassigned Commissioner, the County Sheriff, and the County Attorney.
   B.   In the event that two (2) Commissioners are unavailable as defined
herein, the third remaining Commissioner is authorized under Utah Code section
53-2a-807 to act as the County legislative body during the period that both of
the other Commissioners are unavailable. (Ord. O-2019-17, 7-9-2019)
CHAPTER 8
TAX SALE RULES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Method Of Sale
1-8-2: Tax Sale Rules Enumerated
1-8-3: Excess Payment
1-8-4: Tax Sale Deferral
1-8-1: METHOD OF SALE:
The board of county commissioners of Kane County has determined the following
method of sale best meets the objectives of protecting the financial interests
of the delinquent property owners and collecting delinquent property taxes due:
The parcel will be sold to the bidder with the highest bid amount for the
entire parcel of property. However, a bid may not be accepted for an amount
which is insufficient to pay the taxes, penalties, interest and administrative
costs. Any amount received in excess of the taxes due to all local governments
and any administrative costs by the county shall be treated in accordance with
section
1-8-3, "Excess Payment", of this chapter. (Ord. O-2016-6, 8-8-2016)
1-8-2: TAX SALE RULES ENUMERATED:
   A.   The county auditor will state the amount of taxes, penalties, interest,
and administrative costs on the parcel being offered for sale, which is the
amount at which bidding will begin and the lowest acceptable bid.
   B.   Upon receipt of a bid sufficient to pay taxes, penalties, interest and
administrative costs on the parcel, higher bids shall be solicited. The bid
received in the highest dollar amount, when no higher bids are tendered upon
request by the auditor, shall be the bid accepted. (If such bid is otherwise
acceptable under these rules.)
   C.   Only cash or certified funds will be accepted in payment for property.
Payment shall be made to the county treasurer on or before five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. the day of the sale.
   D.   Each bidder shall preregister prior to bidding and be given a number
for bidding purposes. In the registration, each bidder shall properly and
clearly identify correct information and address for use in issuance of deeds.
   E.   Upon ratification by the board of county commissioners, one deed, and
only one deed, will be issued to the successful bidder on each parcel sold and
shall be recorded by the county recorder, upon submission (the filing fee being
part of the administrative costs of the tax sale). The deed issued shall be a
tax deed and not a warranty deed.
   F.   This tax deed will not guarantee a clear title. Kane County offers no
warranties, assertions, legal opinions, or advice regarding the property. Kane
County makes no representations as to the title conveyed, nor as to the
purchaser's right of possession of the property. Additionally, the county makes
no warranties or representations as to whether the property is buildable or
developable, nor does the county make any representations regarding whether or
not the parcel complies with applicable zoning or land use regulations. Kane
County does not warrant or represent that any property purchased during tax
sale is habitable or in any particular condition. The county makes no
warranties or representations regarding the accuracy of the assessment of the
property or the accuracy of the description of the real estate or improvements
thereon.
   G.   The bidder first recognized by the county auditor will be the first bid
recorded, etc. As in any auction, the bid recognized is the one in effect at
the time. All bids must be in increments of fifty dollars ($50.00) or more.
After bidding on any given parcel of land has started, parties who are bidding
will not be permitted to withdraw their bids.
   H.   Loud whispering, yelling or talking, other than bids, shall be avoided,
so that accurate records may be kept of the proceedings of the sale. The county
reserves the right to remove any person(s) from the tax sale for disruptive
behavior, at the request of the county auditor.
   I.   The final bid number announced by the auditor is the official sale, and
the registered name and address will be the name that will go on the deed.
   J.   All bids shall be considered conditional, whether or not the bid is
contested, until reviewed and accepted by the board of county commissioners,
acting at a regularly scheduled meeting. The county commissioners may reject
any and all bids on the grounds that none are acceptable. Bids may not be
withdrawn unilaterally by the successful bidder(s). The county commissioners
may enforce the terms of the bid by obtaining a legal judgment against the
successful bidder in the amount of the bid, plus interest and attorney fees.
   K.   The county commission reserves the right to reject any and all bids.
   L.   Upon any final bid being rejected, the next previous acceptable bid may
be accepted and the property sold to such bidder.
   M.   A fee will be assessed for administrative costs per parcel. The fee
shall be established by resolution annually with other county fees. The fee
shall be a minimum of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   N.   Any person wishing to contest any action taken in connection with the
Kane County tax sale must present such protest to the Kane County commission,
in writing, within ten (10) days of the sale.
   O.   Property may be redeemed on behalf of the record owner by any person at
any time prior to the tax sale, by paying all delinquent taxes, interest,
penalties, and administrative costs that have accrued on the property to the
Kane County treasurer. Redemption must be paid by cash or certified funds. The
period to redeem property shall end the day preceding the tax sale, prior to
the closing of the books at the treasurer's office at five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
(MST), as the tax sale will commence at eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. the following
day.
State law requires payments on delinquencies be applied first to the interest
and administrative costs accrued on the delinquencies for the last year
included in the delinquent account at the time of payment, then payment is
applied to the penalty charged for the last year included. After, payments are
applied in the same manner to the delinquent year prior to the last year
included on the tax sale, payment going toward the most recent year of
interest, penalties, and delinquent taxes until paid in full.
A parcel will not be withdrawn from the tax sale unless the year of delinquent
taxes triggering the inclusion of the parcel on the tax sale list, with its
corresponding penalties and interest, are paid in full.
   P.   Any property listed may be subject to a rollback tax under the
provisions of "the farmland assessment act" Utah code sections 59-2-501 through
59-2-515.
   Q.   Parcels subject to bankruptcy shall be withdrawn from the tax sale.
   R.   Properties not purchased at the tax sale shall be struck off to the
county by the auditor, becoming property of Kane County, subject to approval
and acceptance of the board of county commissioners. If a successful bidder
fails to tender payment as required, the property may, at the discretion of the
board of county commissioners, be struck off to the county. Properties struck
off to the county may only be sold for fair market value at a rate which allows
the sale of the property within six (6) months of being stricken to the county.
All proceeds from the sale of property that had been stricken to the county
shall be deposited in the general fund for the general use of Kane County.
   S.   No absentee or collusive bidding shall be permitted.
   T.   No person or party who has a conflict of interest shall be permitted to
bid. Kane County employee(s) or official(s) may bid on a parcel, subject to
these rules.
   U.   The county auditor or board of commissioners shall withdraw a parcel
from the tax sale, due to the discovery of irregular or erroneous assessment,
deficient legal description, or may withdraw a parcel if withdrawal is in the
best interest of the county. If the county auditor withdraws a parcel based on
it being in the best interest of the county, the auditor must issue a written
finding as to the reason for withdrawal, which then must be approved by the
board of county commissioners, pursuant to state law.
   V.   The county auditor shall disclose the properties withdrawn from the tax
sale, for reasons other than redemption, at the regularly convened meeting of
the board of commissioners, preceding the tax sale and the meeting after the
tax sale.
   W.   The board of county commissioners may reject acceptance of property
stricken off to the county by the county auditor.
   X.   There shall be no preference given to any bidder.
   Y.   Property taxes for the current year are not included in the tax sale,
as they are not considered delinquent at the time of the tax sale. (Ord. O-
2015-1, 5-23-2015; amd. Ord. O-2016-6, 8-8-2016; Ord. O-2023-5, 1-24-2023)
1-8-3: EXCESS PAYMENT:
The following procedure applies when a purchase amount received is in excess of
the taxes, interest, penalties and administrative fee:
   A.   The county shall notify those with a recorded interest in the property
of the excess funds. Notification shall be made by first class and/or certified
mail. For purposes of this subsection, those with a recorded interest in the
property are those previously identified as having a recorded interest in the
property and previously notified of the tax sale by the clerk/auditor. The
recipients shall have ninety (90) days from the date the notice is mailed to
submit a written claim for a specified amount of the excess proceeds and brief
legal justification for the claim.
   B.   If only one claim is submitted within the specified time limit, the
county shall pay the amount of the claim or all of the excess funds, whichever
is less, to the claimant.
   C.   If multiple claims are submitted within the specified time limit and
the total amount claimed by all claimants is less than or equal to the total
amount of the excess funds, then the county shall pay the excess funds to the
claimants.
   D.   If no claims are submitted within the specified time limit or the
claims submitted are less than the total excess funds, then the county shall
deposit the remaining excess funds with the state of Utah as unclaimed property
in the name of the previous recorded owner.
   E.   If multiple claims are submitted within the specified time limit and
the total amount claimed by all claimants is greater than the excess proceeds,
then the county shall notify each claimant of the other claims and include the
name, contact information, amount of claim, and brief description of the legal
justification for each claimant. The claimants shall be invited to resolve how
the excess funds should be divided amongst themselves. A time limit of ninety
(90) days shall be placed on these negotiations. If a resolution is reached and
the county is notified of the resolution by all of the claimants, the excess
proceeds shall be distributed according to the resolution.
   F.   If there are inadequate funds and the multiple claimants are unable to
reach an agreement as to the distribution of the excess funds, then the county
shall file an action with the 6th district court of Utah which will allow the
claimants to plead their case to the court. The excess funds shall be
distributed as ordered by the court. Alternatively, the county may make an
independent determination of how the excess funds should be distributed if the
county determines that it is clear which claimants have recorded priority in
their claims.
   G.   The county shall determine appropriate fees to cover its costs in
distributing excess funds and this fee, as established by the Kane County
commission, shall be deducted from the funds prior to distribution.
   H.   The county may set a minimum amount before the above provisions apply.
If the excess funds are less than the minimum amount, then the county may
notify only the previous owner of record of the property and pay the funds to
that owner if a claim for the funds is made. If no claim is made, the funds
shall be deposited with the state of Utah as unclaimed property in the name of
the previous owner of record. (Ord. O-2016-6, 8-8-2016)
1-8-4: TAX SALE DEFERRAL:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known as the KANE COUNTY TAX SALE DEFERRAL
ORDINANCE.
   B.   Application Forms: The following forms, which may be changed from time
to time by resolution of the county commission, shall constitute the official
Kane County tax sale deferral application and shall be kept on file in the
county treasurer's office:
      1.   Kane County application for deferral of delinquent property tax
(Utah state tax commission form PT-33).
      2.   Agreement of lienholder for deferral of delinquent taxes (Utah state
tax commission form PT-33A).
      3.   Proposed payment plan form.
   C.   Application Process:
      1.   Submitting An Application: The taxpayer desiring a deferral of their
property from the tax sale shall submit a completed application to the county
treasurer's office before five o'clock (5:00) P.M. April 1 in the same year as
the tax sale at which the property will be sold. Late applications may be
submitted up to five (5) business days in advance of the tax sale if the
applicant pays an additional fifty dollar ($50.00) late fee at the time of
submitting the application. An application is not considered complete unless
each form is completely filled out and is accompanied by all required
supporting or supplemental documentation.
      2.   Treasurer Review: The county treasurer shall review the application
to ensure completion of all required forms, supplements, and supporting
documentation and to ensure accuracy of tax and taxpayer information. If the
application is incomplete or inaccurate the county treasurer shall notify the
applicant as soon as practicable and allow the applicant to complete or correct
the application so long as it is completed or corrected within the original
deadline. The county treasurer shall reject all incomplete applications and all
late applications that are not accompanied by a fifty dollar ($50.00) late fee.
      3.   County Commission Review: The treasurer shall forward all accepted
applications to the county commission to hear at their next regularly scheduled
commission meeting. The county commissioners may review the application
individually before the meeting but shall not review the application
collectively or discuss the application with other commissioners before the
meeting. The applicant or the applicant's authorized agent shall appear at the
county commission meeting or shall waive their appearance with the county
treasurer. The county commission shall review the application at the meeting
and allow the applicant to be heard. The county commission shall then hear the
recommendations, if any, of the county treasurer.
      4.   Approval Criteria: Before approving the application, the county
commission shall weigh the following factors: whether the applicant has
established a financial hardship that prevents full payment of taxes, whether
the applicant has established that the loss of the property would substantially
affect the applicant's primary residence or principal income source, and
whether the applicant has established that approving the application is in the
interest of the county taxpayers.
      5.   Closed Session: The commission, after reviewing the application and
hearing the applicant may close the meeting for administrative decision making
and then reopen the meeting to approve or deny the application.
      6.   Approval: The application shall be approved by a majority vote of
the commission. If approved the commission chair shall sign the application for
approval and shall forward the application to the county treasurer. The county
treasurer shall notify the taxpayer of the outcome if they waived their
appearance.
      7.   Effect Of Approval: An approved application grants the taxpayer a
one year deferral from the current year tax sale. Nothing in this section or
any application submitted under this section shall be construed as a reduction,
abatement or waiver of any current or future taxes, penalties, fees or
interest. The taxpayer shall strictly comply with the payment plan submitted
with the application and shall pay the current year taxes on time. (Ord. O-
2016-8, 8-8-2016)
CHAPTER 9
PROPERTY ACQUISITION, MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
1-9-1: Authority
1-9-2: Acquisition And Management
1-9-3: Disposal Of Surplus Property
1-9-4: Negotiated Sales
1-9-5: Documents Evidencing Transfer Of Ownership
1-9-6: Fiscal Procedures
1-9-1: AUTHORITY:
The legislature of the State has, in Utah Code Annotated sections 17-50-302 and
17-50-312, and 59-2-1351.5, authorized a county to acquire, manage and dispose
of both real and personal property. Utah Code Annotated section 17-50-312(3)
empowers the Board of County Commissioners to provide by ordinance, resolution,
rule or regulation for the manner in which property shall be acquired, managed
and disposed of. The Utah Supreme Court, in the case of Municipal Building
Authority of Iron County v. Lowder, 23 Utah Adv. Rep. 10, has interpreted Utah
Code Annotated sections 17-50-302 and 17-50-312 to require the disposal of
County property to be made in good faith and for an adequate consideration.
(Ord. O-2017-15, 10-2-2017)
1-9-2: ACQUISITION AND MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Authorized: The County may, in any manner permitted by law and on
behalf of the County, purchase, receive, or otherwise acquire and hold any real
or personal property, or any interest in such property, that it determines to
be in the public interest.
   B.   Fixed Asset Inventory; Value; Determination Of Excess Property: At the
time of acquisition, such property shall be placed on the fixed asset inventory
of the County and recorded at historical cost, or estimated historical cost if
the original cost is not available, or, in the case of gifts or contributions,
at fair market value at the time received. Each County department shall
maintain adequate inventory controls and accountability systems for the
property under its control, shall continuously survey such property to
determine what might be excess property, and shall report any excess property
to the County Commission. (Ord. O-2017-15, 10-2-2017)
1-9-3: DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PROPERTY:
   A.   Real Property:
      1.   Sale Of Real Property, Excluding Property Struck Off To County:
         a.   Whenever any real property owned by the County, excluding
property that had been previously struck off to the County during the annual
tax sale, is no longer needed by the County, the Board of County Commissioners
may declare the same as surplus property. At the time of such declaration, a
market appraisal of the property will be conducted by the County Assessor. Upon
the receipt of said appraisal, the property will be advertised for public sale
by two (2) publications of the notice of sale in a newspaper published in and
having general circulation within the County. This notice of sale, the first of
which shall be published at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of the
sale, shall describe the property to be sold, designate the place and time of
the sale, set forth the minimum acceptable bid, which shall be at least the
value of the property as determined by the appraisal, describe the nature of
the bidding, which shall be by either public auction or sealed bid, and shall
contain any other information which the County Commission deems pertinent to
the sale.
         b.   All sales of real property shall be to the highest bidder for
cash, certified check, or bank or postal money order, provided such bid is at
least equal to the minimum bid set forth in the notice of sale; and provided
further, that the County reserves the right to reject any and all bids.
         c.   Real property with a County Assessor's market appraisal of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) or more in value is defined as a
significant parcel of real property. Prior to any sale of a significant parcel
of real property, in addition to the notice requirements of subsection A1a of
this section, the County Commission shall hold a public hearing and accept
public comment regarding the sale of the significant parcel of real property.
Notice of the hearing shall be given at the same time and in the same manner as
notice of the sale. The public hearing may not take place sooner than fourteen
(14) days after the first date of the notice. The public hearing may take place
on the same day as the proposed sale whether it is a sale by auction or
negotiated sale as discussed further herein.
         d.   In addition to the option to sell a significant parcel of real
property at auction as addressed in subsection A1a of this section, the County
may use the negotiated sale methods addressed in section
1-9-4 of this chapter without having to conduct the auction prior to a
negotiated sale. Under these circumstances the property shall not be sold for
less than the County Assessor's market appraisal unless the County Commission
makes a finding in a public meeting that a sale for less than the appraisal is
in the best interest of the County and the County taxpayers.
      2.   Demolition Of Surplus Buildings: The County Commission may, by
resolution, after determining that a County owned building is no longer useful
to the County but that the underlying property could be utilized by the County,
declare such building as surplus property and provide for the demolition or
salvage of the same according to such terms and conditions as may be provided
for in the resolution.
      3.   Exchanges: County owned real estate may be exchanged for privately
owned real estate; provided, that professional appraisals have been made on
both parcels of property and the County obtains an adequate consideration for
its property in the exchange.
      4.   Lease Or Rent: If the County Commission determines that it would be
in the best interest of the County to retain title to its real property and
water rights, but obtain revenue from the same through leasing or renting, it
may do so. However, prior to leasing or renting such property or water rights,
public notice of the intent to lease or rent shall be given by one publication,
at least twenty (20) days prior to the time of bidding, in a newspaper
published in and having general circulation within the County. This notice
shall set forth a minimum bid, if any, shall provide that the lease or rental
agreement be given to the highest bidder in cash, certified check, or bank or
postal money order, as determined by public auction or sealed bid, whichever
method is selected by the Commission, and shall contain such other information
as the Commission deems pertinent. The County reserves the right to reject any
and all bids. (Ord. O-2017-5, 10-2-2017)
      5.   Sale Of Property Struck Off To County:
         a.   Sale Of Property At Annual Tax Sale: Any sale of real property
that was previously struck off to the County during the annual tax sale shall
be done in compliance with Utah Code section 59-2-1351.5 (2017 as amended)
including the disposition of funds. Any excess proceeds shall be handled as set
forth in the Kane County tax sale ordinance.
         b.   Multiple Attempts To Sell Property; Ways To Sell: Property struck
off to the County may be sold at any subsequent year tax sale or at a silent
auction or request for bids as set forth below. These properties do not require
the County Assessor's market appraisal. At the second attempt to sell the
property the minimum bid shall be the same as the minimum bid at the original
tax sale plus the interest that has accrued since the time of the first tax
sale. If the property does not sell at the second attempt to sell the property
the minimum bid at the third attempt shall be two-thirds (2/3) of the minimum
bid at the original tax sale. If there are no bids at the third attempt to sell
the property the minimum bid at the fourth attempt to sell the property shall
be one-third (1/3) of the minimum bid at the original tax sale. If there are no
bids at the fourth attempt to sell the property, the minimum bid at the fifth
and any subsequent attempt to sell the property shall be ten dollars ($10.00).
         c.   Subsequent Ways To Sell Property: If the County is subsequently
approached by a willing buyer of a property previously struck off to the County
at an annual tax sale, the County Clerk is authorized to proceed with a sale
under this section. The County Clerk may use one of two (2) methods, a silent
auction, or request for sealed bids. Regardless of the option chosen by the
County Clerk the property shall be sold for not less than the outstanding
taxes, penalties, and interest on the property and an additional fee for the
cost of conducting the sale under this section, not to exceed two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00).
         d.   Silent Auction: If choosing the silent auction method, the County
Clerk shall publish notice of a silent auction for the stricken property in a
local newspaper and is encouraged to use other means of notification that would
likely attract other potential buyers for the proposed sale. The notice shall
include a description of the property, the minimum bid, the rules for the
silent auction as established by the County Clerk, or a statement that the
rules are on file at the County Clerk's Office, and the dates for opening and
closing the auction. The notice shall run for at least two (2) weeks prior to
opening the auction and the auction shall be open for at least five (5)
business days.
         e.   Request For Bids: If choosing the request for bids method, the
County Clerk shall publish notice of the request for bids for the stricken
property in a local newspaper and is encouraged to use other means of
notification that would likely attract other potential buyers for the proposed
sale. The notice shall include a description of the property, the minimum bid,
additional clarifying information or rules if necessary, and the date by which
the sealed bids must be submitted. The notice shall run for at least two (2)
weeks prior the deadline for submitting a sealed bid. (Ord. O-2018-34, 12-17-
2018)
      6.   Partial Disposal: If the County desires to dispose of real property
in a manner that will dispose of only a portion of the property (i.e., lot line
adjustment), the County may use any means of disposal that the County
Commission deems appropriate under the circumstances, so long as the value of
the property that is disposed of is not a significant parcel of real property.
   B.   Personal Property:
      1.   Declaration Of Excess Property And Transfer Within Departments:
         a.   Whenever any department head determines that any County owned
personal property is no longer required by his department, he shall declare the
same as excess property for his department. At that time, he shall prepare a
list of such property, setting forth the type of property and its condition and
value. This list shall be provided to the County Commission, which shall cause
the same to be circulated to the other County departments. If any department
head determines that he can use such property within his department, he shall
so notify the County Commission by requesting the transfer of such property.
Such property shall then be transferred to the requesting department with the
County Auditor making the appropriate changes on the fixed asset inventory of
the two (2) departments.
         b.   If two (2) or more departments request the same excess property,
the County Commission shall make the determination to which department to
transfer such property.
      2.   Sale Of Personal Property:
         a.   In the event no department requests the transfer of excess
property as provided in subsection B1 of this section, the County Commission,
if it determines that such excess property is no longer required for the needs
of the County, shall declare the same as surplus County property. Such property
will then be advertised for public sale by the single notice of the sale in a
newspaper published in and having general circulation within the County. This
notice of sale, which shall be published at least twenty (20) days prior to the
date of the sale, shall describe the property to be sold, designate the place
and time of the sale, set forth the minimum acceptable bid, if any, describe
the nature of the bidding which shall be by public auction or sealed bid, and
shall contain any other information which the County Commission deems pertinent
to the sale.
         b.   All sales of personal property shall be to the highest bidder for
cash, certified check, or bank or postal money order, provided such bid is at
least equal to any minimum bid set forth in the notice of sale; and provided
further, that the County reserves the right to reject any and all bids.
      3.   Exchanges: If a department head desires to acquire a new item of
personal property and as part of the acquisition procedure trades in an
existing item of personal property, he first must ascertain the purchase price
of the new item and the trade in value of the old item, and submit this
information to the County Commission. The County Commission will then determine
whether to allow the old property to be traded in, circulated on a list to
other departments as excess property, or sold by the County as surplus
property. This section does not apply to fleet vehicles that are purchased and
sold under the terms of the County Procurement Code.
      4.   Abandonment, Destruction Or Donation Of Personal Property: The
County Commission may authorize the abandonment, destruction or donation to a
public body or institution or organization which is nonprofit and exempt from
taxation under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 USC section 501, of
any surplus personal property which has been determined by both the department
head having control of such property and the County Commission of having no
commercial value or of which the estimated cost of the continued care, handling
and sale of said property would exceed the estimated proceeds from its sale.
(Ord. O-2017-15, 10-2-2017)
1-9-4: NEGOTIATED SALES:
If at the public sale or lease for either real or personal property, as
provided in this chapter, no bids which are satisfactory as to price or
responsibility of bidder are received, the County Commission may negotiate a
sale or lease of such property upon such terms and conditions as may be deemed
to be in the best interest of the County; provided, however, that such property
may not be leased or sold at a price less than the minimum bid requirement, if
any, or, if there is no minimum bid requirement, then the highest bid received
at the public sale or lease; and provided further, that the County Commission
may list such property with a local multiple listing service or use such other
methods as may be available to dispose of the property as provided in this
section. (Ord. 51/1986-1, 3-3-1986)
1-9-5: DOCUMENTS EVIDENCING TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP:
The County Clerk, as provided by Utah Code Annotated section 17-20-4, shall
execute under the seal of said office all deeds, leases and conveyances of real
property and all bills of sale or other documents evidencing transfer of
ownership of personal property for all property disposed of under this chapter.
Such documents of conveyance or transfer may be either with or without warranty
as determined by the County Commission. (Ord. 51/1986-1, 3-3-1986)
1-9-6: FISCAL PROCEDURES:
All sales, leases, trades, exchanges and transfers, as provided in this
chapter, shall be done in accordance with the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for
counties, generally accepted accounting procedures, and such rules and
regulations as from time to time may be promulgated by the State Auditor. (Ord.
51/1986-1, 3-3-1986)
CHAPTER 10
REAL PROPERTY TAXES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Board Of Equalization Rules And Procedures
1-10-2: Minimum Taxable Value Of Real Property (Rep. by Ord. 2014-3, 4-14-2014,
eff. 4-28-2014)
1-10-3: Residential Property Tax Exemptions
1-10-1: BOARD OF EQUALIZATION RULES AND PROCEDURES:
The following rules and procedures are hereby adopted to govern the county
board of equalization:
   A.   The county auditor shall accept all appeals.
   B.   The appellant shall file one appeal per parcel.
   C.   Such appeal form shall be an original county form, consisting of the
following components:
      1.   Name and address of the owner, including mailing address if
different from the property address.
      2.   Daytime phone number of appellant and/or authorized representative,
if applicable.
      3.   Property location.
      4.   Property identification number.
      5.   Market value shown on the notice.
      6.   Appellant's determination of market value (including all backup
documentation).
      7.   Type of property (residential, commercial, agricultural, etc.).
      8.   Basis used to determine appellant's market value (cost, income,
sales).
      9.   Acknowledgment by the appellant attesting to the accuracy of the
information submitted and testimony to be given.
   D.   The appellant shall affix an original signature and date on each
appeal.
   E.   The appellant shall be the owner of record, or provide an affidavit
proving relationship to owner (i.e., paid representative, guardian, trustee,
etc.).
   F.   The appellant shall provide proof of value differential.
   G.   If the appellant disagrees with the board of equalization
determination, he/she shall have thirty (30) days from the date of the notice
of the board's determination to file an appeal with the county auditor. The
appeal will then be sent to the state tax commission.
   H.   Appeals shall be filed in the office of the county auditor on or before
five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the last date of appeal.
   I.   The County Commissioner that is assigned as the Chair over the Board of
Equalization is authorized to act on behalf of the Board to correct a factual
error as set forth in Utah Administrative Rule R884-24P-66, so long as the
correction of the factual error is at the recommendation of the County
Assessor. If the Chair denies the request to correct the factual error, the
matter shall be submitted to the full Board of Equalization. The Chair of the
Board of Equalization is also authorized to give the consent of the legislative
body for the County Assessor to correct an omission, error, defect in form in
the assessment roll, or clerical error, when it can be ascertained what was
intended, at any time before the sale for delinquent taxes or tax notice
charges and after the original assessment or tax notice charge listing was
made, as set forth in Utah Code § 59-2-1333. (Ord. 1998-3, 7-27-1998; amd. Ord.
2021-4, 1-12-2021; Ord. O-2021-38, 10-12-2021)
1-10-2: MINIMUM TAXABLE VALUE OF REAL PROPERTY:
(Rep. by Ord. 2014-3, 4-14-2014, eff. 4-28-2014)
1-10-3: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Authority And Purpose: The Utah constitution, article XIII, section 3,
and Utah Code Annotated sections 59-2-102(31) and 59-2-103(2) provides that a
residential exemption from property tax of forty five percent (45%) is
available for "primary residences", and the Utah legislature enacted Utah Code
Annotated section 59-2-103.5 establishing procedures to obtain an exemption for
residential property and authorizing the county legislative body to adopt an
ordinance for the allowance of a residential exemption for residential
property.
   B.   Procedure:
      1.   All owners of residential property, as defined in Utah Code
Annotated section 59-2-102(31), shall submit an application, on a form supplied
by the County, to the County Board of Equalization, in care of the County
Assessor, for exemption from Property Taxes for residential property used as a
primary residence no later than April 30 of the current tax year. The
application shall include the following information:
         a.   The owner of record of the property;
         b.   Property parcel number;
         c.   Location of the property (address);
         d.   Name of the applicant;
         e.   Basis of the applicant's knowledge of the use of the property;
         f.   Description of the use of the property;
         g.   Evidence of domicile of the inhabitants of the property; and
         h.   Signatures of all owners of the property and a certification that
the property is residential property.
      2.   In the event that an application is not filed on or before April 30
of the calendar year for which the applicant(s) is seeking the exemption, an
exemption may be granted by the Board of Equalization on an individual appeal
basis so long as the application is submitted by September 15 of the current
tax year, or forty five (45) days after the "notice of property valuation and
tax" (commonly referred to as "disclosure notice") is sent, whichever is later.
The application may be submitted after these dates only in compliance with a
rule promulgated by the Tax Commission and so long as the applicant also pays a
fifty dollar ($50.00) late fee.
      3.   Except for those properties receiving a partial residential
exemption, which are required to file an application each year, the County
Board of Equalization may require an owner of the residential property to file
the application described in subsection B1 of this section only if:
         a.   That residential property was ineligible for the primary
residential tax exemption during the calendar year immediately preceding the
calendar year for which the owner is seeking to claim the exception; or
         b.   The ownership interest in the property changes; or
         c.   The legal description changes; or
         d.   Mailing address of owner changes; or
         e.   The County Board of Equalization determines that there is reason
to believe that the property no longer qualifies for the residential exemption
in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 59-2-103.
      4.   The County Board of Equalization or County Assessor may request or
collect information sufficient to verify the primary residence status of the
property to determine if the property is entitled to the residential exemption,
pursuant to the criteria set forth in the rules promulgated by the State Tax
Commission.
      5.   If an applicant requests a property be designated as a primary
residence, the residential exemption shall not be granted without clear and
convincing evidence that the property serves as the primary residence. The
burden of proof shall remain at all times with the applicant.
      6.   After review of the applicant's application, the County Assessor
shall make a preliminary determination of whether the requirements for a
residential exemption or part-year residential exemption, outlined in Utah Code
Annotated section 59-2-103.5(1), have been met, and whether the factors or
objective evidence determinative of domicile, which are defined and outlined in
subsection C of this section, are sufficient to approve the applicant's
request. The County Assessor shall then make a recommendation to the Board of
Equalization for approval or denial of the applicant's request. The Board of
Equalization shall allow an owner a residential exemption for the residential
property described in the application, upon making a determination that the
requirements outlined in Utah Code section 59-2-103.5(1) have been met, and
that the factors or objective evidence supplied by the applicant are sufficient
to make a determination of domicile. The County Commissioner assigned over the
Board of Equalization may act as the Board of Equalization to approve
applications under this section so long as the County Assessor is recommending
approval of the application. In the event that the County Assessor is
recommending that an application be denied it must be heard by the full Board
of Equalization.
      7.   If there is real property in the county that requires an application
to be filed in order to receive the residential property exemption, other than
property that qualifies only for a part-year exemption, and the owner of the
property has not filed an application, the County Assessor may submit an
application to the County Commissioner assigned over the Board of Equalization
for approval if there is readily available and objectively verifiable
information in the possession of the County Assessor to determine that the
property qualifies for the exemption under the requirements of this Section.
The actions of the County Assessor under this Section are discretionary.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to require the County Assessor to
take action regarding the exemption status of real property that does not have
a timely application submitted. If the County Assessor does not take action
under this section, there is no relief for an applicant that fails to timely
submit an application. The County Assessor may only submit an application under
this subsection for an exemption for the current tax year and not for any
previous tax year.
   C.   Criteria:
      1.   A "primary residence" means the location where domicile has been
established. "Part-year residential property" means property that is not a
primary residence on January 1 of a calendar year but becomes a primary
residence after January 1 of the calendar year. "Domicile" means the place
where an individual has a true, fixed, permanent home and principal
establishment, and to which place the person has (whenever the person is
absent) the intention of returning. It is the place in which a person has
voluntarily fixed the habitation of the person and the person's family, not for
a mere special or temporary purpose, but with the present intention of making a
permanent home. After domicile has been established, two (2) things are
necessary to create a new domicile: first, an abandonment of the old domicile;
and second, the intention and establishment of a new domicile. The mere
intention to abandon a domicile once established is not of itself sufficient to
create a new domicile; for before a person can be said to have changed a
person's domicile, a new domicile must be shown. The assessor and the Board of
Equalization may refer to the Administrative Rules of the State Tax Commission
for guidance in reviewing the factors and evidence determinative of domicile.
      2.   To qualify for the residential exemption, a property need not be
owner occupied. Apartments and other rental housing used as a primary residence
of the occupants qualify for the residential exemption upon accepted
application in accordance with subsection B of this section. A primary
residence does not include property used for transient residential use, or
condominiums used in rental pools. The residential exemption is limited to up
to one acre of land per residential dwelling unit on a single property
description.
      3.   A partial exemption may be applied against the Property Taxes of
mixed commercial and residential property but it is presumed that the entire
property is commercial. This presumption may be rebutted by the filing of the
application in subsection B1 of this section every year, which includes
evidence of domicile of each qualifying resident. The County Assessor may
require additional information as necessary to make a determination of the
percentage of the property qualifying for the residential exemption.
      4.   A partial exemption may be applied against the Property Taxes of
qualifying nursing homes. In addition to the information required in subsection
B1 of this section, the application which must be filed every year, shall
include the number of residents living at the facility and the number that have
established their primary residence at the facility; the total square footage
of the facility and the total nonresidential square footage. The County
Assessor may require additional information as necessary in order to determine
the percentage of eligibility of the property for the exemption.
      5.   To qualify for the residential exemption as a part-year residential
property: a) the property shall be used as a primary residence for one hundred
eighty three (183) or more consecutive calendar days during the calendar year
for which the owner seeks to obtain the residential exemption, and b) the owner
or a member of the owner's household may not claim a residential exemption for
any property for the calendar year for which the owner seeks to obtain the
residential exemption other than the part-year residential property, or as
allowed under Utah Code section 59-2-103.
   D.   Grandfather Provision: As of the effective date hereof, owner occupied
residential property, apartments and other rental property being used as the
primary residence of the occupants, and where the property is currently listed
by the County Assessor as having a residential exemption, shall not be required
to file an application to continue its status. Owner occupied residential
property, apartments and other rental property being used as the primary
residence of the occupants, where the property is subsequently listed by the
County Assessor as having a residential exemption constructed after the
effective date hereof, shall not be required to file the application required
by subsection B1 of this section; however, should the use change from primary
residence, the property shall no longer be considered exempt and an application
and affidavit under the provision of this section shall apply.
   E.   Conflict: In the event of any conflict between this section and State
or Federal law, the provisions of the latter shall be controlling.
   F.   Incorporation Provision: This section shall incorporate the provisions
of the Administrative Rules promulgated by the State Tax Commission, and the
criteria for determining primary residence set forth in Utah Code Annotated
sections 59-2-102 and 59-2-103, as amended, and Property Tax standard 2.13,
primary residential exemption. (Ord. 2002-3, 12-30-2002; amd. 2011 Code; Ord.
2012-8, 8-13-2012; Ord. O-2018-27, 11-19-2018; Ord. 2021-4, 1-12-2021; Ord. O-
2025-7, 4-8-2025)
CHAPTER 11
RECOVERY OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY EXPENSES
SECTION:
1-11-1: Definitions
1-11-2: Recovery Of Expenses
1-11-3: Cost Recovery Procedure
1-11-4: Action To Recover Costs
1-11-5: Expenses Of Other Responding Entities
1-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the following meanings:
EXPENSES: All costs incurred for the response, containment and/or removal and
disposal of hazardous materials on initial remedial action. It includes, but is
not necessarily limited to, the actual labor costs of government and other
personnel, including workers' compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead, and any costs of equipment, equipment operation,
materials, disposal and any contract labor or materials.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY: A sudden and unexpected release of any substance
that, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics, presents a direct and immediate threat to public
safety or the environment, and requires immediate action to mitigate the
threat. (Ord. 2003-01, 1-27-2003)
1-11-2: RECOVERY OF EXPENSES:
   A.   Authorized: Those persons or entities whose negligent or intentional
actions cause or create, in whole or in part, a hazardous materials emergency
within the boundaries of the county are liable to the county for all costs and
expenses incurred in or arising from response to such hazardous materials
emergency by the county and any other political subdivision, agency or
cooperative entity. The county shall recover all such costs and expenses,
including reasonable attorney fees, litigation expenses and court costs
incurred in, related to or arising out of, all cost recovery efforts and
enforcement of the terms of this chapter.
   B.   Rate Of Billing: All costs and expenses shall be billed at the current
rate established and approved by resolution of the executive committee of the
interlocal agreement for cooperative hazardous materials protection and
services.
   C.   Payment Not Admission Of Liability: The payment of expenses under this
section does not constitute an admission of liability or negligence in any
legal action for damages. (Ord. 2003-01, 1-27-2003)
1-11-3: COST RECOVERY PROCEDURE:
   A.   Investigation; Notice: The county shall investigate and determine the
person or entity responsible for causing or creating the hazardous materials
emergency and shall notify the responsible party in writing of said
determination of responsibility and the amount of costs and expenses incurred
by the county in responding to the hazardous materials emergency.
   B.   Notice Of Right To Appeal: The notice required by subsection A of this
section shall specify that the party determined to be responsible for causing
or creating the hazardous materials emergency has the right to appeal the
decision determining responsibility to the governing body of the county and
shall specify a deadline for filing the notice of appeal and the person or
office in which it must be filed. The deadline for filing the notice of appeal
shall not be less than fifteen (15) days from the date of the notice.
   C.   Hearing On Appeal: In the event a notice of appeal is filed, the
hearing before the governing body shall be an informal public hearing, and the
parties shall not be required to adhere to the Utah rules of civil procedure or
evidence. The appealing party and the county shall each be entitled to present
evidence and argument in support of their respective positions, in accordance
with procedures established at the hearing by the governing body.
   D.   Final Decision: The decision of the governing body shall be final.
(Ord. 2003-01, 1-27-2003)
1-11-4: ACTION TO RECOVER COSTS:
In the event the responsible party fails or refuses to pay all of the costs and
expenses determined by the county related to or arising out of the county
response to the hazardous materials emergency within thirty (30) days after
assessment or after the governing body decision on an appeal, the county may
initiate a legal action to recover such costs, including reasonable attorney
fees and costs. (Ord. 2003-01, 1-27-2003)
1-11-5: EXPENSES OF OTHER RESPONDING ENTITIES:
   A.   Recovery By County: In the event that personnel and equipment from
other political subdivisions, agencies or cooperative entities shall respond to
assist with the hazardous materials emergency, then the county shall recover
costs and expenses incurred by such other political subdivisions, agencies or
cooperative entities as part of county cost recovery efforts.
   B.   Reimbursement: Upon recovery of costs and expenses from the responsible
party, the county is authorized to reimburse such other political subdivisions,
agencies or cooperative entities for their actual costs incurred in responding
to the hazardous materials emergency. (Ord. 2003-01, 1-27-2003)
CHAPTER 12
FINANCES
SECTION:
1-12-1: Definitions
1-12-2: Appointment Of Budget Officer And Purchasing Agents
1-12-3: Department Budget Line Item Transfers
1-12-4: Department Budget Line Item Excess Expenditures
1-12-5: Encumbrance System
1-12-6: Contracting Authority
1-12-7: Public Acknowledgment Of Use Of County Funds
1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases and words shall
have the following meanings:
APPROPRIATION:    An allocation of money for a specific purpose as set forth in
                  a department budget.
                  A plan for financial operations for a fiscal period,
                  embodying estimates for proposed expenditures for given
BUDGET:           purposes and the means of financing the expenditures. Budget
                  may refer to the budget of a fund for which a budget is
                  required by law, or collectively to the budgets for all those
                  funds.
BUDGET OFFICER:   A person appointed by the Commission to serve as the Budget
                  Officer as described in Utah Code section 17-19a-203.
                  Any functional unit within a fund which carries on a specific
DEPARTMENT:       activity and is separately designated as a department within
                  the budget.
                  The County employee, officer or elected official who has the
DEPARTMENT HEAD:  authority and primary responsibility to administer a
                  departmental budget.
                  An independent fiscal and accounting entity comprised of a
FUND:             sum of money or other resources segregated for a specific
                  purpose or objective.
                  An appropriation within a department budget that is
LINE ITEM:        designated for an independent or specific purpose within that
                  department budget as shown on the budget.
                  A person appointed by the County Commission under Utah Code
                  sections 17-36-20 and 17-53-307 who is authorized to make
                  expenditures and encumbrances of County funds, negotiate
PURCHASING AGENT: contracts to submit to the County Commission for approval,
                  and generally oversee a County budget that has been assigned
                  to them. (Ord. O-2016-3, 4-25-2016; amd. Ord. O-2018-8, 7-23-
                  2018)
 
1-12-2: APPOINTMENT OF BUDGET OFFICER AND PURCHASING AGENTS:
   A.   The Budget Office is abolished. The County Clerk/Auditor is appointed
as the Budget Officer. The County Commission shall appoint an individual to
serve as County Budget Officer from time to time as they see fit. The County
Clerk/Auditor is assigned accounting services as set forth in Utah Code section
17-19a-205.
   B.   Each elected official and department head is hereby appointed as a
Purchasing Agent for the budgets over which they have authority. A Purchasing
Agent is authorized to make expenditures and encumbrances of County funds,
negotiate contracts, execute contracts to the extent allowed under KCC
1-12-6, and generally oversee a County budget that has been assigned to them. A
Purchasing Agent may also delegate the authority to make expenditures and
encumbrances of County funds that are less than fifty dollars ($50.00). Any
employee making a purchase of fifty dollars ($50.00) or more must have pre-
approval from a Purchasing Agent, as determined by the Purchasing Agent. Any
employee is authorized to expend funds in excess of fifty dollars ($50.00) if
it is in conjunction with approved travel and complies with county policy
regarding reimbursement of travel related expenses as set forth in the Kane
County Employee Handbook. (Ord. O-2018-8, 7-23-2018; amd. Ord. 2021-06, 2-9-
2021; Ord. O-2021-14, 5-25-2021)
1-12-3: DEPARTMENT BUDGET LINE ITEM TRANSFERS:
A Purchasing Agent is authorized to transfer any unencumbered or unexpended
appropriation balance from one line item to another line item within the same
department budget during the budget year so long as the transfer is not into a
line item that is appropriated for employee salaries, wages, or benefits,
(other than line items that are exclusively appropriated for overtime or extra
duty pay) or would not cause the total of all excess expenditures or
encumbrances to exceed the total unused appropriation within the department at
the close of the budget year. The Purchasing Agent shall use forms approved for
this purpose by the County Commission. Any transfer of funds into a line item
that is appropriated for employee salaries, wages, or benefits (other than line
items that are exclusively appropriated for overtime or extra duty pay) must be
approved by the County Commission. (Ord. O-2018-8, 7-23-2018)
1-12-4: DEPARTMENT BUDGET LINE ITEM EXCESS EXPENDITURES:
A Purchasing Agent is authorized to incur an excess expenditure of one or more
line items within the department budget other than a line item that is
appropriated for employee salaries, wages, or benefits, and so long as the
total of all expenditures or encumbrances does not exceed the total unused
appropriation within the department at the close of the budget year. Any
increase of funds or over expenditure to a line item that is appropriated for
employee salaries, wages, or benefits must be approved by the County
Commission. (Ord. O-2018-8, 7-23-2018)
1-12-5: ENCUMBRANCE SYSTEM:
A Purchasing Agent within fifteen (15) business days of making any purchase
over five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall encumber the funds within the
County financial software system. For purchases under five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), the Purchasing Agent shall otherwise ensure that sufficient County
funds are available prior to making the purchase. The Budget Officer shall
provide training to Purchasing Agents and other County personnel as necessary
regarding the encumbrance of funds within the County financial software system.
(Ord. O-2019-12, 5-14-2019)
1-12-6: CONTRACTING AUTHORITY:
   A.   Contracts: No County Official, agent, or employee of the County shall
enter into any contract or other agreement without first complying with this
section.
   B.   Contracts, When Required: A contract or other form of agreement shall
be required when procuring services of any kind for the County in exchange for
a monetary benefit. A contract or other form of agreement is only required when
procuring goods if the total amount of goods under the contract is or is
reasonably anticipated to be more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or
there are specific risks or liability that need to be mitigated due to the
specific nature of the goods or for shipping of the goods. If there is a
concern about whether a contract is required, the County Attorney should be
consulted.
   C.   Contracts, Review By County Attorney: All contracts or other forms of
agreement shall be reviewed and approved by the County Attorney prior to being
executed by the County or any County Employee on behalf of the County. The
County Attorney is authorized to waive review of certain categories of
contracts under a uniform policy.
   D.   Contracts, Authority To Execute:
      1.   Any Purchasing Agent is authorized to enter into a negotiated
contract on behalf of the County so long as there is an approved budget for the
contracted goods or services over which the Purchasing Agent has authority and
the contract is for Budgeted Nominal Cost Procurement as set forth in KCC
1-13-9.
      2.   Any Elected Official acting as a Purchasing Agent is authorized to
enter into a negotiated contract on behalf of the County so long as there is an
approved budget for the contracted goods or services over which the Elected
Official has authority and the contract qualifies for Electronic or Telephonic
Bids as set forth in KCC
1-13-10, an Exemption from formal procurement under KCC
1-13-6, or an approved Sole Source under KCC
1-13-15.
      3.   For any negotiated contract that requires Formal Procurement as set
forth in KCC
1-13-11 through
14, the Kane County Commission must approve the final contract and may
authorize the Chair of the Commission to sign the contract.
      4.   The Human Resource Director, acting as the plan administrator is
authorized to sign any documents necessary for the administration and operation
of an approved County benefit plan.
      5.   The Kane County 401K Board of Trustees is authorized to approve any
contract or other agreement necessary to fulfill their duties as trustees and
to oversee and operate the Kane County 401K Trust.
      6.   Any employee is authorized to sign a standard contract related to
approved travel such as a contract for lodging at a hotel. (Ord. O-2021-14, 5-
25-2021)
1-12-7: PUBLIC ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF USE OF COUNTY FUNDS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this policy is to provide greater public
transparency by requiring public acknowledgment that county funds, and in
certain circumstances the specific source of county funds, have been provided
or expended to support public events, programs, public infrastructure projects,
and other public purposes as set forth herein.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section
1-12-7:
      1.   “County employee” means full or part time employees, department
heads, elected officials, volunteers, agents, contractors, or other personnel
of Kane County.
      2.   “County funds” means any revenue to Kane County including:
         a.   All taxes, fees, fines, state or federal appropriations, grants,
donations, or other similar revenue to Kane County.
         b.   Any of the funds set forth in subsection B2a that Kane County
diverts or transfers to the Kane County Municipal Building Authority (Kane
County MBA), the Kane County Redevelopment Agency (Kane County RDA), or the
Kane County Center for Education, Business, and the Arts Interlocal Agency.
         c.   Any of the funds set forth in subsection B2a that Kane County or
the entities listed in subsection B2b divert or transfer to any other legal
entity.
      3.   “County funds” does not mean:
         a.   taxes that are assessed or imposed by a local taxing entity other
than Kane County that are collected by the County Treasurer or County Assessor
before being distributed to the taxing entity.
         b.   Fines collected by the Kane County Justice Court that are
ultimately distributed to a governmental entity other than Kane County.
      4.   “Event” means any organized or planned gathering or social occasion
whether indoors or outdoors for the purpose of recreation, leisure, education,
community engagement, or public interest.
      5.   “Infrastructure project” means the pre-construction, construction,
or repair of any building, road, trail, public right-of-way, public utility
infrastructure such as pipes or wires for gas, power, water, sewer, telephone
or internet, or other similar construction project for public purposes.
      6.   “Program” means a group or set of related measures, activities, or
services with a particular long-term aim or goal. Examples include the Kane
County Volunteer and Events Center and the Utah State University Extension
office in Kane County.
   C.   Scope:
      1.   Effective Date: The requirements of this section
1-12-7apply beginning as follows:
         a.   Beginning April 12, 2024 for any expenditure of county funds
subject to a contract, county grant, or other authorizing document, as set
forth in subsection E1, which is authorized or executed after April 11, 2024.
         b.   Beginning July 1, 2024 for any other authorization of the use of
county funds not covered by subsection C1a.
      2.   Categories: The requirements of this section
1-12-7 apply when the expenditure of county fund meets one of the following:
         a.   Any direct expenditure of county funds by the county through any
county office or department.
         b.   Any expenditure of funds by any person or entity for any public
or private purpose when the expenditure is in whole or in part using county
funds received through a county grant, interlocal agreement, other contract or
any other means of transferring county funds to the person or entity.
         c.   Any funds described in subsection C2a or C2b that are expended or
further distributed by the Kane County Municipal Building Authority, the Kane
County Redevelopment Agency, or the Kane County Center for Education, Business
and the Arts Interlocal Agency.
      3.   Exceptions: The requirements of this section
1-12-7 do not apply to the following unless it is otherwise clear from the
context of this section
1-12-7 that the requirements do apply:
         a.   Expenditure of county funds for a single event or project less
than $1000.
         b.   County employee related expenditures including salaries,
benefits, travel and training expenses, employee job related equipment, events
solely for county personnel and their families, or other employee related
expenses.
         c.   Expenditures for goods or services related to the operation and
administration of government including office supplies, office equipment such
as computers, printers, desks, and chairs, vehicles and vehicle maintenance,
other large equipment, cleaning or other supplies, professional services such
as engineering, architecture or accounting services, labor services such as
cleaning, maintenance, or other contract services, and other goods or services
necessary for the standard operation and administration of government.
         d.   Expenditures authorized under the Kane County Program for
Assistance of the Transient Homeless (PATH).
         e.   Expenditures directly related to the statutory duties of the
County Assessor, County Attorney, County Clerk-Auditor, County Recorder, County
Sheriff, County Treasurer, County Surveyor, and County Justice Court.
         f.   Expenditures related to maintenance and anticipated regular
repair of county roads or any county facility.
         g.   Expenditures of the Land Use Authority or Building Department.
   D.   Public Acknowledgment:
      1.   Events: If an event is supported in whole or in part by county
funds, the event organizer must acknowledge that the event is supported by
county funds. The acknowledgment must be included in one or more advertisements
for the event and a written acknowledgment must be displayed at one or more
locations during the event where is it reasonably anticipated that individuals
present at the event will view the acknowledgment. If the event is supported by
a known specific source of county funds, the specific source of funds must also
be acknowledged. The acknowledgment whether written or oral must be
substantially similar to one of the following, as the circumstances may apply:
         a.   “This event is supported in part by Kane County.”
         b.   “This event is provided by a donation from Kane County.”
         c.   “This is a Kane County event supported by your tax dollars.”
         d.   “This Fourth of July celebration is funded by Kane County through
the Transient Room Tax (TRT).”
         e.   “This concert is funded by the Kane County Restaurant Tax.”
      2.   Infrastructure Projects: If an infrastructure project is supported
in whole or in part by county funds, the project manager or other person with
authority over the construction of the infrastructure project must acknowledge
the project is supported by county funds. A written acknowledgment that the
project is supported in whole or in part by county funds must be displayed at
one or more locations at the construction site during construction in a manner
that is reasonably likely to be viewed by the general public. If the
infrastructure project is supported by a known specific source of county funds,
the specific source of funds must also be acknowledged. The acknowledgment must
be substantially similar to one of the following, as the circumstances may
apply:
         a.   “This project is supported in part by Kane County.”
         b.   “This Kane County road improvement project is being funded by the
County Option Sales and Use Tax for Highways and Public Transit.”
         c.   “This public infrastructure project is being supported by Kane
County Transient Room Tax (TRT) funds allowed for the purposes of mitigating
the effects of tourism.”
         d.   “This building is being constructed by funding from the Kane
County Rural County Health Care Facilities Tax”
      3.   Programs: If a program is supported in whole or in part by county
funds, the program director or similar program personnel must acknowledge that
the program and its related events and services are supported by county funds.
The acknowledgment must be included in regular advertisements for the program
and a written acknowledgment must be displayed at the locations where program
services are provided. If the program is supported by a known specific source
of county funds, the specific source of funds must also be acknowledged. The
acknowledgment whether written or oral must be substantially similar to one of
the following, as the circumstances may apply:
         f.   “This program is supported in part by Kane County.”
         g.   “This service is provided by a donation from Kane County.”
         h.   “This is a USU Extension service supported in part by Kane County
tax dollars.”
         i.   “This service is funded by Kane County through the Transient Room
Tax (TRT).”
      4.   Permanent Structures: If a building or other permanent public
facility is constructed in whole or in part using county funds, the owner of
the building or facility must acknowledge the building or permanent structure
is supported by county funds. A permanent written acknowledgment must be
erected on the property that is reasonably likely to be viewed by the general
public or users of the facility. If the construction was supported by a known
specific source of county funds, the specific source of funds must also be
acknowledged. The acknowledgment must be substantially similar to one of the
following, as the circumstances may apply:
         a.   “This building was constructed in part by a donation from Kane
County.”
         b.   “This Kane County facility was constructed using the Transient
Room Tax (TRT).”
         c.   “This visitor center was constructed using funds from the Kane
County Redevelopment Agency.”
         d.   “This hospital addition was constructed by funding from the Kane
County Rural County Health Care Facilities Tax.”
      5.   Other: Any other expenditure that meets the requirements of
subsection C must acknowledge the use of county funds in a manner that is
substantially similar to the requirements of subsections D1 through D3.
      6.   Existing County Facilities: Notwithstanding the effective date set
forth in section C1, all existing and future county facilities owned by Kane
County must display a permanent acknowledgment as set forth in section D4. Any
facility in Kane County not currently owned by Kane County but that was
previously constructed in whole or in part with county funds is requested to
display a permanent acknowledgment as set forth in section D4. Any existing
structure not owned by Kane County that has a subsequent remodel, addition, or
other alternation that is supported in whole or in part by County funds must
come into compliance with section D4 for the entire structure.
   E.   Contracts And Failure To Acknowledge:
      1.   Any contract, grant or other document authorized or executed after
April 11, 2024 that provides for the expenditure or transfer of county funds
that falls under the requirements of this section
1-12-7, must include the applicable acknowledgment requirements of section D.
      2.   Any person or entity that fails to comply with the requirements of
this section
1-12-7 may be ineligible to receive additional county funds, at the discretion
of the county commission. (O-2024-13, 4-9-2024)
CHAPTER 13
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND SERVICES
SECTION:
1-13-1: Purpose And Intent
1-13-2: Title
1-13-3: Exemption From State Procurement Code
1-13-4: Definitions
1-13-5: Authority
1-13-6: Exemptions From Policy
1-13-7: Categories Of Procurements
1-13-8: Procurement Procedures
1-13-9: Budgeted Nominal Cost Procurement
1-13-10: Electronic Or Telephonic Bids
1-13-11: Formal Procurement
1-13-12: Sealed Bids
1-13-13: Request For Qualifications (RFQ)
1-13-14: Request For Proposals (RFP)
1-13-15: Sole Source And Direct Negotiation
1-13-16: Bonds
1-13-17: Correction Of Errors
1-13-18: Selection And Award
1-13-19: Appeal Procedures
1-13-20: Preference In Selection Process; Local Vendors
1-13-21: Contracts
1-13-22: Cancellation And Rejection Of Proposals Or Bids
1-13-23: Prohibited Methods Of Procurement
1-13-24: Unlawful Conduct And Penalties
1-13-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Kane County has adopted this procurement code setting out the procedures for
the county's procurement of goods and services with the intent to provide for:
   A.   Clarity and uniformity in the county's procedures for the procurement
of goods and services;
   B.   Efficiency, effectiveness and economy in the county's procurement
activities;
   C.   Fair and equitable treatment of all people or parties who do, or wish
to, provide goods or services to the county;
   D.   Effective, broad based competition with recognition of the need to
support the local economy; and
   E.   The highest and best value in procurement items, which may not be
lowest cost. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-2: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the KANE COUNTY PROCUREMENT CODE. (Ord. O-2016-
7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-3: EXEMPTION FROM STATE PROCUREMENT CODE:
By adoption of this procurement code by ordinance, Kane County has exempted
itself from the definition of local government procurement unit under Utah Code
Annotated section 63G-6a with the intent to exempt the county from the
provisions of the Utah procurement code to the greatest extent permitted by
law. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-4: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases have the meanings
given under this section:
ARTIFICIALLY DIVIDED: Intentionally or knowingly dividing a procurement by
making multiple procurements or dividing an invoice or purchase order into one
or more smaller procurements to limit the requirements of a procurement under
this chapter, but does not include dividing purchases to allow for storage
capabilities, freshness of product, shipping/delivery costs or other reasonable
considerations of size and scope of a procurement, or to allow for options that
accommodate vendor expertise and cost effectiveness or to break apart to allow
for local bidding.
BUSINESS: Any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship, joint
stock company, joint venture, limited liability company, or any other private
legal entity.
CONTRACT: Any agreement the county enters into for the procurement or disposal
of supplies, services or construction.
DEPARTMENT: Any functional unit within a "fund", as defined in section
1-12-1 of this title, which carries on a specific activity and is separately
designated as a department within the budget of the county.
DEPARTMENT HEAD: The county employee, officer or elected official who has the
authority and primary responsibility to administer a department budget.
ELECTED OFFICIAL: The duly elected county assessor, county attorney, county
clerk/auditor, county commissioners, county recorder, county sheriff, or county
treasurer as defined in Utah code title 17.
ELECTRONIC BID: Any bid that was obtained by electronic means including, but
not limited to, e-mail communication from a business or other vendor, other
electronic communication that results in a bid for a procurement item, or
viewing a procurement item on the website of a business or other vendor.
EMERGENCY EVENT: An eminent threat to the public's health, welfare, or safety
or an event which has caused or is likely to cause significant damage to
property, which requires immediate action to protect against such threat.
PERSON: Any individual, business, union, committee, club, other organization or
legal entity, or group of individuals.
PROCURE, PROCUREMENT: Buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with an
option to purchase, or otherwise acquiring any supplies, services, or
construction.
PROCUREMENT ITEM: A supply, a service, construction or technology.
PROCUREMENT OFFICER: The Kane County budget officer or his/her designee.
REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS OR RFP: All documents, whether attached or incorporated
by reference, used for soliciting proposals.
REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS OR RFQ: All documents, whether attached or
incorporated by reference, used to solicit information on the qualifications of
potential bidders.
SMALL PURCHASE: A procurement of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or less.
SOLE SOURCE PROVIDER: There is only one source for the procurement item; or the
award to a specific supplier, service provider or contractor is a condition of
a donation that will fund the full cost of the supply, service or construction
item; or the procurement item is needed for trial use or testing to determine
whether the procurement item will benefit the county.
SPECIFICATIONS: All descriptions or documents, whether attached or incorporated
by reference, used to describe the supplies, services or construction to be
purchased.
THRESHOLD AMOUNT: The maximum amount for a procurement established pursuant to
sections
1-13-8 and
1-13-9 of this chapter. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016; amd. Ord. O-2016-15, 12-12-
2016)
1-13-5: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Authority To Expend Funds: Only the county commission has authority to
expend county funds for procurement or to enter into any contract for
procurement, except to the extent they have delegated that authority. Elected
officials and department heads are hereby delegated such authority as set forth
herein. Employees, agents or other representatives of the county shall not
expend funds, solicit proposals or bids, respond to solicitations or in any
other way obligate the county to expend funds without the authority of the
county governing body or the appropriate elected official or department head.
   B.   Elected Officials: By adoption of an annual budget, the county
commission delegates to each elected official the authority to expend funds for
procurement as they are presented in the approved budget for the elected
official's office or as the elected official is authorized to transfer money
from one line item to another within a budget as set forth in the
interdepartmental line item transfer ordinance. All procurements made under
this delegated authority shall be made in compliance with all other provisions
of this chapter.
   C.   Department Heads: Any elected official may delegate their authority to
expend funds or a portion of their authority to expend funds for procurement as
the elected official sees fit to a department head. All decisions regarding
procurement made by an authorized department head shall be made in compliance
with all other provisions of this chapter. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-6: EXEMPTIONS FROM POLICY:
   A.   Federal Or State Funds: When procurement involves the expenditure of
federal or state assistance funds, the county shall make exceptions to the
procedures required under this chapter to the extent necessary to comply with
applicable federal and state law and regulations related to the use of those
funds.
   B.   Grants, Gifts And Requests: The county may make exceptions to the
procedures required under this chapter to the extent necessary to comply with
the terms and conditions of any grant, gift or request, that are otherwise
consistent with law.
   C.   Emergency Procurements: The county may make exceptions to the
procedures required by this chapter to the extent necessary for the timely
procurement of goods and services during an emergency event, and for goods and
services of an immediate nature to manage an emergency event.
   D.   Cooperative Purchasing Contracts: The county may make procurement
decisions without complying with this chapter when utilizing one of the
following methods:
      1.   Procurements under a contract administered by the Utah division of
purchasing;
      2.   Procurements administered under an interlocal cooperation agreement
that the county participates in;
      3.   Procurements under a contract administered by the Utah Association
Of Counties or the National Association Of Counties;
      4.   Procurements utilizing the vendors available through National
Purchasing Partners (see nppgov.com); or
      5.   Direct comparison to a procurement item that could be purchased
under subsections D1 through D4 of this section which results in an equal to or
greater monetary benefit to the county.
   E.   Advertising: Advertising by its very nature is dependent on the source
of the advertising and is not conducive to formal procurement policies. If
using any procurement process described herein may add benefit to the county
the appropriate official may utilize that process. Otherwise, procurement items
for advertising shall be considered a sole source and direct negotiations may
be used. This section does not exempt the county from procurement processes
required to select an entity that will provide services in developing an
overall scheme, method or approach for advertising. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016;
Ord. O-2021-14, 5-25-2021)
1-13-7: CATEGORIES OF PROCUREMENTS:
The county procures a wide variety of goods and services at varying intervals
in support of the many departments and programs administered by county. The
following categories of purchases will be utilized in recognition that a single
process for all procurements would not be an efficient or effective policy for
the county:
   A.   Basic supplies and equipment.
   B.   Operational services.
   C.   Capital expense equipment.
   D.   Professional services.
   E.   Pass-through services.
   F.   Architect-engineer services.
   G.   Construction and repair contracts.
   H.   Sole source provider.
   I.   Fleet management purchases.
   J.   Other procurements. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-8: PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Specifications: Written specifications shall be developed for all
procurements with the exception of:
      1.   Basic supplies and equipment;
      2.   Operational services of less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00);
or
      3.   Purchases made utilizing cooperative purchasing contracts in
compliance with subsection 1-13-6D of this chapter.
   B.   All Specifications Required By This Chapter Shall:
      1.   Be as detailed as necessary to assure the County procures goods and
services which best meet the needs of the County;
      2.   Provide flexibility in requirements to the extent possible to allow
for options in a procurement which still meets the needs of the County;
      3.   Be provided as a part of any request for proposal, invitation to
bid, or request for qualifications.
   C.   All Contracts Shall Include:
      1.   Contractual terms and conditions required under section
1-13-21 of this chapter.
      2.   Bond requirements as required under section
1-13-16 of this chapter. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-9: BUDGETED NOMINAL COST PROCUREMENT:
The County may procure goods and services without the use of electronic or
telephonic bids, sealed bids, RFPs, RFQs or direct negotiations when:
   A.   The cost of the procurement is a small purchase ($5,000.00 or less);
   B.   The cost of the procurement has been budgeted. (Ord. O-2018-8, 7-23-
2018)
1-13-10: ELECTRONIC OR TELEPHONIC BIDS:
Procurements may be made without the use of sealed bids, RFPs, RFQs or direct
negotiations by using electronic or telephonic bids when:
   A.   The cost of the procurement is greater than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), but less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), or the cost of
the procurement is one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) or less and if
the procurement item is a fleet vehicle or construction equipment;
   B.   A reasonable attempt has been made to compare the cost of the
procurement with two (2) or more providers through electronic or telephonic
bids; and
   C.   The electronic or telephonic bids are documented as part of the
procurement process. (Ord. O-2018-8, 7-23-2018)
1-13-11: FORMAL PROCUREMENT:
Procurement of items over fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), fleet vehicles
and construction equipment over one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00),
procurement of professional services, or procurement of architect-engineering
services, which do not otherwise qualify for an exemption under this chapter,
shall use a sealed bid, request for proposals, or request for qualifications
process as set forth herein. The County may use one or more of these processes
in its sole discretion. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-12: SEALED BIDS:
Any procurement made utilizing a sealed bid shall be conducted under the
following procedures:
   A.   An invitation to bid shall be advertised at least ten (10) days prior
to the date the sealed bids are required to be delivered and shall include:
      1.   Specifications related to the procurement;
      2.   The date and time the sealed bid is required to be received by the
Office of the County Budget Officer;
      3.   The date and time of the opening of the sealed bids; and
      4.   Bonding and insurance requirements;
   B.   All sealed bids shall be received by the Office of the Kane County
Budget Officer by the date and time set forth in the invitation to bid to be
considered a valid sealed bid;
   C.   Sealed bids shall be opened publicly in a properly noticed meeting of
the Governing Body of the County and in the presence of one or more witnesses
at the time and place designated in the invitation to bid; and
   D.   A record of the name of each bidder, the amount of each bid and any
other relevant information shall be made and shall be open to public
inspection.
   E.   The County may include in the specifications of the invitation to bid
the itemization requirements set forth in subsections 1-13-14B1 through B3 of
this chapter.
   F.   The successful bidder shall be required to enter into a written
contract with the County. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-13: REQUEST FOR QUALIFICATIONS (RFQ):
The County may utilize a request for qualifications procedure when the
qualifications of the provider are of significant importance in the procurement
to identify providers qualified to provide specialized services prior to
issuing a request for proposal for the procurement of operational services,
professional services, architect-engineering services or other specialized
goods or services, or when determining a sole source provider circumstance.
(Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-14: REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS (RFP):
   A.   The County may utilize a request for proposals procedure when the
potential options for goods and services which would meet the needs of the
County are extensive enough to make review of proposals more effective than
development of detailed specifications and shall include notice of the bonding
and insurance requirements of this policy.
   B.   Requests for proposals may be in a broad range of forms with
specifications that are broad enough or specific enough to meet County needs.
The specifications in a request for proposal may include any of the following:
      1.   The requirement to set forth the total cost of the proposal and also
the itemized cost of any or all individual procurement items within the
proposal;
      2.   If individual procurement items within the proposal are required to
be itemized, the option of the County to accept or reject any or all individual
itemized procurement items;
      3.   If individual procurement items within the proposal are required to
be itemized, the option of the County to require that later changes to the
work, as set forth in subsections 1-13-21B1 through B3 of this chapter,
regarding the individual itemized procurement item, be at the same rate as set
forth in the proposal.
   C.   A request for qualifications may be utilized in conjunction with a
request for proposals to prequalify those providers from whom the County will
accept proposals. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-15: SOLE SOURCE AND DIRECT NEGOTIATION:
   A.   The County may enter into negotiations with a provider without
utilizing any other form of procurement provided for under this section when
procuring goods or services from a sole source provider. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-
2016)
   B.   The County Budget Officer shall determine when direct negotiation or
sole source procurement is appropriate after consultation with the Purchasing
Agent. If the Budget Officer denies a request from a Purchasing Agent to use
sole source procurement the Purchasing Agent may appeal to the County
Commission. Applications to the Commission to use direct negotiation and sole
source procurement shall be accompanied by an explanation as to why no other
source will be suitable or acceptable to meet the need. (Ord. O-2019-12, 5-14-
2019)
   C.   Direct negotiation or sole source procurement shall be used only if an
offer is reasonably available from a single supplier. A requirement for a
particular proprietary item does not justify sole source procurement if there
is more than one potential offeror for that item. Circumstances which might
allow sole source procurement and direct negotiation include: 1) where the need
for professional services is the paramount consideration; 2) a test or pilot is
being conducted; 3) when time restrictions are paramount and would prohibit a
full procurement process; or 4) the award to a specific supplier, service
provider or contractor is a condition of a donation that will fund the full
cost of the supply, service or construction item. In cases of reasonable doubt,
sole source procurement and direct negotiation will not be authorized. (Ord. O-
2016-7, 8-8-2016)
   D.   Public notice shall be given for sole source procurements exceeding
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). The notice shall be published on the Utah
public notice website at least five (5) working days in advance of procuring
the item. The notice shall contain a brief statement of the proposed
procurement, the proposed sole source provider and the justification for the
sole source procurement. (Ord. O-2019-12, 5-14-2019)
   E.   When using a sole source provider negotiation shall be used to achieve
the best use of tax dollars. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-16: BONDS:
   A.   The type and amount of any bond(s) required should be included in the
specifications provided as part of any invitation to bid or request for
proposal released by the County. In addition to any bond(s) required under
Federal, State or local law or rule, the County should consider requiring
performance bonds as part of contracts for operational services, professional
services and architect-engineer services. The County should consider requiring
the following bonds in amounts determined by the County to properly protect the
County:
      1.   A bid bond in an amount commensurate with the cost to the County if
a bidder withdraws a bid after opening of bids up to the full amount of the bid
for all sealed bids for construction or repair contracts and capital equipment
purchases. It is recommended that the bid bond is five percent (5%) of the
total bid.
      2.   A performance bond up to the full cost of the contract for all
construction and repair contracts.
      3.   A payment bond commensurate with the payments to be made to all
subcontractors at all levels, vendors and providers up to the full amount of
the contract for all construction and repair contracts.
   B.   The County may at its sole discretion accept other forms of protection
in place of bonds such as letters of credit, escrow accounts or collateral
agreements.
   C.   The County may at its sole discretion waive the requirement of a bid,
performance or payment bond for circumstances in which the Procurement Officer
considers any or all of the bonds to be unnecessary to protect the procurement
item. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-17: CORRECTION OF ERRORS:
The County may at its sole discretion allow for correction of inadvertent
mistakes prior to award of a contract or bid:
   A.   To responses to request for qualifications prior to award of final
contract.
   B.   To proposals made in response to a request for proposal prior to award
of final contract.
   C.   To a sealed bid after delivery of a timely sealed bid to the County but
prior to the opening of the sealed bids.
   D.   To a sealed bid after opening of the bids if the correction is to
information provided in the bid that does not change any term or condition of
the sealed bid that affects the cost, quality, quantity or delivery of the
product or service.
   E.   The County may reject any correction it deems is beyond the scope of
correction of an inadvertent mistake. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-18: SELECTION AND AWARD:
The County shall use reasonable diligence in awarding a contract or processing
a purchase with the selected provider in a timely manner after the following
determinations have been made:
   A.   Providers which did not meet the requirements or criteria of this
policy;
   B.   Providers which did not meet the minimum requirements of a request for
qualifications;
   C.   Proposals or bids which did not meet the specifications or requirements
set forth in an invitation for bid or request for proposal;
   D.   Any bid which the County Commission does not consider a responsible
bid; and
   E.   The provider, proposal or bid which best meets the County's long term
needs and value, as determined by the County. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-19: APPEAL PROCEDURES:
Any actual or prospective bidder, proposer, offeror or contractor who is
aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a contract or
procurement may submit an appeal in writing to the County Budget Officer within
five (5) working days after the aggrieved party knows or should have known of
the facts, but in no case later than ten (10) working days after the award has
been made. The County Budget Officer or his/her designee shall promptly issue a
decision regarding any appeal in writing to the aggrieved party filing the
appeal. The decision shall state the reasons for the action taken and the
aggrieved party's right to appeal to the County Commission. If a written
decision is not issued by the County Budget Officer within thirty (30) days,
the aggrieved party may appeal directly to the County Commission. The County
Commission shall be the final appeal on the County level. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-
2016)
1-13-20: PREFERENCE IN SELECTION PROCESS; LOCAL VENDORS:
   A.   In selecting a procurement item, the lowest cost item is not a general
requirement. County shall consider the cost of the procurement item, the value
of the procurement item, the speed and convenience in delivery of the item, the
quality of services, and other factors that will provide the County with the
highest and best value.
   B.   In the attempt to attain the highest and best value, County may show
preference to local vendors even though their bid or proposal may not be the
lowest bid. In showing such preference, County shall justify this by
determining that such decision will result in equal to or greater long term
value of such procurement for certain reasons such as better and/or more
convenient service, maintenance, warranty, support of the local economy, etc.
(Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-21: CONTRACTS:
   A.   County Attorney Approval Of Contracts: All contracts entered into for
any procurement under this chapter must be approved as to form and compliance
by the County Attorney's Office prior to execution.
   B.   Clauses To Be Included In Contracts: The following clauses shall be
included in each contract for any procurement under this chapter, unless
specifically waived by the County Commission after review with the County
Attorney:
      1.   The unilateral right of County to order, in writing, changes in the
work within the scope of the contract and changes in the time of performance of
the contract that do not alter the scope of the contract work.
      2.   Variations occurring between estimated quantities of work in a
contract and actual quantities.
      3.   Other terms for change orders and other changes or additions to
work.
      4.   The right of the County to suspend work.
      5.   Vendor compliance with all Federal, State and local laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations.
      6.   Bonding requirements.
      7.   Proof of individuals/businesses properly licensed with appropriate
State or local authority.
      8.   Contract providers or vendors agreement to indemnify County.
      9.   Contract providers or vendors retention or product liability/
manufacturer's liability.
      10.   Insurance required of contract providers or vendors.
      11.   Antidiscrimination language. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-22: CANCELLATION AND REJECTION OF PROPOSALS OR BIDS:
The County may cancel any invitation, request or other solicitation, or may
reject any or all bids or proposals when such cancellation or rejection is in
the best interest of the County as determined at the sole discretion of the
County. This cancellation and rejection provision should be included in all
invitations to bid, RFQs and RFPs. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-23: PROHIBITED METHODS OF PROCUREMENT:
Procurements shall not be made pursuant to or in response to telephone or
telemarketing solicitations to County employees. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
1-13-24: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Artificially Dividing Procurements: It is unlawful for a person to
intentionally or knowingly divide a procurement into one or more smaller
procurements with the intent to make a procurement qualify as a small purchase
or other less restrictive threshold amount, if, before dividing the
procurement, it would not have qualified as a small purchase or other less
restrictive threshold amount.
   B.   Gratuities Or Kickbacks: For purposes of this subsection, the terms
"gratuity" and "kickback" shall have the same meanings as defined in Utah code
section 63G-6a-2402 as amended. It is unlawful for a person who knowingly
engages in the following conduct:
      1.   For a person who is seeking a contract with or a grant from the
county knowingly to give or offer, promise or pledge to give, a gratuity or
kickback to the county, or any person delegated authority to expend funds for
procurement.
      2.   For any person delegated authority to expend funds for procurement,
knowingly to receive or accept, offer or agree to receive or accept, or ask for
a promise or pledge of, a gratuity or kickback from a person who has or is
seeking a contract or a grant from the county.
   C.   Penalties: For enforcement of this subsection, Kane County hereby
adopts by reference the penalty provisions of Utah code section 63G-6a-2401 et
al. (2016), as amended. (Ord. O-2016-7, 8-8-2016)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND AGENCIES
CHAPTER 1
COUNCIL ON AGING
SECTION:
2-1-1: Organization
2-1-2: Responsibilities
2-1-3: Programs And Personnel
2-1-4: Budget; Audit
2-1-1: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Appointment; Membership: Council members shall be appointed by the
board of commissioners, upon recommendation of council. Council membership
shall not exceed thirteen (13) members, all of whom shall be residents of the
county, and the majority of whom must be fifty five (55) years of age or older
at the time of their appointment. All council members shall be voting members.
Council members shall serve as directors of the Kane County Senior Citizen
Improvement Corporation, a nonprofit corporation.
   B.   Terms: Staggered terms shall begin on January 1, and shall expire four
(4) years thereafter.
   C.   Executive Committee: The executive committee of the council shall
consist of the chair, vice chair and secretary, all such officers to be
selected by the members of the council.
   D.   Quorum: A quorum, consisting of at least fifty percent (50%) of the
council members, shall be required to conduct business.
   E.   Meetings: The council shall meet at least quarterly as called by the
chair.
   F.   Compensation: Council members shall serve without compensation, except
that they shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred on behalf of the
council.
   G.   Removal: Council members may be removed by the board of commissioners
for cause. Any member missing more than two (2) meetings without cause shall be
considered by the board of commissioners for removal.
   H.   Aging And Nutrition Services Advisory Council: Four (4) council
members, one of whom shall be the council chair, shall be appointed to the five
(5) county aging and nutrition services advisory council. The appointments
shall be made by the board of commissioners, upon recommendation of the
council.
   I.   Human Service Council: The board of commissioners shall make necessary
appointments to the human service council, upon recommendation of the council.
(Ord. 1997-1, 10-6-1997, eff. retroactive to 9-1-1997)
2-1-2: RESPONSIBILITIES:
The council shall:
   A.   Promote and develop programs to interest and provide for the welfare of
senior citizens.
   B.   Cooperate with the state division of aging and public and private
companion agencies on the state and national levels to more effectively meet
the needs of and provide opportunities for senior citizens.
   C.   Integrate the activities of groups with kindred aims of providing
opportunities for senior citizens to engage in volunteer or paid service to the
community and to their fellow men, and providing opportunities in educational,
recreational and social pursuits.
   D.   Be aware of and interested in the aspects and needs of the aging,
promote appropriate public relations endeavors, and coordinate activities and
fiscal management.
   E.   Seek resources at the local, state and national levels to provide
services to senior citizens. (Ord. 1997-1, 10-6-1997, eff. retroactive to 9-1-
1997)
2-1-3: PROGRAMS AND PERSONNEL:
   A.   Coordinator, Program Personnel: The council shall appoint a county
coordinator and program personnel. The council shall provide job descriptions
for all such positions. The county coordinator and all program personnel shall
follow and be subject to the county employee handbook.
   B.   Administration Of Program By Coordinator: The county coordinator shall
administer and coordinate approved programs, supervise program personnel,
monitor all funds to ensure proper accounting of all income and expenses,
submit all proper statements to the county clerk for payment, and develop and
provide opportunities for volunteer services by qualified senior citizens.
(Ord. 1997-1, 10-6-1997, eff. retroactive to 9-1-1997)
2-1-4: BUDGET; AUDIT:
The council shall annually recommend a budget to the board of commissioners, it
being the desire of all concerned that the council be independent and self-
sufficient insofar as possible, and subject only to a minimum of control and
supervision by the board of commissioners. The council shall be audited
annually. (Ord. 1997-1, 10-6-1997, eff. retroactive to 9-1-1997)
CHAPTER 2
AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Established
2-2-2: Appointment Of Board Members
2-2-3: Term Of Office; Removal Of Members
2-2-4: Officers Of Board
2-2-5: Quorum And Rules Of Operation
2-2-6: Minimum Size For Agriculture Protection Areas
2-2-7: Fees For Accepting And Processing Proposals
2-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
An agriculture protection area advisory board is hereby established for the
county pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 17-41-201, to perform the duties
set out in Utah Code Annotated section 17-41-201, or any later amendment or
enactment of that section. (Ord. 78/1994-3, 10-24-1994)
2-2-2: APPOINTMENT OF BOARD MEMBERS:
The board of county commissioners shall appoint five (5) members to the
agriculture protection area advisory board established under section
2-2-1 of this chapter. The board members shall be appointed by resolution from
the county soil conservation district, among the members of the board of
supervisors. (Ord. 78/1994-3, 10-24-1994)
2-2-3: TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
Each member appointed to the agriculture protection area advisory board shall
serve on said board until expiration of that member's respective term on the
soil conservation district board of supervisors. By majority vote of the
agriculture protection area advisory board, the board of county commissioners
may remove and replace any advisory board member for cause or for failure to
perform the required duties. (Ord. 78/1994-3, 10-24-1994)
2-2-4: OFFICERS OF BOARD:
The members of the agriculture protection area advisory board shall select a
chairperson, vice chairperson and secretary. The chairperson and vice
chairperson shall be selected from among the members of the agriculture
protection area advisory board or a county employee. (Ord. 78/1994-3, 10-24-
1994)
2-2-5: QUORUM AND RULES OF OPERATION:
Any three (3) members of the agriculture protection area advisory board shall
constitute a quorum of that board. All actions of the board, except to adjourn
a meeting at which there is not a quorum present, must be made in a meeting at
which a quorum is present. Any actions of the agriculture protection area
advisory board must be approved by at least three (3) members of that board.
All meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the Utah open and public
meetings act. The agriculture protection area advisory board may adopt such
additional bylaws, policies, procedures and rules of operation as it deems
necessary to govern its affairs, and operate pursuant to statute. (Ord. 78/
1994-3, 10-24-1994)
2-2-6: MINIMUM SIZE FOR AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREAS:
Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 17-41-301(5), or any later amendment or
enactment of that section, at least zero contiguous acres must be included in
each agriculture protection area established within the county. (Ord. 78/1994-
3, 10-24-1994)
2-2-7: FEES FOR ACCEPTING AND PROCESSING PROPOSALS:
Any proposals to create agriculture protection areas within the county shall be
filed in the office of the Kane County Land Use Authority. All proposals must
be accompanied by the filing fee established by the agriculture protection area
advisory board. (Ord. 78/1994-3, 10-24-1994; amd. Ord. O-2023-03, 1-24-2023)
CHAPTER 3
RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-3-1: Purpose
2-3-2: Establishment Of Committee And Designation Of Duties
2-3-3: Membership
2-3-4: Organization Of Committee
2-3-5: Cooperation With Committee
2-3-6: Joint Operation With Kane County Recreation And Transportation Special
Service District
2-3-1: PURPOSE:
All lands within the county, including public lands which are administered by
federal or state agencies, produce resources which are vital to the culture,
custom and economy of the county and are critically effected by public lands
administration. All private property and county or municipally owned property
lying within the county are directly affected by federal or state
administration and management practices. Such practices have the potential to,
and often do, adversely impact the continuation of the culture, custom and
economic stability of the county. By resolution, the board of commissioners
(board) directs the establishment of a resource development committee
(committee), which is to serve as an advisory committee to the board regarding
planning for the development of resources and implementation of plans for
county resources, including federal and state administered lands lying within
the county. That committee is to assist the board with development of county
resources, land use plans overlaying federal and state administered lands, and
it has become clear that the planning process for such lands must be a long
term undertaking if the custom, culture and economic stability of the county is
to be preserved. The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the resource
development committee as a standing advisory committee pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated section 17-53-312 for assisting the board in promoting the
development of the county mineral, water, manpower, industrial, historical,
cultural, and other resources on all lands, including public lands administered
by federal and state public land managing agencies lying within the county and
the relationship of that administration and management to continuation of the
custom, culture and economic stability of the county. (Ord. 2004-5, 12-13-2004)
2-3-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMITTEE AND DESIGNATION OF DUTIES:
There is hereby established the county resource development committee. The
committee shall serve as an advisory committee to the board of commissioners
with regard to the following:
   A.   Establishment of plans for the development and conservation of
resources in the county, including public lands administered by federal and
state agencies lying within the county;
   B.   Implementation of plans for the development and conservation of
resources in the county, including public lands administered by the federal and
state agencies lying within the county;
   C.   Study of and development of legislation pertaining to management and
conservation of resources in the county, including public lands administered by
the federal and state agencies lying within the county;
   D.   Study of and development of comments and input regarding proposed
legislation and administrative regulations regarding conservation and
utilization of resources in the county, including public lands administered by
the federal and state agencies lying within the county;
   E.   Study of and development of comments and input regarding proposed
federal or state agencies plans, regulations, orders, decisions and other
actions regarding management and conservation of resources in the county,
including public lands administered by the federal and state agencies lying
within the county;
   F.   Conduct of public information meetings and other means of gathering
information regarding public input into the management and conservation of
resources, including public lands administered by the federal and state
agencies lying within the county;
   G.   Meet and communicate with federal and state agency personnel, other
public officials and citizen groups in order to develop coordination of
planning for the management and conservation of resources in the county,
including public lands administered by federal and state agencies lying within
the county, and recommend actions to the board of commissioners to establish
and implement such coordination;
   H.   As directed or requested by the board, perform other functions
regarding the management and conservation of resources in the county, including
federal and state administered lands lying within the county and the
relationship of that management to the custom, culture, and economic stability
of the county. (Ord. 2004-5, 12-13-2004; amd. 2011 Code)
2-3-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The committee shall consist of seven (7) members. All members shall be
appointed by the board of commissioners in accordance with the following
provisions:
   A.   All members shall be appointed for two year terms beginning January 1
of the same year.
   B.   Eligibility for membership shall be involvement in, an interest in, and
expertise in county resources and the various multiple uses of the federally
and state managed lands and the custom, culture and economic stability of the
county. The board shall select members, including one member from the board of
commissioners, for appointment from a list maintained by the County Commission
designee which contains the following:
      1.   The names of persons who in writing have requested appointment and
stated their involvement in county resources, interest in, and expertise in the
multiple uses, custom, culture and economic stability of the county; and
      2.   The names of persons recommended for membership by the committee
with a written statement of the involvement in county resources, and interest
in, and expertise of the persons in the multiple uses, custom, culture and
economic stability of the county.
   C.   Upon receipt by the board of a written resignation by a member of the
committee, or of a written recommendation by the committee that a member be
removed because of failure to participate in committee business and activities,
the board shall remove the member’s name from the committee and shall appoint a
replacement for the remainder of the term being served by the member removed.
Such appointments shall be made in accordance with the procedure established in
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2004-5, 12-13-2004; amd. Ord. O-2021-33, 8-
24-2021)
2-3-4: ORGANIZATION OF COMMITTEE:
   A.   Officers: The board shall appoint a chairperson, a vice chairperson,
and any other officers the board deems desirable or necessary. The term for
such offices shall be one year, and all officers appointed are eligible for
reappointment.
   B.   Subcommittees: The committee is authorized to establish whatever
subcommittees it deems desirable and necessary to the conduct of its business
and affairs. The chairperson shall name the members of the subcommittees.
Membership on the committee is not a requirement for membership on a
subcommittee.
   C.   Meetings: The committee shall establish and publicly announce its own
meeting schedule, but it shall meet as needed. All meetings of the committee
shall be public meetings. Subcommittees may meet without the public meeting
requirements set by state law, but subcommittee reports shall be made at each
committee meeting.
   D.   Operating Procedure: Other than the requirements set forth in this
section, the committee may establish its operation and meeting policies and
procedures. (Ord. 2004-5, 12-13-2004; amd. Ord. O-2016-10, 9-10-2016)
2-3-5: COOPERATION WITH COMMITTEE:
All officers and personnel of the county under the direct supervision of the
board shall assist and cooperate with the committee in the performance of its
duties to the extent reasonable and practicable in light of performance of
county business. All other officers and personnel of the county are requested
by the provisions of this chapter to assist and cooperate with the committee in
the manner set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2004-5, 12-13-2004)
2-3-6: JOINT OPERATION WITH KANE COUNTY RECREATION AND TRANSPORTATION SPECIAL
SERVICE DISTRICT:
The Resource Development Committee and the Kane County Recreation and
Transportation Special Service District shall work as one functioning board to
serve both entities except as further set forth in this Section. Any individual
that is appointed to serve on the Resource Development Committee shall also be
appointed to serve as a board member on the Administrative Control Board of the
Kane County Recreation and Transportation Special Service District and vice
versa. A resignation from one position shall serve as a resignation from both
boards. One County Commissioner is required to serve as a member of the
Resource Development Committee. The County Commission may choose to appoint
this Commissioner jointly to both boards, or may choose to appoint another
individual to serve solely on the Administrative Control Board for the Kane
County Recreation and Transportation Special Service District. (Ord. O-2021-33,
8-24-2021; amd. O-2023-16, 3-28-2023)
CHAPTER 4
LIBRARY BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Membership; Terms; Vacancies
2-4-2: Officers
2-4-3: Duties Of Officers
2-4-4: Meetings
2-4-5: Committees
2-4-6: Powers And Duties
2-4-7: Library Director
2-4-1: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; VACANCIES:
   A.   Membership:
      1.   Pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 9-7-542,
as amended, the county library board of directors shall consist of not less
than five (5) and not more than nine (9) directors, chosen from the citizens of
the county and based upon their fitness for the office.
      2.   Only one director of the board may be a member of the county
commission at any one time.
   B.   Appointment: All directors shall be appointed by the county executive,
with the advice and consent of the county commission. Appointments to the board
shall be made before July 1 of each year in which an appointment is necessary.
   C.   Terms:
      1.   Directors shall be appointed to serve for four (4) year terms, or
until their successors are appointed and shall not serve more than two (2)
consecutive terms.
      2.   The terms of directors shall be staggered so that approximately one-
fourth (1/4) of the board is selected each year.
   D.   Resignation:
      1.   Any appointed board director may resign from such position by
providing written notification to the chair of such resignation.
      2.   The chair shall thereupon notify the county executive of such
resignation.
   E.   Vacancies: Vacancies created by resignation, death, removal or
otherwise shall be filled for the duration of the unexpired term in the same
manner as the original appointment. (Ord. 2003-6, 12-22-2003)
2-4-2: OFFICERS:
   A.   Specified; Election: Officers of the board shall be the chair, vice
chair and secretary. They shall be elected by the board at its December
meeting, and their term of office shall be for one year beginning January 1.
   B.   Funds; Treasurer: The county treasurer shall have legal custody of all
library funds and shall act as the treasurer of such funds. (Ord. 2003-6, 12-
22-2003)
2-4-3: DUTIES OF OFFICERS:
   A.   Chair: The chair of the board shall preside at all board meetings,
authorize calls for any special meetings and generally perform the duties of a
presiding officer.
   B.   Vice Chair: The vice chair shall preside in the chair's absence and
perform such other duties as requested by the chair.
   C.   Signing Documents; Clerk: The chair of the board shall sign or
countersign all official board documents and, where appropriate, recommend
approval by the county executive or county commission. The chair shall arrange
staff to act as clerk of the board for the purpose of actual minute taking and
maintaining official records of board actions. (Ord. 2003-6, 12-22-2003)
2-4-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings; Quorum: The board shall have no less than four (4)
regular meetings during a calendar year with the quorum present, whether
corporal or by means of electronic equipment, for the purpose of discussing or
acting upon a matter or matters. For this purpose a quorum consists of that
number of board directors that represents fifty one percent (51%) or more of
the total number of board directors appointed at the time.
   B.   Annual Meeting: The board shall have at least one annual meeting held
in the last quarter of each year.
   C.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called at any time by the
chair, providing notice thereof is given to the public and all commission
members at least twenty four (24) hours in advance.
   D.   County Commission Member Unable To Attend: If the board director, who
is a member of the county commission is unable to attend any board meeting,
then that director may designate an alternate to act in that director's place.
   E.   Alternates: If the member of the county commission who is a director of
the board has designated an alternate to act in that director's stead at any or
all board meetings, then that alternate's presence shall count as a board
director for purposes of meeting a quorum or voting.
   F.   State Law Applicable: Meetings shall comply with all requirement of
state law, including, but not limited to, the Utah open and public meetings
act.
   G.   Records: Records of all board meetings shall be kept, managed,
classified, and disclosed as required by county ordinance and state law,
including, but not limited to, the government records access and management
act. (Ord. 2003-6, 12-22-2003)
2-4-5: COMMITTEES:
Ad hoc committees for the study and/or investigation of issues or other library
matters may be appointed by the chair to serve until the completion of the work
for which they were established. (Ord. 2003-6, 12-22-2003)
2-4-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Subject to compliance with federal laws, state laws and county
ordinances and policies, the board is hereby granted responsibility to:
      1.   Cooperate with Garfield County, Piute County, and the state library
division, pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 9-7-509, as
amended, in providing county library services;
      2.   Establish policies for the operation, maintenance and care of the
library;
      3.   Purchase, lease, exchange or sell land; purchase, lease, exchange,
sell or construct buildings for the benefit of the library; and purchase,
lease, exchange or sell personal property for the benefit of the library;
      4.   Establish policies for collections and information resources;
      5.   Establish rules to exclude from the use of the library any person
who wilfully violates library rules or state laws or county ordinances.
   B.   The board shall:
      1.   Recommend to the county executive and the director of the state
library division a competent person to act as library director ("librarian") to
have immediate charge of the county library system with those duties specified
in a job description approved by the board and county executive;
      2.   Establish and revise library policies in cooperation with the
library director, subject to consistency with state and federal law and county
ordinance and policies, and review by the county attorney's office;
      3.   Work cooperatively with county executive, county commission, library
director, library staff, other county staff, and others in the community to
provide excellent library service;
      4.   Encourage citizen involvement in the development of long range plans
for the improvement of library services and facilities;
      5.   Hear and resolve relevant library issues brought to the board;
      6.   Make an annual report to the county executive on the condition and
operation of the library, including a financial statement;
      7.   Submit an annual report to the state library board;
      8.   Recommend to the county executive the removal of any director of the
board for misconduct or neglect of duty; and
      9.   Furnish to the county executive and county commission, in writing,
and prior to the time required by law to levy county taxes, an estimate of the
amount of monies necessary to establish, equip and maintain the library, and to
provide library services during the next ensuing fiscal year. (Ord. 2003-6, 12-
22-2003)
2-4-7: LIBRARY DIRECTOR:
The library director shall:
   A.   Serve as executive officer for the board;
   B.   Be responsible for the administration of the county library system
under the policies adopted by the board and the county;
   C.   Recommend such policies and procedures to the board that will promote
the efficiency of the library and improve services to its patrons;
   D.   Be accountable to the county executive in complying with library
policy, countywide policy, county ordinances, and state and federal laws;
   E.   Be responsible for the maintenance and operation of properties
belonging to the county for its library system;
   F.   Submit regular and timely reports to the board on the progress,
activities and finances of the library;
   G.   Ensure the appropriate receipt of nontax income collection and
expenditure of all county library funds; and
   H.   Performs other duties as established in the director's official job
description. (Ord. 2003-6, 12-22-2003)
CHAPTER 5
REDEVELOPMENT AGENCY
SECTION:
2-5-1: Agency Created
2-5-2: Official Name
2-5-3: Geographic Boundaries
2-5-4: Powers Vested
2-5-5: Agency Board
2-5-6: Agency Rules Of Order And Procedure
2-5-1: AGENCY CREATED:
Pursuant to the provisions of section 17C-1-201(1) of the "limited purpose
local government entities - community development and renewal agencies act" as
amended (the "act"), the commission creates a community development and renewal
agency (the "agency"), contingent upon the issuance by the Utah lieutenant
governor of a certificate of creation under section 67-1a-6.5 of the Utah code.
(Ord. 2014-7, 5-19-2014, eff. 6-3-2014)
2-5-2: OFFICIAL NAME:
The official name of the agency is the "Kane County redevelopment agency".
(Ord. 2014-7, 5-19-2014, eff. 6-3-2014)
2-5-3: GEOGRAPHIC BOUNDARIES:
The geographic boundaries of the agency are and will be coterminous with the
geographic boundaries of the unincorporated area of the county. (Ord. 2014-7,
5-19-2014, eff. 6-3-2014)
2-5-4: POWERS VESTED:
Upon creation, the agency will be vested with all the powers set forth in the
act and as otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 2014-7, 5-19-2014, eff. 6-3-2014)
2-5-5: AGENCY BOARD:
The governing body of the agency will be a board consisting of the members of
the county commission as may serve from time to time on the county commission
(the "agency board"). Any change in the composition of the county commission
will automatically and without any further action required constitute a similar
change in the composition of the agency board. (Ord. 2014-7, 5-19-2014, eff. 6-
3-2014)
2-5-6: AGENCY RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:
Agency meetings must be conducted in accordance with the Utah Open and Public
Meetings Act. The Agency must substantially follow the rules of order and
procedure for the Kane County Commission as set forth in Kane County Code
Section
1-5-7. (Ord. O-2024-30, 11-12-2024)
CHAPTER 6
LIMITED PURPOSE LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENTITIES
SECTION:
2-6-1: Purpose And Intent
2-6-2: Title
2-6-3: Definitions
2-6-4: Procurement Policy
2-6-5: Board Member Annual Training
2-6-6: Auditing And Financial Reporting
2-6-7: Notice Of Board Vacancies
2-6-8: Rules Of Order And Procedure
2-6-9: Fees For County Treasurer Services
2-6-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Kane County has adopted this chapter to ensure the orderly, effective,
efficient and judicious governance of all limited purpose local government
entities ("county entities") created under the jurisdiction and authority of
Kane County that are also governed by Utah state code titles 17B and/or 17D
(commonly referred to as local district, special service district, or county
improvement district) with the intent to provide for:
   A.   Clarity and uniformity in the entity's procedures for the procurement
of goods and services;
   B.   Adequate annual training of the entity's board members;
   C.   Appropriate fiscal oversight and auditing of the entities; and
   D.   Adequate reporting of vacant board positions. (Ord. O-2016-14, 12-12-
2016)
2-6-2: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the KANE COUNTY LIMITED PURPOSE LOCAL GOVERNMENT
ENTITIES CODE. (Ord. O-2016-14, 12-12-2016)
2-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases have the meanings
given under this section:
AGREED UPON PROCEDURES: An engagement by an independent certified public
accountant that follows procedures set forth by the office of the Utah state
auditor that does not provide assurance on the reliability of the financial
information generated by the county entity.
BOARD MEMBER: An individual elected or appointed to serve on the board of
directors, board of trustees, administrative control board, or other governing
board of a county entity.
FINANCIAL SURVEY: Information regarding assets, liabilities, revenues, and
expenses, compiled on forms and in a process created by the office of the Utah
state auditor, usually created by an appropriate employee or officer of the
county entity who may receive assistance from the state auditor, a certified
public accountant, or another qualified individual. This includes either the
large or small financial survey.
INDEPENDENT AUDIT: An examination completed by an independent certified public
accountant in accordance with industry standards for financial reporting that
provides reasonable assurance that the financial statements of the county
entity are fairly presented.
LIMITED PURPOSE LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENTITY OR COUNTY ENTITY: A political
subdivision of the state of Utah located entirely within Kane County, created
under the authority and jurisdiction of Kane County and currently governed
under Utah code titles 17B and/or 17D. This does not include entities that are
created solely by a municipal corporation located in Kane County or created by
some other means other than the jurisdiction and authority of Kane County.
These county entities often have in their title or are referred to as a local
district, special service district or County improvement district among other
statutory titles.
SELF-EVALUATION FORM: A form created by the Office of the Utah State Auditor
completed and certified by a member of the Governing Board of the County entity
that assists the Governing Board with internal assessment to determine if
reasonable safeguards for compliance and proper fiscal management are in place
and working. (Ord. O-2016-14, 12-12-2016)
2-6-4: PROCUREMENT POLICY:
   A.   Each County entity shall, by January 1, 2017, adopt and comply with the
Kane County Procurement Code or shall adopt and comply with their own
procurement policy that is adequate to meet the minimum requirements of State
Code and to ensure the effective and efficient use of taxpayer funds.
   B.   No board members, employees, agents or other representatives of any
County entity shall expend funds, solicit proposals or bids, respond to
solicitations or in any other way obligate the County entity to expend funds
without first complying with the State Procurement Code, or with the County
Procurement Code if adopted or the County entity's procurement policy if
adopted.
   C.   If a County entity elects to adopt the Kane County Procurement Code the
following exceptions and amendments will apply:
      1.   Any reference to the County shall be interpreted as referring to the
County entity.
      2.   Any reference to the Commission or County Commission shall be
interpreted as referring to the Board of Trustees or Administrative Control
Board of the County entity.
      3.   Any reference to the County Budget Officer shall be interpreted as
referring to the Chief Financial Officer of the County entity as designated by
the County entity.
      4.   The authority delegated under section
2-6-5 of this chapter shall be delegated only as designated by the Board of
Trustees or Administrative Control Board of the County entity. (Ord. O-2016-14,
12-12-2016)
2-6-5: BOARD MEMBER ANNUAL TRAINING:
   A.   Each board member of a County entity shall within the first year of
office and for every four (4) years after that, receive the following training:
      1.   Procurement training.
      2.   Antinepotism and conflict of interest training.
      3.   Open and Public Meetings Act training.
      4.   Fiscal procedures for local districts training.
      5.   Any other training required by the State Auditor under Utah Code
17B-1-312.
   B.   Each board member of a County entity shall complete training annually
regarding the Open and Public Meetings Act and any other topic of training
designated by the Kane County Comission or its designee.
   C.   Each County entity shall delegate to one board member or assign an
employee of the County entity to report completion of annual board member
training to the Kane County Commission or its designee.
   D.   Beginning January 1, 2017, board members who fail to receive annual
training may be removed from office if they fail to update their training
within sixty (60) days after receiving written notice of the failure from the
Kane County Commission or its designee. (Ord. O-2016-14, 12-12-2016; amd. Ord.
O-2019-18, 7-9-2019; Ord. O-2020-16, 7-14-2020)
2-6-6: AUDITING AND FINANCIAL REPORTING:
   A.   The following County entities, and other County entities that are not
listed, shall annually complete auditing and financial reporting in accordance
with subsection B of this section and file the documents required by subsection
B of this section with the Kane County Commission or its designee no later than
May 15 of the following year: (Ord. O-2019-18, 7-9-2019)
      1.   Kane County human resources special service district 1.
      2.   Western Kane County special service district 1.
      3.   Glen Canyon City special service district 1.
      4.   Church Wells special service district.
      5.   Canyon Lands County improvement district.
      6.   Canyon Lands special service district.
      7.   East Zion special service district.
      8.   Kane County recreation and transportation special service district.
      9.   Cedar Mountain fire protection district.
      10.   Kane County, Utah, special improvement district 2005-1 (Vermillion
Cliffs Estates).
      11.   Long Valley sewer special service district.
      12.   Kane County water conservancy district.
      13.   Zion Mountain local service district.
   B.   For County entities with annual revenues or expenditures of funds
greater than seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000.00), an independent
audit and financial statement is required. For County entities with annual
revenues or expenditures of three hundred fifty thousand dollars ($350,000.00)
or greater but less than or equal to seven hundred fifty thousand dollars
($750,000.00), an agreed upon procedures report and large financial survey are
required. For County entities with annual revenues or expenditures less than
three hundred fifty thousand dollars ($350,000.00), a self-evaluation form and
a small financial survey are required. Forms for the agreed upon procedures
report, financial surveys, and self- evaluation are provided by the Office of
the Utah State Auditor and can be found on the internet at
reporting.auditor.Utah.gov.
   C.   If any County entity fails to comply with this section, the Kane County
Commission may arrange for an audit to be performed at the expense of the
County entity. (Ord. O-2016-14, 12-12-2016; amd. Ord. O-2019-18, 7-9-2019; Ord.
O-2020-16, 7-14-2020)
2-6-7: NOTICE OF BOARD VACANCIES:
   A.   Each County entity shall give notice of vacant board member positions
when positions become vacant due to the death, incapacity, or resignation of
any board member or when positions become vacant due to an expiring term. (Ord.
O-2016-14, 12-12-2016)
   B.   For elected positions the notice shall be delivered to the Kane County
Clerk in accordance with State election laws. For appointed positions the
notice shall be delivered to the Kane County Commission or its designee as soon
as practicable for midterm vacancies, or at least ninety (90) days prior to the
expiration of the term. (Ord. O-2019-18, 7-9-2019)
   C.   Each County entity shall designate a board member or employee to comply
with this section. (Ord. O-2016-14, 12-12-2016)
2-6-8:    RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE:
   A.   The Board or Trustees or the Administrative Control Board for each
County Entity shall adopt rules of order and procedure to govern all public
meetings of the County Entity, in accordance with Utah Code § 17B-1-310.
   B.   If a County Entity does not adopt rules of order and procedure, the
County Entity shall comply with the Rule of Order and Procedure as set forth in
Section
1-5-7 with the following modifications:
      1.   Any reference to the Kane County Commission, County Commission, or
Commission shall mean the Board of Trustees or the Administrative Control Board
for the County Entity;
      2.   Any reference to the Kane County Clerk, County Clerk, or Clerk of
the Commission shall mean the District Clerk for the County Entity, or the
individual assigned by the County Entity to provide these duties; and
      3.   For a County Entity with a board that is more than three members,
for any motion to be considered by the body, a second from another board member
is required; and
      4.   A meeting is called and convened when the chair of the County
Entity, or other designated person, calls a meeting to order at the date, time
and location established in the required 240hour public notice required by the
Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.
   C.   If a County Entity does not adopt rules of order and procedure, strict
compliance with Section
1-5-7 is not required, and no cause of action or nullification of any action is
created by noncompliance. Instead, Section
1-5-7 is set forth as a general guidelines for maintaining order in public
meetings. (Ord. O-2023-27, 6-13-2023; amd. Ord. O-2024-20, 7-9-2024)
2-6-9: FEES FOR COUNTY TREASURER SERVICES:
   A.   County Entities are allowed to request and the County Treasurer is
authorized to provide services regarding collection of County Entity fees.
These services may include but are not limited to: updating lot or parcel lists
within a District and reviewing for accuracy, providing reports to Districts,
processing District fees, processing monthly funds distribution, processing
fees to the Treasurer Tax Roll when appropriate, collecting District fees on
behalf of the District, and sending out delinquency notices on behalf of the
District.
   B.   County Entities shall pay a fee for these services in an amount set by
resolution of the County Commission. The fee shall be paid by July 1 of each
year for services provided in that calendar year.
   C.   Any fee that is not paid by the County Entity by July 1 may be deducted
from any fee collected by the County Treasurer on behalf of the County Entity.
(Ord. O-2024-2, 1-9-2024)
CHAPTER 7
CRIMINAL JUSTICE COORDINATING COUNCIL
SECTION:
2-7-1: Purpose
2-7-2: Establishment
2-7-3: Membership
2-7-4: Procedure
2-7-5: Duties
2-7-6: Supportive Staff
2-7-1: PURPOSE:
The Purpose of the Kane County Criminal Justice Coordinating Council is to
foster communication and collaboration among agencies involved in the criminal
justice system; to formalize the mechanisms for making improvements to the
criminal justice system; and to comply with the requirement of Utah Code § 17-
55-201(4) to develop and implement a strategic plan for the County's criminal
justice system. (Ord. O-2022-46, 8-23-2022)
2-7-2: ESTABLISHMENT:
The Kane County Criminal Justice Coordinating Council is established to carry
out the purposes described in this chapter.
2-7-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The membership of the Council is guided by Utah Code § 17-55-201 (as
amended). The specific membership of the Council shall be as follows:
      1.   One county commissioner designated by resolution of the county
commission;
      2.   The County Sheriff or his or her designee;
      3.   The Kanab City Chief of Police or his or her designee;
      4.   The Kane County Attorney or his or her designee;
      5.   The Kane County Public Defender or an approved conflict public
defender as assigned by the Kane County Public Defender;
      6.   A District Court Judge from the Sixth District Court as designated
by the Sixth District Court;
      7.   The Kane County Justice Court Judge;
      8.   A representative of the Division of Adult Probation and Parole
within the Utah Department of Corrections as assigned by the Division of Adult
Probation and Parole with a preference for an agent that has active cases
within the county;
      9.   A representative of Southwest Behavioral Health Center as designated
by the Executive Director with a preference for an employee that work in Kane
County;
      10.   The Kane County Victim Advocate;
      11.   The Kanab City Attorney or his or her designee; and
      12.   A treatment provider from the Kane County Recovery Court as
designated by the Court.
   B.   The Kane County Commissioner assigned to the Council may recommend the
appointment to Council by the County Commission additional individuals as ex
officio non-voting members of the Council to represent the sectors listed in
Utah Code § 17-55-201(2)(b).
   C.   Each member shall have one vote on all matters Council takes action on.
      1.   The Chair may appoint as many ex-officio members as it deems
appropriate. (Ord. O-2022-46, 8-23-2022; amd. Ord. O-2024-10, 3-26-2024)
2-7-4: PROCEDURE:
   A.   The Council shall rotate the position of the Chair of the Council among
the members.
   B.   A majority members of the Council shall constitute a quorum and a
majority vote of members present at a meeting shall constitute a binding action
of the Council.
   C.   The Council shall comply with the Open and Public Meetings Act. (Ord.
O-2022-46, 8-23-2022; amd. Ord. O-2024-10, 3-26-2024)
2-7-5: DUTIES:
The Council shall:
   A.   Review, in a cooperative and comprehensive manner, the criminal justice
system in Kane County, the implementation of state and federally required
reforms, and look proactively at other ways the criminal justice system can be
improved;
   B.   Develop and implement a strategic plan for the county's criminal
justice system as set forth in Utah Code § 17-55-201(4)(a), as amended, which
plan shall include:
      1.   Mapping of all systems, resources, assets, and services within the
county's criminal justice system;
      2.   A plan for data sharing across the county's criminal justice system;
      3.   Recidivism reduction objectives; and
      4.   Community reintegration goals;
   C.   Create bylaws and appoint officers as the Council deems appropriate
that are not inconsistent with this chapter;
   D.   Meet at least annually; and
   E.   Beginning in the year 2023, before November 30 of each year, provide a
written report to the Utah Commission on Criminal and Juvenile Justice
regarding the implementation of the strategic plan and any data on the impact
of the Council on the criminal justice system in the county. (Ord. O-2022-46,
8-23-2022)
2-7-6: SUPPORT STAFF:
Administrative support for the Council shall be provided by the Kane County
Attorney's Office. (Ord. O-2022-46, 8-23-2022)
CHAPTER 8
KANE COUNTY COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS
Section:
2-8-1: Purpose
2-8-2: Title
2-8-3: Establishment
2-8-4: Membership
2-8-5: Procedure
2-8-6: Duties
2-8-7: Support Staff
2-8-1: PURPOSE:
The Purpose of this Chapter is to create the Kane County Council of Governments
and to comply with Utah Code § 72-2-117.5, specifically to empower the Kane
County Council of Governments to create and present annually to the Kane County
Board of Commissioners a priority list of highway and public transit corridor
preservation projects within the county as set forth in Utah Code § 72-2-117.5.
(Ord. O-2023-26, 6-13-2023)
2-8-2: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the "Kane County Council of Governments." (Ord.
O-2023-26, 6-13-2023)
2-8-3: ESTABLISHMENT:
The Kane County Council of Governments is established to carry out the purposes
described in this Chapter and in applicable Utah State Code. The Kane County
Council of Governments shall be referred to in this Chapter as "Council." (Ord.
O-2023-26, 6-13-2023)
2-8-4: MEMBERSHIP:
The membership of the Council is set forth in Utah Code § 72-2-117.5, namely:
   A.   Each of the three Kane County Commissioners;
   B.   The Mayor of the City of Kanab;
   C.   The Mayor of the Town of Orderville;
   D.   The Mayor of the Town of Glendale;
   E.   The Mayor of the Town of Big Water; and
   F.   The Mayor of the Town of Alton. (Ord. O-2023-26, 6-13-2023)
2-8-5: PROCEDURE:
   A.   The Chair of the Board of Kane County Commissioners shall serve as
Chair of the Council unless otherwise designated by the Council.
   B.   A majority members of the Council shall constitution a quorum and a
majority vote of members present at a meeting shall constitute a binding action
of the Council.
   C.   The Council shall comply with the Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah
Code §§ 52-4-101 et. seq. (Ord. O-2023-26, 6-13-2023)
2-8-6: DUTIES:
The Council shall, as set forth in Utah Code § 72-2-117.5:
   A.   Establish a priority list of highway and public transit corridor
preservation projects within the county to be funded by proceeds from the Local
Highway and Transportation Corridor Preservation Fund;
   B.   Submit the list described in Subsection (B)(1) to the Kane County
Commission for approval; and
   C.   Obtain approval of the list described in Subsection (B)(1) from a
majority of the members of the Kane County Commission. (Ord. O-2023-26, 6-13-
2023)
2-8-7: SUPPORT STAFF:
Administrative support for the Council shall be provided by the Kane County
Clerk's Office. (Ord. O-2023-26, 6-13-2023)
CHAPTER 9
COUNTY RECORDER APPEAL AUTHORITY
Section:
2-9-1: County Recorder Appeal Authority Established
2-9-2: Hearing Officer Appointment And Authority
2-9-3: Appeal Of County Recorder’s Decision
2-9-4: Notice Of Appeal
2-9-5: Burden Of Proof
2-9-6: Appeal Process
2-9-1: COUNTY RECORDER APPEAL AUTHORITY ESTABLISHED:
The Kane County Recorder Appeal Authority is established to carry out the
purposes of this chapter. (Ord. O2023-30, 7-11-2023)
2-9-2: HEARING OFFICER APPOINTMENT AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Kane County Recorder Appeal Authority is comprised of a Hearing
Officer, appointed by the Kane County Commission and may be the same person
appointed as the Appeal Authority for land use decisions under Title 9 Chapter
3.
   B.   The Hearing Officer has the authority to decide all appeals that are
appropriately submitted under this Chapter. (Ord. O2023-30, 7-11-2023)
2-9-3: APPEAL OF COUNTY RECORDER'S DECISION:
   A.   Decisions of the Kane County Recorder applying the standards of the
County Recorder Standards Board issued under Utah Code Section 63C-30-202, may
be appealed by:
      1.   The person or entity that submitted a document or instrument for
recording if the submitted document or instrument is affected as a result of
the County Recorder's decision;
      2.   A person or entity that owns real property that is adversely
affected as a result of the County Recorder's decision; and
      3.   A person or entity that makes a showing that they are adversely
affected as a result of the County Recorder's decision.
   B.   In order to appeal, a person or entity must submit a notice of appeal
as set forth in Section
2-9-4.
   C.   Only a final decision issued by the County Recorder may be appealed. If
a decision is made by supporting staff or any Deputy County Recorder, a person
or entity must first request that the decision be reviewed by the Kane County
Recorder. The Kane County Recorder, upon written request, must issue a final
decision applying the standards of the County Recorder Standards Board within
five business days of the written request. (Ord. O2023-30, 7-11-2023)
2-9-4: NOTICE OF APPEAL:
   A.   An appeal must be commenced within ten (10) business days of the
relevant decision of the County Recorder by submitting a written notice of
appeal with the Kane County Recorder's Office. The Kane County Recorder may
deny any appeal that is not submitted timely. The Kane County Recorder must
submit a timely filed notice of appeal to the Hearing Officer as soon as
practicable.
   B.   The notice of appeal must include the following:
      1.   The name, address, phone number, and email address of each person or
entity that is requesting an appeal.
      2.   A statement that identifies, with specificity, the decision being
appealed;
      3.   A statement of the appellant's standing to appeal as set forth in
Section
2-9-3A.
      4.   A statement of the issues presented including a citation to all
specifically relevant state and local laws and rules or standards of the County
Recorder Standards Board. (Ord. O2023-30, 7-11-2023)
2-9-5: BURDEN OF PROOF:
   A.   The County Recorder's decision applying the standards of the County
Recorder Standards Board is presumed valid.
   B.   The appellant has the burden of production and the burden of proof to
establish by clear and convincing evidence that the Kane County Recorder's
decision did not comply with the rules or standards made by the County Recorder
Standards Board.
(Ord. O2023-30, 7-11-2023)
2-9-6: APPEAL PROCESS:
   A.   After receiving a notice of appeal from the Kane County Recorder, the
Hearing Officer must hold a scheduling conference with the appellant and the
County Recorder.
   B.   Other interested parties may join the proceedings at the discretion of
the Hearing Officer.
   C.   At the scheduling conference the Hearing Officer may schedule a full
hearing on the issues addressed in the notice of appeal, may require written
briefs or memorandum of the parties, or both as the Hearing Officer deems
necessary.
   D.   The Hearing Officer has broad discretion in determining the process and
procedure to resolve the issues raised in the notice of appeal. The Hearing
Officer should use best efforts to resolve the appeal efficiently and quickly.
   E.   The Hearing Officer must use best efforts to issue a written decision
on the appeal within fifteen (15) business days of the final hearing or
submission of final briefs, whichever is later.
   F.   The written decision issued by the Hearing Officer is a final decision
and not appealable.
   G.   Nothing in this section precludes an individual or entity from pursuing
any other legally available remedy.
(Ord. O2023-30, 7-11-2023)
CHAPTER 10
KANE COUNTY ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-10-1: Purpose
2-10-2: Establishment
2-10-3: Membership
2-10-4: Procedure
2-10-5: Duties
2-10-6: Support Staff
2-10-1: PURPOSE:
The Purpose of the Kane County Economic Opportunity Advisory Board is to assist
the County Commission on applying for Rural County Grants, advise the County
Commission on what projects should be funded by grant money, and preparing
reporting requirements under authorized grants. (Ord. O-2023-17, 3-18-2023)
2-10-2: ESTABLISHMENT:
The Kane County Economic Opportunity Advisory Board ("Board") is established to
carry out the purposes described in this chapter. (Ord. O-2023-17, 3-18-2023)
2-10-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   The requirements for membership of the Board are established by Utah
Code § 63N-4-803(1). The Board shall consist of at least five members appointed
by the County Commission by resolution. Membership must include at a minimum
the following individuals:
      1.   A county representative;
      2.   A representative of a municipality in the county;
      3.   A workforce development representative;
      4.   A private-sector representative; and
      5.   A member of the public who lives in the county.
   B.   The County Commission may also appoint additional members by resolution
who have experience or expertise in economic development matters, so long as
there is an odd number of Board members.
   C.   In appointing members of the Board, the County Commission may consider
gender and socioeconomic diversity. (Ord. O-2023-17, 3-18-2023)
2-10-4: PROCEDURE:
   A.   The Board shall appoint an individual serving on the Board to serve as
Chair of the Board.
   B.   The Board shall establish rules of order for the operation of Board
business, which rules shall include provisions for electronic participation in
meetings by Board members.
   C.   A majority of members of the Board shall constitute a quorum and a
majority vote of members present at a meeting shall constitute a binding action
of the Board. Each Board member shall have one vote on all matters of which the
Board takes action. No proxy voting is allowed.
   D.   The Board shall comply with the Open and Public Meetings Act.
   E.   Board members shall be appointed for terms of four years to beginning
on January 1. Appointment of approximately half of the Board shall take place
in odd numbered years, and the remaining board members shall be appointed in
even numbered years.
   F.   A Board member shall serve until a replacement has been appointed.
   G.   If there is a mid-term vacancy, the County Commission shall appoint an
individual to serve for the remainder of the four-year term. (Ord. O-2023-17,
3-18-2023; amd. Ord. O-2025-20, 6-10-2025)
2-10-5: DUTIES:
The Board shall assist and advise the County Commission on:
   A.   Applying for a grant under Utah Code § 63N-4-802(4)(a);
   B.   What projects should be funded by grant money provided to a rural
county under Utah Code § 63N-4-802(4)(a);
   C.   Preparing reporting requirements for grant money received by a rural
county under Utah Code § 63N-4-802(4)(a); and
   D.   Other economic development advisory duties as requested by the County
Commission. (Ord. O-2023-17, 3-18-2023)
2-10-6: SUPPORT STAFF:
Administrative support for the Board shall be provided by the Center for
Education Business and the Arts Interlocal Agency, also known as CEBA. If CEBA
is unable or unwilling to provide administrative support, the County Commission
shall provide support through other means. (Ord. O-2023-17, 3-18-2023)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required
3-1-2: Application For License
3-1-3: Fee For License; Late Penalty
3-1-4: Approval, Denial Of Application, And Appeal Procedures
3-1-5: Renewal Of License
3-1-6: Transferability
3-1-7: Display Of License
3-1-8: Businesses Ineligible For License
3-1-9: Separate Licenses
3-1-10: Inspections
3-1-11: Revocation Of License
3-1-12: Rules And Regulations May Be Adopted
3-1-13: Penalty
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in or carry
on or operate any business within the boundaries of the County, outside the
incorporated cities and towns therein, other than: a) agriculture; b) any
business operated solely within an occupied home other than a vacation rental
or other short term rental business; and c) any business operated only
occasionally and by an individual who is under eighteen (18) years of age;
without first making application for and obtaining a license from the County
for such business or separate place of business, and by paying in advance the
license fee as required and enumerated herein. Any business that is not
required to obtain a business license may nonetheless apply for and obtain one
as set forth herein. (Ord. O-2018-10, 7-23-2018)
3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   In Writing; Submittal: All applications for licenses shall be made in
writing and submitted to the County Clerk.
   B.   Contents: Each application shall show the following:
      1.   The name and address of the person desiring a license. If the
applicant is a partnership, the names and addresses of the partners and if a
corporation, the names and addresses of all the officers and directors.
      2.   The kind of license desired, stating the business to be performed,
practiced or carried on.
      3.   The class of license desired, if such licenses are divided into
classes.
      4.   The place where such business is to be carried on, giving the street
number, if such business is to be carried on in any building or enclosure or
stated location.
      5.   The period of time for which license is desired to be issued.
      6.   Designation of a citizen of the State of Utah as agent for service
of process (where the applicant is a nonresident).
      7.   Such other facts and information as may be required by ordinance,
the Statutes of the State and the County Commission.
   C.   Confidentiality Of Statement: It shall be the duty of the County Clerk
to preserve and keep the said statement so that the contents thereof may not
become known, except to the persons charged by law with the administration and
enforcement of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance: The County Clerk shall forward the application to the
Building Department, Land Use Authority, and any other County office or
department that may need to review the application for compliance with State
law and this Code. (Ord. O-2018-10, 7-23-2018)
3-1-3: FEE FOR LICENSE; LATE PENALTY:
   A.   Fee For License: Every "business", which is defined to include, without
limitation, all kinds of vocations, occupations, professions, enterprises,
establishments and all other kinds of activities and matters, together with all
devices, machines, vehicles and appurtenances used therein, any of which are
conducted for private profit or benefit, either directly or indirectly, shall
pay a fee as established by resolution of the County Commission on January 31
of each year, or, if a new business prior to the time of commencing business, a
flat license fee in such amount as established by resolution of the County
Commission for the remainder of that calendar year. A person engaged in two (2)
or more businesses at the same location shall be required to obtain separate
licenses for conducting each of such businesses.
   B.   Home Business: The license fee for a home based business shall be in
such amount as established by resolution of the County Commission.
   C.   Late Penalty: Any license fee due on January 31 that is paid later than
February 20, or any license fee that is not paid within thirty (30) days after
commencing business, shall be considered to be late, and a late penalty in such
amount as established by resolution of the County Commission shall be assessed
for each late application. (Ord. 2006-5, 9-11-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
3-1-4: APPROVAL, DENIAL OF APPLICATION, AND APPEAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Approval; Issuance: The County Clerk shall approve all completed
applications that have submitted the appropriate fee and after appropriate
review are in compliance with all State and County laws and regulations. The
County Clerk shall issue the approved licenses within forty five (45) days of
the completed application being submitted and the fee being paid.
   B.   Denial: In the event the County Clerk shall deny any application for a
license, the reason therefor shall be endorsed on the application by the County
Clerk and the Clerk shall deliver a copy of the application and written notice
to the applicant by first class mail to the address set forth on the
application. The notice shall state that the application is denied and inform
the applicant how to appeal the denial. The applicant of a denied application
may appeal the denial to the County Commission by submitting a notice of appeal
to the Office of the County Clerk within thirty (30) days of the denial. The
applicant shall also submit in writing a statement of legal and factual grounds
to approve the application. The County Commission shall hear the appeal within
sixty (60) days of the notice of appeal. The applicant shall appear or waive
their appearance or the appeal will be summarily dismissed. If the County
Commission is not satisfied that the application complies with all State and
County laws and regulations it shall affirm the denial. If the County
Commission finds that the application complies with all State and County laws
and regulations it shall set aside the denial and approve the application. If
an application is approved on appeal the County Clerk shall issue a business
license as set forth in subsection A of this section. (Ord. O-2018-10, 7-23-
2018)
3-1-5: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
All applications, either verbal or written, for a renewal of a business license
filed by the holder of the existing business license shall be filed with and
paid to the County Clerk on or before January 31 of each year. In the event
another business has been added to the existing applicant's place of business,
another separate and distinct license shall be applied for. (Ord. 2006-5, 9-11-
2006)
3-1-6: TRANSFERABILITY:
No license granted or issued under any of the provisions of any ordinance of
the County shall be in any manner assignable or transferable, or authorize any
person other than the person therein mentioned or named to do business, or
authorize any other business that is therein mentioned or named to be done or
transacted; provided, that any person to whom one or more licenses have been
issued to transact or carry on some business at a definite location in the
County may, except as thereinafter provided, make application for the transfer
of any or all of his said licenses for the sole purpose of transacting or
carrying on the same business as therein mentioned at some other definite
location in the County by himself by filing said application with the County
Clerk. The County Commission, after receiving reports furnished by the County
Clerk, Sheriff, and other boards or County officials, may in its discretion,
deny or grant the transfer of any or all of the said licenses strictly within
the above limitations. A change of location for any business may be endorsed
upon said license by the County Clerk upon the payment of a fee in such amount
as established by resolution of the County Commission. (Ord. 2006-5, 9-11-2006;
amd. 2011 Code)
3-1-7: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Each license issued shall be conspicuously displayed at the place of business
to which it pertains and a separate license must be had for each place or type
of business as required in this chapter. (Ord. 2006-5, 9-11-2006)
3-1-8: BUSINESSES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful to peddle or offer for sale in any place, but in a duly
licensed business establishment, any medicine, nostrum or remedy of any
character or description, and no license shall be issued for such purpose,
except that this shall not apply to the sale of medicines, nostrums or remedies
packaged or labeled in compliance with the requirements of the Federal Food,
Drug and Cosmetic Act, and regulations thereafter, and similar applicable laws
and regulations of the State. (Ord. 2006-5, 9-11-2006)
3-1-9: SEPARATE LICENSES:
   A.   Definitions: Definitions for this section are as follows:
    ONE BUSINESS: A business which conducts an operation that complements or is
in harmony with a distinct type of business, i.e., a store which sells gas,
groceries, hot sandwiches.
   TWO DIFFERENT BUSINESSES: A business which conducts two (2) or more
distinctly different types of businesses, i.e., a real estate business, dry
cleaners, pawnshop.
   B.   When More Than One Business License Is Required: When a place of
business conducts two (2) or more distinctly different types of businesses;
then in that event, they both shall hold two (2) distinct and separate licenses
for conducting legitimate businesses within the County. If the owner or
operator shall have a question or dispute as to the classification of his or
her businesses, they shall request in writing with the County Clerk a hearing
before the County Commission for a decision determining the number of
businesses they are conducting. (Ord. 2006-5, 9-11-2006)
3-1-10: INSPECTIONS:
In addition to the initial inspection, a periodic inspection of businesses
licensed by the County may be made by representatives of the County, including,
but not limited to, the following: County or State Health Department, building
inspector or Sheriff. (Ord. 2006-5, 9-11-2006)
3-1-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The County Clerk may revoke a license already granted upon failure of the
applicant or the licensee to comply with the requirements of any applicable law
or ordinance, or when it is shown to the satisfaction of the County Clerk that
the applicant or business in question has violated any law or ordinance, or any
sanitary, safety, police or other rule or regulation. The County Clerk shall
provide notice of the revocation and the reasons for the revocation and the
applicant or licensee may appeal the decision in the same manner as set forth
in subsection 3-1-4B of this chapter. Prior to revoking a business license the
County Clerk may provide notice to the applicant or licensee of a pending
revocation and the reasons for the pending revocation. If the County Clerk
provides notice of a pending revocation, the County Clerk shall provide a
reasonable period of time for the licensee to correct errors set forth in the
notice. (Ord. O-2018-10, 7-23-2018)
3-1-12: RULES AND REGULATIONS MAY BE ADOPTED:
Rules and regulations covering health, safety, morals, peace, good order,
comfort and convenience of the general public with respect to any business
covered hereunder may be adopted by the County Commission and copies of such
rules and regulations shall be made available to and displayed by the licensees
affected thereby in a conspicuous place upon the licensed premises. (Ord. 2006-
5, 9-11-2006)
3-1-13: PENALTY:
Anyone operating, conducting or carrying on any business without a license when
a license is required by this chapter or resolution authorized, may be guilty
of a Class B misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2006-5, 9-11-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: Classification Of Licenses
3-2-3: Application For License
3-2-4: Fee For License
3-2-5: Investigation And Report
3-2-6: Qualifications Of Licensee
3-2-7: Department Of Health Permit
3-2-8: Renewal Of License
3-2-9: Transferability
3-2-10: Inspection
3-2-11: Operational Restrictions
3-2-12: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
3-2-13: Enforcement; Penalty
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings specified in
the Utah alcoholic beverage control act, Utah Code Annotated section 32A-1-105,
unless a different meaning is clearly evident. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006; amd.
2011 Code)
3-2-2: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
Retail licenses issued hereunder shall be of the following four (4) kinds and
shall carry the following privileges and be known as class A, class B, class C
and seasonal licenses: (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
   A.   Class A: Class A retail licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell
beer on the premises licensed in original containers for consumption off the
premises in accordance with the Utah alcoholic beverage control act and the
ordinances of this county.
   B.   Class B: Class B retail licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell
beer in the original containers on the premises for consumption on or off the
premises in accordance with the Utah alcoholic beverage control act and the
ordinances of this county.
   C.   Class C: Class C licenses for retail shall entitle a licensee to sell
draft beer on the premises for consumption on the premises, and to sell beer in
the original containers on the premises for consumption on or off the premises,
and to sell beer in accordance with the Utah alcoholic beverage control act and
the ordinances of this county.
   D.   Seasonal: Seasonal licenses of any class may be issued for a period of
time not to exceed one year, which period shall be determined by the governing
body. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Required: All applications for licenses authorized by this chapter
shall be verified and shall be filed with the county clerk. The application
must state the applicant's name in full and that he understands and has read
and complied with the requirements and possesses the qualifications specified
in the alcoholic beverage control act and this chapter. If the applicant is a
copartnership, the names and addresses of all partners, and if a corporation,
the names and addresses of all officers and directors must be stated.
   B.   Subscribed Under Oath: The application must be subscribed by the
applicant, who shall state under oath that the facts therein contained are
true. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006)
3-2-4: FEE FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Beer License Fees: In addition to any other business license fee which
any person or place of business may be required to pay, there is hereby imposed
on the business location of every person engaged in the sale or dispensing of
beer, annual license fees in such amount as established by resolution of the
county commission. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
   B.   License Fees To Accompany Application: Applications provided for in
this chapter shall be accompanied by the fees. The fee shall be returned to the
applicant if the application is denied. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006)
3-2-5: INVESTIGATION AND REPORT:
All applications filed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall
be referred to the sheriff for inspection and report. The sheriff shall, when
possible, within fifteen (15) days after receiving such application, make
report to the governing body of the general reputation and character of the
persons who habitually frequent such place; the nature and kind of business
conducted at such place by the applicant or by any other persons, or by the
applicant at any other place, whether the place is or has been conducted in a
lawful, quiet and orderly manner; whether gambling is or has been permitted on
the premises by the applicant at any other place; and the proximity of such
premises to any school or church. The sheriff shall also add to such report his
recommendation as to whether or not the application should be granted. (Ord.
2006-4, 9-11-2006)
3-2-6: QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE:
No license shall be granted to any retailer to sell beer within the county
unless he shall be of good moral character, over the age of twenty one (21)
years, and a citizen of the United States, or to anyone who has been convicted
of a felony or of any violation of any law of the state, or provision of the
ordinances of this county relating to intoxicating liquors, or of keeping a
gambling or disorderly house, or who has pleaded guilty to or has forfeited
bail on a charge of having committed a felony or of having violated any such
law or ordinance, or to any partnership, any member of which lacks any of the
qualifications set forth in this section, or to any corporation of which any
director or officer lacks any such qualifications. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006;
amd. 2011 Code)
3-2-7: DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH PERMIT:
No license under this chapter shall be issued until the applicant therefor
shall have first procured from the state department of health a permit which
shall show that the premises to be licensed is in a sanitary condition and that
the equipment used in the storage, distribution or sale of beer complies with
all the health regulations of this county and the state. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-
2006; amd. 2011 Code)
3-2-8: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
All applications for renewal licenses filed by the holders of existing licenses
shall be filed with the county clerk at least thirty (30) days prior to the
expiration date of the then issued license. Any person who fails to file such
application within the time limit shall close his/her licensed premises on the
expiration date of the then issued license and shall keep the premises closed
for any and all business for the sale of beer until the date of his/her new
license is issued by the governing body. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006)
3-2-9: TRANSFERABILITY:
Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall not be transferable, and if
revoked by the governing body, the fee paid by the licensee to the county for
the license shall be forfeited to the county. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006)
3-2-10: INSPECTION:
   A.   Authorized: All licensed premises shall be subject to inspection by any
officer, agent or peace officer of the county, or the alcoholic beverage
control commission, or the state board of health, and every licensee shall, at
the request of the board of health, furnish to it samples of beer which he
shall have for sale.
   B.   Board Of Health Violations:
      1.   Any license granted pursuant to this chapter may be revoked on a
finding by the governing body that the licensee has had ten (10) days or more
notice from the board of health that the licensee is violating one or more
health ordinances, rules or regulations of this county or the state division of
health, and has failed to comply with such health ordinance, rule or
regulation.
      2.   The governing body may direct the sheriff to close down any business
licensed under this chapter where the board of health has determined that
continued operation of the business presents an imminent danger to the health
of the community or persons who may eat or drink at the business. (Ord. 2006-4,
9-11-2006)
3-2-11: OPERATIONAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Unlawful Sales: It is unlawful for any person to sell beer to any
person intoxicated, or under the influence of any intoxicating beverage or
drugs. It is unlawful for any person to sell beer in any theater.
   B.   Sales To Minors; Unlicensed Premises: It shall be unlawful to sell beer
to any person under the age of twenty one (21), or to sell beer for consumption
on the premises unless so licensed.
   C.   Hours Regulated: It shall be unlawful to sell or otherwise furnish or
dispose of beer, or allow it to be drunk or consumed on the premises, or to
allow beer out of original containers to remain on the licensed premises,
whether or not open to the public, after the closing hour of one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. and before six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of any day.
   D.   Time For Removal Of Patrons:
      1.   Any person having a class B or C beer license, or his/her agents or
employees shall, between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. of any day, remove or cause to be removed from the licensed
premises all patrons, customers or individuals not employed on the premises.
(Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person having a class B or C beer
license, or for his/her agents or employees, to permit any patron, customer or
individual not employed on the premises to remain on such premises after the
closing time above provided; provided, however, no licensed premises shall
permit more than two (2) persons on the premises after the closing hour without
the permission of the sheriff. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006; amd. 2011 Code)
   E.   Illumination; Open View: Licensed premises shall be kept brightly
illuminated at all times while it is occupied or open for business, and no
booth or kind of stall shall be maintained unless all tables, chairs and
occupants are kept open to full view from the main floor and the entrance of
such licensed premises.
   F.   Advertising: It shall be unlawful to advertise the sale of beer, except
under such regulations as are made by the alcoholic beverage control
commission; provided, that a simple designation of the fact that beer is sold
under county license may be placed in or upon the window or front of the
licensed premises.
   G.   Manner Of Sales: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell beer,
except in the manner for which he has been so licensed pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006)
3-2-12: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authorized: The governing body may, after a hearing, revoke or suspend
any beer license on a finding by it that the licensee or his/her officers,
agents or employees have violated any provision of this chapter, or any
ordinance of this county, whether now or hereafter enacted, which is in any way
related to the operation of the business or the safety of the public.
   B.   Hearing May Be Requested: A hearing may be requested by any person:
      1.   That is denied or refused a beer license by any officer, agent or
employee of this county.
      2.   Whose beer license is revoked, restricted, qualified or limited from
that for which it was first issued.
   C.   Time Limit To Request Hearing: The request for hearing must be made in
writing to the chairperson of the county commission or the county clerk, and
made within thirty (30) days following the date of notice denying, refusing,
revoking, qualifying, restricting or revoking the beer license is mailed by the
county to the applicant or license holder at his/her address as it appears on
the application of license.
   D.   Notice Of Hearing; Conduct: Following receipt of a request for hearing,
the governing body shall inform the person requesting a hearing of the time and
place the hearing is to be held. At the hearing, the aggrieved party shall have
the right to hear and examine any witnesses the county may produce to support
its decision and to present his/her own evidence in support of his/her
contention. The governing body shall, within ten (10) days following the
conclusion of the hearing, in writing, inform the person who requested the
hearing of the decision of the county commission.
   E.   Limitation Of Hearing: This section shall not be construed so as to
afford any aggrieved party more than one hearing before the county commission,
nor shall the hearing provided in this chapter apply to any criminal complaint
or proceeding. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006)
3-2-13: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
   A.   Purchase Of Beer For Resale: It is a class B misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, for any licensee to purchase or acquire or to have or
possess for the purpose of sale or distribution any beer except that which he
shall have lawfully purchased from a brewer or wholesaler licensed under the
provisions of the alcoholic beverage control act.
   B.   Unlawful Sales:
      1.   It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to engage in the business of selling beer at
retail, in bottles or draft, without first having procured a license therefor
from the governing body and paid the license fee required by this chapter.
      2.   It shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, for any person to sell beer after the revocation of the
license issued pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006; amd. 2011
Code)
   C.   Separate License Required; Display; Compliance Required: A separate
license shall be required for each place of sale, and the license shall at all
times be conspicuously displayed in the place to which it shall refer or for
which it shall be issued. All licensees shall comply with the alcoholic
beverage control act and the regulations of the alcoholic beverage control
commission.
   D.   Regulation Of Specific Businesses: In addition to the compliance with
all ordinances of the county and laws of the state, and all other reasonable
orders of the county license officer, sheriff or fire marshal which pertain to
the public health, safety and general welfare, the businesses described in this
chapter shall be regulated by and comply with specific provisions mentioned in
this chapter. (Ord. 2006-4, 9-11-2006)
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
ARTICLE A. SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Title
3-3A-2: Purpose
3-3A-3: Effective Date
3-3A-4: Tax Imposed
3-3A-5: Penalty
3-3A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the SALES AND USE TAX ORDINANCE OF KANE COUNTY.
(Ord. 68, 1-22-1990)
3-3A-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The 48th session of the Utah legislature has authorized the counties
and municipalities of the state to enact sales and use tax ordinances imposing
a one percent (1%) tax.
   B.   It is the purpose of this article to conform the sales and use tax of
the municipality to the requirements of the sales and use tax act, Utah Code
Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as currently amended. (Ord. 68, 1-22-1990)
3-3A-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective as of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:
01) A.M., January 31, 1990, and shall be applied effective January 1, 1990.
(Ord. 68, 1-22-1990)
3-3A-4: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   Imposed:
      1.   From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied and there
shall be collected and paid a tax upon every retail sale of tangible personal
property, services and meals made within the county at the rate of one percent
(1%).
      2.   An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other
consumption in this county of tangible personal property from any retailer on
or after the operative date hereof at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales
price of the property.
      3.   For the purpose of this article, all retail sales shall be presumed
to have been consummated at the place of business delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out of state destination, or to a common carrier for delivery
to an out of state destination. In the event a retailer has no permanent place
of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated
shall be as determined under the rules and regulations prescribed by and
adopted by the state tax commission. Public utilities, as defined by Utah Code
Annotated title 54, shall not be obligated to determine the place or places
within any county or municipality where public utilities services are rendered,
but the place of sale or the sales tax revenue arising from such service
allocable to the county shall be as determined by the state tax commission
pursuant to an appropriate formula and other rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by it.
   B.   Statutes Adopted:
      1.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the sales and use tax act, all of the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, and in
force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to sales
taxes, excepting sections 59-12-101 and 59-12-119 thereof, are hereby adopted
and made a part of this article as though fully set forth herein.
      2.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this county shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the county for the word
"state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state tax
commission, or of the constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall the name of
the county be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result
of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the state
tax commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article.
   C.   Additional License Not Required: If an annual license has been issued
to a retailer under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-106, an additional
license shall not be required by reason of this section.
   D.   Exclusions: There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or
charged by which the tax is measured:
      1.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer;
      2.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use tax
has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality and
any county in the state, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by that
county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (Ord. 68,
1-22-1990)
3-3A-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a
fine in an amount less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisonment for
a period of not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 68, 1-22-1990)
ARTICLE B. TRANSIENT ROOM TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Purpose
3-3B-2: Imposition Of Transient Room Tax
3-3B-3: Effective Date
3-3B-4: Use Of Revenue
3-3B-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The Utah Legislature has amended Utah Code § 59-12-301 via HB 456 (2025
General Session), authorizing counties of the second through sixth class to
impose a transient room tax (TRT) on charges for accommodations and services
described in Utah Code § 59-12-103(1)(i) at a rate not to exceed four and a
half percent (4.5%) effective July 1, 2025; and
   B.   Kane County is a county of the sixth class and desires to impose this
tax at the maximum allowable rate in order to promote tourism and mitigate the
impacts of recreation and visitor use. (Ord. O-2025-18, 6-10-2025)
3-3B-2: IMPOSITION OF TRANSIENT ROOM TAX:
Pursuant to Utah Code § 59-12-301(1)(a)(ii), Kane County hereby imposes a
transient room tax at the rate of four and a half percent (4.5%) on charges for
accommodations and services described in Utah Code § 59-12-103(1)(i), including
short-term rentals of tourist homes, hotels, motels, trailer courts, and
similar accommodations. (Ord. O-2025-18, 6-10-2025)
3-3B-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall become effective on July 1, 2025, in accordance with the
notice and implementation requirements of Utah Code § 59-12-301(4). (Ord. O-
2025-18, 6-10-2025)
3-3B-4: USE OF REVENUE:
   A.   Revenue collected from this tax shall be used exclusively for the
purposes authorized in Utah Code § 17-31-2(3), including but not limited to:
      1.   Establishing and promoting tourism, recreation, film production, and
conventions;
      2.   Acquiring, constructing, or maintaining tourism- or recreation-
related facilities and infrastructure;
      3.   Mitigating impacts of recreation, tourism, and conventions through
support for emergency services, law enforcement, road repair, and solid waste
management;
      4.   Making payments for bonds issued for such purposes.
   B.   The portion of the tax authorized under § 59-12-301(1)(a)(ii) and
enacted by this ordinance shall remain with Kane County and is not subject to
the expenditure limitations or required distributions set forth in Utah Code §
59-28-103. (Ord. O-2025-18, 6-10-2025)
ARTICLE C. RESTAURANT FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Definitions
3-3C-2: Imposition And Amount
3-3C-3: Purpose
3-3C-4: Collection
3-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
CONVENTION FACILITY: Any publicly owned or operated convention center, sports
arena, or other facility at which conventions, conferences, and other
gatherings are held and whose primary business or function is to host such
conventions, conferences, and other gatherings.
CULTURAL FACILITY: Any publicly owned or operated museum, theater, art center,
music hall, or other cultural or arts facility.
RECREATION FACILITY OR TOURIST FACILITY: Any publicly owned or operated park,
campground, marina, dock, golf course, water park, historic park, monument,
planetarium, zoo, bicycle trails, and other recreation or tourism related
facility.
RESTAURANT: Includes any coffee shop, cafeteria, luncheonette, soda fountain,
or fast food service where food is prepared for immediate consumption.
"Restaurant" does not include: a) any retail establishment whose primary
business or function is the sale of fuel or food items for off premises, but
not immediate, consumption; and b) a theater that sells food items, but is not
a dinner theater. (Ord. 2008-7, 7-14-2008, eff. 8-1-2008)
3-3C-2: IMPOSITION AND AMOUNT:
There is hereby levied for collection a tax in the amount of one percent (1%)
of all sales of prepared foods and beverages that are sold by restaurants
within the county. (Ord. 2008-7, 7-14-2008, eff. 8-1-2008)
3-3C-3: PURPOSE:
   A.   The revenue from the imposition of the tax provided for herein is
imposed for the purposes of financing, in whole or in part, tourism promotion,
and the development, operation, and maintenance of tourist, recreation,
cultural, and convention facilities.
   B.   The tax imposed herein may be pledged as security for bonds, notes, or
other evidences of indebtedness incurred by the county under Utah Code
Annotated title 11, chapter 14, the local government bonding act, to finance
tourism, recreation, cultural, and convention facilities. (Ord. 2008-7, 7-14-
2008, eff. 8-1-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
3-3C-4: COLLECTION:
   A.   The tax imposed herein shall be levied at the same time and collected
in the same manner as provided in the local sales and use tax act, except that
the collection and distribution of the tax revenue is not subject to the
provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-205(2). All revenue collected
shall be revenue of the county. Any records, tax returns, or other information
of any person, corporation, company, or other group or organization subject to
the tax imposed herein which relate to the calculation, collection, or
remittance to the state tax commission of such tax shall be subject to review,
inspection and audit by the county. (Ord. 2008-7, 7-14-2008, eff. 8-1-2008)
   B.   Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of the tourism, recreation, cultural and
convention facilities tax act, all of the provisions of Utah Code Annotated
title 59, chapter 12, part 1, as amended, in force and effect on the effective
date hereof, insofar as they relate to the tax imposed by this article, except
section 59-12-101, are adopted and made a part of this article as though fully
set forth herein. (Ord. 2008-7, 7-14-2008, eff. 8-1-2008; amd. 2011 Code)
   C.   Wherever, and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, part 1, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of Kane County shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this
subsection shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the county
for the word "state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state
tax commission, or of the constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall the name
of Kane County be substituted for that of the state in any section when the
result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the
county or any agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax
commission in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this article. (Ord. 2008-7, 7-14-2008, eff. 8-1-2008)
ARTICLE D. HOSPITAL SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-3D-1: Title
3-3D-2: Purpose
3-3D-3: Effective Date
3-3D-4: Tax Imposed; Compliance With Statute; Exclusions
3-3D-5: Penalty
3-3D-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the HOSPITAL SALES TAX ORDINANCE OF KANE COUNTY,
UTAH. (Ord. 2005-1, 2-14-2005)
3-3D-2: PURPOSE:
The state of Utah legislature, under Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-802, has
authorized the county to enact a county hospital tax. The county, after
following the provisions of Utah Code Annotated sections 59-12-801 through 59-
12-803, held a referendum vote of the citizens of the county on November 5,
2002, the proposition passing by one thousand two hundred forty five (1,245) in
favor and seven hundred fifty two (752) against. Utah Code Annotated sections
59-12-801 through 59-12-803 is hereby adopted in its entirety, but specifically
clarifying and restricting section 59-12-802(3)(a) as follows: The one percent
(1%) sales tax revenue will be used for the retirement of any and all existing
bonds held by the county for hospital buildings and capital improvements. The
remaining funds will be used primarily for the acquisition of land for, and the
design, construction, equipping, and furnishing of the existing county
hospital. The one percent (1%) sales tax monies are to be used for operating
expenses of the county hospital only in emergency cases where all other funding
sources have been exhausted, and a majority vote of the hospital governing
board find it necessary to use such monies to meet the current operating
expenses of the hospital. If such action is taken by the hospital governing
board, written notification will be sent to the county commissioners before any
operating expenses are met with the noted tax revenues, and shall become part
of this article by reference. (Ord. 2005-1, 2-14-2005)
3-3D-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall become effective as of one minute after twelve o'clock (12:
01) A.M., on January 1, 2003, and shall remain in effect for a period of ten
(10) years. (Ord. 2005-1, 2-14-2005)
3-3D-4: TAX IMPOSED; COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTE; EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   Sales Tax: From and after the effective date hereof, there is levied
and there shall be collected and paid, a tax upon every retail sales of
tangible retail property, services and meals within the county, at the rate of
one percent (1%).
   B.   Excise Tax: An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in this county of tangible personal property from any
retailer on or after the effective date hereof, at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the sales price of the property.
   C.   Determine Place Of Business: For the purpose of this article, all
retail sales shall be presumed to have been consummated at the place of
business delivered by the retailer or his/her agent to an out of state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out of state destination.
In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business, the place or places
at which the retail sales are consummated shall be as determined under the
rules and regulations prescribed by and adopted by the state tax commission.
"Public utilities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated title 54, shall not be
obligated to determine the place or places within any county or municipality
where public utilities services are rendered, but the place of sale or the
sales tax revenue arising from such service allocable to the county shall be as
determined by the state tax commission pursuant to an appropriate formula and
other rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by it.
   D.   Exclusions: There shall be excluded from the purchase price paid or
charged by which the tax is measured:
      1.   The amount of any sales or use tax imposed by the state upon a
retailer or consumer;
      2.   The gross receipts from the sale of or the cost of storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property upon which a sales or use tax
has become due by reason of the sale transaction to any other municipality and
any county in the state, under the sales or use tax ordinance enacted by that
county or municipality in accordance with the sales and use tax act. (Ord.
2005-1, 2-14-2005)
3-3D-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be deemed
guilty of a class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2005-1, 2-14-2005; amd. 2011 Code)
ARTICLE E. OPTIONAL SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3E-1: Title
3-3E-2: Statutory Authority
3-3E-3: Purpose Of Provisions
3-3E-4: Tax Imposed; Amount
3-3E-5: State Law Incorporated
3-3E-6: Administration, Collection And Distribution By State
3-3E-7: Exemptions
3-3E-8: Effective Date Of Tax
3-3E-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as the OPTIONAL COUNTY SALES AND USE TAX. (Ord.
2007-2, 5-21-2007, eff. 6-30-2007)
3-3E-2: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The authority for imposing this tax is derived from Utah Code Annotated section
59-12-1101 et seq. (Ord. 2007-2, 5-21-2007, eff. 6-30-2007; amd. 2011 Code)
3-3E-3: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
This article is enacted to provide the county with a source of revenue to allow
the county to more effectively carry out its role as a political and legal
subdivision of the state. The board of county commissioners hereby directs that
the provisions hereof be interpreted and construed to accomplish this stated
purpose. (Ord. 2007-2, 5-21-2007, eff. 6-30-2007)
3-3E-4: TAX IMPOSED; AMOUNT:
In addition to all other taxes imposed, the county does hereby impose and levy
for collection a sales and use tax of one- fourth of one percent (1/4%) upon
the sales and uses described in Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-1102, subject
to the exemptions provided for in section 59-12-104. This tax is imposed upon
all sales and uses made in the county, including sales and uses made within the
corporate limits of the cities and towns of the county. Provisions of this
article shall be subject to the provisions of the sales and use tax laws of the
state, to which reference is hereinafter made in this article and which are
hereby enacted and made a part of this article as though fully set forth
herein. (Ord. 2007-2, 5-21-2007, eff. 6-30-2007; amd. 2011 Code)
3-3E-5: STATE LAW INCORPORATED:
   A.   Except as hereinafter provided and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with provisions of the county optional sales and use tax act, all
the provisions of Utah Code Annotated title 59, chapter 12, as amended, in
force and effect on the effective date hereof, insofar as they relate to the
tax imposed by this article, except section 59-12-101 thereof, are adopted and
made a part of this article as though fully set forth herein.
   B.   Wherever and to the extent that in Utah Code Annotated title 59,
chapter 12, the state of Utah is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this county shall be substituted therefor. Nothing in this subsection
shall be deemed to require substitution of the name of the county for the word
"state" when that word is used as part of the title of the state tax
commission, or the constitution of the state of Utah, nor shall the name of the
county be substituted for that of the state in any section when the result of
that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the county, or
any agency thereof, rather than by or against the state tax commission in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
article. (Ord. 2007-2, 5-21-2007, eff. 6-30-2007; amd. 2011 Code)
3-3E-6: ADMINISTRATION, COLLECTION AND DISTRIBUTION BY STATE:
   A.   Taxes imposed pursuant to this article shall be levied at the same time
and collected in the same manner as provided for in Utah Code Annotated section
59-12-201 et seq., as amended, except that the revenue derived from the tax is
not subject to the collection and distribution procedures established pursuant
to the provisions of Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-205(2), as amended.
Revenues collected pursuant to this article shall be distributed in accordance
with Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-1102 and the rules adopted by the state
tax commission pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 59-12-1102. All revenue
so collected shall be revenue of either the county or of any other county
entitled to distribution of the same pursuant to the statute.
   B.   Any records, tax returns or other information of any person,
corporation, company, or other group or organization subject to the taxes
imposed by this article which relate to the calculation, collection or
remittance to the state tax commission of such taxes shall be subject to
review, inspection and auditing by the county.
   C.   The fee charged the county the state tax commission under Utah Code
Annotated section 59-12-206, as amended, shall be based on the distribution
amount resulting after all the applicable distribution calculations under Utah
Code Annotated section 59-12-1102 have been made. (Ord. 2007-2, 5-21-2007, eff.
6-30-2007; amd. 2011 Code)
3-3E-7: EXEMPTIONS:
The sale, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
is exempt from sales or use taxation pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section
59-12-104 is exempt from the application of the optional county sales and use
tax. (Ord. 2007-2, 5-21-2007, eff. 6-30-2007)
3-3E-8: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
The tax imposed by this article shall take effect January 1, 2008. (Ord. 2007-
2, 5-21-2007, eff. 6-30-2007)
ARTICLE F. COUNTY OPTION SALES AND    USE TAX FOR HIGHWAYS
SECTION:
3-3F-1: Title
3-3F-2: Purpose And Authority
3-3F-3: Effective Date Of Tax
3-3F-4: State Law Incorporated
3-3F-5: Tax Imposed
3-3F-6: Collection And Review Of Records
3-3F-7: Administration, Collection, And Distribution By State
3-3F-1: TITLE:
This Article shall be known as "The County Option Sales and Use Tax for
Highways and Public Transit." (Ord. O-2023-26, 6-13-2023)
3-3F-2: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
The ordinance codified in this chapter is enacted to provide the County with a
source of revenue specifically for the funding of highways and public transit
needs and infrastructure as authorized by applicable state statute. The Board
of Kane County Commissioners directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted
and construed to accomplish this stated purpose. The authority for imposing
this tax is derived from Utah Code § 59-12-2219 (2023), as amended. (Ord. O-
2023-26, 6-13-2023)
3-3F-3: EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX:
The tax imposed under this Article shall take effect on October 1, 2023, in
accordance with Utah Code § 59-12-2209. (Ord. O-2023-26, 6-13-2023)
3-3F-4: STATE LAW INCORPORATED:
The applicable provisions of Title 59, Chapter 12, Utah Code (2023), as
amended, are enacted and included in this Article insomuch as they relate to
the sales and use tax imposed under this Article. (Ord. O-2023-26, 6-13-2023)
3-3F-5: TAX IMPOSED:
In addition to the other taxes imposed under this Chapter, the County does
impose and levy for collection a sales and use tax of one-quarter of one
percent (.25%), as authorized by Utah Code § 59-12-2219, upon the transactions
described in Utah Code § 59-12-103(1) within in the County. The foregoing tax
is imposed and levied for collection on a county-wide basis, including the
areas within the corporate limits of the cities and towns within the County.
The provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the provisions of the sales
and use tax laws of Utah to which reference is hereinafter made in this
chapter, and which are enacted and made a part of this chapter as though fully
set forth herein. The funds received from the imposition of this tax shall be
used and expended as provided for by state statute. (Ord. O-2023-26, 6-13-2023)
3-3F-6: COLLECTION AND REVIEW OF RECORDS:
Unless otherwise restricted by state law, any records, tax returns, or other
information of any person, corporation, company, or other group or organization
subject to the taxes imposed by this chapter, which relate to the calculation,
collection, and remittance to the state tax commission of such taxes, shall be
subject to review, inspection, and auditing by the County. (Ord. O-2023-26, 6-
13-2023)
3-3F-7: ADMINISTRATION, COLLECTION, AND DISTRIBUTION BY STATE:
The taxes imposed under this chapter shall be administered, collected, and
distributed by the Utah State Tax Commission in accordance with the provisions
of Title 59, Chapter 12, Part 22, Utah Code (2023), as amended, and any other
applicable state laws and regulations. (Ord. O-2023-26, 6-13-2023)
CHAPTER 4
LARGE PUBLIC ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: License Required; Licensing Restrictions
3-4-4: Conditions Of Issuing License
3-4-5: Application For License
3-4-6: Issuance
3-4-7: Revocation Of License
3-4-8: Enforcement
3-4-9: Penalty
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of the County to regulate the assemblage of large numbers of
people, in excess of those normally needing the health, sanitary, fire, police,
transportation and utility services regularly provided in the County, in order
that the health, safety and welfare of all persons in the County, residents and
visitors alike, may be protected. (Ord. O-2017-1, 3-27-2017)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ASSEMBLY: A company of persons gathered together at any location at any single
time for any purpose.
PERSON: Any individual natural human being, partnership, corporation, firm,
company, association, society or group. (Ord. O-2017-1, 3-27-2017)
3-4-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; LICENSING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   License Required; Time Limit To Apply: No person shall permit,
maintain, promote, conduct, advertise, act as entrepreneur, undertake,
organize, manage, or sell or give tickets to an actual or reasonably
anticipated assembly of five hundred (500) or more people which continues or
can reasonably be expected to continue for eighteen (18) or more hours in
duration from start to finish, whether on public or private property, and which
contains at least one (1) of the following: 1) sells tickets or otherwise
collects money for admission to the assembly, 2) sells or provides alcohol, or
3) operates at any time between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M., unless a license to hold the assembly has first been
issued by the County Clerk, application for which must be made at least thirty
(30) days in advance of the assembly. A license to hold an assembly issued to
one (1) person shall permit any person to engage in any lawful activity in
connection with the holding of the licensed assembly.
   B.   Separate License Each Location: A separate license shall be required to
be held for each location in which five hundred (500) or more people assemble
or can reasonably be anticipated to assemble.
   C.   Fee: The fee for each license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) or in
such amount as established by resolution of the County Commission.
   D.   Maximum Number Of Persons: A license shall permit the assembly of only
the maximum number of people stated in the license. The licensee shall not sell
tickets to, nor permit to assemble at the licensed location, more than the
maximum permissible number of people.
   E.   Exceptions:
      1.   This chapter shall not apply to any regular established, permanent
place of worship, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium, coliseum, or
other similar permanently established place of assembly for assemblies which do
not exceed by more than two hundred fifty (250) people the maximum seating
capacity of the structure where the assembly is held.
      2.   This chapter shall not apply to government sponsored fairs held on
regularly established fairgrounds, nor to assemblies required to be licensed by
other ordinances and regulations of the County. (Ord. O-2017-1, 3-27-2017)
3-4-4: CONDITIONS OF ISSUING LICENSE:
   A.   Determination Of Maximum Number: Before he may be issued a license, the
applicant shall first determine the maximum number of people which will be
assembled or admitted to the location of the assembly, provided that the
maximum number shall not exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly in consideration of the nature of the
assembly, and provided that where the assembly is to continue overnight, the
maximum number shall not be more than is allowed to sleep within the boundaries
of the location of the assembly by the zoning or health ordinances of the
County.
   B.   Requirements Of Applicant: Before the applicant may be issued a
license, the applicant shall furnish, at the applicant's own expense, before
the assembly commences, the items listed below. Items that cannot be submitted,
such as services that need to be provided, must be proven by means of a
contract, will-serve letter, or other written documentation that is
satisfactory to the County Clerk.
      1.   A map of the proposed location of the assembly that shows the outer
perimeter, traffic plans, and other plans required under this section;
      2.   Separate enclosed toilets, either portable restrooms or from
established businesses at the location of the event that agree to the use of
their restrooms by the assembly, meeting all State and Local laws and
specifications, conveniently located throughout the grounds, sufficient to
provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate
of at least one (1) toilet for every one hundred (100) people (including at
least 1, but also an appropriate amount of handicap accessible facilities),
together with an efficient, sanitary means of disposing of waste matter
deposited, which is in compliance with all State and Local laws and regulations
and a lavatory with running water under pressure and a continuous supply of
soap and paper towels with each toilet;
      3.   A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste, in compliance with
State and Local laws and regulations, sufficient to dispose of the solid waste
production of the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at
least two and one-half (21/2) pounds of solid waste per person per day,
together with a plan for holding and a plan for collecting all such waste at
least once each day of the assembly, and sufficient trash cans with tight
fitting lids and personnel to perform the task;
      4.   Physicians and nurses licensed to practice in the State sufficient
to provide services for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the
rate of one (1) physician for each one thousand (1,000) people, and at least
one (1) nurse for each one thousand five hundred (1,500) people, together with
an enclosed covered structure where treatment may be rendered, containing
separately enclosed treatment rooms for each physician, and at least one (1)
emergency ambulance available for use at all times. (The number of physicians
and nurses may be substituted with emergency medical technicians at the rate of
2 for every 1,000 people so long as they are under local medical control. This
requirement does not apply if the assembly is within 10 miles of Kanab City
limits and the applicant provides proof of notifying the Kane County Hospital
EMS Department at least 30 days prior to the beginning of the assembly.) (EMTs
with local medical control);
      5.   If the assembly is to continue during hours of darkness, a lighting
plan with illumination sufficient to light the entire area of the assembly at
the rate of at least five (5) lumens per square foot, but not to shine
unreasonably beyond the boundaries of the assembly;
      6.   A parking and traffic management plan approved by the County Sheriff
and approved by the Utah Department of Transportation if the event occurs on or
near a State highway that shows routes for vehicle travel, the personnel needed
to direct traffic, appropriate safety precautions for exits and entrances to
any public roadway, and appropriate safety devices and signage, along with a
parking area sufficient to provide parking space for the maximum number of
people to be assembled at the rate of at least one (1) parking space for every
four (4) persons;
      7.   If the assembly is to continue overnight with participants staying
on site, camping facilities in compliance with all Federal, State and Local
requirements sufficient to provide camping accommodations for the maximum
number of people to be assembled;
      8.   Security guards, either regularly employed, duly sworn off duty
peace officers of the State, or private guards, licensed in the County,
sufficient to provide adequate security for the maximum number of people to be
assembled at the rate of at least one (1) security guard for every five hundred
(500) people with a minimum of two (2) (This requirement may be waived by the
County Sheriff after reviewing and approving a safety plan that is sufficient
to meet the public safety needs of the specific activities of the assembly.);
      9.   A plan for fire protection, approved by the County Sheriff, that is
posted in several conspicuous locations at the assembly, that includes
extinguishing devices and fire lanes and escapes, sufficient to meet all
Federal, State and Local standards for the location of the assembly, a
provision that excludes all unauthorized persons from areas where any
pyrotechnic devices or related equipment will be used or stored, and sufficient
emergency personnel to efficiently operate the required equipment;
      10.   A bond, filed with the County Clerk, either in cash as a refundable
deposit or a policy underwritten by a surety company licensed to do business in
the State, at the rate of ten dollars ($10.00) per person for the maximum
number of people permitted to assemble, which shall indemnify and hold harmless
the County, or any of its agents, officers, servants and employees, from any
liability or cause of action which might arise by reason of granting this
license, and from any cost incurred in cleaning up any waste material produced
or left by the assembly;
      11.   If any music, performance, or other activity that projects sound by
use of equipment will occur, or if the assembly will be conducted past eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M., a noise permit issued by the Land Use Administrator or
County Sheriff. A noise permit will authorize no more than eighty (80) decibels
from a distance of two hundred feet (200') from the outer boundaries of the
assembly or within twenty five feet (25') of any permanent residence or
temporary dwelling;
      12.   If alcohol will be provided or sold by the applicant or any
concessionaire, evidence of State and Local licenses for selling alcohol at all
proposed locations of the event; and
      13.   If alcohol is allowed at the assembly, a plan that: a) designates
areas where alcohol is allowed to be consumed, b) ensures that minors under the
age of twenty one (21) will be prohibited from those areas, c) ensures that
minors under the age of twenty one (21) have a restricted view of these areas,
and d) establishes a protocol for dealing with individuals who become
intoxicated or otherwise become a danger or risk to themselves or other
individuals at the assembly.
   C.   Exceptions: Assemblies that are open to the public, do not charge an
admission fee, and have a main goal of increasing tourism do not have to submit
a bond or comply with the required number of parking spots. (Ord. O-2017-1, 3-
27-2017)
3-4-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application In Advance: Application for a license to hold an actual or
anticipated assembly of five hundred (500) or more persons shall be made in
writing to the County Clerk at least thirty (30) days in advance of such
assembly.
   B.   Oath Or Affirmation: The application shall contain a statement made
upon oath or affirmation that the statements contained therein are true and
correct to the best knowledge of the applicant and shall be signed and sworn to
or affirmed by the individual making application in the case of an individual,
natural human being, by all officials in the case of a corporation, by all
partnerships in the case of a partnership, or by all officers of an
unincorporated association, society or group, or if there be no officers, by
all members of such association, society or group. For assemblies that are open
to the public, do not charge an admission fee, and have a main goal of
increasing tourism, the application may be signed and submitted by any one (1)
individual who is authorized by the applicant entity to submit the application.
   C.   Information Required: The application shall contain and disclose:
      1.   The name, age, residence and mailing address of all persons required
to sign the application by subsection B of this section and, in the case of a
corporation, a certified copy of the articles of incorporation, together with
the name, age, residence and mailing address of each person holding ten percent
(10%) or more of the stock of said corporation;
      2.   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
assembly is to be held, together with the name, residence and mailing address
of the record owners of all such property;
      3.   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the said assembly is
to be held or a statement made upon oath or affirmation by the record owners of
all such property that the applicant has permission to use such property for an
assembly of one thousand (1,000) or more persons;
      4.   The nature or purpose of the assembly;
      5.   The total number of days and/or hours during which the assembly is
to last;
      6.   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall permit to
assemble at any time, not to exceed the maximum number which can reasonably
assemble at the location of the assembly, in consideration of the nature of the
assembly, or the maximum number of persons allowed to sleep within the
boundaries of the location of the assembly by the zoning ordinances of the
County if the assembly is to continue overnight;
      7.   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any;
      8.   Any and all plans, contracts, will-serve letters, or other items
required to prove or establish the requirements under subsection 3-4-4B of this
chapter.
   D.   Bond; Fee: The application shall include a fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) and the bond required in subsection 3-4-4B10 of this chapter, unless
exempt under subsection 3-4-4C of this chapter. (Ord. O-2017-1, 3-27-2017)
3-4-6: ISSUANCE:
The application for a license shall be processed within twenty (20) days of
receipt and shall be issued if all conditions are complied with. (Ord. O-2017-
1, 3-27-2017)
3-4-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The license may be revoked by the County Clerk at any time any of the
conditions necessary for the issuing of or contained in the license are not
complied with, or if any condition previously met ceases to be complied with.
(Ord. O-2017-1, 3-27-2017)
3-4-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Injunction: The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by
injunction in any court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Abatement: The holding of any assembly in violation of any provisions
or conditions contained in this chapter shall be deemed a public nuisance and
may be abated as such. (Ord. O-2017-1, 3-27-2017)
3-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person who violates subsection 3-4-3A of this chapter, or who violates any
condition upon which he is granted a license, shall be guilty of a Class C
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate
offense. (Ord. O-2017-1, 3-27-2017)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Prohibited Acts And Activities
4-1-2: Impounding And Destruction
4-1-1: PROHIBITED ACTS AND ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Cruelty: It shall be unlawful for any person to maltreat or torture any
animal, or to kill any animal unless there is a legal privilege to do so and it
is done in a humane manner.
   B.   Possession Of Fierce, Dangerous Or Destructive Animals: It shall be
unlawful for any person to keep, own or possess a fierce, dangerous, vicious or
malicious animal. It shall be considered prima facie evidence that the animal
is fierce, dangerous, vicious or malicious if the animal bites or attacks a
person or domestic animal without apparent provocation outside of the owner's
property. In a criminal or civil prosecution of this subsection the county
attorney shall request that the court make a finding of fierce, dangerous,
vicious or malicious animal and shall provide advance notice to the animal
owner.
   C.   Dogs Disturbing Neighborhood:
      1.   It shall be a class C misdemeanor for any person to own, keep or
harbor within the county, any dog which by barking, howling, yelping or other
noise, disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood or persons therein.
      2.   In prosecuting an offense of subsection C1 of this section it shall
be conclusive proof that the noise disturbs the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood or persons therein if: a) the noise can be heard on the property
of another, and b) between the hours of one minute after ten o'clock (10:01)
P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., the noise is continuous for period of five
(5) minutes or more or intermittent for a period of fifteen (15) minutes or
more, or between the hours of one minute after seven o'clock (7:01) A.M. and
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. the noise is continuous for a period of fifteen (15)
minutes or more or intermittent for a period of thirty (30) minutes or more.
      3.   Before a prosecution of subsection C1 of this section may proceed
the person must be warned verbally or in writing by any county official. In
addition to any other penalty allowed by law, upon a first conviction a person
shall pay a fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). Upon a
second conviction within twelve (12) months a person shall pay a fine of not
less than three hundred dollars ($300.00).
   D.   Animal Bites: A person who owns or possesses an animal shall be guilty
of animal bite if the animal bites or attacks any person or domestic animal. It
is no defense that the animal is on a leash, chained or confined, if the
leashing, chaining or confining is on public property or on private property
where the public has access to be on such property. It is a defense if the
animal was intentionally provoked while on private property and the bite
occurred on private property. The owner or custodian of any animal is in
violation of this section regardless of the precautions taken to prevent the
bite or attack and regardless of the lack of knowledge of the offense at the
time it occurs. In a criminal prosecution of this section the county attorney
shall request that the court make a finding as set forth in subsection B of
this section.
   E.   Violation: Unless otherwise stated, a violation of this section may be
punished as a class C misdemeanor by no less than a one hundred fifty dollar
($150.00) fine. A violation of this chapter is a mandatory appearance.
   F.   An appropriate entity may obtain the consent of the Sheriff to possess
a known fierce, dangerous, vicious, or malicious animal so long as the entity
agrees to maintain appropriate precautions to ensure the safety of the public
and agrees to indemnify the county against any liability that may arise due to
the animal. The Sheriff has the sole discretion to give consent and to
determine the appropriate precautions. (Ord. 2014-4, 4-28-2014, eff. 5-13-2014;
amd. Ord. 2014-14, 7-28-2014, eff. 8-12-2014; Ord. O-2020-13, 6-10-2020)
4-1-2: IMPOUNDING AND DESTRUCTION:
   A.   Authority: Any dog owned, kept or harbored within the county in
violation of this chapter may be taken up and impounded by the county sheriff's
office whenever or wherever such dog may be found. Notice shall be given in
person or by mail to the owner or keeper of the dog, and the owner or keeper
shall have five (5) days after personal notice or after mailing of such notice
to redeem the dog as hereinafter provided. No redemption may be made for a dog
that is being impounded due to an animal bite or other fierce, dangerous,
vicious or malicious act, until after a determination is made by an appropriate
court. (Ord. 2014-14, 7-28-2014, eff. 8-12-2014)
   B.   Notice: Written or oral notice given to the owner or keeper or to a
member of his household over the age of fourteen (14) years shall be construed
as personal notice, and notice by mail shall be accomplished by depositing such
notice first class mail, postage prepaid.
   C.   Redemption Fee: Any dog impounded as provided by this section may be
redeemed within the time provided above by paying to the county a pound fee in
such amount as established by the county sheriff; provided, the payment of such
fee shall not exempt the owner or keeper from prosecution and punishment for
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2014-4, 4-28-2014, eff. 5-13-2014)
   D.   Destruction/Disposition Of Impounded Dogs: Any dog impounded under the
provisions of this chapter may be destroyed if it has been impounded five (5)
days without being redeemed unless it is being held for a determination of
being fierce, dangerous, vicious or malicious. A nonfierce, nondangerous,
nonvicious or nonmalicious dog may be placed in an appropriate facility or
placed for adoption so long as the placement is in compliance with Utah code
section 11-46-101 et al., the animal welfare act. A dog found to be fierce,
dangerous, vicious or malicious may be destroyed as set forth in subsection E
of this section.
   E.   Destruction Of Dangerous Animals: The county sheriff is authorized to
kill, or cause to be killed, all fierce, dangerous, vicious or malicious
animals found within the county limits after a finding of fierce, dangerous,
vicious, or malicious animal has been made by a court with competent
jurisdiction. An appropriate entity may obtain the consent of the sheriff to
possess such an animal so long as the entity agrees to maintain appropriate
precautions to ensure the safety of the public and agrees to indemnify the
county against any liability that may arise due to the animal. The sheriff has
the sole discretion to give consent and to determine the appropriate
precautions. (Ord. 2014-14, 7-28-2014, eff. 8-12-2014)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE PROTECTION
SECTION:
4-2-1: Adoption Of Minimum Standards
4-2-2: Fire Restrictions
4-2-3: Closed Fire Season
4-2-4: Open Fire Season
4-2-5: Exceptions
4-2-6: Procedure For Obtaining A Burn Permit
4-2-7: Structural Fire Response Costs
4-2-1: ADOPTION OF MINIMUM STANDARDS:
The county hereby adopts the international urban wildland interface code, with
the amendments identified in R652-122 of the Utah administrative code, as
currently set forth or as amended in the future by the division of forestry,
fire and state lands, unless specifically excepted by amendment to this
section. (Ord. 2006-2, 8-14-2006; amd. Ord. 2021-22, 6-8-2021)
4-2-2: FIRE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Authorized: This section shall be effective any time during the year
when the county fire warden and the county sheriff jointly determine that
conditions are such that a fire danger exists which justify the implementation
of fire restrictions within the unincorporated areas of the county. The county
fire warden may impose fire restrictions, including, but not limited to, a
total fire ban on any open fire, including campfires, even those in established
fire pits and places of permanent habitation, as well as fence lines on
cultivated lands, canals or irrigation ditches.
   B.   Exception; Written Permit; Revocation:
      1.   When subsection A of this section is in effect, the county fire
warden or deputies of the county fire warden may grant a written permit to burn
as an exception to the general ban, and the permittee must comply fully with
the terms and conditions prescribed by the permit.
      2.   The county fire warden, deputies of the county fire warden, county
sheriff or any law enforcement officer may refuse, revoke, postpone or cancel
permits when they find it necessary in the interest of public safety.
   C.   Penalty: When subsection A of this section is in effect, it is a class
B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, to set a fire, or cause to be set on fire, any flammable
material on any forest, brush, range, grass, grain, stubble, hay land,
campfire, or any fire in a fire pit, and fence lines on cultivated lands,
canals, or irrigation ditches within the county without the appropriate permit,
or to violate any condition in an authorized burning permit. (Ord. 2007-4, 7-9-
2007; amd. 2011 Code; Ord. O-2021-22, 6-8-2021)
4-2-3: CLOSED FIRE SEASON:
   A.   Burning Prohibited; Exemptions: Subject to exemptions in this chapter,
burning is prohibited during the statutorily closed fire season from June 1
through October 31 and the regulatory closed fire season from November 16
through the last day of February. Where state statute permits, from June 1 to
October 31, and the person obtains a state issued closed season burning permit
from the county fire warden or his deputies of the county fire warden prior to
burning, persons may burn pursuant to the terms of the state issued permit.
   B.   Notification Requirement: When a person has obtained a closed season
burning permit, the person shall notify Kane County Dispatch and the local fire
department of the approximate time the burn will occur before the burn takes
place.
   C.   Exemptions: Any local, state, or federal fire official or firefighting
forces in the performance of official duty.
   D.   Misdemeanor: Any violation of this subsection shall be punishable as a
class B misdemeanor in accordance with section
1-4-1. (Ord. O-2021-22, 6-8-2021)
4-2-4: OPEN FIRE SEASON:
   A.   Burning Permit Required: Subject to exceptions in this chapter, persons
shall obtain a written county burning permit which shall be filled out
completely before starting a fire in the unincorporated areas of the county
during the open fire season which is March 1 through May 30 and November 1
through November 15.
      1.   During the permitted burn season, it is a class B misdemeanor to set
on fire, or cause to be set on fire, any flammable material on any forest,
brush, range, grass, grain, stubble, or hay land without:
         a.   First securing a written permit from the county fire warden,
chief fire officer or official of each fire protection entity that is
responsible for providing fire protection services in the unincorporated areas
of the county; and
         b.   Complying fully with the terms and conditions prescribed by the
permit.
   B.   Permits are subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Materials must be dry and reasonably free of dirt.
      2.   When atmospheric conditions (clearing index of 500 or greater)
indicate it is satisfactory to burn. (This information can be obtained through
Kanab Dispatch 435-644-2668 or the National Weather Service Website: https://
www.weather.gov/slc/ClearingIndex.)
      3.   Burning shall not be done when atmospheric conditions of local
circumstances make such fires hazardous, i.e., high winds, red flag, etc.
      4.   Burning shall be done at a distance of more than fifty feet (50')
from any building, structure, or other combustibles.
      5.   An adequate water supply or other fire extinguishing equipment shall
be available.
      6.   The burning area shall be constantly attended by a competent person
and shall be completely extinguished before being left. All fires shall be
completely extinguished before dark.
      7.   Applicant must be in legal control of the land on which the burning
is to take place.
      8.   Approved fuel breaks shall be established between the controlled
burning area and any endangered property. (The width of fuel breaks shall be
determined by height, type, and amount of growth, wind conditions, geographical
conditions, and type of exposure.)
      9.   Adjacent neighbors shall be notified prior to burning.
      10.   Such burning shall not pose a threat to forest, range, or watershed
lands.
      11.   When burning is not on the same day the permit is issued or the
permit is for more than one day, notification by applicant to dispatch and the
local fire department is required on each day of burning.
      12.   Absolutely no burning of tires, oils, dead animals, trash, rubbish,
plastic products, coated wire, or building products. Items not grown on the
property cannot be burned.
   C.   1.   A burning permit is subject to the laws of the State of Utah, Kane
County, and the conditions stated upon or attached to the permit. The county
fire warden, chief fire officer or official of each fire protection entity that
is responsible for providing fire protection services in the unincorporated
areas of the county, and the county sheriff or his deputies may refuse, revoke,
postpone, or cancel permits when they find it necessary in the interest of
public safety.
      2.   The burning permit does not relieve an individual from personal
liability due to neglect or incompetence. A fire escaping control of the
permittee that necessitates fire control action or does injury to the property
of another is prima facie evidence that the fire was not safe. Any person
responsible for the existence or spread of fire necessitating suppression
action shall be liable for the payment of suppression costs.
      3.   Failure to notify the nearest fire department (jurisdiction) and
Kanab Dispatch of the burning as required by this section is a class B
misdemeanor.
      4.   A burning conducted in accordance with subsection B is not a
reckless burning under section 76-6-104 unless the fire escapes control and
requires fire control action. Burning barrels and burning in closed containers
is prohibited.
   D.   1.   Burning permits will be issued only when in compliance with the
Utah Air Conservation Regulations. The following regulations must be met with
each permit issued:
         a.   The permit is not valid and operative unless the clearing index
is five hundred (500) or above. The clearing index is determined daily by the
U.S. Weather Bureau and available on the National Weather Service Salt Lake
City Weather link. It can also be obtained by calling the NWS Salt Lake City,
(801) 524-5133 or by contacting your local fire department or county fire
warden.
         b.   A permit may be extended one day at a time, without inspection
upon request to the issuing officer. The request must be made before expiration
of the permit.
      2.   Burning permits shall not be issued when red flag conditions exist
or are forecasted by the National Weather Service. Every permittee is required
to contact the National Weather Service to assure that a red flag condition
does not exist or is not forecasted. Permits are not valid or operative during
declared red flag conditions.
      3.   During the permitted burn season, the state fire warden, chief fire
officer or official of each fire protection entity that is responsible for
providing fire protection services in the unincorporated areas of the county
may postpone, revoke, or deny burning permits due to environmental conditions,
public nuisance, incompetency by the petitioner, or risk to public safety.
   E.   Penalties: Any violation of this section shall be punishable as a class
B misdemeanor in accordance with Kane County ordinance
1-4-1. (Ord. O-2021-22, 6-8-2021)
4-2-5: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter are not applicable to:
      1.   Any local, state, or federal fire official or firefighting forces in
the performance of official duty.
      2.   Devices powered by Liquified Petroleum Gasses (LPG) for the purpose
of lighting, campfires, or preparing food such as outdoor grills, where such
devices are not temporarily restricted by an order from the State of Utah, the
Utah State Forester, or in accordance with
4-2-2.
      3.   Campfires and fires used solely for recreational purposes, where
such campfires are not temporarily restricted by an order from the State of
Utah, the Utah State Forester, or in accordance with
4-2-2, and only when the following county guidelines are followed:
         a.   Where such fires are under control of a responsible person.
         b.   The fire is contained in a pit eighteen inches (18") deep into
mineral soil absent of roots or any other organic materials or solid ring made
of non-combustible material that is at least eighteen inches (18") in height
that will contain the fuel wood or coals while shielding the ashes from being
blown by the wind.
         c.   Maintain eighteen (18)-inch depth of the pit by removing build up
ash and other material; assure disposed materials are completely extinguished.
         d.   Campfire must be at least fifteen feet (15') away from any
combustible vegetation or structures, vertically or horizontally. Fire
resistant material as part of the landscaping is excluded.
         e.   At least one (1) standard size shovel must be dedicated and
immediately available for on-site fire suppression.
         f.   Ten (10) gallons of water or a source of running water, or a five
(5) pound "A" rated or above fire extinguisher dedicated and immediately
available on-site for suppression.
         g.   Campfires must be completely extinguished, cold to the touch,
when not attended.
         h.   Combustible material used in the campfire is clean dry wood or
charcoal.
         i.   Where such fire pits are not used to dispose of rubbish, trash,
or combustible waste material.
      Even when these guidelines are followed, persons responsible for escaped
or unattended campfires are subject to prosecution and suppression costs.
      4.   Indoor fireplaces and indoor residential solid fuel burning devices.
   B.   Exceptions per the State of Utah Department of Environmental Quality,
Air Quality Exclusions to the Clearing Index (R307-202-3) Administrative rule:
      1.   Except for areas zoned in residential, burning incident to
horticultural or agricultural operations of:
         a.   Pruning from trees, and plants.
         b.   And dead or diseased trees, brush, and plants, including stubble.
      2.   Burning of weed growth along ditch banks for clearing these ditches
for irrigation purposes.
      3.   Controlled heating of orchards or other crops during the frost
season to lessen the chance of their being frozen so long as the emissions from
this heating do not cause or contribute to an exceedance of any national
ambient air quality standards and is consistent with the federally approved
State Implementation Plan.
      4.   The controlled burning of not more than two (2) structures per year
by an organized and operative fire department for the purpose of training fire
service personnel when the National Weather Service Clearing index is above
five hundred (500).
      5.   Ceremonial burning is excluded when conducted by a Native American
spiritual advisor. (Ord. O-2021-22, 6-8-2021)
4-2-6: PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING A BURN PERMIT:
During the permitted burn season, the state fire warden, chief fire officer or
official of each fire protection entity that is responsible for providing fire
protection services in the unincorporated areas of the county shall be
responsible for signing and issuing a burn permit, on forms provided by the
county.
There are two (2) ways to complete the open burn permit application:
Online: The Open Burn Permit application can be completed online at: http://
www.airquality.utah.gov/aqp/OpenBurn/form/index.php. Completing this form
online is the easiest and fastest way to complete the open burn permit
application. An electronic copy of the application is automatically submitted
to the county or municipal fire authority upon completion.
Phone: An applicant can call the DAQ at (801) 536-4000 and complete the open
burn permit application process over the phone. A DAQ inspector will ask the
applicant for the required information and complete the application in just a
few minutes.
Contact your local Fire Department or State Fire Warden for any questions.
(Ord. O-2021-22, 6-8-2021)
4-2-7: STRUCTURAL FIRE RESPONSE COSTS:
   A.   A property owner, who owns property that is located in the
unincorporated areas of Kane County outside of the boundaries of a special
district, local district, or special service district that provides fire
protection services, is responsible to pay for the actual and reasonable costs
of responding to a structural fire that occurs on the property.
   B.   Any municipality or other political subdivision that responds to a
structural fire in the unincorporated areas of Kane County for a property that
is also not covered by a special district, local district or special service
district that provides fire protection services, is authorized to and shall
send a bill directly to the property owner for the actual and reasonable costs
of the services provided. If after taking reasonable steps to collect the costs
the property owner does not pay in full, the municipality or other political
subdivision may request assistance from the County Attorney in collecting the
costs.
   C.   Any costs under this section that are not paid by the property owner
after reasonable attempts to collect by the municipality or other political
subdivision, shall constitute a political subdivision lien under Utah Code §11-
60-102(5). The County Treasurer shall collect all political subdivision liens
under this section as a tax notice charge as set forth in Utah Code §59-2-1317
(2) so long as the municipality or other political subdivision has recorded the
lien and followed other statutory requirements for a tax notice charge. (Ord.
O-2023-36, 9-26-2023)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Nuisances Defined And Enumerated
4-3-4: Responsibility For Nuisances
4-3-5: Finding Of Nuisance
4-3-6: Voluntary Corrections
4-3-7: Administrative Citation
4-3-8: Other Remedies
4-3-9: Appeals
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a means for Kane County and
individuals to identify nuisances within the county, and to provide a means of
correcting or abating nuisances. Kane County needs the ability to abate
nuisances in order to protect the health, welfare and safety of the public; to
preserve the character, appearance and beauty of the county; to preserve the
value of property, to encourage community pride, and to protect the general
welfare of the county and its citizens, visitors, and businesses. This chapter
provides for progressive enforcement measures to abate nuisances; the most
aggressive forms of enforcement are generally preserved for the most
recalcitrant violators of the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
ABATE: To replace, repair, remove, correct, destroy or otherwise remedy a
condition which constitutes a nuisance by such means, in such a manner and to
such an extent as the building inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator,
or their agents or deputies, determine is necessary in the interest of the
general health, safety and welfare of the community.
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the owner
or a member of his/her immediate family either by leash, cord, chain or
otherwise.
COMPLETION DATE: The date by which the responsible person must abate a
nuisance. The completion date is originally set by the building inspector,
sheriff, or land use administrator in the voluntary correction agreement or in
the administration citation. The completion date may be modified by the
building inspector, or the sheriff.
DOG: Any male, female or spayed female dog of any age.
EMERGENCY: A situation which, in the opinion of the building inspector,
sheriff, or land use administrator requires immediate action to prevent or
eliminate threat to the health or safety of a person or property.
HAZARD/HAZARDOUS: A condition or situation that is potentially dangerous.
IMPOUNDED: Having been received into the custody of the pound or into the
custody of any authorized agent or representative of the county.
OWNER: Any person whom, alone or with others, has title or interest in any
building or premises, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.
For the purpose of giving notice, the term owner also includes any person in
physical possession.
OWNER (When Applied To The Proprietorship Of A Dog): Any person or persons,
firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or harboring a dog.
POUND: An animal shelter, lot, premises or buildings maintained by or
authorized or employed by the county for the confinement or care of dogs seized
either under the provision of this chapter or otherwise.
PREMISES: A plot of ground, whether occupied or not.
PROPERTY: A building or structure, or the premises on which the building or
structure is located, or undeveloped land.
PUBLIC PLACE: An area generally visible to public view and includes, bridges,
alleys, parking lots, driveways, plazas, parks, streets, sidewalks, and
buildings open to the general public, including those that provide
entertainment, or serve food or drink, and the doorways and entrances to
buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: The person(s) responsible for correcting or abating a
nuisance pursuant to this chapter. The responsible person includes the owner
and any person who causes or permits a nuisance to occur or remain upon
property within Kane County, and includes, but is not limited to, the owner(s),
lessor(s), lessee(s), or other persons entitled to control, occupy or use
property where a nuisance occurs. In cases where there is more than one
responsible person, the county may proceed against one, some or all of them.
VICIOUS DOG: A dog that has bitten a person without provocation or a dog that
has a known propensity to attack or bite human beings. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-
2004; amd. Ord. 2014-13, 6-23-2014)
4-3-3: NUISANCES DEFINED AND ENUMERATED:
This section defines "nuisance" by providing five (5) general definitions of
what constitutes a nuisance (subsection A of this section), and then provides
specific examples of conduct, situations or activities that constitute
nuisances (subsection B of this section). The purpose of the general
definitions is to allow Kane County to classify an offending situation, conduct
or activity as a nuisance, even though the situation, conduct or activity may
not be listed as a nuisance in the specific examples. The first three (3)
general definitions are taken directly from Utah state law. The purpose of
listing the specific examples is to identify some of the specific situations,
conduct and activities that the county intends to abate as nuisances.
   A.   General Definitions Of Nuisance: Any activity that meets any one or
more of the five (5) definitions set forth below shall constitute a "nuisance"
if it occurs within Kane County:
      1.   Nuisance As Defined In Utah Code Annotated Section 76-10-801: Any
item, thing, manner, or condition whatsoever that is dangerous to human life or
health or renders soil, air, water or food impure or unwholesome.
      2.   Nuisance As Defined In Utah Code Annotated Section 78B-6-1101(1) As
Amended: Anything which is injurious to health, indecent, offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
      3.   Nuisance As Defined In Utah Code Annotated Section 76-10-803:
Unlawfully doing any act or omitting to perform any duty, which act or
omission:
         a.   Offends public decency;
         b.   Annoys, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or
safety of three (3) or more persons who are not related or living in the same
residence;
         c.   In any way renders three (3) or more persons who are not related
or living in the same residence insecure in life or the use of property; or
         d.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage, any lake, stream, canal, or basin, or any public
park, square, street, or highway.
Any act which affects three (3) or more persons who are not related or living
in the same residence in any of the ways specified in this subsection is still
a nuisance regardless of the extent to which the annoyance or damage inflicted
on individuals is unequal.
      4.   Nuisance: A condition which:
         a.   Wrongfully injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health or
safety of others; or
         b.   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or
render dangerous for passage, any public park, square, street or highway, or
any other public place; or
         c.   In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or in the use
of property, and which affects the rights of an entire community or
neighborhood, although the extent of the damage may be unequal.
      5.   Specific Nuisances Listed In Subsection B Of This Section: Anything
specifically listed as a nuisance in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Nuisances Enumerated: Every situation, conduct or activity listed below
constitutes a nuisance and may be abated pursuant to this chapter. The listed
examples are not exhaustive; a situation, activity or conduct not listed below,
but coming within one of the general definitions of nuisance listed above,
shall also constitute a nuisance. The first six (6) listed nuisances are also
listed as nuisances pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 78B-6-1107 as
amended.
      1.   Gambling: Every building or premises where gambling is permitted to
be played, conducted, or dealt upon as prohibited in title 76, chapter 10, part
11, Utah Code Annotated (gambling) which creates the conditions of a "nuisance"
as defined in this section.
      2.   Drug Houses: Every building or premises where the unlawful sale,
manufacture, service, distribution, storage, dispensing, or acquisition of any
controlled substance, precursor, or analog specified in title 58, chapter 37,
Utah Code Annotated (Utah controlled substance act) occurs.
      3.   Gangs: Every building or premises wherein criminal activity is
committed in concert with two (2) or more persons as provided in section 76-3-
203.1, Utah Code Annotated.
      4.   Party Houses: Every building or premises where parties occur
frequently which create the conditions of a nuisance defined in Utah Code
Annotated section 76-10-803.
      5.   Weapons: Every building or premises where a violation of title 76,
chapter 10, part 5 (weapons), Utah Code Annotated, occurs on the premises.
      6.   Prostitution: Every building or premises where prostitution or the
promotion of prostitution is regularly carried on by one or more persons as
provided in title 76, chapter 10, part 13 (prostitution), of the Utah Code
Annotated.
      7.   Fire Hazard: A fire hazard.
      8.   Unsafe Condition: A condition that unlawfully or unreasonably
affects the health or safety of three (3) or more persons who are not related
or living in the same residence.
      9.   Noxious Emanations: Emanation of noxious or unreasonable odors, gas,
fumes, smoke, cinders or soot. This paragraph is not intended to prohibit the
daily heating of dwellings or businesses.
      10.   Noxious Weeds: Noxious weeds, which are consistent with the Utah
noxious weed list or designated by Kane County, located on vacant lots or other
property, along public sidewalks or the outer edge of any public street, or
weeds in any other location which constitutes a fire hazard. Example: Bermuda
grass, Canada thistle, diffuse knapweed, dyers woad, field bindweed, hoary
cress, Johnson grass, etc.
      11.   Stagnant Water: Polluted or stagnant water which constitutes an
unhealthy or unsafe condition.
      12.   Animal Carcasses: Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed
within twenty four (24) hours after death.
      13.   Refuse: Storing or keeping of any refuse or waste matter which
interferes with the reasonable enjoyment of nearby property.
      14.   Improper Accumulations: Accumulation of litter, debris, soil, plant
trimmings, or trash, visible from the street or an adjoining property.
      15.   Accumulation Of Junk: Accumulation of used or damaged lumber, junk,
salvage materials, abandoned, discarded or unused furniture, stoves, sinks,
toilets, cabinets, or other fixtures or equipment stored as to be visible from
a public street. However, nothing herein shall preclude the placement of
stacked firewood for personal noncommercial use on the premises.
      16.   Attractive Nuisances: Any attractive nuisance dangerous to children
and other persons including, but not limited to, abandoned, broken, or
neglected household appliances, equipment and machinery, abandoned foundations
or excavations, or improperly maintained or secured pools.
      17.   Vegetation: Dead, decayed, diseased, or hazardous trees, weeds,
hedges, and overgrown or uncultivated vegetation which is in a hazardous
condition, is an obstruction to pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or which is
likely to harbor rats, vermin or other pests.
      18.   Improper Storage: The keeping, storing, depositing or accumulating
on the premises or in the public right of way for an unreasonable period of
time dirt, sand, gravel, concrete, or other similar materials, or maintenance
of such material on public rights of way. Material stored as part of an active
construction project shall not be considered a nuisance.
      19.   Construction Equipment: Construction equipment or machinery of any
type or description parked or stored on property when it is readily visible
from a public street, alley or adjoining property, except when excavation,
construction or demolition operations covered by an active building permit are
in process on the subject property or an adjoining property, or where the
property is zoned for the storage of construction equipment and/or machinery.
Excluded from this are farm equipment used in the normal course of business or
operation.
      20.   Improper Sign: Improper maintenance of a sign; or signs which
advertise a business that is no longer in operation on the property.
      21.   Improper Parking Or Storage:
         a.   Parking or storage of "inoperative" (defined as: lacking vital
component parts essential to the mechanical functioning of the vehicle),
unregistered or dismantled vehicles, boats, trailers, or vehicle parts,
including recreational vehicles, on a premises or in the public right of way.
Storage or parking that is specifically allowed by a Kane County's zoning
ordinance shall not be considered a nuisance.
         b.   Parking or storage of registered vehicles, trailers or boats in
violation of a city ordinance.
      22.   Hazardous Conditions: Any wall, sign, fence, gate, hedge, or
structure maintained in such condition of deterioration or disrepair as to
constitute a hazard to persons or property.
      23.   Graffiti: Graffiti which remains on the exterior of any building,
sign, fence or other structure and is visible from a public street.
      24.   Improper Maintenance: Maintenance of buildings and/or structures in
such condition as to be deemed defective or in a condition of deterioration or
disrepair including, but not limited to:
         a.   Any building or structure which is unfit for human habitation, or
which is an unreasonable hazard to the health of people residing in the
vicinity thereof, or which presents an unreasonable fire hazard in the vicinity
where it is located; or
         b.   Any building or structure set up, erected, constructed, altered,
enlarged, converted, moved or maintained contrary to the provisions of state
laws, building codes or ordinances, or any use of land, buildings or premises
in violation of state laws, building codes or ordinances.
         c.   Buildings which are abandoned, partially destroyed, or left in an
unreasonable state of partial construction for a period of six (6) months or
longer. An "unreasonable state of partial construction" is defined as any
unfinished building or structure where the appearance or condition of the
building or structure does not meet the requirements for finished buildings or
structures as required by applicable state laws, building codes or city or
county ordinances. The building or structure shall not be considered to be a
nuisance if it is under active construction; and
         d.   Buildings or other structures having dry rot, warping, termite
infestation, decay, excessive cracking, peeling, or chalking, as to render the
building or structure unsafe and/or in a state of disrepair;
         e.   Buildings with missing doors and/or windows containing broken
glass and/or no glass at all where the window is of a type which normally
contains glass;
         f.   Building exteriors, walls, fences, gates, driveways, sidewalks,
walkways, signs or ornamentation, or alleys maintained in such condition as to
render them unsafe and/or in a state of disrepair; and
         g.   Buildings, structures or conditions that violate any building,
electrical, plumbing, fire, housing, or other code adopted by the state of Utah
as of the date of final completion of the building or structure.
      25.   Noise Related Nuisances: It shall be unlawful for any person in the
county in a public or private place to make, cause to be made or allow the
making of any noise which is inconsistent with the zoning area between the
hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and sunrise which is unnecessary or
unusual, which noise annoys, disturbs or affects the comfort, repose, health or
peace of others. Any such noise hereinbefore described, heard outside the
limits of the real estate from which said noise has its source and heard by
another person, shall be a noise as is hereby prohibited, which noise
constitutes the basis of the violation of this section.
      26.   Dangerous Conditions: Any fence, wall, deck, shed, garage, house,
building, structure or any part of any of the aforementioned; or any pole,
tree, smokestack; or any excavation hole, pit, basement, cellar, sidewalk,
subspace, dock, or loading dock; or any lot, land, yard, premises or location
which in its entirety, or in any part thereof, by reason of the condition in
which the same is found or permitted to be or remain, shall or might
unreasonably endanger the health, safety, life, limb or property, or cause any
hurt, harm, inconvenience, discomfort, damage or injury to any one or more
individuals within Kane County, in any one or more of the following
particulars:
         a.   By reason of being a menace, threat and/or hazard to the general
health and safety of the community.
         b.   By reason of being a fire hazard.
         c.   By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, or use on, in, upon,
about or around the aforesaid property.
         d.   By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the
property, and/or being vacant, any of which depreciates the enjoyment and use
of the property in the immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful
to the community in which such property is situated or such condition exists.
(Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
      27.   Dogs:
         a.   Dogs On Private Property: It shall be unlawful for an owner of a
dog to permit such dog to go upon or be upon the private property of any person
without the permission of the owner or person entitled to the possession of
such private property.
         b.   Female In Heat: The owner of a female dog in heat shall cause
such dog to be penned or enclosed in such a manner as to preclude other dogs
from attacking such female dog or being attracted to such female dog so as to
create a public nuisance.
         c.   Rabies And Parvo: Every owner of any dog over the age of six (6)
months within the county shall have the dog vaccinated against rabies and parvo
by a duly licensed veterinarian, and shall secure from the veterinarian a
certificate thereof. Rabies and parvo vaccinations shall be updated at least
every three (3) years.
         d.   Dogs Disturbing Neighborhood: Any dog which disturbs the
neighborhood as set forth in subsection 4-1-1C of this title shall also
constitute a nuisance. Any person owning, possessing or harboring a dog which
disturbs the neighborhood shall be deemed to be harboring a nuisance only after
notification under subsection 4-1-1C of this title.
         e.   Vicious Animals; Special Provisions:
            (1)   It shall be a class C misdemeanor for any person to own and
possess a vicious dog within the county. A vicious dog shall include, but is
not limited to, a dog that has bitten or otherwise attacked any person without
provocation or without having trespassed upon the property of the dog's owner.
Whenever a prosecution for this offense is commenced under this section, the
dog so involved may not be redeemed, pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, while awaiting final decision of the court as to the disposition to be
made of such dog.
            (2)   Upon the trial of any offense under this chapter, the court
may, upon conviction and in addition to the usual judgment of conviction, order
the poundmaster or other authorized personnel of the county to put the dog to
death or may order such other disposition of the dog as will protect the
inhabitants of the county.
         f.   Dog Pound: The governing body may contract with some humane
person as poundmaster, with an adjoining county or with a private enterprise
for the purpose of providing suitable premises and facilities to be used by the
county as the dog pound. It shall be maintained in some convenient location and
shall be sanitary and so operated as to properly feed, water and protect the
dogs from injury. It shall further comply with all relevant state law and
regulations including Utah code section 11-46-101 et al., the animal welfare
act.
         g.   Impounding: The county sheriff or other designated animal control
officer may apprehend any dog found in violation of this chapter, and impound
such dog in the pound or some other suitable place. The poundmaster, or some
other designated official, upon receiving any dog, shall make a complete
registry, entering the breed, color and sex of such dog and whether or not it
is licensed. If it is licensed he or she shall enter the name and address of
the owner and the number of the license, and shall immediately contact the
owner, either in person, by telephone, or in writing. Every reasonable effort
shall be made to contact the owner of such dog, if known, to advise him or her
of such impoundment. (Ord. 2014-4, 4-28-2014, eff. 5-13-2014)
         h.   Record Of Impounding Animals: The poundmaster, agent or officer
shall keep a record of each animal impounded by him or her, the date of receipt
of such animal, the date and manner of its disposal and if redeemed, reclaimed
or sold, the name of the person by whom redeemed, reclaimed, or purchased, the
address of such person, the amounts of all fees received or collected for or
because of the impounding, reclaiming or purchasing thereof, together with the
number of any tag and the date of any tag exhibited or issued upon the
redemption or sale of such animal.
         i.   Redemption Of Impounded Dogs: Any dog, other than a "vicious
dog", as defined herein, may be redeemed and taken from such pound, by the
owner or by any other authorized person, upon paying the person in charge of
the pound a reasonable impounding fee as set by the pound. All impounded dogs
not redeemed within five (5) days after impounding shall be sold for the best
price obtainable, at either private or public sale or be redeemed by the Best
Friends Animal Sanctuary. All monies received from such sales, if applicable
shall be paid immediately to the county clerk. All dogs that are not sold or
redeemed within the required time shall be disposed of in a humane manner. The
impounding as provided above, shall apply to the first and second times that
any particular dog is impounded. On the third time such dog is impounded, it
shall be disposed of, in a humane manner, or redeemed by the Best Friends
Animal Sanctuary in accordance with this chapter.
         j.   Disposition Of Unclaimed And Infected Dogs: All impounded dogs
not redeemed within five (5) days of the date of impounding may be destroyed or
sold to the person first making written request for purchase at such price as
may be deemed agreeable. In the case of dogs severely injured or having
contagious disease other than rabies and which in the poundmaster's, officer's
or agent's judgment are suffering and recovery is doubtful, the poundmaster,
officer or agent may destroy the dog without waiting the five (5) day period.
         k.   Interference With Impounding Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person to hinder, delay, interfere with or obstruct the sheriff,
poundmaster or any of their deputies while engaging in capturing, securing or
taking to the dog pound any dog or dogs liable to be impounded, or to break
open or in any manner directly or indirectly aid, counsel or advise the
breaking open of any dog pound or ambulance, wagon or other vehicle used for
the collecting or conveying of dogs to the dog pound. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004;
amd. Ord. 2014-4, 4-28-2014, eff. 5-13-2014)
   C.   Exceptions: No act which is done or maintained under the express
authority of an authoritative statute, ordinance or court ruling shall be
declared a nuisance. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
4-3-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR NUISANCES:
The responsible person shall be responsible for abating nuisances pursuant to
this chapter. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or occupant, who creates,
aids in creating, or contributes to a nuisance, or who supports, continues, or
retains a nuisance, shall also be responsible for the nuisance and is therefore
a responsible person pursuant to this chapter. Every successive owner or tenant
of a property or premises where a nuisance was caused by a former owner or
tenant is responsible therefor in the same manner as the one who first created
it. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
4-3-5: FINDING OF NUISANCE:
If the building inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator find that a
nuisance exists, they, or one of their agents or deputies, shall encourage the
responsible person to voluntarily abate the nuisance. Although the building
inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator shall generally first attempt to
obtain voluntary compliance from the responsible person, nothing herein shall
be interpreted to prevent or prohibit the building inspector, sheriff, or land
use administrator from pursuing any remedy or combination of remedies available
pursuant to this chapter, or state or federal law to abate the nuisance.
Therefore, Kane County may prosecute violators of county ordinances or state
laws without being first required to comply with the provisions of this
chapter, even though the activity or conduct prosecuted may also constitute a
nuisance under this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to
prevent or prohibit Kane County from enforcing applicable state laws, county
ordinances and/or building codes without first treating the offending conduct,
situation or activity as a nuisance pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-
22-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-13, 6-23-2014)
4-3-6: VOLUNTARY CORRECTIONS:
The terms of this section shall apply whenever the building inspector, sheriff,
or land use administrator determines that a nuisance exists.
   A.   Contact: Before taking other steps to abate the nuisance, the building
inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator shall make a reasonable attempt
to secure voluntary correction or abatement of the nuisance by: (Ord. 2004-4,
11-22-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-13, 6-23-2014)
      1.   Contacting the responsible party, where possible;
      2.   Explaining the nuisance;
      3.   Requesting the responsible person to abate the nuisance; and
      4.   Agreeing to a deadline for compliance and other terms necessary to
abate the nuisance. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
   B.   No Agreement: If the building inspector, sheriff, or land use
administrator and the responsible person cannot agree on a deadline for
compliance and to other necessary terms for correcting or abating the nuisance,
the building inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator may still abate the
nuisance using one or more of the procedures set forth in this chapter, or
state or federal law.
   C.   Voluntary Correction Agreement:
      1.   If the building inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator and
the responsible person agree to a deadline and terms for abating the nuisance,
they shall enter into and sign a voluntary correction agreement. The voluntary
correction agreement is a contract between the county and the responsible
person in which the responsible person agrees to abate the nuisance within a
specified time and according to specified conditions. The voluntary correction
agreement shall include the following terms: (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004; amd.
Ord. 2014-13, 6-23-2014)
         a.   The name and address of the responsible party;
         b.   The street address of the nuisance, or a description sufficient
to identify the building structure, premises, or land upon which the nuisance
is occurring;
         c.   A description of the nuisance;
         d.   The necessary corrective action to be taken, and a date or time
by which correction must be completed;
         e.   An agreement by the responsible person that designated agents of
Kane County may periodically inspect the premises as may be necessary to
determine compliance with the voluntary correction agreement;
         f.   An agreement by the responsible person that Kane County may abate
the nuisance and recover its costs and expenses to abate the nuisance, as well
as a monetary fine pursuant to this chapter from the responsible person, should
the responsible person fail to comply with all of the terms of the voluntary
correction agreement; (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
         g.   An agreement by the responsible person acknowledging that he/she
waives the right to appeal the building inspector, sheriff, or land use
administrator's finding that a nuisance exists and waives the right to appeal
the specific corrective action required in the voluntary correction agreement;
and (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-13, 6-23-2014)
         h.   An agreement by the responsible person that failure to comply
with the voluntary correction agreement may be grounds for criminal
prosecution. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
      2.   The building inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator may grant
an extension of the time limit for correcting or abating the nuisance if the
responsible person has shown due diligence and/or substantial progress in
correcting or abating the nuisance but unforeseen circumstances render
abatement under the original conditions unpractical. If the responsible person
complies with the terms of the voluntary correction agreement, Kane County
shall take no further action against the responsible person related to the
nuisance described in the voluntary correction agreement unless the nuisance
occurs again. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-13, 6-23-2014)
4-3-7: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION:
   A.   Administrative Citation: When the building inspector, sheriff, or land
use administrator determines that a nuisance exists, and is unable to secure a
voluntary correction, the building inspector, sheriff, or land use
administrator may issue an administrative citation to the responsible person.
The building inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator may issue an
administrative citation, without having attempted to secure a voluntary
correction under the following circumstances: (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004; amd.
Ord. 2014-13, 6-23-2014)
      1.   When an emergency exists; or (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
      2.   When the building inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator is
unable to locate or determine the identity of the responsible person. (Ord.
2004-4, 11-22-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-13, 6-23-2014)
   B.   Content Of Administrative Citation: The administrative citation shall
include the following:
      1.   The name and address of the responsible person; and
      2.   The street address of the nuisance or a description sufficient for
identifying the building, structure, premises, or land upon or within which the
nuisance is occurring; and
      3.   A description of the nuisance; and
      4.   The required corrective action; and
      5.   The completion date and notice that the county may abate the
nuisance and charge the responsible person for all abatement costs if the
responsible person does not correct the nuisance before the completion date;
and
      6.   The time for appealing the administrative citation to the hearing
officer and the procedure for filing an appeal; and (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
      7.   A statement indicating that no monetary fine will be assessed if the
building inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator approves the completed,
required corrective action prior to the completion date; and
      8.   A statement that Kane County may abate the nuisance and assess costs
and expenses of abatement and a monetary fine against the responsible person if
the correction is not completed by the responsible person and approved by the
building inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator before the completion
date.
   C.   Service Of Administrative Citation: The building inspector, sheriff, or
land use administrator shall serve the administrative citation upon the
responsible person, either personally or by mailing, certified, return receipt
requested, a copy of the administrative citation to the responsible person at
his/her last known address. If the responsible person cannot after due
diligence be personally served within Kane County and if an address for mailed
service cannot after due diligence be obtained, notice shall be served by
posting a copy of the administrative citation conspicuously on the affected
property or structure. Proof of service shall be made by a written declaration
under penalty of perjury executed by the person effecting the service,
declaring the time and date of service, the manner by which the service was
made, and if by posting, the facts showing that due diligence was used in
attempting to serve the person personally or by mail. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004;
amd. Ord. 2014-13, 6-23-2014)
   D.   No Extension: No extension of the time specified in the administrative
citation for correction of the nuisance may be granted, except by order of the
hearing officer. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
4-3-8: OTHER REMEDIES:
Kane County may take one or more of the following actions against any
responsible person who fails to comply with the terms of a voluntary consent
agreement, and administrative citation; or an order of the hearing officer.
   A.   Abatement By The County:
      1.   Kane County may abate a nuisance when:
         a.   The terms of a voluntary correction agreement have not been met;
or
         b.   The requirement of an administrative citation have not been
complied with, or, if the administrative citation is appealed to a hearing
officer and the terms of the administrative citation are amended by the hearing
officer, the terms of the hearing officer's order have not been complied with;
or
         c.   The condition is subject to summary abatement as provided in
subsection A2 of this section.
      2.   Whenever a nuisance is occurring which constitutes an immediate and
emergency threat to the public health, safety or welfare of the environment,
the county may summarily and without prior notice, abate the condition. Notice
of such abatement, including the reason for it, shall be given to the
responsible person as soon as reasonably possible after the abatement.
      3.   Using any lawful means, the county may enter upon the subject
property and may remove or correct the condition which is subject to abatement.
The county may seek, but is not required to seek, such judicial process as it
deems necessary to effect the removal or correction of such condition.
      4.   The costs, including incidental expenses, or correcting or abating
the violation shall be billed to the responsible person and/or the owner,
lessor, tenant or other person entitled to control, use and/or occupy the
property and shall become due and payable to Kane County within ten (10) days
of actual receipt of the bill or within fifteen (15) days of the mailing date
if the bill is mailed. The term "incidental expenses" includes, but is not
limited to:
         a.   Personnel costs, both direct and indirect, including attorney
fees and costs;
         b.   Costs incurred in documenting the violation;
         c.   Hauling, storage and disposal expenses;
         d.   Actual expenses and costs for the county in preparing notices,
specifications and contracts, and in accomplishing and/or contracting and
inspecting the work; and
         e.   The costs of any required printing and mailing. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-
22-2004)
   B.   Monetary Fine: The responsible person shall pay the county a monetary
fine for each day the nuisance continues after the completion date. The
nuisance shall be considered to continue until the building inspector, sheriff,
or land use administrator approves the responsible person's actions to correct
or abate the nuisance. The amount of the monetary fine shall be as follows:
(Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-13, 6-23-2014)
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for each day during the first
week that the nuisance remains uncorrected or unabated after the completion
date.
      2.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) per day for each day thereafter until
the nuisance is corrected or abated according to the terms set forth in the
administrative citation. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
The monetary fine shall be cumulative and may not be waived by the building
inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator. Payment of a monetary fine
pursuant to this section does not relieve the responsible person from the duty
to abate the nuisance as required by the voluntary consent agreement or the
administrative citation. The monetary fine constitutes a personal obligation of
the responsible person. Any monetary fine assessed must be paid to the county
within ten (10) calendar days from the date of mailing of the hearing officer's
decision and order or a notice from the county that penalties are due. The
county attorney or his/her designee is authorized to take appropriate action to
collect the monetary fine, plus reasonable attorney fees and costs incurred in
collecting said monetary fine. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-13, 6-
23-2014)
   C.   Civil Actions: Either the county or any private person directly
affected by a nuisance may bring a civil action to abate or enjoin the
nuisance, or for damages for causing or maintaining the nuisance (including the
cost, if any, of cleaning the subject property). The civil action may be
brought pursuant to this chapter or pursuant to state law. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-
2004)
   D.   Criminal Actions:
      1.   Any person who maintains or assists in maintaining a nuisance is
guilty of a class B misdemeanor. No person shall be prosecuted under this
subsection unless the building inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator
first attempted to obtain voluntary correction as provided in this chapter.
      2.   If the alleged nuisance is also a violation of a provision of Utah
state law, the responsible person may be charged under the specific provision
of said law, even if the building inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator
did not first attempt to obtain voluntary correction. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004;
amd. Ord. 2014-13, 6-23-2014)
      3.   Any person who knowingly obstructs, impedes, or interferes with Kane
County or its authorized agents, or with the responsible person, in the
performance of duties imposed by this chapter, or a decision and order issued
by the hearing officer, or a voluntary correction agreement, is guilty of a
class B misdemeanor.
   E.   Abatement By Eviction: Whenever there is reason to believe that a
nuisance is kept, maintained, or exists in the county, the county attorney,
his/her designee, or any citizen residing in the county, or any person or
entity doing business in the county, may maintain an action in a court of
competent jurisdiction to abate the nuisance and obtain an order for the
automatic eviction of the tenant of the property harboring the nuisance. The
eviction shall take place in accordance with the procedure outlined in Utah
law.
   F.   Lien For Costs: If a person fails to pay any fines or costs related to
nuisance abatement when due, the county may record a lien on the property or
premises for the full amount of the unpaid fines and costs.
   G.   Nonexclusive Remedies: Kane County may take any or all of the above
mentioned remedies (administrative, civil or criminal) to abate the nuisance
and/or to punish any person or entity who creates, causes or allows a nuisance
to exist. The abatement of a nuisance does not prejudice the right of the
county or any person to recover damages or penalties for its past existence.
(Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
4-3-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Grounds: Any person receiving an administrative citation may appeal the
administrative citation to the hearing officer. Only the following issues may
be appealed to the hearing officer:
      1.   The person charged in the administrative citation as the responsible
person is not the "responsible person" as defined by this chapter.
      2.   The condition described as a nuisance in the administrative citation
is not a "nuisance" as defined by this chapter.
      3.   The method required by the administrative citation to abate the
nuisance is inappropriate or is not the most cost effective method of
effectively correcting or abating the nuisance.
      4.   The time period given to abate the nuisance in the administrative
citation is unreasonable.
      5.   The monetary fine set forth in the administrative citation is
unreasonable. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
      6.   The building inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator refused
to approve a corrective action that met the requirements of the administrative
citation. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-13, 6-23-2014)
      7.   The responsible person claims that the requirements of the
administrative citation violates his/her constitutional rights.
   B.   Filing: The person desiring to appeal must file a notice of appeal at
the county office within ten (10) days of the receipt of the administrative
citation, or within fifteen (15) days of the mailing date if the administrative
citation was mailed rather than personally delivered. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
   C.   Hearing: The hearing before a hearing officer shall be informal
according to rules and procedures established by the hearing officer. The
appellant may, but is not required to be represented by counsel. The appellant
and the building inspector, sheriff, or land use administrator may each call
witnesses at the hearing. The hearing officer may, with or without the parties
present, visit the site of the alleged nuisance. If the hearing officer allows
the parties at the site visit, both parties must be given the opportunity to be
present. The hearing shall be scheduled by the hearing officer within thirty
(30) days of when the notice of appeal is filed with the county.
   D.   Burden Of Proof: The appellant shall have the burden of proof to
demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that he/she had legitimate
grounds for an appeal. The determination of the building inspector, sheriff, or
land use administrator as to the need for the required corrective action shall
be accorded substantial weight by the hearing officer in determining the
reasonableness of the corrective action. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004; amd. Ord.
2014-13, 6-23-2014)
   E.   Authority Of Hearing Officer: The hearing officer shall have authority
to affirm or vacate the administrative citation. If the appellant fails to
attend the hearing, the hearing officer shall affirm the administrative
citation unless he/she finds that no nuisance exists. The hearing officer shall
modify the administrative citation if he/she finds that a nuisance exists, but
that one or more of the requirements of the administrative citation is improper
or inappropriate. A requirement is improper if it is contrary to this chapter.
A requirement is inappropriate if the hearing officer finds that there is a
better means of resolving the problem or that the proposed solution is
inappropriate given the nature or severity of the problem. When determining
whether to waive or modify a requirement of the administrative citation, the
hearing officer may also consider: (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
      1.   Whether the appellant responded to the building inspector, sheriff,
or land use administrator's attempts to contact the appellant and cooperated
with efforts to correct the nuisance. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004; amd. Ord. 2014-
13, 6-23-2014)
      2.   Whether the appellant has shown due diligence and/or substantial
progress in correcting the nuisance.
      3.   The financial ability of the appellant and the amount; if any, that
the appellant has benefited financially by maintaining the nuisance.
      4.   Any other relevant factors. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004)
If the appellant appeals the building inspector, sheriff, or land use
administrator's refusal to approve the appellant's corrective action, the
hearing officer shall visit the site and determine if the appellant complied
with the requirements of the administrative citation. (Ord. 2004-4, 11-22-2004;
amd. Ord. 2014-13, 6-23-2014)
   F.   Order: The hearing officer shall issue a written order to the appellant
and the county notifying them of his/her decision. The order shall include the
hearing officer's findings of fact and ultimate decision. If the hearing
officer modifies or waives provisions of the administrative citation, the order
shall specify which portions are modified and how they are modified. The
hearing officer shall mail a copy of the order to the appellant and the county
within five (5) working days of the close of the hearing.
   G.   Appeal To District Court: Either the county or the appellant may appeal
the hearing officer's order by filing a petition for review of the order. The
petition must be filed in the 6th district court within thirty (30) calendar
days from the date the hearing officer's order was mailed to the appellant. In
the petition, the plaintiff may only allege that the hearing officer's order
was arbitrary, capricious, or illegal. The hearing officer shall transmit to
the reviewing court the record of its proceedings, including any minutes,
findings, orders and, if available, a true and correct transcript of its
proceedings. If, in the opinion of the district court, there is a sufficient
record to review the hearing officer's order, the court's review is limited to
the record provided by the hearing officer. The district court may not accept
or consider any evidence outside of the hearing officer's record unless the
evidence was offered by the hearing officer. If, in the opinion of the district
court, there is not a sufficient record to review the hearing officer's order,
the court may call witnesses and take evidence. No petition or appeal may be
filed in district court unless the responsible person first appeals to the
hearing officer pursuant to the terms set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2004-4,
11-22-2004)
CHAPTER 4
TOBACCO PRODUCTS ON COUNTY PROPERTY
SECTION:
4-4-1: Name
4-4-2: Purpose
4-4-3: Definitions
4-4-4: Prohibition
4-4-5: Exceptions
4-4-6: Posting Of Signs
4-4-7: Enforcement
4-4-1: NAME:
This chapter shall be known as the TOBACCO FREE COUNTY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2013-7,
8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
4-4-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   To promote a tobacco free environment for citizens and visitors of Kane
County.
   B.   To keep county property free from tobacco product related trash and
litter.
   C.   To protect citizens and visitors of Kane County from harmful secondhand
smoke.
   D.   To comply with the Utah indoor clean air act, Utah code section 26-38.
(Ord. 2013-7, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
4-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
COUNTY PROPERTY: Any property owned by Kane County, including, but not limited
to, land, buildings, vehicles, lots, parks, and fairgrounds.
SMOKELESS TOBACCO: Tobacco products that are not lighted or heated for the
inhalation of smoke, including, but not limited to, chewing tobacco.
SMOKING: Holds its statutory definition under Utah code section 26-38-2(4),
meaning:
   A.   The possession of any lighted or heated tobacco product in any form;
   B.   Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or heating a substance containing tobacco
or nicotine intended for inhalation through a cigar, cigarette, pipe, or
hookah;
   C.   Using an e-cigarette; or
   D.   Using an oral smoking device intended to circumvent the prohibition of
smoking.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Any product containing tobacco, whether that product is
intended to be burned and/or inhaled or for use as smokeless tobacco, as well
as products used in aid of the consumption of tobacco, such as pipes, hookahs,
etc. (Ord. 2013-7, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
4-4-4: PROHIBITION:
The use of any tobacco products is prohibited on any county property and
additionally within twenty five feet (25') of any county owned building
entrances, windows, or air intakes. (Ord. 2013-7, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
4-4-5: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter do not apply within the boundaries of
incorporated cities and towns located in Kane County.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter do not apply if the property owned by
the county is a dedicated, deeded or prescriptive road, easement or public
right of way and the specific location is more than twenty five feet (25') from
a county owned building. (Ord. 2013-7, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
4-4-6: POSTING OF SIGNS:
   A.   Signs indicating the prohibition of tobacco products, including the use
of the international "no smoking" symbol and the words "No Smoking" no less
than 1.5 inches in height, may be posted at vehicle and pedestrian entrances to
county property.
   B.   The absence of a sign on county property does not mean tobacco products
are allowed and does not remove any liability otherwise imposed by this
chapter. (Ord. 2013-7, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
4-4-7: ENFORCEMENT:
Any person found in violation of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction
and on a first offense be subject to a fine not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00). A person guilty of a subsequent offense shall be subject to a fine
not less than two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 2013-7, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-
27-2013)
CHAPTER 5
CURFEW
SECTION:
4-5-1: Minor Daytime Curfew
4-5-1: MINOR DAYTIME CURFEW:
This section shall be known as the MINOR DAYTIME CURFEW ORDINANCE.
   A.   Minors Subject To Compulsory Or Alternative Compulsory Education: It is
unlawful for any minor subject to compulsory or alternative compulsory
education to loiter or remain in any public place, any restricted dwelling, or
any unsupervised place within the unincorporated area of the County during the
normal school hours for the school said minor is required to attend.
   B.   Parents, Guardians, And Teachers: It is unlawful for any parent,
guardian, teacher, or other person having legal care and custody of any minor
subject to this section to permit or allow, whether willfully or by exercise of
insufficient control, any such minor to remain or loiter in any public place or
in any other restricted place, except as provided in this section.
   C.   Defenses: It shall be a defense to a violation of this section that at
the time the minor was in violation of subsection A or B of this section, the
minor was:
      1.   A minor fourteen (14) years or older, emancipated by marriage.
      2.   Accompanied by the minor's parent, guardian, or other adult person
having care, custody, or supervision of said minor.
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel.
      4.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without detour or stop.
      5.   Acting in response to an emergency.
      6.   Going to, or returning from, a medical or dental appointment.
      7.   Permitted to leave the school campus for lunch or any school-
approved activity.
      8.   Attending, or without any detour or stop, was going to, or returning
from, a school-approved, recreational, or educational activity, supervised by
adults, and sponsored by the local school district, another school district, or
any civic, religious, or other government organization.
      9.   Going to, or returning directly from, a compulsory alternative
education program.
      10.   Going to, or returning directly from, the minor's place of school-
approved employment.
      11.   Granted an exemption for "home schooling" as prescribed by the
local Board of Education.
      12.   Otherwise granted an exemption to compulsory education by the local
Board of Education, under Utah Code section 53A-11-102, or any successor
provision.
   D.   Enforcement Procedures: Before taking any enforcement action under the
provisions of this section, a peace officer shall ask said minor's age and
reason for being in the public place or other restricted place. The peace
officer shall not take enforcement action under this section if the peace
officer has reasonable cause to believe that any defense under subsection C of
this section applies.
      1.   Upon any violation, the peace officer may take the minor into
temporary custody and/or issue a citation to the minor. If the peace officer
takes the minor into temporary custody, the peace officer, without unreasonable
delay, shall:
         a.   Transport the minor to the school from which the minor is absent,
releasing the minor to the principal or other designated school official; or
         b.   Release the minor to any individual who has been designated by
the local School Board to receive and return the minor to school; or
         c.   Transport and release the minor to a receiving center established
and designated by the local School Board.
      2.   If the minor refuses to return to school or go to the receiving
center, or the peace officer is unable to otherwise release the minor to the
appropriate school official or designated receiving center, the peace officer
may release the minor to the minor's parent or guardian, and shall notify the
appropriate school officials of the violation. If a parent or guardian cannot
be reached or is unable to accept custody, the minor shall be referred to the
Division of Child and Family Services, in the manner required under State law.
      3.   If cited, the minor shall appear, along with a parent or guardian,
in the applicable Youth Court or in Juvenile Court as directed in the citation.
      4.   A parent or guardian shall not be cited for a violation unless the
minor in question was previously cited for a violation of this section and the
parent or guardian was warned or advised by a peace officer, school official,
receiving center, or court official of such violation.
   E.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall be a Class C misdemeanor. In
Juvenile or Justice Court, a person adjudicated in violation of this section
shall receive a minimum fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for an initial
violation. A person adjudicated in subsequent violations of this section shall
receive a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00). The minimum fine is
not intended to be a limitation of any other penalty, probation, community
service requirement, or other fine which may be imposed by the applicable
court. (Ord. O-2018-9, 7-23-2018)
CHAPTER 6
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Night Time Predator Hunting
4-6-1: NIGHT TIME PREDATOR HUNTING:
   A.   Title: This section shall be known as the KANE COUNTY NIGHT TIME
PREDATOR HUNTING ORDINANCE.
   B.   Definitions: All words in this section shall be defined as set forth in
the Utah State Code title 23.
   C.   Night Time Hunting Prohibited: No person shall hunt any animal, or
possess a weapon with the intent to hunt any animal between dusk and dawn
unless the person first complies with this section or there is some other
exception or authorization in State Code or County ordinance. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the lawful protection of life and
property. (Ord. O-2019-6, 2-25-2019)
   D.   Night Time Predator Hunting Requirements: Hunting for the predatory
animals of coyote, red fox, striped skunk, and raccoon, at night, between dusk
and dawn, is authorized so long as each person hunting complies with all of the
requirements below and any other relevant State or local law:
      1.   Night Time Predator Hunting Permit: Prior to engaging in night time
predator hunting all persons must first obtain a permit from the County
Sheriff. The County Sheriff may only issue a permit after the applicant submits
proof of one of the following: a) Utah Hunters Education Certificate of
Completion (Blue Card), b) proof of date of birth prior to December 31, 1965,
or c) a current Utah small game hunting license. The fee for the permit is
twenty dollars ($20.00) which may be altered by resolution of the County
Commission. Permits are valid through December 31st of the year of issue.
Permits shall be uniquely numbered and kept on record in the County Sheriff's
Office. The Sheriff may limit the total number of permits to address any public
safety concern. (Ord. O-2019-8, 3-25-2019)
      2.   Notification: Prior to engaging in night time predator hunting all
persons must first provide notice to the Sheriff's Office. The notice shall be
provided on each day that the person or persons intend to hunt. The notice
shall be provided by calling Kane County Dispatch (435-644-2349) and providing
all of the following information:
         a.   Name, address, date of birth and permit number for each person
who will be hunting,
         b.   Approximate hunting location,
         c.   Approximate time of hunting,
         d.   Vehicle make, model, year, color and plate number, and
         e.   Color of spot lights that may be used.
      3.   Season: Night time predator hunting may only be done between
November 1st and August 31st.
      4.   Weapons: Any otherwise legal weapon may be used including shotguns
and archery tackle except that firearms may not have a caliber larger than .25
and may not be able to fire automatically. Expanding bullets must be used.
      5.   Location: Hunting under this section is prohibited in the following
locations:
         a.   Within one mile of any residence, city or town boundary, any
subdivision boundary, or any paved or oiled roadway,
         b.   On private property unless the property owner gives written
permission,
         c.   While occupying or operating any motor vehicle,
         d.   Any other location in Kane County that is otherwise limited or
prohibited under State Code, and
         e.   Within one mile of any location that the Sheriff determines
necessary to restrict night time hunting on a temporary basis for a specific
safety concern. Examples include but are not limited to areas where youth
events, sporting events, or any other activity known to the Sheriff where a
large group of individuals will be camping over night. Nothing in this
subsection places a duty on the Sheriff to restrict any area. In the event that
the Sheriff imposes a temporary restriction, the Sheriff shall post written
notice of the restricted area at the Sheriff's Office and provide verbal notice
to the hunters who call Kane County Dispatch to provide notice each day of
hunting under subsection D2 of this section.
      6.   Age Restrictions: Hunters under the age of sixteen (16) must be
accompanied by a legal guardian who also complies with this section. Hunters
who are sixteen (16) years or older but under the age of eighteen (18) must be
accompanied by a person who is eighteen (18) years of age or older and who
complies with this section.
      7.   Spotlighting: Any artificial lighting used during hunting permitted
under this section shall be carried by the hunter and shall not be connected to
or powered by any motor vehicle.
   E.   Property Damage: Hunters who hunt under this section shall be
responsible for any and all damage to property due to the actions of the
hunter.
   F.   Penalties: Any person who violates any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall pay a fine of not less than six
hundred eighty dollars ($680.00).
   G.   Severability: If any subsection of this section is deemed invalid, it
shall only apply to that subsection and shall not affect the validity of this
section as a whole or any part not deemed invalid. (Ord. O-2019-6, 2-25-2019)
TITLE 5
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Definitions
5-1-2: Roads Designated
5-1-3: Notification Of Map Amendments
5-1-4: Compliance With Traffic Laws
5-1-5: Operation Of Vehicle On Highways
5-1-6: Registration
5-1-7: Vehicle Equipment Required
5-1-8: Prohibited Uses
5-1-9: Private Lands
5-1-10: Penalty
5-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE I VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle fifty two inches (52") or less in
width, having an unladed dry weight of eight hundred (800) pounds or less,
traveling on three (3) or more low pressure tires, having a seat designated to
be straddled by the operator, and designed for, or capable of, travel over
unimproved terrain.
ALL-TERRAIN TYPE II VEHICLE: Any other motor vehicle not defined in Utah Code
Annotated sections 41-22-2(2), 41-22-2(9) or 41-22-2(20), designed for or
capable of travel over unimproved terrain. This term does not include golf
carts, any vehicle designed to carry a disabled person, any vehicle not
specifically designed for recreational use, or farm tractors as defined under
Utah Code Annotated section 41-1a-102.
OHV: All motorcycles, snowmobiles, and all-terrain type I vehicles, and all-
terrain type II vehicles. (Ord. 2005-3, 8-8-2005)
5-1-2: ROADS DESIGNATED:
Currently registered OHVs may be operated on the county road system as posted
by signs or designated by map or description as open to off highway vehicle use
by the county. The county may provide a map or description showing or
describing land, trails, streets or highways open to OHV use; or post signs
designating lands, trails, streets or highways open to OHV use. The county
reserves the right to change, modify or amend maps, descriptions or signs from
time to time. In addition, OHVs operated in compliance with Utah Code Annotated
title 41, chapter 22 are street legal vehicles when operated on routes
designated by the county through maps, description or signposting. (Ord. 2005-
3, 8-8-2005)
5-1-3: NOTIFICATION OF MAP AMENDMENTS:
Affected land management entities shall be notified in writing prior to any
changes made to the designated OHV/ATV routes to which this chapter applies.
(Ord. 2005-3, 8-8-2005)
5-1-4: COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC LAWS:
Any person operating an off highway vehicle is subject to all of the provisions
of Utah Code Annotated title 41, chapter 6 (traffic code), as amended, which
includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   No person under eight (8) years of age will be allowed to operate an
OHV on the county road system, except as provided in Utah Code Annotated
section 41-22-29.
   B.   OHV operators between eight (8) years of age through fifteen (15) years
of age must possess an OHV education certificate issued by the Utah division of
parks and recreation.
   C.   All operators sixteen (16) years and older must possess a valid
driver's license or OHV education certificate.
   D.   All riders under eighteen (18) years of age must wear a properly
fitting, safety regulated helmet.
   E.   OHV operators under sixteen (16) years of age shall be under the direct
visual supervision of an adult who is at least eighteen (18) years of age while
operating an OHV on a county approved off highway vehicle route. (Ord. 2005-3,
8-8-2005)
5-1-5: OPERATION OF VEHICLE ON HIGHWAYS:
No person may operate an off highway vehicle upon any street or highway not
designated as open to off highway vehicle use, except:
   A.   When crossing a street or highway and the operator comes to a complete
stop before crossing, proceeds only after yielding the right of way to oncoming
traffic and crosses at a right angle.
   B.   When loading or unloading any off highway vehicle from a vehicle which
shall be done with due regard for safety and at the nearest practical point of
operation.
   C.   When an emergency exists during any period of time and at those
locations when operation of conventional motor vehicles is impractical or when
the operation is directed by a peace officer or other public authority. (Ord.
2005-3, 8-8-2005)
5-1-6: REGISTRATION:
All vehicles operated on the OHV road system must be either safety inspected
and licensed by the Utah division of motor vehicles, or registered as an OHV by
the Utah division of motor vehicles. Except as provided in Utah Code Annotated
section 41-22-35(1)(b), any nonresident off highway vehicle owner shall comply
with Utah Code Annotated 41-22-35 and display a nonresident off highway vehicle
user decal if operating or allowing the operation of the off highway vehicle on
any public land, trail, street or highway in the county. (Ord. 2005-3, 8-8-
2005)
5-1-7: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
An off highway vehicle shall be equipped with:
   A.   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
vehicle under normal operating conditions.
   B.   Headlights and taillights when operated between sunset and sunrise.
   C.   A noise control device and, except for snowmobiles, a spark arrester
device.
   D.   A safety flag, red or orange in color with a minimum diameter of six
inches by twelve inches (6" x 12"), attached to the off highway vehicle at
least eight feet (8') above the surface of level ground, when operated on the
Coral Pink Sand Dunes. (Ord. 2005-3, 8-8-2005)
5-1-8: PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   All traffic and other safety laws and rules apply to operation of off
highway vehicles, including the prohibited use of said vehicles while under the
influence of alcohol or drugs 1 , and violations of such laws and regulations
shall be subject to penalties under state law.
   B.   No person may operate an off highway vehicle in connection with acts of
vandalism, harassment of wildlife or domestic animals, burglaries, other
crimes, damage to the environment which includes excessive pollution of air,
water or land, abuse of the watershed, impairment of plant or animal life, or
excessive noise.
   C.   No person shall operate or accompany a person operating an OHV upon
privately owned land of any other person, firm or corporation without
permission from the owner, or person in charge.
      1.   It is unlawful for a person to remain on private land upon request
of the owner or person in charge to leave the properties.
      2.   This section does not apply to prescriptive easements.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person to tear down, mutilate or destroy any
sign, signboards, or other notice, including those which regulate trespassing
for purposes of operating an OHV; or to tear down, deface or destroy any fence
or other enclosure or any gate or bars belonging to such fence or enclosure.
(Ord. 2005-3, 8-8-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA § 41-6-44.
5-1-9: PRIVATE LANDS:
This designation is not intended to include roads on private property, unless
those roads are part of the county road system. (Ord. 2005-3, 8-8-2005)
5-1-10: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, any violation of the terms of this
chapter shall be punishable as a class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2005-3, 8-8-2005; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
COUNTY ROADS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Weight Limits
5-2-2: Kane County Road K3900
5-2-3: Kane County Duck Creek Days
5-2-1: WEIGHT LIMITS:
   A.   Sand Dunes Road And Hancock Road:
      1.   No person shall operate any vehicle with a gross vehicle weight of
more than twenty five (25) tons (50,000 pounds) on Kane County Road K1000
("Sand Dunes Road") or Kane County Road K1100 ("Hancock Road").
         a.   Exception: A person may operate a vehicle in excess of twenty
five (25) tons on the Sand Dunes Road or Hancock Road only if: 1) the vehicle
is an agricultural vehicle as defined herein, or 2) the vehicle is transporting
equipment or supplies to a construction site that is located on the Sand Dunes
Road or Hancock Road and cannot be accessed by another route.
      2.   In the event a vehicle in excess of twenty five (25) tons needs to
access a construction site by using Sand Dunes Road or Hancock Road, the
vehicle owner/operator, for each day of travel and prior to traveling on the
road, shall notify Kane County Dispatch of: a) the location of the construction
site, and b) the route of travel by the vehicle to the site.
      3.   "Agricultural vehicle" is defined as follows: Every motor vehicle
designed and used primarily as a farm implement for drawing plows, mowing
machines, and other implements of husbandry including a truck used by the owner
or operator of a farm solely for the owner's or operator's own use in the
transportation of: a) farm products, including livestock and its products,
poultry and its products, floricultural and horticultural products; b) farm
supplies, including tile, fence, and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production;
and c) livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of a farm. An
"agricultural vehicle" does not include the operation of trucks by commercial
processors of agricultural products. An "agricultural vehicle" does include
vehicles not owned by the owner or operator of a farm so long as the vehicle
owner is contracted directly with the farm owner or operator and otherwise
qualifies under this definition.
      4.   Any person who violates this section is guilty of an infraction and
shall be subject to a fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. O-2019-3, 4-8-2019)
5-2-2: KANE COUNTY ROAD K3900:
   A.   Temporary Closure And Lease:
      1.   A portion of Kane County Road K3900, as described below and as
further shown on exhibit A on file in the County, is temporarily closed. No
person shall travel the closed portion of K3900 except as authorized by Alton
Coal as further set forth herein.
That portion of the Alton Road (Kane County Road K3900 or County Road 136) and
its accompanying right-of-way width, beginning at approximately -112° 28'
5.984" N, 37° 25' 11.111" W, at the SW 1/4 of the NW 1/4 of Sec 18 in T39S,
R5W, proceeds southerly into the NE 1/4 of T39S-R5W, continues southerly to the
approximate center of the SE 1/4 of T39S-R5W at approximately -112° 27'
17.677"W - 37° 34' 7.988" N. Total length is approximately 1.51 Miles.
      2.   The Kane County Commission Chair is authorized to enter into a lease
agreement with Alton Coal for the same portion of Kane County Road K3900.
      3.   The Lease Agreement shall ensure the following:
         a.   That Alton Coal authorizes the public access to the closed
portion of Kane County Road K3900 when safe to do so and that causes as little
delay as possible.
         b.   That Alton Coal provides for and maintains a system of signs and
traffic lights to ensure safety to travelers of the road, specifically that no
traveler will be traveling on the closed portion of the road while oversized
vehicles owned by Alton Coal are traveling on the closed portion of the road.
         c.   That Alton Coal indemnifies the County for any damages to a
traveler of the road that arise from the negligence of Alton Coal.
      4.   Nothing in this section shall be construed as an abandonment or
vacation of the road.
      5.   The temporary road closure will automatically terminate at the
earlier of the following:
         a.   One year from the original date of temporary closure (unless
extended for an additional year by ordinance), or
         b.   The date of termination of the lease of the road to Alton Coal.
      6.   If any subsection of this section is deemed invalid, it shall only
apply to that subsection and shall not affect the validity of this section as a
whole or any part not deemed invalid. (Ord. O-2019-7, 4-22-2019)
5-2-3: KANE COUNTY DUCK CREEK DAYS:
   A.   The ordinance codified herein is enacted pursuant to Utah Code
Annotated 17-50-309 and shall be effective during the Duck Creek Days in Kane
County each year the event takes place.
   B.   Beginning on the day prior to the Duck Creek Days and through the day
following the event, the Movie Ranch frontage road, which is funded and
maintained by Kane County, through Duck Creek shall be restricted to one-way
road as posted under the direction of the Kane County Sheriff.
   C.   Failure to comply with the signage posted by the Kane County Sheriff or
deputies of the Kane County Sheriff shall constitute a C misdemeanor. (Ord.
2007-5, 7-9-2007)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Snow Removal Prohibited During Certain Periods
6-1-1: SNOW REMOVAL PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN PERIODS:
   A.   Period Established: The county road supervisor may, for each winter
season, establish a no plow period. If the county road supervisor establishes a
no plow period for a particular winter season, it shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county. In the event the county road
supervisor does not establish a no plow period for a particular winter season,
the no plow period for that season shall be from December 1 through April 1.
   B.   Authorization Required: During each no plow period, no person shall
remove snow from a county road without having first obtained authorization from
the county road supervisor. (Ord. 1998-7, 11-23-1998, eff. 12-15-1998)
   C.   Penalty: A violation of subsection B of this section shall be a class B
misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1998-7, 11-23-1998, eff. 12-15-1998; amd. 2011 Code)
CHAPTER 2
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Permit Required
6-2-2: Penalties
6-2-3: Excluded Excavations
6-2-4: Preparation
6-2-5: Backfill
6-2-6: Restoration Of Surfaces
6-2-7: Restoring Bituminous Concrete Or Asphalt Street Surfaces
6-2-8: Concrete Surfaces
6-2-9: Gravel And Dirt Surfaces
6-2-10: One Year Maintenance Of Surfaces
6-2-11: Protection Of Public During Excavation Project
6-2-12: Relocation And Protection Of Utilities
6-2-13: Utility Placement
6-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall make any excavation (which includes boring), or remove
any pavement or other material, in any County street, property, or right of
way, without first obtaining a permit from the County Roads Supervisor or other
authorized representative of the County.
   B.   Any public utility regulated by the state of Utah or holding a
franchise from the County which in the pursuit of its calling has frequent
occasion to open or make excavations in streets, may, upon application, receive
a general permit from the County to cover all excavations such utilities may
make within the streets of the County. All permits shall be subject to
revocation and the County may refuse to issue a permit for failure of the
permittee or applicant to abide by the terms and conditions of this part.
Excavation permits will not be requested prior to excavation in case of
emergency endangering life or property, providing the County is notified as
soon as practicable and a permit is applied for upon the next regular working
day following the emergency. (Ord. O-2022-39, 7-12-2022)
6-2-2: PENALTIES:
Any violation of this Section is considered a class C misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
Likewise, any violation of this Section is also considered a Nuisance, and the
perpetrator is subject to the requirements and penalties outlined in Title 4
Chapter 3 of the Kane County Ordinances. (Ord. O-2022-39, 7-12-2022)
6-2-3: EXCLUDED EXCAVATIONS:
The following types of excavations do not come within the scope of this part:
   A.   Excavations of any kind in projects designed, contracted for, and
inspected by the County engineer or other authorized personnel of the County.
(Ord. O-2022-39, 7-12-2022)
6-2-4: PREPARATION:
The pavement, sidewalk, driveway, or other surface shall be cut vertically
along the lines forming the trench in such a manner as to not damage the
adjoining pavement or hard surfacing. An undercut bevel at the rate of one inch
per foot of thickness will be provided at the proposed junction between the old
and new surfaces. The portion to be removed shall be broken up in a manner that
will not cause damage to the pavement outside the limits of the trench.
However, any pavement damaged by operations outside the limits of the trench
shall be replaced. All waste material resulting from the excavation shall be
removed immediately from the site of the work. (Ord. O-2022-39, 7-12-2022)
6-2-5: BACKFILL:
   A.   Materials for backfill will be of select nature. All broken concrete,
peat, decomposed vegetable matter and similar materials obtained from
excavation will be removed from the site prior to beginning of backfilling. All
backfilling will be placed in layers not over eight inches loose measure in
thickness. Compaction will be obtained by mechanical rollers, mechanical
tampers or similar means. Material for backfilling will have optimum moisture
to insure compaction to a degree equivalent to that of the undisturbed ground
in which the trench was dug. Jetting or internal vibrating methods of
compacting sand fill or similar methods of compacting sand or similar granular
free draining materials will be permitted.
   B.   The density (dry) of the backfill under pavements, sidewalks, curbs, or
other structures will be not less than that existing prior to excavation. The
fill shall be restored and placed in a good condition which will prevent
settling. (Ord. O-2022-39, 7-12-2022)
6-2-6: RESTORATION OF SURFACES:
   A.   General. All street surfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, driveways,
gravel, dirt or other hard surfaces falling in the line of the excavation which
must be removed in performance of the work shall be restored in kind by the
excavator, unless otherwise directed by the governing body, in accordance with
the specifications contained herein governing the various types of surfaces
involved.
   B.   Protection of Paved Surfaces. In order to avoid unnecessary damage to
paved surfaces, track equipment shall use pavement pads when operating on or
crossing paved surfaces.
   C.   Time. In traffic lanes of paved streets, the excavator shall provide
temporary gravel surfaces or cold mulch in good condition immediately after
back fill has been placed, and shall complete permanent repairs on the street,
sidewalk, curb, gutter, driveway and other surfaces, within five days from the
date of completion of the backfill except for periods:
      1.   When permanent paving material is not available.
      2.   When weather conditions prevent permanent replacement.
      3.   When an extension of time is granted by the County Roads Supervisor.
   D.   Temporary Repair. If temporary repair has been made on a paved street
with gravel and a permanent repair cannot be made within the time specified
above due to any of the above mentioned conditions, then the excavator shall be
required to replace the gravel with cold mulch as soon as possible. (Ord. O-
2022-39, 7-12-2022)
6-2-7: RESTORING BITUMINOUS CONCRETE OR ASPHALT STREET SURFACES:
   A.   Temporary grade surface. Where excavations are made in paved areas, the
surface shall be replaced with a temporary gravel surface. The gravel shall be
placed deep enough to provide a minimum of six inches below the bottom of the
bituminous or concrete surface. Normally, this will require nine inches of
gravel for bituminous surfaces, twelve inches of gravel for concrete, and
concrete base for asphalt wearing surfaces. The gravel shall be placed in the
trench at the time it is backfilled. The temporary gravel surface shall be
maintained by blading, sprinkling, rolling, adding gravel, to maintain a safe,
uniform surface satisfactory to the inspector until the final surface is laid.
Excess material shall be removed from the premises immediately. Material for
use on temporary gravel surfaces shall be obtained from sound, tough, durable
gravel or rock meeting the following requirements for grading:
 
Passing 1-inch sieve    100 percent
Passing 3/4- inch sieve 85%- 100 percent
No. 4 sieve             45%- 65 percent
Passing No. 10 sieve    30%- 50 percent
Passing No. 200 sieve   5%- 10 percent
 
   B.   Bituminous surface. The exposed edges of existing pavement shall be
primed with Type MC-1 bituminous material. The type, grade, and mixture of the
asphalt to be used for street surface replacement shall be approved by the
County Roads Supervisor. The thickness shall be equal to the adjacent surface
thickness but not less than three inches. The complete surface shall not
deviate more than one-half inch between old and new work. (Ord. O-2022-39, 7-
12-2022)
6-2-8: CONCRETE SURFACES:
The sub-base for concrete surfaces shall be sprinkled just before placing the
concrete. Joints and surfaces shall be made to match the original surfaces. The
thickness of concrete shall be equal to the adjacent concrete but in no case
less than six inches thick. The mixing, cement, water content, proportion,
placement, and curing of the concrete will be approved by the County Roads
Supervisor. In no case shall the concrete have less compressive strength than
three thousand (3,000) pounds per square inch at the end of twenty-eight (28)
days. (Ord. O-2022-39, 7-12-2022)
6-2-9: GRAVEL AND DIRT SURFACES:
Excavations through gravel or dirt surfaced area, such as gravel and dirt roads
and shoulders and unpaved driveways, shall have the gravel or dirt restored and
maintained as described in part
6-2-7 of this part, except that the gravel shall be a minimum of one inch more
than the thickness of the existing gravel. (Ord. O-2022-39, 7-12-2022)
6-2-10: ONE YEAR MAINTENANCE OF SURFACES:
The individual or entity performing the excavation is responsible for
correcting any settling that happens within one year of completing the
restoration of the excavation. (Ord. O-2022-39, 7-12-2022)
6-2-11: PROTECTION OF PUBLIC DURING EXCAVATION PROJECT:
Excavation operations shall be conducted in such a manner that a minimum amount
of interference or interruption of street traffic will result. Inconvenience to
residents and businesses fronting on public streets shall be minimized.
Suitable, adequate and sufficient barricades shall be available and used where
necessary to prevent accidents involving property or persons. Barricades must
be in place until all of excavator's equipment is removed from site and
excavation has been backfilled and proper temporary gravel surface is in place.
From sunset to sunrise all barricades and excavations must be clearly outlined
by acceptable warning lights, lanterns, flares, and other devices. Police and
fire departments shall be notified at least twenty-four (24) hours in advance
of any planned excavation requiring street closures or detour. (Ord. O-2022-39,
7-12-2022)
6-2-12: RELOCATION AND PROTECTION OF UTILITIES:
An excavator shall not interfere with any existing utility without the written
consent of the governing body and without advance notice to the owner of the
utility. If it becomes necessary to relocate an existing utility, it shall be
done by its owner unless the owner otherwise directs. No utility, whether owned
by the County or by a private enterprise, shall be moved to accommodate the
permittee unless the cost of such work be borne by the permittee or an
expressly written agreement is made whereby the utility owner and the excavator
make other arrangements relating to such cost. The permittee shall support and
protect by timbers or otherwise all pipes, conduits, poles, wires, or other
apparatus which may be in any way affected by the excavation work, and shall do
everything necessary to support, sustain and protect them under, over, along,
or across the work. In case any of the pipes, conduits, poles, wires, or
apparatus should be damaged (and for this purpose pipe coating or other
encasement or devices are to be considered as part of a substructure), they
shall be repaired by the agency or person owning them, but the utility owner
shall be reimbursed for the expense of such repairs by the permittee. It is the
intent of this part that the permittee shall assume all liability for damage to
substructures, and any resulting damage or injury to anyone because of such
substructure damage and such assumption of liability shall be deemed a
contractual obligation which the permittee accepts upon acceptance of an
excavation permit. The County need not be made a party to any action because of
this part. The permittee shall inform itself as to the existence and location
of all underground utilities and protect the same against damage. (Ord. O-2022-
39, 7-12-2022)
6-2-13: UTILITY PLACEMENT:
All utilities shall be installed at a minimum of thirty-six (36) inches below
ground level, with a ribbon placed in the trench twelve (12) inches above the
utility line. (Ord. O-2022-39, 7-12-2022)
CHAPTER 3
BLOCKING, IMPEDING, OR RESERVING ANY COUNTY PROPERTY OR RIGHT OF WAY
SECTION:
6-3-1: Permit Required
6-3-2: Penalty
6-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   No person or entity shall, without first obtaining a permit from the
County Roads Supervisor or other authorized representative of the County:
      1.   Store any material or objects upon any County owned roads, property,
or right of ways; or
      2.   Block, impede, or control the free access of use and travel through
County owned roads, property, or right of ways.
   B.   The person or entity obtaining the permit is solely responsible for
ensuring that suitable and sufficient barricades, signs, and supervision is
used where necessary to prevent accidents involving property or persons. (Ord.
O-2022-40, 7-12-2022)
6-3-2: PENALTIES:
Any violation of this Section is considered a class C misdemeanor, subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
Likewise, any violation of this Section is also considered a Nuisance, and the
perpetrator is subject to the requirements and penalties outlined in Title 4
Chapter 3 of the Kane County Ordinances. (Ord. O-2022-40, 7-12-2022)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION 1
(Rep. by Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9, chapter 26 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
7-2-3: Sanitary Sewers, Building Sewers And Connections
7-2-4: Use Regulations Of Public Sewers
7-2-5: Destructing Or Damaging Public Sewers
7-2-6: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
7-2-7: Penalty
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called house connection.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
DISTRICT INSPECTOR: The superintendent of Long Valley sewer improvement
district, or of any sewer within Kane County, but excluding the corporate
boundaries of any incorporated municipality. The term shall also mean the
authorized deputy, agent or representative of such person.
EASEMENT: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
FLOATABLE OIL: Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
GARBAGE: The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or business,
as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
MAY: Is permissive (see definition of Shall).
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface
water or groundwater.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10-7.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency, public
utility or a county district organized for the purpose of maintaining and
operating a sewer.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater and surface waters that are
not admitted intentionally.
SEWAGE: The spent water of an area within Kane County.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
SHALL: Is mandatory (see definition of May).
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty four (24)
hour concentration or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect
the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
STORM DRAIN OR STORM SEWER: A drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater,
subsurface water or unpolluted water from any source.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of,
or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods For The
Examination Of Water And Wastewater" and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of the area within a sewer district. From the
standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that
may be present.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or "water
pollution control plant".
WATERCOURSE: A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently. (Ord. 1980-1, 4-29-1980)
7-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Objectionable Waste: It shall be unlawful for any person to place,
deposit or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private
property within the county, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
county, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   B.   Polluted Waters: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the county, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the county,
any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Privy Or Similar Facility: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   D.   Availability Of Public Sewer: The owners of all houses, buildings or
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes,
situated within the county, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
county, and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of
any county sewer district or any municipal sewer serving the area, is hereby
required at the owner's expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter within ninety (90) days after
date of official notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within
three hundred feet (300') of the property line.
   E.   It shall be unlawful to construct or to continue the use of any other
sewage disposal system such as a privy, vault, cesspool, septic tank or other
onsite wastewater system on such a parcel or lot, except by written approval of
the relevant District Board in cases of undue hardship, which may include but
are not limited to a lack of easements or rights-of-way for service connection
pipelines or topographical limitations that would prevent a reasonable
connection to the system.
   F.   In the event that any district's wastewater collection system is
extended or modified to come within three hundred feet (300') of any parcel or
lot upon which an onsite wastewater system or alternative onsite wastewater
system has been or is being operated or to remove any undue hardship, the owner
or person having charge of the parcel or lot shall, at land owner's sole
expense and within ninety (90) days of the date of such extension or
modification, disconnect the parcel or lot from the onsite wastewater system or
alternative onsite wastewater system, abandon the system in compliance with
applicable law or regulation, pay applicable fees, and connect to the
wastewater collection system.
   G.   All new subdivisions and multiple lot/unit developments within the
wastewater service area of any district shall connect to the district's
wastewater collection system or shall otherwise participate in the wastewater
system. New subdivisions and multiple lot/unit developments shall be required
to connect to the wastewater system when reasonable access is available. In
general, reasonable access shall be considered as the subdivision or
development parcel being located within three hundred feet (300') multiplied by
the number of proposed lots or units, whichever is greater, of any of the
district's wastewater collection facilities, except by written approval of the
relevant District Board in cases of undue hardship. (Ord. 1980-1, 4-29-1980;
amd. Ord. 2020-22, 10-27-2020)
7-2-3: SANITARY SEWERS, BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required For Use: No unauthorized persons shall uncover, make
any connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the district
inspector.
   B.   Indemnification Of County For Costs And Expenses: All costs and
expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the building sewer
shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the county, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the county, from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   C.   Separate Connections Required; Exception: A separate and independent
building sewer shall be provided for every building; except, where one building
stands at the rear of another on an exterior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer, but the county, outside the corporate boundaries of any incorporated
municipality, does not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for
damage caused by or resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
   D.   Standards: The size, slope, alignment, materials or construction of all
sanitary sewers, including building sewers, and the methods to be used in
excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and backfilling the trench,
shall all conform to the requirements of the regulations of the public sewer
system within the area where the sewer system is made available to the public.
In the absence of suitable code provisions or in amplification thereon, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society Of Testing and Materials (ASTM) and the water pollution
control (WPCF) manual of practice no. 9 shall apply.
   E.   Elevation Of Building Sewer: Whenever possible, the building sewer
shall be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In
all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to
the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be
lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
   F.   Surface Drainage: No person shall make connection of roof downspouts,
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer, unless such connection is
approved by the district inspector for purposes of disposal of polluted surface
drainage.
   G.   Excavations For Installation: All excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the county outside the corporate boundaries of any incorporated
municipality. (Ord. 1980-1, 4-29-1980)
7-2-4: USE REGULATIONS OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   Unpolluted Waters: No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged
any unpolluted waters such as stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling water to any sewer; except, stormwater
runoff from limited areas, which stormwater may be polluted at times, may be
discharged to the sanitary sewer by permission of the superintendent of the
district having jurisdiction in the area.
   B.   Discharge Of Prohibited Water Or Wastes: No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any
public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
contaminate the sludge of any municipal system, to injure or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a
public nuisance, or create any hazard in or have an adverse effect on the
waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the wastewater works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities, such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, woods, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   C.   Limited Discharges: The following described substances, materials,
waters or waste shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to
concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater
treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property
or constitute a nuisance. The governing body regulating or supervising any
sewer system may set limitations lower than the limitations established in the
regulations below if in its opinion such more severe limitations are necessary
to meet the above objectives. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability,
the governing body will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of
subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity
of the wastewater treatment plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the
wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent factors. The limitations or
restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters discharged
to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval of the
governing body are as follows:
      1.   Wastewater having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65° Celsius).
      2.   Wastewater containing more than twenty five milligrams per liter (25
mg/l) of petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or product of mineral
oil origin.
      3.   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where
garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to such degree that any such material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds
the limits established by the governing board for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing odor producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the governing board.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the governing board in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      8.   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
"slug", as defined in section
7-2-1 of this chapter.
      9.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
      10.   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition
deleterious to structures and treatment processes.
   D.   Maintenance Of Pretreatment Facilities: Where pretreatment or flow
equalizing facilities are provided or required for any waters or wastes, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner at his expense.
   E.   Information May Be Required: The governing board may require a user of
sewer services to provide information needed to determine compliance with this
chapter. These requirements may include:
      1.   Wastewaters discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period.
      2.   Chemical analyses of wastewaters.
      3.   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality.
      4.   Quantity and disposition of specific liquid, sludge, oil, solvent or
other materials important to sewer use control.
      5.   A plot plan of sewers of the user's property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location.
      6.   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities.
      7.   Details of systems to prevent and control the loss of the materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
   F.   Methods Of Examination: All measurements, tests and analyses of the
characteristics of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter
shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods
For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater", published by the American Public
Health Association. Sampling methods, location, times, durations and
frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by
the district inspector. (Ord. 1980-1, 4-29-1980)
7-2-5: DESTRUCTING OR DAMAGING PUBLIC SEWERS:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord.
1980-1, 4-29-1980)
7-2-6: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Entrance Authority: The governing board of any sewer district and other
duly authorized employees of a sewer district or sewer facility bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing
pertinent to discharge to the community system in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Information Concerning Industrial Processes: The governing board of any
sewer district or other duly authorized employees are authorized to obtain
information concerning industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the wastewater collection system. The industry
may withhold information considered confidential. The industry must establish
that the revelation to the public of the information in question might result
in an advantage to competitors.
   C.   Safety Rules Observed: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to herein, the superintendent or duly authorized employees
or the governing board of any sewer district having jurisdiction shall observe
all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the governing board
employees, and the governing board shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by governing board employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may
be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions
as required.
   D.   Private Properties; Easements: The superintendent and other duly
authorized employees of the governing board of any sewer district having
jurisdiction bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted
to enter all private properties through which the governing board holds a duly
negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observations, measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of
the wastewater facilities lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent
work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms
of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 1980-1, 4-29-1980)
7-2-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter shall be served by the county with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. Two (2) days shall be the maximum, and eight
(8) hours minimum, shall be conclusively deemed to be a reasonable time for the
giving and the receipt of such notice. Notice shall be deemed fully and
adequately given if mailed, postage prepaid, regular U.S. mail, or delivered to
any person of suitable age residing or in possession of any premises involved
in the violation. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such
notice, permanently cease all violations.
   B.   Criminal Penalty: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond
the time limit provided in subsection A of this section, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in any amount less
than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each violation. Each day in which any
such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Liability For Damage: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the governing board of any sewer facility
for any expenses, loss or damage occasioned by that agency by reason of such
violation. (Ord. 1980-1, 4-29-1980)
TITLE 8
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Codes Adopted
8-1-2: Revisions
8-1-3: Building Permit
8-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
Certain documents, one copy each of which is on file in the office of the
county clerk, being marked and designated as the international building code
(IBC), international residential code (IRC), national electrical code (NEC),
international plumbing code (IPC), international mechanical code (IMC),
international fire code (IFC), and all other building codes as adopted by the
state, be and is hereby adopted as the building codes of the county, for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and
the demolition of such structures as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said building codes
on file in the office of the county are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the addition,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
8-1-2 of this chapter. The adoption of any and all codes as the adopted codes
of the county, as established herein, shall also adopt any amended, replaced or
successor codes as they become adopted by the state and shall become effective
by the county immediately upon passage by the state. (Ord. 2005-4, 11-21-2005;
amd. 2011 Code)
8-1-2: REVISIONS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
   IBC section 101.1 Insert: Kane County.
   IBC section 1612.3 Insert: Kane County.
   IBC section 1612.3 Insert: January 10, 1978.
(Ord. 2005-4, 11-21-2005)
8-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT:
   A.   When a building permit is required as set forth in state law or county
ordinance, a person shall apply for and obtain a building permit before
performing any construction activities for the proposed project that requires a
building permit.
   B.   The Building Official shall create and approve the form for any
building permit. The County Commission shall establish the fees for the
building permit by resolution.
   C.   Once issued, building permits are valid for one hundred eighty (180)
days from the date of issuance. All construction must begin within the one
hundred eighty (180) day period. After the one hundred eighty (180) day period,
the permit expires unless an extension is applied for and granted as set forth
in this section.
   D.   In the case where construction has commenced and at least one building
inspection has taken place within the initial one hundred eighty (180) days but
the project remains unfinished prior to the expiration of the initial one
hundred eight (180) days, the applicant may apply for and be given an extension
by paying a fifteen dollar ($15.00) extension fee. Upon approval from the Kane
County Building Department, the permit will then be extended an additional one
hundred eighty (180) days.
   E.   An applicant may apply for a renewal of a building permit after the
permit expires by paying a reinstatement fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
Any renewed building permit may be subject to new building code regulations
that became effective before the renewal date.
   F.   A building permit may only be extended for a total of six (6)
consecutive years from the original issue date of the permit and may only be
renewed within six (6) years from the original issue date of the permit. After
six (6) years from the original issue date the property owner will need to
reapply for a new permit. If a new building permit is required, the new
building permit fees will be calculated using only the construction left to be
completed. (Ord. O-2023-18, 4-25-2023)
CHAPTER 2
FENCES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Collection Of Damages From Trespassing Livestock
8-2-2: Cost Of Construction Between Landowners
8-2-1: COLLECTION OF DAMAGES FROM TRESPASSING LIVESTOCK:
Except as hereinafter provided, no person, firm, corporation or entity,
government or otherwise, shall be entitled to collect damages, and no court in
this jurisdiction shall award damages for any trespass of livestock from
adjoining property on farms, ranches, subdivisions, private property or land
belonging to the state, or the United States, in the county, if such land at
the time of such trespass has not been enclosed by a suitable fence properly
maintained, unless said damaged owner has offered to share the cost of
constructing and maintaining a suitable fence with the adjoining owner whose
livestock have trespassed and the latter has refused to participate in the
costs associated with said fence. (Ord. 76/1994-1, 3-14-1994)
8-2-2: COST OF CONSTRUCTION BETWEEN LANDOWNERS:
Unless otherwise agreed in writing between the parties, the cost of
construction of any such fence between the adjoining landowners or users shall
be divided equally. Subject to written agreement to the contrary, the cost of
maintenance thereafter shall also be shared equally unless said fence is
damaged or destroyed by the neglect or intentional act of one landowner or
user, in which case, the person damaging or destroying said fence shall be
solely responsible for repairs. (Ord. 76/1994-1, 3-14-1994)
CHAPTER 3
ADDRESSING SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-3-1: Title
8-3-2: Purpose
8-3-3: Legal Authority
8-3-4: Effect On Local Government Ordinances
8-3-5: Definitions
8-3-6: Implementation
8-3-7: Maintenance And Access
8-3-8: Penalty
8-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the KANE COUNTY ADDRESSING ORDINANCE, and
hereinafter referred to as this chapter. (Ord. 2007-6, 11-26-2007, eff. 12-17-
2007)
8-3-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a reliable and consistent system of
assigning unique addresses to buildings and properties within the county, to be
known as the Kane County addressing system (hereinafter "the system"). Such a
system is deemed necessary for the public health and safety in the following
respects:
   A.   It will improve response time by police, fire, ambulance and other
emergency services;
   B.   It will provide a basis for the development of subsystems which can
automatically and quickly generate specific, reliable directions for drivers
from any starting location to any destination within the county;
   C.   It will prevent and resolve duplications of addresses and route names,
confusing or misleading addresses and multiple addresses for a single location.
Further benefits to the county and its residents from such a system are as
follows:
      1.   It will improve the delivery of public services such as building
inspections, road and infrastructure repair and maintenance, soil evaluations,
utility installation and service, health inspections, property tax
administration, property mapping, school busing and other public services;
      2.   It will provide for coordination among the mapping and geographic
information systems (GIS) in use by various public utilities, parcel delivery
and governmental and quasi- governmental entities operating in the county;
      3.   It will provide a clear, rational procedure for assigning new
addresses and street names within the county as the need shall arise. (Ord.
2007-6, 11-26-2007, eff. 12-17-2007)
8-3-3: LEGAL AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 17-50-304,
police, building and sanitary regulations, and Utah Code Annotated section 17-
53-223, ordinances. (Ord. 2007-6, 11-26-2007, eff. 12-17-2007)
8-3-4: EFFECT ON LOCAL GOVERNMENT ORDINANCES:
This chapter is not binding upon any incorporated city or town, except to the
extent such city or town shall enter into an interlocal agreement consenting to
the application hereof within its boundaries. (Ord. 2007-6, 11-26-2007, eff.
12-17-2007)
8-3-5: DEFINITIONS:
For use in this chapter, the following terms or words shall be interpreted or
defined as follows:
ACCESS POINT: The point where a particular property is entered from a given
route, such as the end of a driveway or lane. Where a house or other location
being assigned an address is a substantial distance, as determined by the
administrator, from the access point, the administrator shall include such
information.
ADDRESS: The unique identification of a parcel of real property or structure,
consisting of numerical and directional coordinates, a route name and such
other information as may be included by the administrator, in order to identify
the location and establish directions for reaching it.
ADDRESS ADMINISTRATOR (Also The Administrator): The building official or person
designated by the building official.
BLOCK, BLOCK INTERVAL: Referring to city or town plats, a block is the distance
between streets numbered in multiples of one hundred (100) according to the
distance from the center of the grid. The actual distance in feet may vary with
locale. Routes which are not located at standard block locations in the grid
will be assigned a coordinate indicating their position from the center using
the standard block scale in the grid.
BUILDING: Any structure consisting of a roof supported by columns or walls
which is used or intended for sheltering or being occupied by human beings,
animals or personal property. Not all buildings must be assigned addresses.
COUNTY: Kane County, state of Utah.
FRONTAGE UNIT: The standard interval in feet used to assign consecutive address
numbers on a given route. Where possible, the standard block is based on eight
(8) blocks per mile so a frontage unit would be 6.6 feet. In many cases,
circumstances will cause a block to be longer or shorter, in which case the
frontage unit will have to be determined by dividing the length of the block by
one hundred (100).
GIS: Geographical information systems, computer software and databases which
store and automate the representation and analysis of information dealing with
land, structures, improvements and features, both upon and below the earth.
GPS: The global positioning system developed by the U.S. department of defense,
which allows persons on the ground to identify specific locations in three (3)
dimensions using a receiver capable of reading signals from satellites in the
system. The specific coordinate system to be used shall be determined by the
administrator.
GEOCODING: The process of identifying routes using a GIS system from survey and
GPS data and converting them to digital data used by such systems. The process
of locating individual properties along a given route and assigning an address
to it is called reverse geocoding.
GRID: The area of the county designated pursuant to this chapter in which
addresses are derived using a center point. The Kane County address grid map
has already been adopted by the Kane County commission. These grids are based
on the center point in a city or town, or other geographical reference point.
These grids considered rough zip code, prefix and existing city, town and/or
subdivision boundaries.
LYMAN PLAN: The system widely adopted in Utah by cities and towns in which
routes are laid out on a grid, with routes and addresses named according to
their distance from a center point established when the area was settled,
increasing by one hundred (100) with each block.
MAP: The graphical representation of the property parcels, buildings and other
sites identified and addressed under this chapter. No single map shall
constitute an official document; however, since the data used to produce maps
change continuously, and each map produced from them is merely a representation
of these data at one point in time. The GIS department of the county maintains
this information, called a database, and prints maps as needed from time to
time. No warranty is given as to the accuracy of such maps, and Kane County
disclaims any liability for errors which may appear in them or the database on
which they are based.
PARTICIPANT: The following municipalities, agencies or entities:
   A.   All elected officials and/or appointed department heads of Kane County.
   B.   All incorporated municipalities, school districts, special districts
and state agencies entering into interlocal agreements with Kane County
agreeing to participate in the addressing system established by this chapter.
   C.   Any federal agency which enters into a memorandum of understanding
agreeing to participate in the addressing system established by this chapter.
   D.   Public utilities providing telephone, natural gas or electric power
services within the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Kane County,
including participants in the 911 system of emergency notification and
dispatching.
   E.   Any other interested party requesting to be notified of addresses
assigned hereunder; provided, that such party must provide the administrator
with the party's e-mail address and a name, postal address and telephone
number. Such notifications will only be sent by e-mail.
ROUTE: For purposes of this chapter, all public thoroughfares, including
streets, roads, highways, alleys, ways, lanes or other passageways for motor
vehicles, as defined in Utah Code Annotated section 41-1a-102(33), which are
open to the public by right shall be referred to in this chapter as "routes" in
order to simplify descriptions and avoid confusion in this chapter, but actual
designations as streets, roads, etc., shall not be affected.
ROUTE NAME: The name established pursuant to this chapter for a public
travelway, regardless of whether it is otherwise known as a street, road,
highway, route, avenue or any other like designation.
SUBDIVISION: Any property requiring approval as a subdivision under Utah Code
Annotated section 17-27-103(w). (Ord. 2007-6, 11-26-2007, eff. 12-17-2007)
8-3-6: IMPLEMENTATION:
   A.   Guidelines; General Standards: In administering and assigning street
names and addresses pursuant to this chapter, the following guidelines are
intended as general standards to be observed to the extent they are reasonably
practical:
      1.   Currently assigned addresses should be retained wherever it can be
done without creating confusion and duplication of addresses, especially when
they have been used in legal documents, such as deeds, plats, mortgages and
documents defining boundaries of legal entities. However, changes should be
made where, in the opinion of the administrator, they are necessary to correct
confusing addresses, such as numbers which are out of order or duplicated;
where a particular property has been assigned more than one address by
different entities; or where a current address is so inconsistent with
geocoding as to conflict with the overall consistency and meaning of the
addressing system.
      2.   In determining the boundaries of grids used in assigning addresses,
the administrator's determination of boundaries shall govern, so long as such
boundaries are clear and can be readily recognized by emergency personnel.
      3.   Addresses should be assigned consecutively, reserving a separate
address for each frontage unit on a route, so as to allow for future
interpolations of new addresses as properties fronting on routes are subdivided
and developed.
      4.   Addresses should be consistent with the actual GPS coordinates of
the property, but exact correspondence is not necessary.
      5.   Route identifications shall include sufficient information to
prevent confusion and to allow county agencies to identify the route throughout
its entire length.
      6.   Addresses for homes and/or main buildings on a property should be
odd numbers on the left side of a route when one is generally traveling away
from the center point of the grid, and even numbers on the other. There is a
general preference for primary addresses ending in "5" or "0" to the extent
practical, given the lot frontage available, as may be determined by the
administrator.
      7.   Generally, only buildings normally occupied by human beings should
be assigned addresses routinely under this chapter; provided, however, that
other sites or structures may be addressed upon request where the address may
be helpful in emergencies, such as electrical substations, telephone booths,
gas and oil wells, dams, water gates, service boxes, valves, pumping or
compressor sites, etc. Such sites may be assigned addresses upon submission of
a request by the owner, including the GPS coordinates and a description of the
site, structure or building, and explaining the need for the assignment of a
unique address hereunder.
      8.   Route names shall be determined based on information provided to and
recorded in the county recorder's office or names as assigned by the county
transportation director. Route names shall not be duplicated within an address
grid. Route names that are similar but start with a different word will be
accepted, but duplicate names with different suffixes will not be allowed.
      9.   The county commission shall have the authority to correct route
names where none exist, duplications are present within the same grid or deemed
necessary for the public health and safety.
      10.   Routes will not be allowed to circle without a change in name to
avoid duplicated address ranges. Whenever possible, main route names will use
the grid number as the street name in new developments. Meaning that if a
relatively straight route happens to be on or very near a grid line, the line
number (2800 South) should be used. This will help as a reference to the rest
of the address grid but is not mandatory.
   B.   Addressing Committee:
      1.   There is created an county addressing committee, which shall meet as
necessary to carry out its duties under this chapter.
      2.   The county addressing committee shall consist of the following:
         a.   The administrator;
         b.   The county recorder;
         c.   The county transportation/GIS director;
         d.   The county sheriff or designee;
         e.   The county 911 director.
      3.   For meetings involving properties within corporate limits of any
municipality, the mayor or other municipal official designated by such
municipality shall be invited to meet with the addressing committee.
      4.   Other county department heads shall be invited to participate as the
administrator shall deem helpful or necessary.
   C.   Procedure For Establishing System:
      1.   The administrator shall:
         a.   Review and identify current route names and addresses of all
properties having current addresses within the county, including those within
incorporated areas.
         b.   Provide an analysis identifying inconsistencies, misleading
addresses and other problems.
         c.   Geocode all existing routes in the county, including those within
municipalities.
         d.   Consult with the provider of 911 telephone service in
establishing policies for administering the addressing system.
         e.   Provide an overview of problems with present addresses and
recommendations for resolving the same, and submit the same to the county
commission and other elected officials and department heads of the county, as
well as affected municipalities and public utilities.
         f.   Produce maps, digital disks and other documents needed to depict
the addresses and parcels affected by this addressing system.
      2.   The administrator shall make approved changes in the address
database and prepare maps incorporating said changes. These maps shall be of
sufficient scale and detail to allow all properties assigned addresses to be
identified, including names for roads and house numbers for existing buildings.
      3.   The county clerk-auditor shall give notification to all others by
official notice in newspapers of general circulation in the county, stating:
         a.   The maps are available for inspection at the county courthouse or
at participating municipalities during business hours or on the county website.
         b.   The date the system will take effect.
         c.   The suggested standards for address numbers and placement
thereof.
         d.   The importance of posting the new number as soon as possible so
as to ensure emergency services and delivery of parcels.
         e.   Objections and complaints regarding the changes must be submitted
in writing to the administrator and the deadline for submitting the same.
      4.   The administrator, not less than a month following such notice,
shall review all objections and complaints received and present recommendations
to the addressing committee and present the system to public hearings on the
county level as well as in each municipality proposed to be included in the
system for the purpose of answering questions and receiving comments from the
public. Following such public comment, the addressing committee shall make
final changes in the system, and notify the participants of any changes
adopted.
      5.   Thereafter, the official data comprising the addressing system shall
be that stored within the county GIS computers, as it is updated and secured.
(Ord. 2007-6, 11-26-2007, eff. 12-17-2007)
8-3-7: MAINTENANCE AND ACCESS:
   A.   Administrator Duties: The addressing system administrator shall have
the following duties:
      1.   Understand and remain current in technology underlying the operation
of the system.
      2.   Cause to be carried out tasks assigned elsewhere in this chapter
involving geocoding, reverse geocoding, selecting or reviewing route names,
communicating current data to appropriate persons, updating and backing up
databases, printing maps, etc.
      3.   Prepare reports on the operation of the addressing system as needed,
advise the county commission on technical issues related thereto and coordinate
with other officials, municipalities, departments or agencies involved in its
function.
      4.   Prepare maps or copies of digital data for participants and make
them available for public inspection or publish them on the county internet
website.
   B.   Notices: Whenever route names or addresses shall be changed or added to
the established system, the administrator shall notify the persons and agencies
whom are affected by such changes. This notice may be given via e-mail.
   C.   Address Signs: The posting of new address signs in compliance with this
chapter shall be mandatory and the numbers shall be a minimum of three inches
(3").
      1.   The county finds that generally the most useful signs for the
purposes of this chapter are located near the entrance to the property,
unobstructed, legible to traffic on the route from which the property is
entered in both directions, double sided and reflective, and of such size as to
be legible in all lighting conditions. Signs including the route name are
preferable, but not necessary and need not match the size of the numbers. The
addressing committee shall adopt or designate more specific standards for
individual addresses, but route name signs shall conform to standards
applicable throughout the state.
      2.   In order to prevent confusion and delay in delivery of emergency
services, signs or numbers depicting addresses which have been changed pursuant
to this chapter shall be removed from the properties on which they are affixed.
      3.   Failure after written notice from the county or municipality in
which a property is located to remove old addresses shall be a violation of
this chapter.
      4.   Altering, modifying, removing or changing a valid property address
number on any property to which this chapter applies shall be a violation of
this chapter.
      5.   The addressing committee shall consider measures to encourage
installation of suitable signage throughout the county through local merchants,
fire departments, civic groups or youth groups in order to make such signs
available for purchase at reasonable prices.
      6.   Participating municipalities may establish requirements and
standards for addresses within their own boundaries, remembering the purpose
for which this system is established. The county shall be responsible for
erecting signs identifying routes within the unincorporated areas within its
borders. Participating municipalities shall be responsible for installing
street signs within their limits.
   D.   New Buildings: Every new building erected for residential, commercial
or industrial use on or after the effective date hereof, shall be assigned an
address during the building inspection process. The GPS coordinates shall be
determined by the building inspector and communicated to the administrator, who
shall assign a street address to the structure and enter the same into the
address database and communicate the same to the building inspector, who shall
advise the property owner of the address and require that it be posted on the
property. The administrator shall communicate the address and owner to the
agency which administers 911 service in the county, as well as county
departments, the municipality in which the property is located, each public
utility serving the location, and such other persons or entities as may request
such information, providing an e-mail address where such information may be
sent. The owner of each property being assigned a new address shall be given a
copy of the guidelines in subsection C of this section.
   E.   New Routes:
      1.   Whenever a new subdivision is proposed in the county or any
municipality participating in the addressing system, the person proposing the
same shall advise the administrator of the locations of all lots and any routes
to be created by the subdivision, including a preliminary plat where a plat is
required. The administrator shall review the proposed route names to determine
that they are unique, not misleading or confusing and are in compliance with
the requirements of the system, such as length, use of reserved terms, etc.;
and shall geocode them and reverse geocode the lots proposed to be created; and
shall notify the agency involved of his findings and the addresses assigned. No
subdivision plat shall be approved by the county without a certificate from the
administrator that the route names and any addresses contained therein have
been cleared. Participating municipalities should amend their subdivision
ordinances to include this procedure as a condition for plat approval, as well.
Upon the submission of any plat, or resolution approving a subdivision not
requiring a plat, the county recorder shall notify the administrator so that
the address database may be updated accordingly.
      2.   Other routes established by the county or any city, state or federal
agency as a public route shall be geocoded and entered into the database as
soon as the final alignment thereof is established.
      3.   The administrator may add private lanes, driveways, etc., which
serve multiple addressable sites as routes under the system, in consultation
with the property owners affected.
   F.   Changing Route Names: Property owners or residents with addresses on a
given route may petition the county, or municipality in which such route is
situated, to change the name of such route, as follows:
      1.   The petition must be in writing and signed by not less than sixty
percent (60%) of the persons, businesses or others having addresses on such
route.
      2.   The petition shall include the typed names, addresses and telephone
numbers of the petitioners.
      3.   The petition shall propose both a first and second choice for a new
name for the route.
      4.   The petition shall be filed at the office of the county clerk-
auditor and a copy thereof provided to the administrator. The administrator
shall review each such petition and determine whether the proposed name change
is acceptable in the same manner as in subsection E of this section, as well as
the cost of replacing route signs required to implement the name change
requested; and shall inform the parties requesting it. Such costs shall be
submitted by the petitioners prior to further consideration of the petition. If
the costs are remitted and the name change sought is acceptable, the
administrator shall notify any municipality which would be affected and, if no
objections are received, may approve the change and notify affected entities
and addressees of the change.
      5.   If objections are received, the administrator shall consider said
objections under the initial review process. Any appeal must be submitted in
writing within ten (10) days of the decision and will be reviewed by the
addressing committee.
      6.   The administrator shall have the authority to make route name
changes when deemed necessary to meet the provisions of this chapter.
      7.   Any route name changes must be filed with the recorder's office
through a "route name change". The route name change document shall include the
purpose/intention of the change, clearly identify the subdivision and street
(attach maps) and must be signed by the administrator and notarized. (Ord.
2007-6, 11-26-2007, eff. 12-17-2007)
8-3-8: PENALTY:
Violations of any part of this chapter shall be a class C misdemeanor, subject
to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2007-6, 11-26-2007, eff. 12-17-2007; amd. 2011 Code)
TITLE 9
LAND USE
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-2: Kane County Land Use Philosophy
9-1-3: Intent And Purpose
9-1-4: Interpretation
9-1-5: Conflict
9-1-6: Effect Upon Previous Ordinances And Maps
9-1-7: Definitions
9-1-8: Inspection
9-1-9: Enforcement
9-1-10: Nuisance And Abatement
9-1-11: Amendments To The Land Use Ordinance
9-1-12: Publication And Notice Of Hearings
9-1-13: Issuance Of Permits And Licenses
9-1-14: Fees
9-1-15: Severability
9-1-16: Penalties
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the LAND USE ORDINANCE OF KANE COUNTY, UTAH. (Ord.
2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-1-2: KANE COUNTY LAND USE PHILOSOPHY:
There has been, in the United States over the last several decades, a strong
trend of increasing governmental control over private property rights and uses.
This trend has resulted in the loss of property rights in favor of governmental
oversight, regulation and planning concepts. The overall purpose of this trend
is to increase orderly growth. However, this end is accomplished overwhelmingly
by the use of restrictive laws and ordinances that effectively seize property
rights from property owners. Kane County believes that this trend encroaches
severely on the inalienable right of property ownership. This land use title
and other county ordinances are purposefully kept in many ways as lenient as
state statute will allow. Other tougher restrictions are kept as minimal as
possible to ensure a balance between the individual's property rights and the
property rights of the neighbors. To this end, property owners of Kane County
should realize that by retaining as much of their rights as possible, they also
retain the associated responsibilities.
In addition to preserving individual property rights, Kane County believes that
the individual, not the taxpayers collectively, should be responsible for the
individual's own living conditions. We hold it to be a violation of principle
to use general public funds for spot improvements that only benefit localized
areas. As such, it is Kane County policy to refuse to participate in spot
infrastructure improvements which benefit only a localized area yet burden the
taxpayers at large. If property owners collectively desire, they can petition
the county to assist in the creation of a special improvement district which
places the financial burden of the improvements on the area being improved. In
this way the county reduces both the regulation and the taxes placed on the
property owners. Kane County property taxes collected and deposited in the
general fund are designated among other things to maintain public
infrastructure not to improve it. To that end, Kane County will continue to
focus on the wise use of the general fund in maintaining current improvements
and future improvements once they have met county standards.
Kane County has sought to keep this land use title within the spirit of the
"Declaration Of Independence" and recognizes that one of the hallmark benefits
of a free society is the retained rights of private property to their owner. To
that end, we include this quote from the "Declaration Of Independence" in this
title as a governing principle that we seek to follow.
We hold these Truths to be self-evident, that all Men are created equal, that
they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among
these are Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness. --That to secure these
Rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just Powers from
the Consent of the Governed...
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-1-3: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
It is the intent and purpose of the board of county commissioners of Kane
County, state of Utah, to avail itself of the powers granted under Utah state
code section 17-27a-101 et al., the county land use, development, and
management act (CLUDMA), as amended, only in a manner that will promote the
health, safety, morals, convenience, order, prosperity, and general welfare of
the present and future inhabitants of Kane County as seems appropriate in a
rural setting, to this end:
   A.   To implement the general plan and to guide the future growth of the
county in compliance with the general plan.
   B.   To regulate land use in a manner that will encourage and facilitate
orderly growth and development in the county.
   C.   To provide land use regulations for the unincorporated areas of the
county.
   D.   To enable economy in government expenditures in the process of
development.
   E.   To promote the efficient and economical utilization, conservation, and
production of land, water, and other resources and facilities.
   F.   To foster the county's agricultural, commercial and industrial
development.
   G.   To facilitate adequate provisions for transportation, water, sewer,
schools, parks, and other public requirements.
   H.   To reduce the waste of physical, financial, and human resources.
   I.   To lessen congested streets.
   J.   To avoid or lessen the hazards to persons or damage to property.
   K.   To stabilize and improve property values.
   L.   To protect the tax base.
   M.   To promote a more attractive and wholesome environment.
   N.   To promote conditions favorable to prosperity, recreational activities,
educational, and cultural opportunities.
   O.   To support the use of energy conservation methods, i.e., solar and
renewable energy sources.
   P.   To protect both urban and nonurban development.
   Q.   To encourage a variety of housing types and promote moderate income
housing.
   R.   To assist the public in identifying and understanding regulations
affecting the development and use of land.
   S.   To enforce the provisions of this title and to minimize the exceptions
and variances, hereto. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements
contained herein are declared to be the minimum requirements for the purpose
set forth. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-1-5: CONFLICT:
This title shall prevail notwithstanding such other provisions of Kane County
Code which are less restrictive. To the extent that any provision of this title
conflicts with another provision of this title, the more restrictive provision
will apply. To the extent that this title creates a limitation or restriction
that conflicts with an express authorization from Utah state law, and the to
the extent that this title creates an express authorization that conflicts with
an express restriction or limitation from Utah state law, the conflicting
provisions of Utah state law govern. Any and all clear conflict of laws shall
be resolved in favor of Utah state law. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-
2013; amd. Ord. O-2023-13, 11-28-2023)
9-1-6: EFFECT UPON PREVIOUS ORDINANCES AND MAPS:
All land use ordinances of Kane County, Utah, including maps that were enacted
prior to June 13, 2011, are hereby superseded, amended and repealed to read as
set forth herein. All previous designated land uses, legally vested within Kane
County, Utah, and having been subject to continuous prior conforming use, shall
remain unaffected by subsequent land use designations and ordinances. (Ord.
2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-1-7: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, certain words and terms are defined as set
forth below. Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the
singular number include the plural and the plural the singular; words not
included herein but defined in the building code shall be construed as if
defined herein. All general provision definitions of Utah state code 17-27a-101
et al., as amended, not inconsistent with the definitions set forth herein, are
adopted as if set forth fully herein. If any definition set forth herein is
inconsistent with any definition set forth in Utah state code and if said Utah
state code as a matter of law is binding on this title, the inconsistent
portion of the definition set forth herein shall not have any effect.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: A use or building on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental to
                           the principal building or use.
ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE    The land use administrator.
AUTHORITY:
                           An industry or business involving agricultural products in manufacturing, packaging,
AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRY OR   treatment, sales, intensive feeding or storage, including, but not limited to,
BUSINESS:                  animal feed yards, fur farms, food packaging or processing plants, commercial
                           poultry or egg production.
                           New or existing agriculturally related accessory uses designed to bring the public
                           to a working farm, ranch, or other commercial agricultural, aquacultural,
                           horticultural, or forestry operation, which may include overnight accommodations,
AGRICULTURAL TOURISM       for the enjoyment of, education about, or participation in agricultural activities
(AGRITOURISM):             such as: farm animal viewing and petting, wagon rides, corn maze, tree farm, pumpkin
                           patch, winery tours and wine tasting, farm or ranch activities tours, horticulture
                           nurseries and associated display gardens, provide recreation, entertainment and
                           educational experiences, classes or workshops and similar uses.
                           Land shall be deemed to be in agricultural use when devoted to the raising
                           cultivation, drying, harvesting, marketing, production, or storage of agricultural
AGRICULTURAL USE:          products, including both crops and livestock, for sale or use in agriculture or
                           agricultural production, or the storage of machinery or equipment used in support of
                           agricultural production.
                           Any area of land or water designed and set aside for the landing and taking off of
AIRPORT:                   aircraft plus maintenance and auxiliary facilities and auxiliary buildings for
                           maintenance.
ALTERATIONS, STRUCTURAL:   Any changes, addition or modification in the supporting members of a building such
                           as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
AMUSEMENT PARK:            Any place or organized amusement activity not conducted wholly within a completely
                           enclosed building.
                           A lot or facility where animals are stabled or confined and fed or maintained for
ANIMAL FEED LOT:           any period of time, that also does not fall under the definition of Animal Feeding
                           Operation, Large CAFO-Heavy, or Large CAFO-Light.
                           A lot or facility where the following conditions are met:
                              A.   Animals have been, are, or will be stabled or confined and fed or maintained
ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION:  for a total of 45 days or more in any 12-month period; and
                              B.   Crops, vegetation, forage growth, or post-harvest residues are not sustained
                           in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or facility.
                           Any facility regardless of location within the County involved in activities of
                           commerce pertaining to the harboring, breeding, boarding, sheltering or holding of
ANIMAL SHELTER,            domestic animals of a nonagricultural nature and not involved in the production of
COMMERCIAL:                dairy products, meats for consumption, fur or pelts. This definition shall also
                           include privately held shelters in which more than fifteen (15) animals of any type
                           are kept for any purpose.
                           Any privately held property in the County being used for the holding, private
ANIMAL SHELTER, PRIVATE:   breeding or otherwise harboring or sheltering the maximum allowed household pets
                           over the age of four (4) months, as designated in the applicable zone.
ANNEXATION AREA:           The unincorporated area that is identified in an annexation policy plan under State
                           Code as the area that the Municipality anticipates annexing in the future1.
APARTMENT:                 A room or suite of rooms rented or leased for use as a dwelling place.
                           A person appointed by the Kane County Commission to hear appeals by any person
APPEAL AUTHORITY:          aggrieved by his/her inability to obtain a building permit, or by the decision of
                           any administrative officer or agency based upon or made in the course of the
                           administration or enforcement of the provisions of this title.
                           A residential facility, licensed by the State of Utah, with a homelike setting that
                           provides an array of coordinated supportive personal and healthcare services,
                           available twenty four (24) hours per day, to residents who have been assessed under
                           rules of the Utah Department of Health or the Utah Department of Human Services to
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY:  need any of these services. Each resident shall have a service plan based on the
                           assessment, which may include: a) specified services of intermittent nursing care;
                           b) administration of medication; and c) support services promoting residents’
                           independence and self-sufficiency. Such facility does not include adult daycare
                           provided in conjunction with a residential facility for elderly persons or a
                           residential facility for persons with a disability.
BARNDOMINIUM:              A non-traditional structure, typically constructed of a steel frame and sheet metal
                           siding that has room for both living quarters and a shop or garage area.
BASEMENT:                  The floor level of a structure when fifty percent (50%) or more is below the
                           surrounding grade.
BASEMENT HOUSE:            A residential one-story structure that is more than fifty percent (50%) under the
                           surface of the surrounding grade.
                           A building of residential design, in which the property owner or manager personally
BED AND BREAKFAST:         resides on premises, where one or more rooms, but not more than five (5) rooms are
                           rented out by the day, with a maximum building occupancy of ten (10) individuals,
                           and may offer meal services to overnight guests only.
BENCH MARK:                A mark affixed to a permanent or semipermanent object to furnish a datum level in
                           survey.
                           A freestanding ground sign located on industrial, commercial, or residential
BILLBOARD:                 property if the sign is designed or intended to direct attention to a business,
                           product, or service that is not sold, offered, or existing on the property where the
                           sign is located.
BOARDING HOUSE:            A dwelling where room and meals are provided for compensation for at least five (5)
                           but not more than fifteen (15) persons.
BUILDING:                  Any structure used or intended to be used for the shelter or enclosure of persons,
                           animals or property.
BUILDING AREA:             The portion of a lot remaining after required setbacks have been established.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF:       The vertical distance from the average finished grade surface to the highest point
                           of the building roof or coping.
BUILDING, MAIN:            The principal building housing the principal use upon a lot.
BUILDING OFFICIAL:         The person responsible for the administration, interpretation and enforcement of the
                           building, housing, plumbing electrical and related codes.
BUILDING, PUBLIC:          A building owned and/or operated or owned and intended to be operated by a public
                           agency.
                           A parcel with improvements for the occupancy in temporary structures; which
                           includes, day use areas, recreation camps, modern camps, semi-developed campgrounds,
CAMPGROUND:                primitive, and semi-primitive campgrounds as defined in Utah Administrative Code
                           R393-300. Exceptions include rural unimproved subdivisions that can only be used for
                           agricultural purposes as defined in Utah State Code 59-2-502.>
ANNABIS:                   See MARIJUANA.
CAR WASH:                  A facility for automatic or self-service washing and cleaning of automobiles and
                           trucks.
                           Any facility regardless of location within the County involved in activities of
                           commerce pertaining to the harboring, breeding, boarding, sheltering or holding of
CATTERY, COMMERCIAL:       domestic cats, regardless of the number of animals. The definition shall also
                           include private held catteries in which more than fifteen (15) domestic cats are
                           housed for any purpose.
                           Premises on which the holding, private breeding or otherwise harboring or shelter of
CATTERY, PRIVATE:          four (4) cats over the age of four (4) months and a maximum number of cats as
                           designated in the appropriate underlying zone.
CELLAR:                    A room or rooms wholly under the surface of the ground.
                           A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, maintained and
CHURCH:                    controlled by an officially organized religious organization where persons regularly
                           assemble for worship.
                           A building in which a group of dentists, physicians and allied medical professional
CLINIC, MEDICAL,           assistants are associated for the conduct of their professions. The clinic may
CHIROPRACTIC OR DENTAL:    include a dental and/or medical laboratory and an apothecary, but it shall not
                           include inpatient care or operating rooms for major surgery.
COMMERCIAL:                For profit or nonprofit business.
COMMISSION:                Unless otherwise indicated, the County Commission of Kane County, Utah.
                           A facility licensed by or contracted by the State of Utah to provide temporary
                           occupancy for previously incarcerated persons which assists such persons in making a
COMMUNITY CORRECTIONAL     transition from a correctional institution environment to independent living. Such a
FACILITY:                  facility may also provide ancillary, temporary occupancy for individuals placed as
                           part of, or in lieu of, confinement rehabilitation, or treatment in a correctional
                           institution.
                           A zone in the unincorporated area of the County that falls outside of any municipal
COMMUNITY ZONE:            boundary or annexation zone that requires a minimum of 640 acres; which the County's
                           Land Use Authority designates as a potential municipality site.
                           Generalized layout of a proposed subdivision/Planned Unit Development with
CONCEPT PLAN:              accompanying general proposals and intentions of the subdivider and relating the
                           proposed subdivision/PUD to its area, to public facilities and services and to
                           special problems that may arise in the development of a subdivision/PUD.
CONDITIONAL USE:           A use of land for which a conditional use permit is required. Utah State Code
                           section 17-27a-103(6).
CONDOMINIUM:               A housing or residential complex in which there are separate unit, with each unit
                           being owned by an individual.
                           A camp or other residential area of a temporary nature established for a period of
                           five (5) or more days for the housing of four (4) or more persons engaged in
CONSTRUCTION CAMP:         activities related to construction, mining and logging. Camps established for
                           hunting, fishing, recreation or agricultural purposes are excluded from the
                           definition of a construction camp.
CORRAL:                    An enclosure, other than a building less than one acre in area, used for the
                           confinement of animals or fowl.
CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION:  A prison, jail, juvenile detention facility or juvenile secure facility.
COUNTY:                    Unless otherwise indicated, Kane County, Utah.
                           An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a building or
COURT:                     group of buildings and which is bounded on two (2) or more sides by such building or
                           buildings.
COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND  Limits and rules placed on a group of homes by a builder, developer, neighborhood
RESTRICTIONS:              association or homeowners’ association. These restrictions will be enforced by the
                           homeowners’ association and not the County.
COVERAGE, BUILDING:        The percent of the total site area covered by buildings.
CUL-DE-SAC:                A minor street serving properties with no future plans to extend beyond the
                           termination point, and being terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
CULINARY WATER AUTHORITY:  The department, agency, or public entity with responsibility to review and approve
                           the feasibility of the culinary water system and sources for the subject property.
                           A commercial establishment for the manufacture, processing, or packaging of dairy
DAIRY:                     products, and their sale. For purposes of this definition, the production of milk on
                           a farm for wholesale marketing off the premises shall not classify the farm as a
                           dairy.
DAY-CARE:                  Day-time care for the needs of people who cannot be fully independent, such as
                           children or elderly people.
DENSITY:                   The extent to which a parcel is filled or covered with buildings or structures,
                           whether it is set by number per acreage and/or percentage of land coverage.
DEVELOPABLE LAND:          Land that is outside the 100-year floodplain and having a slope less than forty
                           percent (40%).
                           A binding contract between the County and the applicant and shall contain those
                           terms and conditions agreed to by the County and the applicant. The Land Use
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:     Authority Administrator, the Land Use Authority Commission and/or the Kane County
                           Commission are authorized to negotiate for the County. Final approval of the
                           agreement is by the Kane County Commission.
                           A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of a person’s
                           major life activities, including a person having a record of such an impairment or
DISABILITY:                being regarded as having such an impairment. Disability does not include current
                           illegal use of, or addiction to, any Federally controlled substance, as defined in
                           section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 USC 802, or successor law.
DRIVEWAY:                  A private roadway, the use of which is limited to persons residing, employed or
                           otherwise using or visiting the parcel on which the driveway is located.
                           A subdivision of land that was lawfully approved prior to any mandated subdivision
DRY SUBDIVISION:           water system considerations and/or requirements as outlined under Kane County’s land
                           use ordinance.
                           A new or existing working ranch with a primary purpose of raising or keeping
DUDE RANCH or FAMILY       livestock that also hosts guests, which may include overnight accommodations, to
VACATION RANCH:            share traditional western heritage and lifestyle with activities that may include
                           but are not limited to horseback riding, moving cattle, fixing fences, hunting,
                           fishing, and other involvement in day-to-day ranching operations.
                           Any building or portion thereof, which is designed for use for residential purposes,
DWELLING:                  except the following: hotels, apartment hotels, boarding houses, lodging houses,
                           motels, apartment motels, fraternities, sororities, trailers, mobile homes or
                           dormitories.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building arranged or designed to be occupied by more than one family.
DWELLING, SINGLE- FAMILY:  A building arranged or designed to be occupied by one family, the structure having
                           only one dwelling unit.
                           One or more rooms in a dwelling or apartment motel, designated for
DWELLING UNIT:             or occupied by one family for living
                           or sleeping purposes and having kitchen and bathroom facilities for the use of not
                           more than one family.
EASEMENT:                  The acquired privilege or right of use or enjoyment which one person may have in the
                           land of another.
ELDERLY PERSON:            A person who is sixty (60) years old or older.
                           A dwelling unit provided for employees by an employer which is ancillary and
                           subservient to the primary activity on the property, includes accommodation for
EMPLOYEE HOUSING:          laborers, caretakers and supervisory staff, of which at least one household member
                           is employed on the property, is located on the same land unit on which the
                           employment activity takes place, and may not be sold separately.
                           Land devoted to the raising of useful plants and animals with a reasonable
FAA AGRICULTURAL LAND USE: expectation of profit. Accessory buildings directly pertaining to FAA agricultural
                           land use are allowed in addition to one primary single family dwelling and one guest
                           home.
                           Two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption or a group of not
FAMILY:                    more than four (4) persons who are not related living in a dwelling unit as a single
                           housekeeping unit and using common cooking facilities.
FINAL PLAT:                A subdivision map prepared in accordance with the provisions of this title, which is
                           designed to be placed on record in the Office of the County Recorder.
                           A hazard to land or improvements due to inundation or overflow water having
FLOOD HAZARD:              sufficient velocity to transport or deposit debris, scour the surface soil, dislodge
                           or damage buildings or erode the banks of watercourses.
                           Land that is within the 100-year floodplain designated by the Federal Emergency
                           Management Agency or has not been studied or designated by the Federal Emergency
FLOODPLAIN1:               Management Agency but presents a likelihood of experiencing chronic flooding or a
                           catastrophic flood event because the land has characteristics that are similar to
                           those of a 100-year floodplain designated by the Federal Emergency Management
                           Agency, and any plain along a river or stream subject to periodic flooding.
FORESTRY:                  The planting, caring for or cultivating of a dense growth of trees. May include the
                           gathering of wood for domestic fire use.
                           All property fronting on one side of the street between intersecting or intercepting
                           streets or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway, end of a dead end street,
FRONTAGE:                  or political subdivision boundaries, measured along the street line. An intercepting
                           street shall determine only the boundary of the frontage on the side of the street
                           which it intersects.
                           An accessory building designed or used for the storage of one or more automobiles
GARAGE, PRIVATE:           owned by the occupants of the building to which it is an accessory. A garage is
                           considered part of a dwelling if the garage and dwelling have a roof or wall in
                           common.
GARAGE, PUBLIC:            A building or portion thereof, other than a private garage, designed or used for
                           servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling or storing motor driven vehicles.
                           A surface fault rupture; shallow groundwater; liquefaction; a landslide; a debris
                           flow; unstable soil; a rockfall; or any other geologic condition that presents a
GEOLOGIC HAZARD 1 :        risk to life; of substantial loss of real property; or of substantial damage to real
                           property. A hazard inherent in the crust of the earth, or artificially created,
                           which is dangerous or potentially dangerous to life, property or improvements, due
                           to the movement, failure or shifting of the earth.
                           Upscale camping in a semi-permanent structure placed on a permanent/semi-permanent
GLAMPING:                  foundation, to be no larger than seven hundred and seventy four (774) square feet,
                           providing overnight sleeping accommodations with amenities and comforts not normally
                           included in a campground, such as: beds, electricity, and access to indoor plumbing.
                           A canvas or membrane-covered frame structure designed to be used or occupied for
GLAMPING UNIT:             commercial, transient or recreational purposes. Glamping Unit structure's include,
                           but are not limited to: tents, yurts, teepees, covered wagons.
GROUP HOME:                A group of five (5) or more persons who are not related living in a dwelling unit as
                           a single housekeeping unit and using common cooking facilities.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT:         The Utah State Division of Environmental Health or local health agency having
                           jurisdiction.
                           Cannabis, particularly the fibrous parts of the plant that are grown for the purpose
HEMP:                      of making rope, fabrics, fiberboard, or paper, or to produce legal forms of
                           Cannabidiol CBD oil or other products containing CBD, with a concentration of less
                           than 0.3% tetrahydrocannabinol by dry weight.
                           Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and carried on by persons residing in
                           the dwelling unit, occupying no more than twenty five percent (25%) of the dwelling
                           unit, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for
                           dwelling purposes and does not change the character thereof. Home occupation may
                           include, but is not limited to, the use of the home by a physician, surgeon,
                           dentist, lawyer, clergyman, engineer or professional person for consultation or
HOME OCCUPATION:           emergency treatment. Home occupation includes the care of not more than five (5)
                           children other than members of the family residing in the dwelling. A home
                           occupation in a multiple- dwelling unit will be considered as one of the units in
                           determining the allowable number of units. Home occupation excludes use of the
                           dwelling as a vacation rental, bed and breakfast, inn, or similar business involving
                           renting out all or part of the dwelling for a temporary overnight stay to a paying
                           third party.
                           A legal organization of property owners within a subdivision, planned community
HOMEOWNERS’ ASSOCIATION  condominium or other grouping of homes and/or property that makes and enforces rules
(HOA):                     for the properties within the association. The County will not enforce homeowners’
                           association rules. The HOA will be in charge of enforcing all HOA rules. Kane County
                           will only enforce applicable State and local laws and ordinances.
HOSPITAL:                  Institution for the diagnosis, treatment and care of human illness or infirmity.
                           Any structure consisting of one or more buildings with five (5) or more guestrooms
                           kept, used, maintained or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping
HOTEL:                     accommodations are offered for pay to transient guests for a period of thirty (30)
                           days or less in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms is made through an
                           inside lobby or office.
HOUSEHOLD PETS:            Animals or fowl ordinarily permitted in the house kept for company or pleasure.
                           A surety bond, letter of credit, financial institution bond, cash, assignment of
IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION     rights, lien, or other equivalent security required by a county to guaranty the
ASSURANCE:                 proper completion of infrastructure and other improvements lor an infrastructure
                           improvement required as a condition precedent to: recording a subdivision plat; or
                           development of a project.
INDUSTRIAL HEMP:           Any part of a cannabis plant, whether growing or not, with a concentration of less
                           than 0.3% tetrahydrocannabinol by dry weight.
                           A license issued by the State of Utah Department of Agriculture to a person for the
INDUSTRIAL HEMP LICENSE:   purpose of growing, cultivating, processing, or marketing industrial hemp or an
                           industrial hemp product.
INDUSTRIAL HEMP PRODUCT:   A product derived from, or made by, processing industrial hemp plants or industrial
                           hemp parts.
                           Accessory dwelling unit created:
                              A.   Within a primary dwelling unit;
INTERNAL ACCESSORY            B.   Within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal
DWELLING UNIT (IADU):      accessory dwelling unit is created; and
                              C.   For the purpose of offering a long-term rental of thirty (30) consecutive
                           days or longer.
                           Parcels that have surface or underground water diverted continuously or
IRRIGATED LAND:            intermittently upon them for the production of crops or pasture, through the
                           utilization of manmade improvements.
                           Any discarded material, including, but not limited to, scrap metal, one or more
JUNK:                      abandoned, inoperable and/or unlicensed motor vehicles, machinery, equipment, paper,
                           glass, containers and structures.
                           Any place, establishment or business maintained, used or operated for storing,
JUNKYARD, COMMERCIAL:      keeping, buying, or selling junk, including garbage dumps, sanitary landfills and
                           salvage yards.
                           Any facility regardless of location within the County involved in activities of
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL:        commerce pertaining to the harboring, breeding, boarding, sheltering or holding of
                           dogs, regardless of the number of animals. This definition shall also include
                           privately owned kennels in which more than fifteen (15) dogs are housed.
KENNEL, PRIVATE:           Premises on which the holding, private breeding or otherwise harboring or sheltering
                           the maximum allowed household pets as designated in the appropriate applicable zone.
LAND USE AUTHORITY:        A person, board, commission, agency or other body designated by the local
                           legislative body to act upon a land use application.
                           An animal feeding operation that stables or confines more than the number of animals
                           specified in any of the following categories:
                              A.   1,500 mature dairy cows, whether milked or dry;
                              B.   2,500 veal calves;
                              C.   2,500 cattle other than mature dairy cows or veal calves, with “cattle”
                           including heifers, steers, bulls, and cow calf pairs;
                              D.   5,000 swine each weighing 55 pounds or more;
                              E.   15,000 swine each weighing less than 55 pounds;
                              F.   1,000 horses;
LARGE CONCENTRATED ANIMAL     G.   15,000 sheep or lambs;
FEEDING OPERATION-HEAVY OR    H.   75,000 turkeys;
LARGE CAFO-HEAVY:             I.   50,000 laying hens or broilers, if the animal feeding operation uses a
                           liquid manure handling system; the animal feeding operation uses other than a liquid
                           manure handling system;
                              J.   200,000 chickens, other than laying hens, if
                              K.   120,000 laying hens, if the animal feeding operation uses other than a
                           liquid manure handling system;
                              L.   50,000 ducks, if the animal feeding operation uses other than a liquid
                           manure handling system; or
                              M.   7,500 ducks, if the animal feeding operation uses a liquid manure handling
                           system.
                           An animal feeding operation that stables or confines numbers of animals within the
                           number range specified in any of the following categories:
                              A.   700-1,500 mature dairy cows, whether milked or dry;
                              B.   1,000-2,500 veal calves;
                              C.   1,000-2,500 cattle other than mature dairy cows or veal calves, with
                           “cattle” including heifers, steers, bulls, and cow calf pairs;
                              D.   2,500-5,000 swine each weighing 55 pounds or more;
                              E.   10,000-15,000 swine each weighing less than 55 pounds;
                              F.   500-1,000 horses;
LARGE CONCENTRATED ANIMAL     G.   10,000-15,000 sheep or lambs;
FEEDING OPERATION-LIGHT OR    H.   55,000-75,000 turkeys;
LARGE CAFO-LIGHT:             I.   30,000-50,000 laying hens or broilers, if the animal feeding operation uses
                           a liquid manure handling system;
                              J.   125,000-200,000 chickens, other than laying hens, if the animal feeding
                           operation uses other than a liquid manure handling system;
                              K.   82,000-120,000 laying hens, if the animal feeding operation uses other than
                           a liquid manure handling system;
                              L.   30,000-50,000 ducks, if the animal feeding operation uses other than a
                           liquid manure handling system; or
                              M.   5,000-7,500 ducks, if the animal feeding operation uses a liquid manure
                           handling system.
                           For the purposes of this chapter, a fence with not less than four (4) horizontal
                           barriers, consisting of wires, boards, poles or other fence material in common use
                           in the neighborhood, with posts set not more than twenty feet (20') apart. The lower
                           barrier shall not be more than twelve inches (12") from the ground and the space
                           between any two (2) barriers shall not be more than twelve inches (12"), and the
LEGAL FENCE:               height of the top barrier must be at least forty eight inches (48") above the
                           ground, or standard or heavy duty, well anchored T-posts. Every post shall be so set
                           as to withstand a horizontal strain of two hundred fifty (250) pounds at a point
                           four feet (4') from the ground, and each barrier shall be capable of withstanding a
                           horizontal strain of two hundred fifty (250) pounds at any point midway between the
                           posts.
LIVESTOCK:                 Cattle, sheep, goats, swine, horses, mules, poultry, as defined in Utah Code, or any
                           other domestic animal or domestic furbearer, raised or kept for profit.
LIVESTOCK FEED YARD:       A commercial operation on a parcel of land where livestock are kept in high density
                           corrals or yards and fed for an extended period of time.
                           A building or dwelling with one or more rooms that are rented out by the day for not
LODGES:                    more than thirty (30) days by a single paying affiliated group of fifteen (15) or
                           more individuals.
                           A building or dwelling with one or more rooms that are rented out by the day for not
                           more than thirty (30) days by a single paying affiliated group of fifteen (15) or
LODGES, RESIDENTIAL:       more individuals, but not more than twenty four (24) individuals. In the case that
                           the subject property is serviced by Municipal scale water and sewer, an additional
                           eleven (11) individuals may be permitted for a maximum occupancy of thirty five (35)
                           through the conditional use application.
                           A parcel or unit of land described by metes and bounds and held or intended to be
                           held in separate lease or ownership, or shown as a lot or parcel on a recorded
LOT:                       subdivision plat, or shown on a plat used in the lease or sale or offer of lease or
                           sale of land resulting from the division of a larger tract into two (2) or more
                           smaller units. Such unit is intended to be occupied by a main building and such
                           accessory uses as permitted in this title.
                           Lot abutting on two (2) intersecting or intercepting streets where the interior
LOT, CORNER:               angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred thirty five
                           degrees (135°).
LOT COVERAGE:              Shall be calculated by taking the ground area of main and accessory buildings and
                           dividing that total by the area of the lot.
LOT, DEPTH:                The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines measured in the main
                           direction of the side lot lines.
LOT, INTERIOR:             A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINES:                 Property lines bounding the lot.
LOT, RESTRICTED:           Any lot having particular problems in size, slope, contour or shape requiring
                           special action of the Appeal Authority.
                           A transportable factory built housing unit constructed on or after June 15, 1976,
                           according to the HUD Code, in one or more sections, that: a) in the traveling mode,
                           is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40) body feet or more in length,
MANUFACTURED HOME:         or when erected on site, is four hundred (400) or more square feet; and b) is built
                           on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
                           permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
                           plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems (see Utah Code 15A-1-
                           302).
                           All species of the genus cannabis and all parts of the genus, whether growing or
                           not; the seeds of it; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every
                           compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its
                           seeds, or resin. The term does not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber
                           produced from the stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other
MARIJUANA:                 compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature
                           stalks, except the resin extracted from them, fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized
                           seed of the plant which is incapable of germination. Any synthetic equivalents of
                           the substances contained in the plant cannabis sativa or any other species of the
                           genus cannabis which are chemically indistinguishable and pharmacologically active
                           are also included.
                           Cannabis in a medicinal dosage form or a cannabis product in a medicinal dosage form
MEDICAL CANNABIS:          which medicinal dosage form is legal under the laws of the state of Utah, or any
                           form of cannabis that is grown for the purpose of eventually manufacturing it in a
                           medicinal dosage form which form is legal under the laws of the state of Utah.
MOBILE HOME:               A manufactured dwelling built to be moved on its own wheels and built prior to 1976,
                           not intended to be placed on a permanent foundation.
MOBILE HOME LOT:           A lot within a mobile home park of a subdivision, designed and to be used for the
                           accommodation of one mobile home.
MOBILE HOME PARK:          A parcel designed and approved by the County for occupancy by mobile homes on a
                           rental basis meeting all requirements of Kane County general plan and ordinances.
MOBILE HOME SPACE:         Space within a mobile home park, designed and to be used for the accommodation of
                           one mobile home.
                           Housing occupied or reserved for households with a gross household income equal to
MODERATE INCOME HOUSING:   or less than eighty percent (80%) of the median gross income for households of the
                           same size in the County in which housing is located.
                           A permanent dwelling structure which conforms to applicable Building Codes built in
MODULAR HOME:              prefabricated units, which are assembled and erected on the site, or at another
                           location and brought as a unit to the site.
                           A building or group of buildings providing five (5) or more guestrooms used for
MOTEL:                     transient guests for a period of thirty (30) days or less in which access to each
                           guestroom is provided directly through an exterior door or by an entrance connected
                           to a covered hallway or walkway on the exterior/interior of the building.
NATURAL HAZARD:            Risk; peril or danger in a state provided by nature without manmade changes.
NATURAL WATERWAYS:         Areas varying in width along streams, creeks, springs, gullies or washes which are
                           natural drainage channels as determined by the county engineer.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR  Building or structure or portion thereof, lawfully existing at the time this title
STRUCTURE:                 became effective which does not conform to all height, area and yard regulations
                           herein prescribed in the zone in which it is located.
                           Use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the time this title became
NONCONFORMING USE:         effective and which does not conform to the use regulations of the zone in which it
                           is located.
NURSING HOME:              Institution providing residence and care for the aged or infirm.
OFF SITE FACILITIES:       Improvements not on individual lots but which are generally within the boundaries of
                           the subdivision which they serve.
OFF STREET PARKING:        Parking stall access from a parking lot, not directly from a street.
                           Space reserved as parks, courts, playgrounds, golf courses and other similar open
OPEN SPACE:                areas and those areas reserved to meet the density requirements of planned unit
                           developments.
OVERLAY ZONE:              An area defined in any zone or combination of zones for a specific and defined
                           protection and usage.
PARCEL:                    A distinct, continuous portion or tract of land not within a platted subdivision.
                           A playground or other area or open space providing opportunities for active or
PARK:                      passive recreational or leisure activities. Excludes areas for motorcross, drag
                           racing, shooting and similar activities.
                           A unit that: a) is designed and marketed as temporary living quarters for
                           recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use, b) is not permanently affixed to
PARK MODEL RECREATIONAL    real property for use as a permanent dwelling, c) requires a special highway
VEHICLE:                   movement permit for transit, and d) is built on a single chassis mounted on wheels
                           with a gross trailer area not exceeding four hundred (400) square feet in the setup
                           mode.
                           An area of land usually in a largely natural state for the enjoyment of the public
PARK, PUBLIC:              having facilities for rest and recreation, often owned, set apart, and managed by a
                           city, county, or state.
                           An open area, other than street, used for the temporary parking of more than four
PARKING LOT:               (4) automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for compensation or as
                           an accommodation for clients, customers or employees.
PARKING SPACE:             Space within a building, lot or parking lot for the parking or storage of one
                           automobile.
PERMANENT MONUMENT:        A structure of concrete, masonry and/or metal permanently placed on or in the
                           ground, including those expressly placed for surveying reference.
PERSON:                    An individual, firm, association, organization, partnership, company or corporation
                           or any legal entity entitled to own property.
                           Development which may consist of integrated zones designed to allow residential,
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:  multi-residential, commercial, manufacturing uses in a combination allowing
                           flexibility and initiative in site and building design and location.
PLEX HOUSING:              A multi-family residential building with two (2) to eight (8) separate units built
                           as a single dwelling. May include duplexes, triplexes and multiplexes.
                           These include every common carrier, pipeline corporation, gas corporation,
PUBLIC UTILITIES:          electrical corpora-tion, telephone corporation, and water corporation where the
                           service is performed for or the commodity delivered to the public or any portion
                           thereof.
                           An establishment offering recreation, entertainment or games of skill to the general
RECREATION AND             public that is wholly enclosed in a building. Typical uses include bowling alleys,
ENTERTAINMENT, INDOOR:     indoor theaters, bingo parlors, pool halls, billiard parlors, video game arcades,
                           racquetball and handball courts, and amusement rides.
                           An establishment offering recreation, entertainment or games of skill to the general
RECREATION AND             public or members wherein any portion of the activity takes place in the open.
ENTERTAINMENT, OUTDOOR:    Typical uses include archery ranges, batting cages, golf driving ranges, drive-in
                           theaters, miniature golf courses, tennis courts, and amusement rides. No use
                           involving aircraft of any type is included in this definition.
                           Land that is designed, constructed, designated, or used for outdoor recreational
                           activities, including but not limited to national, state, county, or city parks,
RECREATIONAL GROUNDS AND   other outdoor recreational grounds or facilities such as golf courses, swimming
FACILITIES:                pools, bodies of water (lakes, rivers, and streams) used for fishing, swimming, or
                           boating, and areas that are used for hunting, birdwatching, bike riding, hiking, or
                           other similar recreational uses, excluding primitive camping.
                           Vehicle, such as a travel trailer, tent camper, camp car or other vehicle with or
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:      without motive power, designed and/or constructed to travel on the public
                           thoroughfare for use as human habitation of a temporary and recreational nature.
                           An area or tract of land where lots are rented or held for rent to one or more
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: owners or users of recreational vehicles for a temporary time as regulated further
                           by this title.
                           A facility licensed by or contracted by the state of Utah to provide temporary
                           occupancy and supervision of individuals (adults/juveniles) in order to provide
REHABILITATION/ TREATMENT  rehabilitation, treatment or counseling services. Without limitation, such services
FACILITY:                  may include rehabilitation, treatment, counseling or assessment and evaluation
                           services related to delinquent behavior, alcohol and drug abuse, sex offenders,
                           sexual abuse or mental health. Associated educational services may also be provided
                           to juvenile occupants.
RESIDENCE, RESIDENTIAL     Any building or portion thereof where an individual is actually living at a given
FACILITY:                  point in time and intends to remain, and not a place of temporary sojourn or
                           transient visit.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR   A dwelling unit that is occupied on a twenty four (24) hour per day basis by elderly
ELDERLY PERSONS:           persons in a family type arrangement.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR   A residence in which more than one person with a disability resides.
PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY:
RESIDENTIAL USE:           Customarily includes overnight use of a room or rooms with independent facilities
                           for sleeping combined with a private bath and/or a kitchen.
RETAIL:                    The activity of selling products and services to the public.
ROOMER:                    One who occupies a hired room in another’s house.
RULES OF ORDER AND         A set of rules that govern and prescribe in a public meeting including parliamentary
PROCEDURE 1 :              order and procedure, ethical behavior, and civil discourse.
                           An inclusive term used to describe collectively those businesses for which a
                           sexually oriented business license is required, which types of businesses include,
SEXUALLY ORIENTED          for purposes of this title, adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty store,
BUSINESSES:                adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult
                           theater, escort, escort agency, massage parlor, seminude modeling studio, sexual
                           encounter establishment, and any other business not described that has a dominant or
                           principal theme that is sexually oriented.
                           A GIS shape file is a file format used for storing geographic information data in
SHAPE FILES:               GIS computer programs and databases, such as ArcGIS and ArcCatalog. The file
                           extension for shape files is “.shp”.
SHORT TERM OR VACATION     A detached single-family dwelling unit used as a transient lodging facility occupied
RENTAL:                    at any time by less than ten (10) individuals of a single group on a temporary basis
                           for less than thirty (30) days as an alternative to a hotel or motel.
SIGNS:                     See section
                           9-16-3 of this title and the Uniform Sign Code for definitions.
                           A schematic, scaled drawing of a building lot or location which indicates, as may be
                           required by this title, the placement and location of yards, property lines,
SITE PLAN:                 setbacks, adjacent parcels, utilities, topography, waterways, irrigation, drainage,
                           landscaping, parking areas, driveways, buildings, trash containers, open storage,
                           streets, sidewalks, curbs, gutters, signs, lighting, fences and other features of
                           existing or proposed construction or land use.
STABLE, PRIVATE:           A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses owned by the occupant of the
                           premises and not kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
STREET:                    A public thoroughfare which affords principal means of access to abutting property
                           in accordance with Kane County design standards.
                           Any land that is divided, resubdivided or proposed to be divided into two (2) or
                           more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for the purpose,
SUBDIVISION:               whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, or lease, or development either on the
                           installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions and as
                           further defined under Utah State Code section 17-27a-103(57), as amended.
                           A dwelling on a permanent foundation that is less than four hundred (400) square
TINY HOMES:                feet in size. If the tiny home structure is on a trailer, it is considered a
                           recreational vehicle and falls under the regulations in chapter 6, article E of this
                           title.
TOURIST BASED COMPANIES:   An agency engaged in selling and arranging transportation, accommodations, tours,
                           and trips for travelers.
TOWNHOME:                  Multi-unit building which is attached to one or more similar units by shared walls
                           in which the owner own the land on which it sits.
TRAILER, CAMPER:           A vehicle with or without motive power or wheels, designed to be used for human
                           habitation.
                           Transferring development rights from a “sending zone” to a “receiving zone”. The
                           “sending zone” is an unincorporated area of the County that the Planning Commission
TRANSFERABLE DEVELOPMENT   designates as an area from which an owner of land may transfer development rights to
RIGHTS (BONUS DENSITY):    their self to a contiguous “receiving zone”. “Receiving zone” means an
                           unincorporated area of the County that the Planning Commission designates as an area
                           in which an owner of land may receive transferable development rights.
                           A facility providing temporary occupancy for individuals (adult/juvenile) in order
                           to provide rehabilitation, treatment or counseling services, which facility either
UNLICENSED REHABILITATION/ does not require licensure by the State of Utah or does not operate under contract
TR EATMENT FACILITY:       with the State of Utah. Without limitation, such services may include
                           rehabilitation, treatment or counseling services related to delinquent behavior,
                           alcohol and drug abuse, sex offenders, sexual abuse or mental health.
USE, ACCESSORY:            A use subordinate and incidental to the main use of a building or land located upon
                           the same lot or parcel.
VETERINARY OR ANIMAL       A building and runs where large and/or small animals are kept and/or treated by a
HOSPITAL:                  licensed veterinarian.
ZONE:                      An area as described on the zoning map or in this title.
                           A map, adopted as part of a Land Use Ordinance that depicts land use zones,
                           overlays, or districts. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-15,
                           7-28-2014; Ord. 2014-19,9-22-2014; Ord. 2015-11, 7-27-2015; Ord. O-2016-13, 10-3-
                           2016; Ord. 2016-16, 12-12-2016; Ord. O-2017-4, O-2017-14, 10-16-2017; Ord. O-2018-4,
ZONING MAP:                5-15-2018; 6-26-2017; Ord. O-2018-6, 7-9-2018; Ord. O-2018-13, 9-24-2018; Ord. O-
                           2019-2, 1-14-2019; Ord. O-2019-4, 3-25-2019; Ord. O-2019-5, 4-22-2019; Ord. O-2019-
                           09, 5-14-2019; Ord. O-2019-23, 11-12-2019; Ord. O-2020-02, 1-28-2020; Ord. O-2021-
                           21, 11-23-2021; Ord. O-2022-18, 4-26-2022; Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022; Ord. O-2022-
                           60, 11-22-2020; Ord. O-2023-06, 1-25-2023; Ord. O-2023-12, 4-25-2023; amd. Ord. O-
                           2023-13, 11-28-2023; Ord. O-2024-11, 4-23-2024; Ord. O-2025-09, 4-22-2025)
 
 
Notes
1 1. UCA 17-27a-303.
1 1. UCA 17-27a-303.
9-1-8: INSPECTION:
The Kane County Land Use Authority or any authorized employee of Kane County
may enter upon any land at reasonable times to make examinations and surveys
pertinent to the: a) preparation of its general plan; or b) preparation or
enforcement of its Land Use Ordinances 1 . (Ord. O-2018-7, 7-23-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA 17-27a-303.
9-1-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The Land Use Authority Administrator is hereby designated and
authorized as the officer charged with the enforcement of this title. The Land
Use Authority Administrator shall enforce all the provisions of this title,
entering actions of the court when necessary, and his/her failure to do so
shall not legalize any violations of such provisions. The County Commission
may, by resolution or ordinance, from time to time entrust the administration
of this title, in whole or part, to any other officer of Kane County.
   B.   It is the County's intent not to seek out or proactively find nuisances
on private property. Instead, the Land Use Authority and the Zoning
Administrator will generally only investigate a nuisance on private property if
the County Land Use Authority Administrator or the Zoning Administrator has
received a complaint from three (3) or more persons, regarding the same
nuisance, all of whom live within five hundred feet (500') of the nuisance. An
exception to this practice applies to: 1) nuisances on public property; or 2)
nuisance on private property that the Land Use Authority Administrator or the
Zoning Administrator has determined to be primarily a health or safety hazard.
While this is generally the County's practice, such practice does not preclude
the Land Use Authority Administrator or the Zoning Administrator from
investigating a nuisance violation at his or her discretion. If there is a
health, safety, or welfare issue, the violation can be mitigated immediately
without the three (3) written complaints. 
(Ord. O-2017-7, 4-24-2017; amd. Ord. O-2019-4, 3-25-2019)
9-1-10: NUISANCE AND ABATEMENT:
In conjunction with the Kane County nuisance ordinance any building or
structure erected, constructed, altered, enlarged, converted, moved or
maintained contrary to provisions of this title and any use of land, building
or premises established, constructed or maintained contrary to provisions of
this title shall be, and the same is hereby declared to be unlawful and public
nuisance. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-1-11: AMENDMENTS TO THE LAND USE ORDINANCE:
The County Commission may from time to time amend the number, shape, boundaries
or areas of any zone, or any regulation or any other provision of the land use
ordinance. Any such amendment shall not be made or become effective until
notice and public hearing as required by law and unless the same shall have
been proposed by or be first submitted to the Planning Commission for its
recommendation.
In the case of an application by a property owner or other citizen for an
amendment, the County Land Use Authority and/or the Board of County
Commissioners, as a prerequisite to the consideration of such application,
shall require that such applicant, at the applicant's expense, furnish to such
commission and/or Board title evidence, in such form as such commission or
Board may determine, indicating the ownership of the property to be affected by
the proposed amendment and the interest therein of the applicant, and shall
also require that notice of such proposed amendment be given to all parties
claiming an interest in such property. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-1-12: PUBLICATION AND NOTICE OF HEARINGS:
Before adopting any such amendment, the Land Use Authority shall comply with
the requirements of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act and the requirements
of the County Land Use Development Management Act. (Ord. O-2019-4, 3-25-2019;
amd. Ord. O-2022-05, 1-25-2022)
9-1-13: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS AND LICENSES:
All departments, officials and public employees of Kane County which are vested
with duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the
provisions of this title and shall issue no permit or license for uses,
buildings, or purposes where the same would be in conflict with the provisions
of this title. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-1-14: FEES:
Fees may be charged to applicants for building, occupancy, and conditional use
permits, design review and planned unit development approval, Land Use
Authority and Appeal Authority hearings, and such other services as are
required by this title to be performed by public officers or agencies. Such
fees shall be established by the legislative body and shall be in amounts
reasonably necessary to defray costs to the public. In the event additional
engineering costs are accrued by the County related to a specific project, the
project applicant will be responsible for all additional engineering fees.
All fee appeals for a fee charged will be regulated in accordance with Utah
State Code, section 17-27a-509 and will be subject to an Appeal Authority
described in part 7, Appeal Authority and Variances, and District Court review
in accordance with part 8, District Court Review, to determine whether a fee
reflects only the reasonable estimated cost of: regulation; processing an
application; issuing a permit; or delivering the service for which the
applicant or owner paid the fee. (Ord. O-2019-4, 3-25-2019)
9-1-15: SEVERABILITY:
If any section of this title should for any reason be found invalid, the
remaining sections shall remain valid. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-1-16: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee or
otherwise, violating or causing or permitting the violation of the provisions
of this title shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor unless otherwise stated
in this title and shall be punishable as provided by law. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-
2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
9-2-1: Statutory Authority
9-2-2: Purpose
9-2-3: Number Of Members, Appointment
9-2-4: Terms Of Office
9-2-5: Vacancies And Removals For Cause
9-2-6: Compensation
9-2-7: Officers
9-2-8: Rules And Procedures
9-2-9: Quorum And Vote
9-2-10: Employees, Expenditures
9-2-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The statutory authority for enacting this chapter is Utah State Code sections
17-27a-301 and 17-53-223. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-2-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish a Countywide Planning Commission
required by Utah State Code section 17-27a-301 et al., as amended. The chapter
defines the number and terms of the members, the mode of appointment, the
procedures for filling vacancies and removal from office, rules of procedure
and other details relating to the organization and procedures of the Planning
Commission. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-2-3: NUMBER OF MEMBERS, APPOINTMENT:
The Board of Commissioners of Kane County is statutorily authorized to create a
Planning Commission to be known as the Kane County Planning Commission. One
member of the Board of Commissioners shall be designated by the Board of
Commissioners as a nonvoting, ex officio member of the Planning Commission.
Each of the other seven (7) members of the Planning Commission shall be
residents of Kane County and owners of real property in Kane County and at
least four (4) of which own property situated in the unincorporated portion
thereof. (Ord. O-2019-4, 3-25-2019)
9-2-4: TERMS OF OFFICE:
The term of appointed members of the Kane County Planning Commission shall be
four (4) years and until their respective successors have been appointed.
Members of the first planning commissions shall be appointed so that, for each
commission, the terms of at least one member and no more than two (2) members
expire each year. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-2-5: VACANCIES AND REMOVALS FOR CAUSE:
The Board of Kane County Commissioners shall provide for the filling of
vacancies in the membership of the Planning Commission and for the removal of a
member for failure to carry out, meet the requirements of or fulfill duties as
promised or misconduct.
   A.   More than two (2) unexcused absences during a twelve (12) month period
may be grounds for dismissal from the commission. If an emergency arises,
notice should be given to staff to ensure a quorum will be present, and to
avoid excess cost and effort involved with the Land Use application process.
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. O-2025-08, 4-22-2025)
9-2-6: COMPENSATION:
The members of the Kane County Planning Commission shall serve without
compensation, except that the Kane County Board of Commissioners shall provide
for reimbursement of the members of the Planning Commission for actual expenses
incurred, upon presentation of proper receipts, vouchers, and mileage reports.
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-2-7: OFFICERS:
The Kane County Planning Commission shall elect from its appointed members, a
Chair, and Vice Chair whose term shall be for one year and the Planning
Commission may create and fill other such positions/offices as it may deem
necessary. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-2-8: RULES AND PROCEDURES:
The Kane County Planning Commission shall adopt such rules and regulations
governing its procedure as it may consider necessary or advisable, and shall
keep a record of its proceedings, which record shall be open to inspection by
the public at all reasonable times.
Kane County desires that the Kane County Planning Commission conduct meetings
in an orderly manner, promote civil discourse, and require ethical behavior;
and whereas, Utah State Code section 17-27a-301 et al., as amended, requires
that the County by ordinance establish the rules of order and procedure for use
by the Planning Commission in a public meeting the following has been adopted:
   A.   Meetings of the Kane County Planning Commission shall be conducted in
general accordance with "Robert's Modified Rules of Order" as further modified
by the Planning Commission.
   B.   Members of the Kane County Planning Commission are expected to conduct
the business of the County in an ethical manner and in accordance with the Open
and Public Meetings Act.
   C.   Members of the Kane County Planning Commission, members of the public
and applicants shall behave in a civil and polite manner during meetings. (Ord.
2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-2-9: QUORUM AND VOTE:
A quorum shall consist of four (4) members. Evidence shall not be presented
unless a quorum is present. A majority vote shall be constituted of at least a
majority of members present. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-2-10: EMPLOYEES, EXPENDITURES:
The Kane County Planning Commission shall have the power and authority to
employ experts and staff and to pay such expenses as may be deemed reasonable
and necessary for carrying out its responsibilities, upon presentation of
proper receipts and vouchers, but not in excess of such sums as may be
appropriated by the Kane County Board of Commissioners. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-
2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
CHAPTER 3
APPEAL AUTHORITY
SECTION:
9-3-1: Kane County Appeal Authority Established
9-3-2: Definitions
9-3-3: Hearing Officer Appointment
9-3-4: Powers of the Appeal Authority
9-3-5: Request for Variance
9-3-6: Appeals from Land Use Decision
9-3-7: Appeal of Land Use Fee
9-3-1: KANE COUNTY APPEAL AUTHORITY ESTABLISHED:
The Kane County Appeal Authority is established to carry out the purposes of
this chapter and Utah Code § 17-27a-701 et. seq. (Ord. O-2023-13, 11-28-2023)
9-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this chapter:
   A.    Adversely affected party: as defined by Utah Code § 17-27a-103(2) as
amended.
   B.   Land use applicant: as defined by Utah Code § 17-27a-103(33) as
amended.
   C.   Land use decision: as defined by Utah Code § 17-27a-103(35) as amended
   D.   Hearing Officer: the person appointed under this chapter by the Kane
County Commission to act as the Kane County Appeal Authority. (Ord. O-2023-13,
11-28-2023)
9-3-3: HEARING OFFICER APPOINTMENT:
The Kane County Appeal Authority is comprised of a Hearing Officer appointed by
the Kane County Commission for a term of five (5) years. The Kane County Appeal
Authority shall be compensated by an amount established by the County
Commission and may be compensated by contract after complying with the Kane
County Procurement Code. The Hearing Officer may be removed for cause by
unanimous vote of the Kane County Commission. The Kane County Commission may
appoint a conflict or interim Hearing Officer on an as needed basis. (Ord. O-
2023-13, 11-28-2023)
9-3-4: POWERS OF THE APPEAL AUTHORITY:
   A.   The Kane County Appeal Authority shall hear and decide:
      1.   Requests for variances from the terms of this title;
      2.   Appeals from land use decisions applying this title; and
      3.   Appeals from a land use fee charged in accordance with this title
and Utah Code § 17-27a-509.
   B.   The Kane County Appeal Authority shall not have the power to waive or
modify the terms or requirements of this title except as authorized through an
application for a variance submitted under this chapter and in accordance with
Utah Code. (Ord. O-2023-13, 11-28-2023)
9-3-5: REQUEST FOR VARIANCE:
   A.   Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the
requirement of this title as applied to a parcel of property that the person or
entity owns, leases, or holds some other beneficial interest, may apply to the
Kane County Appeal Authority for a variance from the terms of this title by
submitting a form approved by the Land Use Authority Administrator and paying
the fee established by the Kane County Commission.
   B.   The approval or denial of an application for a variance, and the scope
of authority in granting a variance, is governed by Utah Code § 17-27a-702, as
amended.
   C.   If the Kane County Appeal Authority grants a variance in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, construction, development, or commencement
of the alterations in accordance with the variance must be initiated within six
(6) months after the date the variance is granted or the variance becomes null
and void. The time limit for initiation of the variance may be extended an
additional six (6) months by the Appeal Authority, and then only if the
petitioner shows good cause to the Appeal Authority that circumstances
necessitate a time extension. (Ord. O-2023-13, 11-28-2023)
9-3-6: APPEALS FROM LAND USE DECISION:
   A.   Notice of Appeal: A land use applicant, a board or officer of the
county, or an adversely affected party may submit an appeal under this chapter
by submitting a notice of appeal and paying the applicable fee to the Kane
County Land Use Authority Administrator. The notice of appeal must include the
following:
      1.   The name, address, phone number, and email address of each person or
entity that is requesting an appeal.
      2.   A statement that identifies, with specificity, the land use decision
being appealed;
      3.   A statement of the appellant's standing to appeal as a land use
applicant, board or officer of the county, or an adversely affected party.
      4.   A statement of the underlying facts; and
      5.   A statement of the legal issues presented which must include every
theory of relief that could be raised in district court.
   B.   Time to Appeal: A notice of appeal and the applicable fee must be
submitted within ten (10) days of receiving actual or constructive notice of
the relevant land use decision. The Land Use Authority Administrator may deny
any notice of appeal that is not submitted timely. The Land Use Authority
Administrator must submit a timely filed notice of appeal to the Hearing
Officer as soon as practicable.
   C.   Appeal Procedure:
      1.   After receiving a notice of appeal from the Kane County Land Use
Administrator, the Hearing Officer must hold a scheduling conference with the
appellant and the Kane County Land Use Authority Administrator who may be
represented by the County Attorney.
      2.   Other interested parties may join the appeal at the discretion of
the Hearing Officer.
      3.   At the scheduling conference the Hearing Officer may schedule a full
hearing on the issues addressed in the notice of appeal, may require written
briefs or memoranda of the parties, or both as the Hearing Officer deems
necessary.
      4.   The Hearing Officer has broad discretion in determining the process
and procedure to resolve the issues raised in the notice of appeal. The Hearing
Officer should use best efforts to resolve the appeal efficiently and quickly.
      5.   The Hearing Officer must use best efforts to issue a written
decision on the appeal within fifteen (15) business days of the final hearing
or submission of final briefs, whichever is later.
      6.   The written decision issued by the Hearing Officer is a final
decision and takes effect on the date the written decision is issued.
   D.   Scope of Appeal:
      1.   Review of Factual Matters:
         a.   The Appeal Authority shall review factual matters on the record
and must give deference to the land use authority's determination of factual
matters unless an individual essential finding of fact clearly lacks
substantial evidence.
         b.   If the appellant is a land use applicant, the Appeal Authority
may not consider additional evidence outside the written decision and findings
of facts of the written land use decision unless the land use applicant can
show that the Land Use Authority unlawfully prevented the land use applicant
from submitting the evidence as part of the application or application process.
         c.   If the appellant is an adversely affected party, the Appeal
Authority may consider additional relevant evidence outside the written
decision and record of the land use decision only if the Land Use Authority did
not hold a public hearing on the underlying land use decision.
      2.   Review of Legal Matters: The Appeal Authority shall determine the
correctness of the land use authority's interpretation and application of the
plain meaning of the land use regulations.
      3.   Request for Stay of Decision Pending Appeal: The filing of the
notice of appeal does not stay the land use decision of the land use authority.
The appellant may request a stay of the land use decision to the Appeal
Authority and the Appeal Authority may order a stay of the decision if the
Appeal Authority finds the order to be in the best interest of Kane County.
      4.   The Appeal Authority may reverse in whole or in part, affirm in
whole or in part, or may modify the applicable land use decision.
      5.   Judicial Review of Appeal Authority Decision: Judicial Review of any
final decision from the Appeal Authority is governed by State Code. (Ord. O-
2023-13, 11-28-2023)
9-3-7: APPEAL OF LAND USE FEE:
   A.   Upon filing of any land use application under this title or any request
for variance or an appeal under this chapter, the applicant or appellant shall
pay to the County a fee or initial deposit as prescribed by the County
Commission. No land use application under this title or appeal under this
chapter shall be considered unless and until such fee has been paid.
   B.   Upon request by a land use applicant or appellant, the County shall
comply with the requirements of Utah Code § 17-27a-509 regarding itemization
and appropriateness of fees.
   C.   A land use applicant may appeal a fee in the same manner as appealing a
land use decision under this chapter.
   D.   The Appeal Authority will determine whether a fee reflects only the
reasonable estimated cost of:
      1.   Regulation;
      2.   Processing an application;
      3.   Issuing a permit; or
      4.   Delivering the service for which the applicant or owner paid the
fee. (Ord. O-2023-13, 11-28-2023)
CHAPTER 4
ZONES
PLEASE NOTE: AS OF FEBRUARY 22, 2022 KANE COUNTY WILL NO LONGER ACCEPT NEW LOTS
DESIGNATED WITH THE R-½ ZONE. THE R-½ ZONE REGULATIONS WILL REMAIN IN VARIOUS
PARTS OF THIS CHAPTER FOR ADMINISTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY.
SECTION:
9-4-1: Establishment Of Zones
9-4-2: Boundaries Of Zones
9-4-3: Filing Of Ordinance And Map
9-4-4: Rules For Locating
9-4-5: Zoning Amendment Applications And Waiting Period
9-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES:
(Please note: As of February 22, 2022 Kane County will no longer accept new
lots designated with the R-½ Zone. The R-½ remains in this chapter for
administrative purposes only.)
For the purpose of this title, the following zones are created as necessary to
regulate the development of the land in Kane County, Utah:
Agricultural zone                                  AG
Rural zones                                        RU-10, RU-40
Residential zones                                  R-1/2, R-1, R-2, R-5
PUD Residential-1,
PUD Residential-2,                                 PUD R-1, PUD R-2, PUD R-5
PUD Residential-5 zones
Commercial zones                                   C-1, C-2
Planned Unit Development Light Commercial, Planned
Unit Development Commercial 1, Planned Unit        UD L-C, PUD C-1, PUD C-2
Development Commercial 2, Planned Unit
Manufacturing zone                                 M
Multi-Residential zone                             MR
Planned Unit Development Multi-Residential zone    PUD MR
Community zone                                     CZ
Industrial zone                                    I (reserved)
Escalante region multiple use/multiple functions grazing zone
 
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-6, 4-28-2014, eff. 5-
13-2014; Ord. O-2020-14, 6-23-2020; Ord. O-2022-06, 3-22-2022; Ord. O-2022-45,
7-26-2022)
9-4-2: BOUNDARIES OF ZONES:
The boundaries of each of the said zones are hereby established as herein
described, as shown on the map entitled "zoning map of Kane County, Utah",
which map is attached to the ordinance codified herein and all boundaries,
notations and other data shown thereon are made by this reference as much a
part of this title as if fully described and detailed herein. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-
12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-4-3: FILING OF ORDINANCE AND MAP:
The land use ordinance and map shall be held in custody by the land use
authority administrator and may be examined by the public during normal
business hours or at other times by special arrangement. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-
2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-4-4: RULES FOR LOCATING:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules
shall apply:
   A.   Whenever the zone boundary is indicated as being approximately upon the
center of a street, alley or block or along a property line, then unless
otherwise definitely indicated on the map the centerline of such street, alley
or block or such property line, shall be deemed to be the boundary of such
zone.
   B.   Whenever such boundary line of such zone is indicated as being
approximately at the line of any river, irrigation canal or other waterway or
railroad right of way, or public park or other public land or any section line,
then in such case the center of such stream, canal or waterway or such railroad
right of way or the boundary lines of such public land or such section line
shall be deemed to be the boundary of such zone.
   C.   Where the application of the above rules does not clarify the zone
boundary location, the appeal authority shall interpret the map. (Ord. 2013-5,
8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-4-5: ZONING AMENDMENT APPLICATIONS AND WAITING PERIOD:
   A.   An owner of land may submit an application for a zoning amendment or
zone change in accordance with state law by submitting a completed application
to the Land Use Administrator and by paying the respective fee.
   B.   Disapproval of a zoning amendment or zone change application shall
prohibit the filing of another application for the same parcel of property, or
any portion thereof, to the same zone classification, within one year of the
date of the final disapproval of the application, unless the Land Use
Administrator finds that there has been a substantial change in the
circumstances or sufficient new evidence after the disapproval of the
application to merit consideration of a second application within a one-year
time period.
   C.   Notice will be given to property owners within five hundred feet (500')
of any Zone Change request.
(Ord. O-2023-07, 4-11-2023; amd. Ord. O-2025-14, 6-24-2025)
CHAPTER 5
AGRICULTURAL ZONE AND RURAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. AGRICULTURAL ZONE (AG)
SECTION:
9-5A-1: Purpose
9-5A-2: Codes And Symbols
9-5A-3: Uses Table
9-5A-4: Area, Width, And Setback Regulations
9-5A-5: Modifying Regulations
9-5A-1: PURPOSE:
To preserve appropriate areas for permanent and temporary agricultural and open
space areas as defined herein. Uses normally and necessarily related to
agriculture are permitted as set forth in the use matrix below and uses adverse
to the continuance of agricultural activity are discouraged in general and
specifically prohibited only as set forth herein. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff.
8-27-2013)
9-5A-2: CODES AND SYMBOLS:
   A.   In this chapter are tables describing uses of land or buildings that
are allowed in the zone as shown. Permitted uses are indicated by a "P" in the
appropriate column. Uses that may be permitted by a conditional use permit
issued by the Planning Commission are indicated by a "C" in the appropriate
column. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
   B.   All uses listed in the residential uses table shall be allowed in the
Agricultural Zone with the appropriate designated use of permitted, conditional
or not allowed. If there is a conflict between the designated uses in the
Agricultural Zone the most restrictive use shall apply. Exceptions include
rural unimproved subdivisions that can only be used for agricultural purposes
as defined in Utah State Code 59-2-502. (Ord. O-2019-2, 1-14-2019)
   C.   If a use is not allowed in a given zone it is either not named in the
use table or it is indicated in the appropriate column by a dash (-). Any use
not named in this table which may be considered harmonious with the zone and
current allowed uses can be considered for proposed inclusion into this chapter
by the Kane County Planning Commission in a public hearing and approval of the
County Commission. (Ord. O-2018-1, 1-12-2018)
   D.   This chapter does not regulate the following:
      1.   Temporary events and activities lasting less than ten (10) days and
no more than three (3) times a year on the same property.
      2.   Non-commercial events and activities.
      3.   Events and activities on public lands. (Ord. O-2018-6, 7-9-2018)
9-5A-3: USES TABLE:
Uses AG AG-FAA
Uses                                                                  AG AG-FAA
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to conditional    C  C
uses
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to permitted uses P  P
Agricultural industry or business including all livestock marketing,  P  P
production, and wholesale
Agricultural tourism (agritourism)                                    P  P
Animal feed lot                                                       P  P
Animal feeding operation                                              C  C
Apiary (beehives)                                                     P  P
Automatic car wash                                                    -  -
Automobile fuel filling station                                       -  -
Aviary                                                                P  P
Bed and breakfast                                                     P  -
Beer sales at public recreational facilities                          C  -
Billiards or pool hall                                                -  -
Bowling alley; commercial skating                                     -  -
Boxing arena                                                          -  -
Campground, glamp-ground, up to 7 sites for lots of 10 acres or more. C  -
Cannabis, Marijuana, Hemp (without state license)                     -  -
Cannabis production establishment (with state cannabis production
establishment license) (must be located at least twelve and a half    P  P
(12.5) miles away from any community location as the crow flies)
Commercial dwelling or residential facilities for elderly or disabled P  -
persons
Construction equipment and supply trailer, temporary                  P  -
Convenience store with gasoline sales                                 -  -
Cottage industry that may be permitted to employees that reside
outside of the dwelling providing adequate off street parking can be  C  C
made available on the property
Dams, reservoirs and hydroelectric facilities                         C  C
Dude ranch, family vacation ranch                                     C  C
Dwelling                                                              P  P
Electrical power substation                                           C  C
Farms devoted to raising of chickens, turkeys or other fowl or        P  P
poultry, fish and frogs
Forestry                                                              P  P
Guest homes                                                           P  P
Home occupation                                                       P  P
Hotel, motel, inn                                                     -  -
Industrial hemp (with state industrial hemp license) (must be located
at least twelve and a half (12.5) miles away from any community       P  P
location as the crow flies)
Kennel and/or cattery commercial or private                           P  P
Large CAFO-Light                                                      -  -
Large CAFO-Heavy                                                      -  -
Lodges                                                                C  -
Logging and lumber harvesting                                         P  P
Medical cannabis (with state medical cannabis license) (must be
located at least twelve and a half (12.5) miles away from any         P  P
community location as the crow flies)
Nightclub/social club                                                 -  -
Parks                                                                 P  P
Park model                                                            P  P
Parks, public                                                         P  P
Personal agriculture, including crop production, grazing and          P  P
pasturing of animals
Plant materials nursery or greenhouse                                 P  P
Power generation for on site use under 50 kVA                         P  P
Private airstrip                                                      C  C
Private cemetery                                                      P  P
Private roads                                                         P  P
Processing and composting of State regulated Class A, B, and C        C  C
biosolids and other acceptable organic waste such as chicken manure
Production agriculture, including crop and grazing and pasturing of   P  P
animals
Public, quasi-public, and private service utility lines, pipelines,
power lines, excluding overhead lines with base structure over 70     P  P
feet in height
Public riding stable, riding academy or riding ring, horse show       P  P
barns, or facilities
Public use, quasi-public use, essential services, including
accredited private school, with a curriculum corresponding to a       C  C
public school
Radio and television transmitting stations and towers and wireless    C  C
communications towers
Recreational grounds and facilities                                   C  C
Recreational vehicle park                                             -  -
Reservoir and hydroelectric facilities                                C  C
Residential facilities                                                P  P
Second family dwelling for the household of a hired man or seasonal   P  P
laborer, or members of owner’s family
Seed/feed sales with no store front                                   P  P
Solar panels on a larger scale than residential producing 25 kW and   C  C
above
Solar panels producing below 25 kW of energy                          P  -
Solar power plant                                                     C  -
Storage, placement, keeping, locating, parking, maintaining, and      P  -
keeping of agricultural equipment
Surface mines, quarries and gravel pits                               C  -
Tourist based companies                                               P  -
Truck stop and truck wash                                             -  -
Underground mining, including underground and surface for mining and
transporting of minerals and for processing such minerals for sale or C  -
use
 
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. 2015-11, 7-27-2015; Ord.
2016-16, 12-12-2016; Ord. O-2017-14, 10-16-2017; Ord. O-2018-1, 1-12-2018; Ord.
O-2018-2, 4-9-2018; Ord. O-2018-5, 7-9-2018; Ord. O-2019-2, 1-14-2019; Ord. O-
2019-09, 5-14-2019; Ord. O-2019-25, 9-24-2019; Ord. O-2020-02, 1-28-2020; Ord.
O-2020-05, 3-23-2020; Ord. 2020-20, 9-22-2020; Ord. 2020-22, 10-27-2020; Ord.
O-2021-35, 9-14-2021; Ord. O-2021-38, 10-12-2021; Ord. O-2022-16, 3-22-2022;
Ord. O-2022-23, 4-26-2022; Ord. O-2022-25, 5-24-2022; Ord. O-2023-13, 11-28-
2023)
9-5A-4: AREA, WIDTH, AND SETBACK REGULATIONS:
 
District Area     Width    Yard Regulations
                           Front   Side    Rear
AG       10 acres 200 feet 30 feet 20 feet 30 feet
 
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-5A-5: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   No building, structure or enclosure housing animals or fowl shall be
constructed closer than fifty feet (50') to a dwelling on an adjacent lot.
   B.   Accessory buildings located at least ten feet (10') behind the main
building may have a three foot (3') side yard requirement except that the
street side of a corner lot shall be a minimum of thirty feet (30') for all
buildings.
   C.   Accessory building located at least ten feet (10') behind the main
building may have a rear yard of three feet (3') provided that a corner lot
rearing on a side yard of another lot, the minimum rear yard for all buildings
shall be eight feet (8').
   D.   A subdivision of land zoned Agricultural may be approved by the County
Commission, upon recommendation from the Planning Commission, as a conforming
aliquot parts parcel or lot less than ten (10) acres, but not less than 9.5
acres if necessary to compensate for the curvature of the earth or the
convergence of Township lines as recognized in the public land survey system,
or because of previous survey errors.
   E.   Dedicated and approved rights-of-way not located within a platted
subdivision do not have to be improved at the time of dedication. A dedicated
right-of-way will be required to be improved to the standards set forth by the
Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code (current edition) prior to a building permit
being issued to any parcel required to be served by an all weather surface
right-of-way. The right-of-way will have to be improved to a minimum of twenty
eight feet (28') wide improved all weather travel surface, prior to a second
building permit being issued on a parcel being served by the right-of-way. The
owner will be required to submit all invoices associated with the cost of
building the road to the County. Any building permits issued within ten (10)
years of the date of completion of improvements of the right-of-way will
require the property owner to pay a proportionate share of the road
construction cost to the property owner who paid the original cost of
improvements. The road will be required to be asphalted prior to a development
of five (5) acre density, or less, being approved or prior to a building permit
being issued which will cause the average daily traffic (ADT) to be above four
hundred (400) trips per day or then current standard for very low volume local
roads as defined by the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials (AASHTO) standards. The improvements may be completed
with the development construction.
AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC USAGE TABLE
Land Uses Units Daily (Weekday) Average Rate
Land Uses                 Units                     Daily (Weekday) Average
                                                    Rate
Single family home        Dwelling units            9.52
Apartment                 Dwelling units            6.65
Lodging/hotel             Dwelling units            8.92
Retail/shopping center    1,000 square feet         Non-linear rate
General office building   1,000 square feet         11.03
Superstore                1,000 square feet         50.75
Gasoline/service station  Vehicle fueling positions 168.56
Fast-food restaurant with 1,000 square feet         496.12
drive-thru window
Restaurant (sit-down)     1,000 square feet         127.15
Industrial/general light  1,000 square feet         6.97
Charter schools/private   Students                  2.48
(K - 12)
Civic:                                              
   Library             1,000 square feet         56.24
   Government office   1,000 square feet         68.93
building
   State Motor Vehicle 1,000 square feet         166.02
Department
 
   F.   A conditional use permit shall regulate the size of the glamping unit
(such as, but not limited to: tents/covered wagons/tee-pees/tree houses/yurts),
not including the foundation, to be no larger than seven hundred and seventy
four (774) square feet.
   G.   Campground/glamp-ground (all zones). All structures and amenities
within the campground/glamp-ground are to have a minimum setback of one hundred
feet (100') from all private property boundary lines or twenty five feet (25')
from all public land boundaries.
   H.   Additional conditions for all campgrounds/glamp-grounds can be found in
chapter 15, “Conditional And Temporary Uses”, of this title.
   I.   Each parcel of one hundred sixty (160) acres or smaller may contain a
maximum of the following: 1) two (2) single-family dwellings; 2) a total of
seven (7) structures that are not exempt as described below; and 3) a total
maximum coverage of forty percent (40%) of the parcel for non-exempt
structures. Additional density will require an approved zone change or PUD.
Four (4) temporary structures are the equivalent of one (1) permanent
structure. The following structures are exempt from the calculation of density:
1) structures that are exempt from requiring a building permit under Utah Code
15A-1-204(11), namely, a structure used solely in conjunction with agriculture
use, and not for human occupancy, or a structure that is no more than one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet and used solely for the sale of
seasonal crops during the harvest season; 2) one (1) story detached accessory
structures used as tool and storage sheds, playhousess, and similar uses, less
than one hundred twenty (120) square feet in size; 3) water tanks less than
five thousand (5,000) gallons; 4) swimming pools less than five thousand
(5,000) gallons; 5) swings and other playground equipment accessory to a
single-family dwelling; and 6) decks not exceeding two hundred (200) square
feet.
   J.   A legal description shall be recorded in the Kane County Recorder’s
office for all private cemeteries located in the agriculture zone. (Ord. 2013-
5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. 2013-11, 11-25-2013, eff. 12-10-2013;
Ord. O-2018-2, 4-9-2018; Ord. O-2018-5, 7-9-2018; Ord. O-2018-6, 7-9-2018; Ord.
O-2019-23, 11-12-2019; Ord. O-2020-01, 1-14-2020; Ord. 2020-20, 9-22-2020; Ord.
O-2021-35, 9-14-2021; Ord. O-2022-01, 1-25-2022)
ARTICLE B. AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREAS
SECTION:
9-5B-1: Purpose
9-5B-2: Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board
9-5B-3: Appointment of Board Members
9-5B-4: Term in Office, Removal of Members
9-5B-5: Quorum and Rules of Operation
9-5B-6: Minimum Size for Agriculture Protection Areas
9-5B-7: Fees for Accepting and Processing Agriculture Protection Area Proposals
9-5B-1: PURPOSE:
To provide a clear understanding of the process set forth by Utah Code by which
property owners conducting agricultural operations on their property can enter
into a protection area allowing them certain rights in regards to neighboring
property owners who may deem the operation(s) a nuisance. (Ord. O-2023-03, 1-
24-2023)
9-5B-2: AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA ADVISORY BOARD:
An Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board is hereby established for Kane
County pursuant to Utah code Ann. §17-41-201 to perform the duties set out in §
17-41-201 or any later amendment or enactment of that section. (Ord. O-2023-03,
1-24-2023)
9-5B-3: APPOINTMENT OF BOARD MEMBERS:
The Board of County Commissioners of Kane County, Utah shall appoint five (5)
members to the Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board established under
Section
9-5B-2. The board members shall be appointed by resolution from the Kane County
Soil Conservation District, among the members of the board of Supervisors.
(Ord. O-2023-03, 1-24-2023)
9-5B-4: TERM IN OFFICE, REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
Each member appointed to the Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board shall
serve on said board until expiration of that member's respective term on the
Soil Conservation District Board of Supervisors. By majority vote of the
Agricultural Protection Area Advisory Board, the Board of County Commissioners
of Kane County may remove and replace any Advisory Board member for cause or
for failure to perform the required duties. (Ord. O-2023-03, 1-24-2023)
9-5B-5: QUORUM AND RULES OF OPERATION:
Any three (3) members of the Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board shall
constitute a quorum of that board. All actions of the Board, except to adjourn
a meeting at which there is not a quorum present, must be made in a meeting at
which a quorum is present. Any actions of the Agriculture Protection Area
Advisory Board must be approved by at least three (3) members of that Board.
All meetings shall be conducted in accordance with the Utah Open and Public
Meetings act. The Agriculture Protection Area Advisory Board may adopt such
additional bylaws, policies, procedures and rules of operation as it deems
necessary to govern its affairs, and operate pursuant to statue. (Ord. O-2023-
03, 1-24-2023)
9-5B-6: MINIMUM SIZE FOR AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREAS:
Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §17-41-301(5), or any later amendment or enactment
of that section, at least 1 contiguous acre must be included in each
agriculture protection area established within Kane County. (Ord. O-2023-03, 1-
24-2023)
9-5B-7: FEES FOR ACCEPTING AND PROCESSING AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA
PROPOSALS:
Any proposals to create agriculture protection areas within Kane County, Utah
shall be filed in the office the Kane County Land Use Authority. All proposals
must be accompanied by the filing fee established by the Agricultural
Protection Area Advisory Board. (Ord. O-2023-03, 1-24-2023)
ARTICLE C. RURAL ZONES (RU-10 AND RU-40)
SECTION:
9-5C-1: Purpose
9-5C-2: Area And Setback Regulations
9-5C-3: Height Regulations
9-5C-4: Modifying Regulations
9-5C-5: Codes And Symbols
9-5C-6: Uses Table
9-5C-1: PURPOSE:
Kane County continues to grow and increase in economic development. In areas of
the county where there is a large amount of land that is zoned agricultural
there is very low density and many lands that retain a rural feel along with
many traditional agricultural uses. These lands are not suitable to be zoned
commercial with the possibility of many varied commercial uses that are much
higher in density and come with a much larger impact to the surrounding areas.
However, to promote appropriate growth and economic development in these low
density rural areas there is a need to allow additional uses beyond what is
allowed in the Agricultural Zone. The purpose of the Rural Zone is to allow
uses that are similar to the Agricultural Zone but also allow some additional
uses for growth and economic development, such as recreation and tourism
related uses that are better suited for these rural areas. (Ord. O-2023-03, 1-
24-2023)
9-5C-2: AREA AND SETBACK REGULATIONS:
 
District Min. Area Front   Side    Rear
RURAL 10 10 acres  30 feet 30 feet 30 feet
RURAL 40 40 acres  30 feet 30 feet 30 feet
 
(Ord. O-2023-03, 1-24-2023)
9-5C-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
A building erected to a height greater than thirty five feet (35') requires a
conditional use permit. (Ord. O-2023-03, 1-24-2023)
9-5C-4: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Accessory Building Side Yard: Accessory buildings located at least ten
feet (10') behind the main building may have a ten foot (10') side yard
requirement except that the street side of a corner lot shall be a minimum of
thirty feet (30') for all buildings.
   B.   Accessory Building Rear Yard: Accessory building located at least ten
feet (10') behind the main building may have a rear yard of ten feet (10')
provided that a corner lot rearing on a side yard of another lot, the minimum
rear yard for all buildings shall be ten feet (10').
   C.   Water And Sewer: Individual water supply and/or sewage disposal systems
shall be subject to the approval of the Department of Health.
   D.   Parking and loading space requirements are regulated in Chapter 13:
Parking And Loading Space Requirements.
   E.   Short Term Or Vacation Rental: In the event that there is more than one
dwelling on a single lot that may be considered a short term rental or vacation
rental as defined in section
9-1-7 of this title, two (2) dwellings may be rented and may be used as a short
term rental or vacation rental. (Ord. O-2023-03, 1-24-2023)
9-5C-5: CODES AND SYMBOLS:
   A.   In section
9-5B-6 of this article is a table describing uses of land or buildings that are
allowed in the zone as shown. Permitted uses are indicated by a "P" in the
appropriate column. Uses that may be permitted by a conditional use permit
issued by the land use authority are indicated by a "C" in the appropriate
column. If a use is not allowed in a given zone, it is either not named in the
use list or it is indicated in the appropriate column by a dash, "-".
   B.   All uses listed in the Agricultural Zone and Residential Zones shall be
allowed in the Rural Zones with the appropriate designated use of permitted,
conditional or not allowed. If there is a conflict between the designated uses
in the Agricultural Zone the most restrictive use shall apply. Exceptions
include rural unimproved subdivisions that can only be used for agricultural
purposes as defined in Utah State Code 59-2-502.
   C.   Any use not named in this table, which may be considered harmonious
with the zone and current allowed uses, can be considered for proposed
inclusion into this chapter by the Kane County Land Use Authority in a public
hearing and approval of the County Commission. (Ord. O-2023-03, 1-24-2023)
9-5C-6: USES TABLE:
Use Rural 10 Rural 40
Use                                                           Rural 10 Rural 40
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to        C        C
conditional uses
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to        P        P
permitted uses
Animal shelter, commercial                                    C        C
Animal shelter, private                                       P        P
ATV tours & rentals                                           -        -
Building with a height greater than 35 feet                   C        C
Cabins -- not to exceed 1500 Sq. ft. Limited to up to 14
sites for the first 10 acres, and an additional 8 sites for   C        C
each additional 10 acres up to a maximum of 70 sites on 80
acres or more
Campground/glamp-ground with up to 14 sites for the first 10
acres, and an additional 8 sites for each additional 10 acres C        C
up to a maximum of 70 sites on 80 acres or more
Educational Shop                                              C        C
Fruit, fruit juice store; fruit and/or vegetable stand, or    P        P
store
Gift shop; incidental to permitted uses                       P        P
Golf courses                                                  C        C
Helicopter tours                                              -        -
Helipad, private                                              -        C
Parks and other recreational areas                            C        C
Parking lot incidental to a use conducted on the premises     P        P
Public parks and playground                                   P        P
Reception center and/or wedding chapel                        P        P
Recreational center, recreational camp, facilities or area    P        P
that is private and/or commercial
Recreational vehicle park                                     -        C
Restaurant                                                    C        C
Shooting Range                                                C        C
Spa                                                           C        C
Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work,
including living quarters for a guard, night watchman or      P        P
family, which buildings must be removed upon completion or
abandonment of the construction work
Tourist and tour guide companies or services                  C        P
4x4 Vehicle tours & rentals                                   -        -
 
(Ord. O-2023-03, 1-24-2023)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS (R-1/2, R-1, R-2, R-5)
PLEASE NOTE: AS OF FEBRUARY 22, 2022 KANE COUNTY WILL NO LONGER ACCEPT NEW LOTS
DESIGNATED WITH THE R-½ ZONE. THE R-½ ZONE REGULATIONS WILL REMAIN IN VARIOUS
PARTS OF THIS CHAPTER FOR ADMINISTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY.
SECTION:
9-6A-1: Purpose
9-6A-2: Area And Setback Regulations
9-6A-3: Height Regulations
9-6A-4: Modifying Regulations
9-6A-5: Codes And Symbols
9-6A-6: Uses Table
9-6A-1: PURPOSE:
To provide for residential neighborhoods of a rural character together with a
limited number of livestock for the benefit and enjoyment of the residents.
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-6A-2: AREA AND SETBACK REGULATIONS:
(Please note: As of February 22, 2022 Kane County will no longer accept new
lots designated with the R-½ Zone. The R-½ will remain in the Area and Setback
Regulations for administrative purposes only.)
 
District Area     Front   Side    Rear
R-1/2    1/2 acre 30 feet 10 feet 10 feet
R-1      1 acre   30 feet 10 feet 10 feet
R-2      2 acres  30 feet 10 feet 10 feet
R-5      5 acres  30 feet 10 feet 10 feet
 
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. O-2022-06, 3-22-2022)
9-6A-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
A building erected to a height greater than thirty five feet (35') requires a
conditional use permit. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-6A-4: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Animals And Fowl: No building, structure or enclosure housing animals
or fowl shall be constructed closer to a dwelling on adjacent lots closer than
twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Accessory Building Side Yard: Accessory buildings located at least ten
feet (10') behind the main building may have a three foot (3') side yard
requirement except that the street side of a corner lot shall be a minimum of
thirty feet (30') for all buildings.
   C.   Accessory Building Rear Yard: Accessory building located at least ten
feet (10') behind the main building may have a rear yard of three feet (3')
provided that a corner lot rearing on a side yard of another lot, the minimum
rear yard for all buildings shall be eight feet (8').
   D.   Water And Sewer: Individual water supply and/or sewage disposal systems
shall be subject to the approval of the department of health.
   E.   Manufactured Homes: A manufactured home shall meet all county snow
loads at the time of siting and less than ten (10) years old shall meet all
snow loads and energy codes at the time of siting. If older than ten (10)
years, manufactured home must be inspected and approved by the Kane County
building department.
   F.   Allowable Numbers Of Household Pets: Private holding and ownership of
up to a maximum number of animals in a given land use (zoning) area as shown
below; without a conditional use permit.
      1.   R-1/2 may house a maximum of six (6) household pets. (Please note:
As of February 22, 2022 Kane County will no longer accept new lots designated
with the R-½ Zone. The R-½ will remain in Modifying Regulations for
administrative purposes only.)
      2.   R-1 may house a maximum of six (6) household pets.
      3.   R-2 may house a maximum of twelve (12) household pets.
      4.   R-5 may house a maximum of fifteen (15) household pets.
   G.   Livestock: The keeping of livestock for personal use is permitted,
except that no more than one large animal, or no more than ten (10) small farm
animals weighing fifty (50) pounds each or less, may be kept for each six
thousand two hundred fifty (6,250) square feet of area dedicated for each
animal not to exceed a maximum of ten (10) large animals on any lot.
   H.   Number of Dwellings Allowed per Lot or Parcel: No more than two single-
family dwellings allowed per lot or parcel in Residential 1, 2 and 5 zones.
Only 1 single-family dwelling is allowed in the Residential ½ zone.
   I.   Short Term Or Vacation Rental: In the event that there is more than one
dwelling on a single lot that may be considered a short term rental or vacation
rental as defined in section
9-1-7 of this title only one renting of those dwellings may be used as a short
term rental or vacation rental, except in the R-2 and R-5 Zones where a
conditional use permit can be applied for to allow a second nightly/short term
rental.
   J.   Private Cemeteries within a subdivision shall have a sealed concrete
vault. A permanent marker will be placed on each individual grave site. The
cemetery shall be 50 feet from any property line. The cemetery’s legal
description shall be recorded in the Recorder’s Office. No green burials are
allowed within platted subdivisions. Green burials will only be allowed on 10-
acre or larger parcels. No more than two burial plots will be allowed on each
individual lot within a platted subdivision, except in the R-5 zone which
allows a maximum of five plots. No plots will be sold commercially. (Ord. 2013-
5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-15, 7-28-2014; Ord. O-2019-5, 4-
22-2019; amd. Ord. O-2022-06, 3-22-2022; Ord. O-2022-18, 4-26-2022; Ord. O-
2022-60, 11-22-2022; Ord. O-2023-31, 9-26-2023)
9-6A-5: CODES AND SYMBOLS:
(Please note: As of February 22, 2022 Kane County will no longer accept new
lots designated with the R-½ Zone. The R-½ will remain in the uses table for
administrative purposes only.)
   A.   In section
9-6A-6 of this article is a table describing uses of land or buildings that are
allowed in the zone as shown. Permitted uses are indicated by a “P” in the
appropriate column. Uses that may be permitted by a conditional use permit
issued by the Land Use Authority are indicated by a “C” in the appropriate
column. If a use is not allowed in a given zone, it is either not named in the
use list or it is indicated in the appropriate column by a dash, “-“.
   B.   Any use not named in this table which may be considered harmonious with
the zone and current allowed uses can be considered for proposed inclusion into
this chapter by the Kane County Land Use Authority in a public hearing and
approval of the County Commission. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013;
amd. Ord. 2014-16, 8-25-2014; amd. Ord. O-2022-06, 3-22-2022)
9-6A-6: USES TABLE:
Use R-1/2 R-1 R-2 R-5
Use                                                           R-1/2 R-1 R-2 R-5
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to        C     C   C   C
conditional uses
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to        P     P   P   P
permitted uses
Accredited private educational institution having a           C     C   C   C
curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in public schools
Animal shelter, commercial                                    -     -   C   C
Animal shelter, private                                       P     P   P   P
Apartments                                                    -     -   -   -
Assisted living buildings                                     C     P   P   P
Barndominium                                                  -     P   P   P
Bed and breakfast                                             -     -   C   C
Building with a height greater than 35 feet                   C     C   C   C
Campground/glamp-ground                                       -     -   -   -
Cemetery private                                              C     C   C   C
Child daycare or nursery                                      C     C   C   C
Church                                                        C     C   C   C
Commercial construction, storage yard                         -     -   -   C
Condos                                                        -     -   -   -
Construction equipment and supply trailer, temporary          C     C   C   C
Construction field office, temporary                          C     C   C   C
Duplex (one per lot or parcel)                                -     C   P   P
Electrical power substation or overhead lines with base       C     C   C   C
structure greater than 70 feet in height
Group home1                                                   P     P   P   P
Guest home                                                    -     P   P   P
Helipad or the landing of helicopters                         -     -   -   -
Home occupation                                               P     P   P   P
Internal Accessory Dwelling Unit (IADU)                       P     P   P   P
Kennel and/or catteries (private)                             P     P   P   P
Livestock                                                     P     P   P   P
Lodges, residential                                           -     -   -   C
Park models                                                   -     -   -   -
Personal agriculture, the tilling of the soil, the raising of P     P   P   P
crops, horticulture, and gardening, personal
Planned unit developments                                     C     C   C   C
Private road                                                  P     P   P   P
Public parks and playground                                   P     P   P   P
Public, quasi-public, and private service utility lines,
pipelines, power lines overhead lines with base structure     P     P   P   P
over 70 feet
Recreational vehicle park                                     -     -   -   -
Residential facilities                                        P     P   P   P
Residential facilities for persons with disabilities1         P     P   P   P
Residential facilities for the elderly1                       P     P   P   P
Single family dwelling (1 per lot or parcel)                  P     P   P   P
Solar panels attached to a residential home producing less    P     P   P   P
than 25 kW of energy
Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work,
including living quarters for a guard, night watchman or      P     P   P   P
family, which buildings must be removed upon completion or
abandonment of the construction work
Townhomes                                                     -     -   -   -
Vacation rental and/or short term rental (one per lot or      P     P   P   P
parcel)
Vacation rental and/or short term rental (two per lot or      -     -   C   C
parcel)
 
Note:
   1.    See article C of this chapter for general requirements; see also
section
9-6C-3, “Nonpermitted Use”, of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-15, 7-28-2014; Ord.
2014-16, 8-25-2014; Ord. 2014-21, 12-22-2014; Ord. 2016-16, 12-12-2016; Ord. O-
2018-2, 4-9-2018; Ord. O-2018-6, 7-9-2018; Ord. O-2018-7, 7-23-2018; Ord. O-
2019-09, 5-14-2019; Ord. 2020-22, 10-27-2020; Ord. O-2022-18, 4-26-2022; Ord.
O-2022-25, 5-24-2022; Ord. 2022-34, 6-14-2022; Ord. O-2023-31, 9-26-2023; Ord.
O-2025-2, 2-25-2025)
ARTICLE B. MULTI-RESIDENTIAL ZONE
SECTION:
9-6B-1: Purpose
9-6B-2: Conditions
9-6B-3: Area And Setback Regulations
9-6B-4: Uses Table
9-6B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the multi-family residential zone is to provide appropriate
areas in the county where multi-family neighborhoods may be established,
maintained and protected while protecting the integrity and characteristics of
neighboring properties. In an effort to support affordable and moderate-income
housing, short-term rentals are not permitted in multi-residential units. (Ord.
O-2022-18, 4-26-2022; amd. Ord. O-2023-13, 11-28-2023; Ord. O-2025-09, 4-22-
2025)
9-6B-2: CONDITIONS:
   A.   Lot Coverage: Land coverage of all buildings shall not exceed thirty
percent (30%) of the lot or parcel acreage.
   B.   Density: Each parcel shall contain, no more than 8 units per acre.
   C.    Water And Sewer: Individual water supply and/or sewage disposal
systems shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Health and/or the
County Engineer.
   D.   Parking: Refer to chapter 13 of this title.
   E.   Building Height: Buildings with a height over thirty five feet (35')
need a conditional use permit.
   F.   Site Plan: Site plan subject to approval by the Kane County Land Use
Authority. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-16, 8-25-
2014; Ord. O-2022-18, 4-26-2022; Ord. O-2023-12, 4-25-2023)
9-6B-3: AREA AND SETBACK REGULATIONS:
 
Zone Area           Front   Side    Rear
MR   1 acre minimum 30 feet 20 feet 20 feet
(Ord. O-2022-18, 4-26-2022)
9-6B-4: USES TABLE:
 
Use
Use
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to conditional uses   C
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to permitted uses     P
Apartments                                                                C
Condominiums                                                              C
Church                                                                    C
Home Occupation                                                           P
Household Pets                                                            P
Mobile Home Park                                                          C
Multiple-Family Dwellings                                                 C
Park or Playground                                                        P
Plex Housing - Not to exceed 8 units                                      C
Private Recreation Grounds and Facilities                                 C
Public, quasi-public, and private service utility lines, pipelines, power P
lines overhead lines with base structure over 70 feet
School                                                                    P
Single Family Dwellings                                                   P
Town Homes                                                                C
 
(Ord. O-2022-18, 4-26-2022; amd. Ord. O-2022-25, 5-24-2022; Ord. O-2023-13, 11-
28-2023; Ord. O-2025-09, 4-22-2025)
ARTICLE C. RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY PERSONS; RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES
FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY; GROUP HOMES
SECTION:
9-6C-1: Intent; Compliance
9-6C-2: Requirements
9-6C-3: Nonpermitted Use
9-6C-1: INTENT; COMPLIANCE:
The purpose of this article is: a) to ensure residential facilities for elderly
persons ("facility"), residential facilities for persons with a disability
("facility"), and group homes ("home") do not suffer from a discriminatory land
use impact or action, b) to ensure such facilities, uses, and homes do not have
an adverse impact on the character of adjacent neighborhoods or individuals, by
posing a direct or serious threat to them or property, even with reasonable
accommodation(s), and c) to ensure that issues of public safety, traffic, and
parking are mitigated. To carry out these purposes, residential facilities for
elderly persons, residential facilities for persons with a disability, and
group homes shall be governed by the provisions that follow. (Ord. 2014-21, 12-
22-2014)
Each section under this article shall comply with and be enforced only to the
extent allowed by: a) title 57, chapter 21, Utah fair housing act, and
applicable jurisprudence; b) the fair housing amendment act of 1988, 42 USC
section 3601 et seq., and applicable jurisprudence; and c) section 504,
rehabilitation act of 1973, and applicable jurisprudence.
"Disability" or "disabled", as referred to in this article, shall have the same
meaning as defined in chapter 1 of this title, Utah code section 17-27a-103,
and the United States Code, title 42, section 12102, as may be amended or
renumbered, with any disparities between the separate definitions being
resolved by adherence to the United States Code. For purposes of this chapter,
"residential facilities for persons with a disability" also includes
residential facilities for the rehabilitation and treatment of the disabled.
Discriminatory actions against elderly or disabled persons, residential
facilities for elderly persons, residential facilities for persons with a
disability, and group homes are prohibited. (Ord. 2014-16, 8-25-2014)
9-6C-2: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Zones Permitted: Residential facilities for elderly persons,
residential facilities for persons with a disability, and group homes shall be
permitted in any zone where a single-family dwelling is permitted, and shall
not be considered a multiple- family dwelling when there is compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Single-Family Dwelling Regulations: Wherever situated, residential
facilities for elderly persons, residential facilities for persons with a
disability, and group homes shall be subject to the same federal, state, and
local laws, regulations and land use practices that govern single-family
dwellings.
   C.   Reasonable Accommodation: Reasonable modifications to or reasonable
accommodations in application of the ordinances, policies, rules and practices
shall be granted, to the extent required by applicable law and jurisprudence,
upon application to the land use authority, subject to the process and review
outlined in chapter 15, "Conditional And Temporary Uses", of this title when
such accommodation(s) may be necessary to afford an applicant to use and enjoy
a dwelling.
   D.   Business License: If operating as a business, a residential facility
for elderly persons, residential facility for persons with a disability, or a
group home shall be required to obtain a business license before operating the
facility or home.
   E.   Anticipatory Reasonable Accommodation: As an anticipatory reasonable
accommodation permitted under this article, residential facilities for elderly
persons, residential facilities for persons with a disability, and group homes
located within a single building/dwelling or single-family dwelling may be
occupied by up to eight (8) persons who are not related by blood, marriage or
adoption, without application to the land use authority.
   F.   Licensure And Reports: Residential facilities for elderly persons,
residential facilities for persons with a disability, and group homes shall
acquire and abide by any state, federal, or local licensure and inspection
requirements. The facility or group home shall provide to the land use
administrator: 1) a copy of any reports issued by the department of health or
by the department of human services; b) a copy of the policy and procedures
manual for the specific location, if required and provided through the state
licensing process; and c) a copy of any pertinent license issued to the land
use administrator. These items shall be kept on file, as well as any renewed or
updated license or documents. This requirement must be fulfilled in order to be
considered a permitted use.
   G.   Proximity: If a residential facility for elderly persons, a residential
facility for persons with a disability, or a group home is being occupied by
more than four (4) unrelated persons, under the explicit reasonable
accommodation outlined herein, then the facility or home may not be located
closer than three-fourths (3/4) mile from a similar facility, in order to avoid
or mitigate any detrimental impact resulting from an excessive concentration of
such facilities in close proximity.
   H.   Parking: Residential facilities for elderly persons, residential
facilities for persons with a disability, and group homes shall comply with the
parking regulations of chapter 13 of this title, providing sufficient off
street parking and circulation to prevent issues of public safety and traffic.
   I.   Voluntary Basis: In order to avoid and mitigate health and safety
concerns, and to be considered a permitted use, placement in a residential
facility for elderly persons, residential facility for persons with a
disability, or a group home shall be on a strict voluntary basis and may not be
a part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment in a
correctional institution, or a condition of probation/parole.
   J.   Safety Plan: If a residential facility for elderly persons, a
residential facility for persons with a disability, or a group home is being
occupied by more than four (4) unrelated persons, under the explicit reasonable
accommodation outlined herein, then a safety plan must be developed and
submitted to the land use administrator, for the use to be a permitted use,
demonstrating adequate supervision and control of the residents, in order to
ensure the safety of the residents and surrounding community.
      1.   Any denial, rejection, or request to modify the safety plan must be
based on written findings articulating grounds related to a serious or direct
threat(s) to health or safety.
      2.   The safety plan shall be reviewed by and must be determined to be
satisfactory to the Kane County sheriff's office and be approved by the land
use administrator.
      3.   The safety plan shall include, but not be limited to: a) a parking
and circulation plan; b) security and surveillance plan; and c) visitation
hours, if any.
      4.   If considered necessary for traffic safety, pursuant to applicable
requirements, additional parking in a reasonable number may be required by the
land use administrator.
   K.   Safety Plan; Substance Abuse Facilities: For residential facilities for
persons with a disability that are substance abuse facilities and are located
within five hundred feet (500') of a school, where more than four (4) unrelated
persons reside, then a safety plan must be developed and submitted to the land
use administrator, for the use to be a permitted use, demonstrating adequate
supervision and control of the residents, in order to ensure the safety of the
residents and surrounding community.
      1.   Any denial, rejection, or request to modify the safety plan must be
based on written findings articulating grounds related to a serious or direct
threat(s) to health or safety.
      2.   The safety plan shall be reviewed by and must be determined to be
satisfactory by the Kane County sheriff's office and be approved by the land
use administrator.
      3.   The safety plan shall include, but not be limited to: a) a security
and surveillance plan; b) twenty four (24) hour supervision of residents; c)
other twenty four (24) hour supervision measures; if any.
   L.   Adequate Personal Space: The owner/operator of the facility or home
shall ensure that each resident has adequate personal space.
   M.   Rehabilitation/Treatment Of Individuals Diagnosed With Addiction: To
ensure the health and safety of adjacent neighbors, when a residential facility
for persons with a disability involves the rehabilitation and/or treatment of
individuals diagnosed and suffering from an addiction to alcohol or a
controlled substance (as defined in the controlled substance act, 21 USC 802),
the following provisions must be complied with in order to be considered a
permitted use under this chapter:
      1.   Individual residents have completely abstained from the use of
alcohol and all controlled substances for a continuous period of at least
thirty (30) days immediately prior to becoming a resident of the home.
      2.   All residents of the home must completely abstain from using alcohol
and controlled substances during the period that they are residents of the
home. Any resident who uses alcohol or a controlled substance, whether on or
off the premises, shall be immediately expelled from the facility and shall not
be readmitted for a period of at least thirty (30) days following the
violation. However, nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit a
resident from taking a prescribed medication for which a resident has a valid
and current prescription.
   N.   Threat To Health Or Safety: Residency within a residential facility for
elderly persons, a residential facility for persons with a disability, or a
group home shall not be available to or occupied by any individual whose
tenancy or recent personal history would constitute an articulable, direct or
serious threat to the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy
could result in substantial physical damage to the property of another.
      1.   Prior to allowing an individual to reside in a facility or home, an
owner/operator of a facility or home shall conduct an individualized assessment
of each person desiring to become a resident of the facility or home to
determine if such person would constitute a direct or serious threat to the
health or safety of other individuals or property. Such assessments should
consider such things as the individual's past criminal history, violent or
aggressive sexual acts, passage of time since such acts, and evaluations and
treatments the individual has received.
      2.   No individual determined to pose a risk for commission of sexual
offenses, or being classified as having predatory tendencies may be accepted as
a resident.
   O.   Investigations: The owner/operator of a facility or home shall promptly
investigate, and cooperate in any law enforcement investigation, of any and all
allegations, of which it is or may become aware, relating to the acts of an
individual residing in or employed by such facility or home as may constitute a
violation of the provisions of this article. The owner/operator shall provide
the land use administrator with the details of any allegation(s), results of
the investigation, and any proposed remedial measures. If an allegation is
found to be substantiated, the owner/operator shall take immediate and
reasonable action under the circumstances to correct, mitigate, or remedy the
violation and any harm or damage resulting therefrom, and to protect the person
or property of such individual and others residing or employed in and near the
facility or home. (Ord. 2014-16, 8-25-2014)
9-6C-3: NONPERMITTED USE:
   A.   The permitted use designation of a residential facility for elderly
persons, a residential facility for persons with a disability, or a group home
is contingent upon compliance with the provisions in this article.
Noncompliance with this article constitutes a nonpermitted use under this
article.
   B.   A residential facility for elderly persons, a residential facility for
persons with a disability, or a group home that poses a serious or direct
threat to the health or safety of another person or another's property, and the
threat to health and safety cannot be adequately abated with a reasonable
accommodation(s), is not a permitted use.
   C.   Determining whether an individual resident, a residential facility for
elderly or disabled persons, or group home poses a direct or serious threat,
thereby constituting a nonpermitted use, must be made on an individualized
basis, based on overt acts, past criminal history, violent or aggressive sexual
acts, passage of time since such acts, evaluations, and/or factually supported
reports. Such determination shall not be based on general assumptions or
speculation about the nature of a disability, group home, or residential
facility.
   D.   The normal and proper procedures for abating a nonpermitted use shall
be followed should an existing home or facility be found in noncompliance with
this article. The land use administrator is encouraged to advise an owner,
operator, or applicant of the application process to request a reasonable
accommodation, if appropriate. (Ord. 2014-16, 8-25-2014)
ARTICLE D. SHORT TERM RENTAL AND LODGE REGULATIONS WITHIN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
SECTION:
9-6D-1: Definitions
9-6D-2: Scope
9-6D-3: Terms Of Use
9-6D-4: Maintenance Standards
9-6D-5: Prevention Of Noise, Trespass, Prohibited Activities
9-6D-6: Required Posting
9-6D-7: Tax Responsibilities
9-6D-8: Enforcement
9-6D-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to this article:
 
                             A building or dwelling with one or more rooms that
                             are rented out by the day for not more than thirty
                             (30) days by a single paying affiliated group of
                             fifteen (15) or more individuals, but not more
LODGES, RESIDENTIAL:         than twenty four (24) individuals. In the case
                             that the subject property is serviced by Municipal
                             scale water and sewer, an additional eleven (11)
                             individuals may be permitted for a maximum
                             occupancy of thirty five (35) through the
                             conditional use application.
                             A detached single-family dwelling unit used as a
                             transient lodging facility occupied at any time by
NIGHTLY/SHORT TERM RENTAL:   no more than ten (10) individuals of a single
                             group on a temporary basis for less than thirty
                             (30) days as an alternative to a hotel or motel.
                             The recorded property owner of the residence being
                             used as a short term rental or lodge. The owner
                             may be a person or any form of business entity
OWNER:                       recognized by the State of Utah. If the owner is a
                             business entity, the business shall maintain
                             current registration with the Utah Department of
                             Commerce.
                             The owner's agent for renting and/or managing the
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT COMPANY: property, if any. (Ord. O-2019-5, 4-22-2019; amd.
                             Ord. 2019-09, 5-14-2019; Ord. O-2022-60, 11-22-
                             2022)
 
9-6D-2: SCOPE:
This article shall apply only to short term rentals and lodges located within a
Residential Zone. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-14-2019)
9-6D-3: TERMS OF USE:
Short term rental and lodge use of a single family dwelling shall be an allowed
use in Residential Zones if the following terms are complied with:
   A.   Each short term rental or lodge shall maintain a current Kane County
business license.
   B.   Owner shall maintain active registration with the State of Utah and
remit all taxes deemed necessary by the Utah State Tax Commission.
   C.   Short term rental or lodge shall comply with all applicable rules and
regulations set forth by the local Health Department, County Building
Department, and Kane County Land Use Authority.
   D.   Short term rentals and lodges are limited to one short term unit per
property, unless allowed otherwise by zone.
   E.   Short term rental shall not exceed the maximum occupancy of ten (10)
individuals at a time.
   F.   Lodges shall not exceed the maximum occupancy of twenty four (24)
individuals, if the property is serviced by Municipal scale water and sewer, an
additional eleven (11) individuals may be permitted for a maximum occupancy of
thirty five (35) through the conditional use application.
   G.   In the R-5 zone a conditional use permit is required for all lodges.
   H.   If a CUP is obtained for a lodge a fire suppression system shall be
installed.
   I.   Short term rentals and lodges shall provide a minimum of four (4) off
street parking spaces. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-14-2019; Ord. O-2022-60, 11-22-2022;
Ord. O-2024-19, 5-14-2024)
9-6D-4: MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
All short term rentals and lodges shall conform to maintenance standards as
defined in the Kane County Nuisance Ordinance. (See subsection 4-3-3B of this
Code.) (Ord. 2019-09, 5-14-2019)
9-6D-5: PREVENTION OF NOISE, TRESPASS, PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
The owner/property manager of a short term rental or lodge property shall be
responsible to ensure that guests or occupants of the short term rental or
lodge property comply with all noise, trespass, and safety conditions as
defined in the Kane County Nuisance Ordinance. (See section
4-3-3 of this Code.) (Ord. 2019-09, 5-14-2019)
9-6D-6: REQUIRED POSTING:
The following information must be posted in clear and prominent area near the
primary entrance of the short term rental or lodge.
   A.   Business License: A copy of the Kane County business license;
   B.   Owner, Property Manager Information: The name, address, and phone
number of the owner or property manager;
   C.   Maximum Occupancy: Total occupants of the dwelling shall not exceed the
allowed amount as listed in the use definition. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-14-2019)
9-6D-7: TAX RESPONSIBILITIES:
The owner of any dwelling licensed as a short term rental or lodge shall be
required to collect and remit Transient Room Tax and any other tax deemed
necessary by the State Tax Commission. Failure to do so may result in civil or
criminal penalties, or both, under County and/or State Code. (Ord. 2019-09, 5-
14-2019)
9-6D-8: ENFORCEMENT:
All violations of this chapter shall constitute a Class C misdemeanor and shall
be enforced in compliance with section
9-1-9 of this title. (Ord. O-2019-5, 4-22-2019)
ARTICLE E. RECREATIONAL VEHICLE REGULATIONS WITHIN RESIDENTIAL ZONES
SECTION:
9-6E-1: Definitions
9-6E-2: Scope
9-6E-3: Occupied Recreational Vehicles
9-6E-4: Unoccupied Recreational Vehicles
9-6E-5: Miscellaneous Requirements
9-6E-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to this article:
 
OCCUPIED:             Lived in or slept in for twenty four (24) hours or more.
                      A motor vehicle or trailer equipped with living space and
                      amenities found in a home which may include a kitchen,
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: bathroom, bedroom, living room, water and sewer;
                      including, but not limited to, a camp trailer, motor
                      home, travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer, pop up
                      trailer, and slide-in camper.
                      No more than six (6) consecutive months in any calendar
SEASONALLY:           year. (Ord. 2013-9, 9-23-2013, eff. 10-8-2013; amd. Ord.
                      2020-17, 8-24-2020)
 
9-6E-2: SCOPE:
This article shall apply only to recreational vehicles located within
residential zones. (Ord. 2013-9, 9-23-2013, eff. 10-8-2013)
9-6E-3: OCCUPIED RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   No occupied recreational vehicle shall be located in a residential zone
anywhere within the county except as follows:
      1.   Within a:
         a.   Recreational vehicle park (see chapter 18 of this title);
         b.   Manufactured/mobile home park subject to the requirements of
chapters 17 and 18 of this title; or
         c.   Designated camping area; or
      2.   As allowed by this article.
   B.   A recreational vehicle may be occupied seasonally if the following
terms are complied with:
      1.   No more than two (2) recreational vehicles are located on the
property whether occupied or unoccupied;
      2.   The recreational vehicle is not occupied more than six (6)
consecutive months in any calendar year;
      3.   No rent or other form of payment is charged or received;
      4.   The recreational vehicle shall comply with the required setbacks for
the zone;
      5.   The recreational vehicle is connected to the culinary water system;
      6.   The holding tanks and any wastewater are emptied using an approved
on site septic system; no more than two (2) recreational vehicles shall be
hooked up to a single septic system;
      7.   The power is connected in accordance with all applicable safety
standards;
      8.   The recreational vehicle is:
         a.   Removed from the property when not occupied,
         b.   Vacated and removed from the property after six (6) months of
occupation in any calendar year, or
         c.   Unoccupied and stored according to section
9-6E-4 of this article;
      9.   The recreational vehicle is licensed and ready for highway use.
      10.   If the recreational vehicle will be used for less than fourteen
(14) consecutive days, section
9-6E-3B.5. and
9-6E-3B.6 do not apply.
   C.   Upon application of the landowner, the Land Use Authority may approve a
temporary use permit for the occupation of more than two (2) recreational
vehicles on one residential property depending upon the size and contour of the
property, if the property is one acre or larger.
   D.   Upon application of the landowner, the Land Use Authority may approve a
temporary use permit for the occupation of recreational vehicles on one
residential property for a period exceeding six (6) months but not more than
nine (9) months in any calendar year.
   E.   If living in a recreational vehicle while building a home, a building
permit must be issued before a temporary use permit can be granted. A temporary
use permit allowing occupation of a recreational vehicle while building a home
may be authorized for more than nine (9) months so long as the building permit
remains active. The Land Use Administrator or the Zoning Administrator shall
review the permit annually and may reauthorize the permit for an additional
year if the building permit is still active.
   F.   The Land Use Authority may deny, approve, or approve with additional
requirements any application submitted under subsection C or D of this section.
   G.   The temporary permit shall state the number of recreational vehicles
authorized if more than two (2) and the dates that the vehicles will be on the
property if for more than six (6) months.
   H.   Any failure to comply with this section is grounds for immediate
revocation of the temporary use permit and immediate removal of the
recreational vehicle unless the recreational vehicle complies with another
section of this article.
   I.   Note: Individual lots may belong to a homeowners' association or have
restrictive covenants which have greater restrictions regarding recreational
vehicles. Nothing in this article shall be construed as to prevent private
enforcement of any restrictive covenants or HOA rules. (Ord. 2013-9, 9-23-2013,
eff. 10-8-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-15, 7-28-2014; Ord. O-2019-4, 3-25-2019; Ord.
2020-17, 8-24-2020)
9-6E-4: UNOCCUPIED RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   An unoccupied recreational vehicle may be located as follows:
      1.   No more than two (2) recreational vehicles shall be located on one
(1) residential property, whether occupied or unoccupied;
      2.   Upon application of the landowner, the Land Use Authority may
approve a temporary use permit for the storage of more than two (2)
recreational vehicles on one (1) residential property depending upon the size
and contour of the property if the property is an acre or larger.
      3.   All unoccupied recreational vehicles shall be winterized, all
holding tanks emptied, and readily available for immediate highway use. (Ord.
2013-9, 9-23-2013, eff. 10-8-2013; amd. Ord. 2020-17, 8-24-2020)
9-6E-5: MISCELLANEOUS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any recreational vehicle, located in a Residential Zone, that has
fallen into disrepair, collapsed, or is otherwise uninhabitable shall
constitute a nuisance and shall be removed from the property within sixty (60)
days of notice by the Land Use Administrator. Failure to remove recreational
vehicles deemed a nuisance hereunder after notice shall be a violation of this
article.
   B.   Trash, refuse, or waste generated from use, storage or occupancy of a
recreational vehicle must be contained and disposed of properly at all times.
   C.   Setbacks still apply according to the zone the recreational vehicle is
placed in.
   D.   Any violation of this article is punishable as a Class C misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2013-9, 9-23-2013, eff. 10-8-2013)
   E.   Any reported violation requires three (3) directly affected property
owners within five hundred feet (500') of the property reportedly in violation.
(Ord. 2014-15, 7-28-2014)
CHAPTER 7
COMMERCIAL ZONES
ARTICLE A. LIGHT COMMERCIAL (L-C) ZONE
SECTION:
9-7A-1: Purpose
9-7A-2: Use Regulations
9-7A-3: Site Design Regulations
9-7A-4: Height Regulations
9-7A-5: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
9-7A-6: Modifying Regulations
9-7A-7: Landscaping And Fencing Regulations
9-7A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the light commercial zone is to provide appropriate locations
for the development and operation of administrative and professional offices,
publicly owned and operated community facilities and related uses. This zone is
intended to serve as a buffer between residential and more intensive commercial
uses with low to no impact on residential and agricultural zones. (Ord. O-2022-
42, 7- 26-2022)
9-7A-2: USE REGULATIONS:
Development of any parcel of land for any of the uses listed in this section,
exceeding five thousand (5,000) square feet of total building floor area will
require a different zone designation.
   A.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the L-C zone:
   Accessory uses and buildings, customarily incidental and subordinate to an
approved permitted/conditional use.
   Administrative, executive, professional, medical and research offices.
   Banking and other financial institutions.
   Churches, temples and other places used exclusively for worship.
   Mobile food vendor.
   Parking lots for approved principal uses.
   Public buildings and offices.
   Public park, playground or recreation facilities.
   Public utility service and maintenance facilities.
   Restaurants.
   B.   Multi-Residential, Residential And Agricultural Uses: All uses listed
in the multi-residential, residential and agricultural uses table are allowed
in the L-C Zone with their appropriate designation of permitted or conditional
unless otherwise changed in the commercial uses table.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are subject to the conditional use
approval process outlined in chapter 15 of this title:
   Accessory uses and buildings, customarily incidental and subordinate to an
approved conditional use.
   Cemetery.
   D.   Any uses not set forth in this section are not allowed.
   E.   Other: Any use not named which may be considered harmonious with the
zone and currently allowed uses can be considered for proposed inclusion into
the chapter by the Kane County Planning Commission in a public hearing and
approval of the County Commission. (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022; amd. Ord. O-
2023-12, 4-25-2023)
9-7A-3: SITE DESIGN REGULATIONS:
All site design elements for the above listed conditional uses are subject to
review by the planning commission, who shall apply the standards and provisions
found in chapter 15 of this title. (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7A-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building or structure shall be erected to a height greater than thirty-five
feet (35'), unless otherwise approved through a conditional use permit. (Ord.
O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7A-5: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
Set Backs in Feet Front Side Rear
L-C               30    10   10
 
(Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7A-6: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Side Yards: Buildings shall have a minimum side yard of ten feet (10')
and the total of the two (2) side yards shall be twenty feet (20').
   B.   Rear Yards: Accessory buildings located at least ten feet (10') behind
the main building may have a rear yard of three feet (3'); provided, that on
corner lots rearing the side yard of another lot, the minimum rear yard for all
buildings shall be ten feet (10'). (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7A-7: LANDSCAPING AND FENCING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Landscaping: At least five percent (5%) of the private lot area shall
be improved and maintained with landscaping. At least half of that landscaped
area shall be in the form of live trees, shrubs or ground cover. A minimum ten
foot (10') wide landscaped strip within the private lot area shall be installed
and maintained along all street frontages. With the exception of the pedestrian
and vehicular access portions of buildings, landscaping shall be installed and
maintained along all building walls that face street frontages and parking
lots.
   B.   Fencing: Except in the front yard setback area, a six foot (6') high
solid decorative fence or wall shall be installed and maintained along the
boundary line of any agricultural or residential zone. Chain link fencing with
slats is not considered a solid fence or wall for the purposes set forth in
this chapter. (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
ARTICLE B. COMMERCIAL (C-1) ZONE
SECTION:
9-7B-1: Purpose
9-7B-2: Use Regulations
9-7B-3: Site Design Regulations
9-7B-4: Height Regulations
9-7B-5: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
9-7B-6: Modifying Regulations
9-7B-7: Fencing Regulations
9-7B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Commercial 1 zone is to provide for the sale of goods and
the performance of services and other activities for which the market extends
beyond the immediate area. (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022; amd. Ord. O-2022-60, 11-
22-2022)
9-7B-2: USE REGULATIONS:
Development of any parcel of land for any of the uses listed in this section
exceeding fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet of total building floor area
are not permitted in this zone.
   A.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the C-1 zone:
   Accessory uses and buildings, customarily incidental and subordinate to an
approved permitted use.
   Any permitted uses listed in the light commercial (L-C) zone.
   Restaurants.
   Retail sale and/or rental of goods, merchandise and equipment conducted
wholly within an enclosed building.
   Tour Companies without ATV/UHV rentals.
   B.   Multi-Residential, Residential And Agricultural Uses: All uses listed
in the multi-residential, residential and agricultural uses table are allowed
in the C-1 Zone with their appropriate designation of permitted or conditional
unless otherwise changed in the commercial uses table.
   C.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are subject to the conditional use
approval process outlined in chapter 15 of this title:
   Accessory uses and buildings, customarily incidental and subordinate to an
approved conditional use.
   Automobile car wash, not to exceed four (4) bays.
   Automobile sales
   Automobile fuel stations.
   Cell towers.
   Child daycare or preschool center which meets all state and local
regulations.
   Commercial recreation and entertainment facilities, not to include sexually
oriented businesses.
   Heli pad private.
   Private business and technical schools.
   Reception center and/or wedding chapel.
   D.   Any uses not set forth in this section or L-C are not allowed.
   E.   Other: Any use not named which may be considered harmonious with the
zone and current allowed uses can be considered for proposed inclusion into the
chapter by the Kane County Planning Commission in a public hearing and approval
of the County Commission. (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022; amd. Ord. O-2023-12, 4-
25-2023)
9-7B-3: SITE DESIGN REGULATIONS:
All site design elements for the above listed conditional uses are subject to
review by the planning commission, who shall apply the standards and provisions
found in chapter 15 of this title.
   A.   Objectionable Factors: All uses shall be free from objectionable odor,
noise, dust, smoke, vibration or other such factors; and
   B.   Advertising Signs: All advertising signs shall comply with the
provisions of chapter 16 of this title. (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7B-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building or structure shall be erected to a height greater than thirty-five
feet (35'), unless otherwise approved through a conditional use permit. (Ord.
O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7B-5: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
Set Backs in Feet Front Side Rear
C-1               25    5    20
 
   A.   Setbacks: Minimum yard setback requirements shall be established in
permitted use, conditional use or planned unit development approval; except no
commercial building shall be located closer than fifty feet (50') to any
Agriculture or Residential Zone boundary, or to any street line which continues
into a Residential Zone, and no such building shall encroach on any easement.
(Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7B-6: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Side Yards: A fifty foot (50') side yard shall be required where a side
yard abuts an agricultural or residential zone. Side yards abutting a street
require a twenty five foot (25') side yard.
   B.   Rear Yards: A ten foot (10') rear yard will be required where a rear
yard abuts a residential or agricultural zone. (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7B-7: FENCING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Fencing: Except in the front yard setback area, a six foot (6') high
solid decorative fence or wall shall be installed and maintained along the
boundary line of any agricultural or residential zone. Chain link fencing with
slats is not considered a solid fence or wall for the purposes set forth in
this article. (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
ARTICLE C. COMMERCIAL (C-2) ZONE
SECTION:
9-7C-1: Purpose
9-7C-2: Use Regulations
9-7C-3: Site Design Regulations
9-7C-4: Height Regulations
9-7C-5: Area, Width And Yard Regulations
9-7C-6: Modifying Regulations
9-7C-7: Fencing Regulations
9-7C-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the commercial 2 zone is to provide for heavy commercial areas
not appropriate near or in Residential Zones to meet larger commercial uses.
(Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7C-2: USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the C-2 zone:
Any permitted use listed in the L-C and C-1 zones.
Accessory uses and buildings, customarily incidental and subordinate to an
approved permitted use.
Auditoriums, conference rooms, museums, theaters, libraries and community
social centers.
Car wash (large).
Freight or trucking yard or terminal.
Heli pad commercial.
Propane storage tanks.
Repairing, renovating, painting and cleaning of goods, merchandise and
equipment.
Retail and/or wholesale sale and/or rental of goods, merchandise and equipment,
which may include storage and display outside an enclosed building.
   B.   Conditional Uses: The following uses are subject to the conditional use
approval process outlined in chapter 15 of this title.
Accessory uses and buildings, customarily incidental and subordinate to an
approved conditional use.
ATV's/UTV's rentals.
Dams and Reservoirs.
Hospital.
Hotel or motel.
Motor vehicle, trailer, camper and recreational vehicle sales agency.
Recreational Vehicle Parks.
Storage units.
Solar Power panels producing over 25 KW.
Substation.
   C.   Any combination of the above uses which meets all other provisions of
this title.
   D.   Other: Any use not named which may be considered harmonious with the
zone and current allowed uses can be considered for proposed inclusion into the
chapter by the Kane County Planning Commission in a public hearing and approval
of the County Commission. (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7C-3: SITE DESIGN REGULATIONS:
All site design elements for the above listed conditional uses are subject to
review by the planning commission, who shall apply the standards and provisions
found in chapter 15 of this title.
   A.   Objectionable Factors: All uses shall be free from objectionable odor,
noise, dust, smoke, vibration or other such factors; and
   B.   Advertising Signs: All advertising signs shall comply with the
provisions of chapter 16 of this title. (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7C-4: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building or structure shall be erected to a height greater than forty-five
feet (45'), unless otherwise approved by the planning commission through a
Conditional Use Permit. (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7C-5: AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
Set Backs in Feet Front Side Rear
C-2               25    5    20
 
(Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7C-6: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Side Yards: A fifty foot (50') side yard shall be required where a side
yard abuts an agricultural or residential zone. Side yards abutting a street
require a twenty five foot (25') side yard.
   B.   Rear Yards: A fifty foot (50') rear yard will be required where a rear
yard abuts a residential or agricultural zone.
   C.   Rear Yards: A twenty foot (20') rear yard open and accessible for
emergency access will be required where a rear yard abuts a residential or
agricultural zone. (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7C-7: FENCING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Fencing: Except in the front yard setback area, a six foot (6') high
solid decorative fence or wall shall be installed and maintained along the
boundary line of any agricultural or residential zone. Chain link fencing with
slats is not considered a solid fence or wall for the purposes set forth in
this article. (Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
ARTICLE D. STATE LANDS (SITLA)
SECTION:
9-7D-1: Purpose
9-7D-2: Jurisdiction
9-7D-3: State Land Development
9-7D-4: State Land That Becomes Private Lane
9-7D-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to:
   A.   Establish a process that complies with Utah Code 17-27a-304 and 305;
   B.   Clarify the Land Use Administrator's role in enforcing the Land Use
Ordinance on State Lands; and
   C.   Clarify the application of land use regulation on land that is
transferred from the State to a private party. (Ord. O-2019-23, 11-12-2019;
amd. Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7D-2: JURISDICTION:
Kane County does not have jurisdiction regarding land use regulations on any
land owned by the State of Utah, including any land owned or administered by
the Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration (SITLA) (See Utah
Code 17-27a-304). Kane County does not assert any jurisdiction over SITLA lands
regarding land use regulations while the land is owned by SITLA. No land use
related permits, including but not limited to, conditional use permits, will be
issued to property owned by the State of Utah or SITLA. Kane County has
jurisdiction over state lands regarding all other laws of general application
including but not limited to: the traffic and criminal code of the State of
Utah and local traffic and criminal ordinances, State and local laws regarding
nuisance abatement, and State and local building codes. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to limit the valid jurisdiction that Kane County holds over
State of Utah lands regarding regulations or laws other than land use
regulations. (Ord. O-2019-23, 11-12-2019; amd. Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022)
9-7D-3: STATE LAND DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Nothwithstanding the lack of jurisdiction regarding land use
regulations, SITLA, or any other agency of the State, is required to submit a
development plan and schedule to the Land Use Authority prior to developing
land (See Utah Code 17-267a-305). The Land Use Authority is required to respond
with reasonable promptness.
   B.   As of 2019, when SITLA has a lessee/permittee or potential lessee/
permittee ("Lessee"), in order to comply with section 305, SITLA requires the
lessee to apply for a conditional use permit, whether one is required or not,
and even though a conditional use permit would not be legally valid on the
state owned land. As a matter of policy, Kane County treats this requirement
from SITLA as a request for the county to review the project and provide
recommendations to SITLA on how the potential project should be regulated. The
county will also use this opportunity to provide the information as anticipated
by Utah Code 17-27a-305(8).
   C.   When the State or any agency of the State submits a development plan
and schedule to the county, or when a lessee of SITLA lands applies for a
conditional use permit or submits a development plan and schedule on behalf of
the State or any agency of the State, the county will process the request as
follows:
      1.   SITLA, or a lessee or private entity partner that is a partner or
contractee of SITLA, shall submit an official application and any additional
materials requested by the Land Use Administrator. The information must include
sufficient detail to enable the Land Use Administrator to assess the elements
set forth in subsection C2a. The information must include whether there are any
existing county roads or public rights-of-way on the state owned land, or if
there are existing roads or trails on the state owned land which do not have a
vested public right-of-way but have been used regularly by the public.
      2.   The Land Use Administrator shall develop a report on the proposed
development as follows:
         a.   The size, volume, scope, and extent of the report shall be
completed at the discretion of the Land Use Administrator, but at a minimum the
report shall address the elements listed under Utah Code 17-27a-305(8)(ii),
namely:
            (1)   Compliance with applicable land use ordinances;
            (2)   The demand for public facilities caused by the proposed
development;
            (3)   The amount of any applicable fee;
            (4)   Any credit against an impact fee; and
            (5)   The potential for waving an impact fee.
         b.   The report shall include proposed recommendations for how the
proposed development should be regulated. The report shall also include
recommendations for the disposition and treatment of any existing county roads
or public rights-of-way and any existing roads or trails which do not have a
vested public right-of-way but have been used regularly by the public.
         c.   For purposes of determining "compliance with applicable land use
ordinances," the Land Use Administrator may review and consider any relevant
regulations or requirements of Title 9 in developing the report, regardless of
whether or not the regulation applies to the relevant state owned land. Nothing
in this section shall be construed as an attempt to impose a zone on any state
owned land as prohibited by Utah Code 63A-5b-604(8)(a). State land that is
transferred to private ownership shall be zoned as set forth in subsection
9-7D-4A.
         d.   The Land Use Administrator may exercise discretion to consult
with experts such as engineers, relevant industry experts, or other
professionals and may conduct any relevant studies deemed necessary to fully
evaluate the proposed project. Nothing in this section shall be determined to
require the consultation with any expert or to conduct any study regarding the
proposed project.
         e.   In any event, the Land Use Administrator shall act with
reasonable promptness to complete the report and forward it to the appropriate
individual or body as set forth below.
      3.   The County Commissioner who is assigned to the Land Use Authority
shall review the proposed development and in consultation with the Land Use
Administrator determine the process under which the County will issue
recommendations for the proposed development.
         a.   The County Commissioner may elect to use any of the following
methods to develop and issue the recommendations: i) request that the
development be reviewed by the Land Use Authority to develop recommendations
before the proposed recommendations are presented to the County Commission for
consideration and approval; ii) delegate authority to the Land Use Authority to
develop and approve the recommendations; iii) present the matter directly to
the County Commission to develop and approve recommendations; or iv) develop
and approve recommendations as an individual County Commissioner after
consultation with the Land Use Administrator and/or Land Use Authority.
         b.   In the event the County Commissioner elects option iv) above,
prior to sending the recommendations under subsection C5 below, the Land Use
Administrator shall provide the proposed recommendations to the other two (2)
County Commissioners. The other two (2) County Commissioners shall have three
(3) business days to respond to the proposed recommendations by emailing the
Land Use Administrator. If at least one County Commissioner has an objection,
the Land Use Administrator shall request that the proposed recommendations be
placed on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled county commission meeting
for further discussion, review, potential amendment, and approval by the full
Commission. If there is no objection submitted by any of the other two (2)
county commissioners, or no response submitted to the Land Use Administrator
within three (3) business days, the proposed recommendations shall be final.
         c.   The County shall act with reasonable promptness to approve and
issue the recommendations.
      4.   Any recommendations that are developed and approved under this
section shall be completely discretionary, shall be considered a legislative
action not an administrative action, shall not be subject to appeal to the
Appeal Authority, and shall not be subject to any other requirements of Title
9.
      5.   After the recommendations are approved as set forth above, the Land
Use Administrator shall issue the recommendations to the State and/or SITLA. In
the event that there is a lessee or a private entity that is partnering or
contracting with the State and/or SITLA regarding the proposed development, the
Land Use Administrator shall request that the recommendations that are accepted
by the State and/or SITLA be formalized in a lease agreement or other legally
binding document between the lessee or private entity partner of the proposed
project and the State and/or SITLA.
   D.   In the event that there is a lessee or private entity partner, if the
State and/or SITLA accepts all or a portion of the recommendations, the Land
Use Administrator is authorized to: i) monitor the project for compliance with
the recommendations that are accepted by the State and/or SITLA; ii) notify the
State and/or SITLA of any failure on the part of the lessee or private entity
partner to comply with the accepted recommendations; and iii) provide any
assistance to the State and/or SITLA necessary to bring the lessee or private
entity partner into compliance with the accepted recommendations. (Ord. O-2019-
23, 11-12-2019; amd. Ord. O-2022-22, 4-26-2022; Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022; Ord.
O-2023-07, 4-11-2023)
9-7D-4: STATE LAND THAT BECOMES PRIVATE LAND:
In the event that any State owned land, including SITLA administered land, is
transferred to private ownership, the following shall apply:
   A.   The land shall be zoned as follows, as of the effective date of the
land transfer:
      1.   If no application for a zone designation is submitted and approved
prior to the date of the land transfer, the land shall be zoned Agricultural
(AG) until the land owner requests and receives approval for a zone change to
another zone.
      2.   If an application for a zone designation was submitted and approved
under subsection D prior to the date of the land transfer, that zone shall
apply.
   B.   All sections of the Kane County Land Use Ordinance shall apply
immediately, as of the effective date of the land transfer, limited only by the
exceptions of Chapter 12 Nonconforming Uses and Noncomplying Structures. Any
use of the land that was in compliance with a lease agreement or contract with
the State and/or SITLA prior to the date of transfer of the land is a legally
vested use. If a zoning designation imposed under this section prohibits any
legally vested use of the land, the legally vested use shall be considered a
nonconforming use for purposes of Chapter 12 and shall have all the benefits of
a nonconforming use. Any structure constructed on the land in compliance with a
lease agreement or contract with the State and/or SITLA prior to the date of
transfer of the land is a legally vested structure. If a zoning designation
imposed under this section affects the legal status or legal compliance of a
legally vested structure, the legally vested structure shall be considered a
noncomplying structure for purposes of Chapter 12 and shall have all the
benefits of a noncomplying structure.
   C.   Any recommendations issued to and accepted by the State and/or SITLA
under this Chapter shall become legally binding conditions on the parcel as if
a conditional use permit had been required and had been duly issued at the time
the recommendations were issued, whether or not a conditional use permit was or
is required.
   D.   Prior to the date of transfer of the land, a lessee of state owned
land, or a private entity partner that is partnering or has a contract with the
State and/or SITLA regarding state owned land, may apply for a zone
designation. The process for applying for a zone designation shall be the same
process as applying for a zone change as set forth in this Title and in state
law. The application for a zone designation may take place at the same time
that an applicant applies for recommendations for state owned land as set forth
in this chapter or at any other time prior to the transfer of the land to
private ownership. The zone designation, once approved, will become effective
on the date of the transfer of the land as set forth in subsection A2. (Ord. O-
2019-23, 11-12-2019; amd. Ord. O-2022-42, 7-26-2022; Ord. O-2023-07, 4-11-2023)
CHAPTER 8
MANUFACTURING ZONE (M)
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose And Definition
9-8-2: Height Regulations
9-8-3: Area, Width, And Yard Regulations
9-8-4: Codes And Symbols
9-8-5: Uses Table
9-8-1: PURPOSE AND DEFINITION:
   A.   Purpose:
      1.   To provide areas in appropriate locations relatively remote from
more restrictive zones where processes of light manufacturing and warehousing
may be established and maintained. Manufacturing and storage includes the
processes necessary in the creation and/or storage of products normally
utilized in modern civilized life.
      2.   It is not the intent of this zone to prohibit uses usually utilized
in more restrictive zones. Citizens should understand that the decision to put
a residence or some other establishment normally found in more restrictive
zones in this zone includes acceptance of the undesirable sights, sounds,
smells and activities that are anticipated in this zone. No amount of public
clamor will change the established use to a more restrictive use until those
for whom the zone was created no longer wish to utilize the purposes of this
zone.
         a.   All uses listed in the more restrictive zones shall be allowed in
the manufacturing zone with their attached codes and symbols unless otherwise
changed in the manufacturing matrix. If there are conflicting designations
among the more restrictive zones, the less restrictive designation shall apply.
The following is a list of zones starting with the most restrictive and ending
with the least restrictive: residential, commercial, agricultural,
manufacturing, industrial.
   B.   Definition Of Manufacturing Zone: Manufacturing, curing, compounding,
processing, packaging or production and treatment of normal household
appliances, commodities; consumer items and foods which do not involve heavy
industrial processes. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-8-2: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
None, except that within one hundred feet (100') of the boundary of any
adjoining zone, no building shall exceed the height for the main buildings in
such adjoining zone. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-8-3: AREA, WIDTH, AND YARD REGULATIONS:
None, except for any parcel in the manufacturing zone having a lot line in
common with a lot in an adjoining zone or lying across the street or alley from
such adjoining zone the front, side and rear yards as prescribed for such
adjoining zone shall be maintained in the manufacturing zone for such common
lot line. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-8-4: CODES AND SYMBOLS:
   A.   In section
9-8-5 of this chapter is a table describing uses of land or buildings that are
allowed in the zone as shown. Permitted uses are indicated by a "P" in the
appropriate column. Uses that may be permitted by a conditional use permit
issued by the land use authority are indicated by a "C" in the appropriate
column.
   B.   If a use is not allowed in the zone it is either not named in the use
list or it is indicated in the appropriate column by a dash, "-". (Ord. 2013-5,
8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-8-5: USES TABLE:
Uses M
Uses                                                                        M
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to conditional uses     C
Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to permitted uses       P
Agriculture industries on more than 5 acres                                 P
Asphalt/concrete production                                                 C
Athletic club; health club; athletic goods store; gymnasium                 P
Bakery goods                                                                P
Blacksmith                                                                  P
Body and fender shop; tire recapping; motor vehicle assembling, painting,   P
upholstering and rebuilding
Boiler works                                                                P
Bookbinding                                                                 P
Bottling works                                                              P
Breweries                                                                   P
Bus terminal                                                                P
Cemeteries                                                                  P
Central mixing plant                                                        C
Coal/fuel sales                                                             P
Construction equipment and supply trailer, temporary                        P
Construction field office, temporary                                        P
Construction of buildings to be sold and moved off the premises             P
Correctional facilities (public and private)                                P
Dairy                                                                       C
Dams and reservoirs                                                         P
Drag strip racing; auto racing; go-cart racing                              C
Essential utilities facilities                                              P
Fertilizer and soil conditioners manufacture, processing and/or sales       P
Forage plant                                                                P
Freight or trucking yard or terminal                                        P
Hatchery                                                                    P
Heating, ventilating, air conditioning; equipment (HVAC)                    P
Honey extraction                                                            P
Hospital supplies                                                           P
Incinerator, nonaccessory                                                   C
Junkyard, commercial                                                        C
Knitting mill                                                               P
Laboratories                                                                P
Large CAFO-Light                                                            C
Large CAFO-Heavy                                                            -
Lumber mill                                                                 P
Machine shop                                                                P
Manufacturing, curing, compounding, processing, packaging or production and
treatment of normal household appliances, commodities, consumer items and   P
foods which do not involve heavy industrial processes
Mobile home sales and storage                                               P
Mobile lunch service                                                        P
Monuments works                                                             P
Motion picture studio                                                       P
Parking lot                                                                 P
Pest extermination and control office                                       P
Private school                                                              P
Public buildings                                                            P
Publishing and contract printing                                            P
Radio and television station                                                P
Radio/television/wireless communication transmitting towers                 C
Recreational center, facilities or area that is private and/or commercial   P
Recycling collection and packaging                                          P
Sandblasting                                                                P
Sexually oriented business                                                  C
Solar panels producing 25 kW and under                                      P
Solar power plant and/or solar fields producing over 25 kW                  C
Storage units, self-storage, with or without outside storage                P
Substations                                                                 P
Terminal, parking and maintenance facilities                                P
Transfer company                                                            P
Truck and heavy equipment, repair facility, truck stop, and truck wash      P
Upholstering, including mattress manufacture, rebuilding or renovating      P
Upholstery                                                                  P
Warehouse                                                                   P
Weaving                                                                     P
Welding                                                                     P
 
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-15, 7-28-2014; Ord. O-
2021-21, 11-23-2021)
CHAPTER 9
COMMUNITY ZONE OVERLAY
SECTION:
9-9-1: Purpose And Scope
9-9-2: Requirements
9-9-3: Phasing
9-9-4: Preapplication Requirements
9-9-5: Application Processing And Reviews
9-9-6: Development Standards
9-9-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
To permit development of land, as defined herein, within unincorporated areas
of the county where the potential for a future municipality exists. A community
zone overlay may include land that is zoned under any of the zones specified in
the land use ordinance. Community zone overlays are to be approved by the Kane
County commission, after recommendation by the planning commission. (Ord. 2013-
5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-9-2: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Contiguous Acres: Six hundred forty (640).
   B.   Development Agreement: A community zone overlay shall only be approved
if it complies with the development agreement. The development agreement will
be designed to mitigate financial and social impacts to the county and contain
the terms required in the subdivision ordinance and those set forth in this
chapter.
   C.   Conceptual Plan: The proposed community zone overlay is to be described
in a conceptual master development plan showing the general configuration of
the project, including the general location of the development areas and
including the types of uses contemplated within each development area, major
community roads, recreational and open space amenity areas reasonably
anticipated to meet the needs of the residents, any public facilities and other
features of the project, which the conceptual master development plan has
incorporated into and to be adopted along with the development agreement.
   D.   Defined Boundaries: Once the boundaries of a community zone overlay
have been established, they will remain unchanged until such time as adjacent
property owners wishing to be included in the community zone overlay meet the
requirements of this chapter and make application to the planning commission.
At that time, the boundaries may be altered to include such properties.
   E.   Municipal Services:
      1.   Water/Sewer: The applicant must demonstrate the feasibility of
obtaining centralized water and sewer services to serve the requirements of the
community zone overlay. The development agreement will contain the mechanism to
assure the provision of such services in connection with any development
approved pursuant to the development agreement.
      2.   Septic Systems: New and existing systems as approved by Southwest
Utah health department, Utah department of environmental quality and Kane
County land use authority.
      3.   Solid Waste Disposal: Solid waste disposal.
      4.   Public Safety; i.e., Fire Protection, Law Enforcement And Emergency
Services: The applicant must demonstrate the feasibility of obtaining public
safety and fire services to the reasonable satisfaction of Kane County and the
development agreement must contain a mechanism to assure the provision and
financing of such services in connection with any development approved pursuant
to the development agreement.
      5.   Utilities: The applicant must demonstrate the feasibility of
obtaining electrical and phone services to the reasonable satisfaction of Kane
County and the development agreement must contain a mechanism to assure the
provision and financing of such services in connection with any development
approved pursuant to the development agreement.
      6.   Drainage: The applicant must demonstrate the feasibility of
providing on and off site drainageways and facilities to adequately discharge
or contain surface runoff generated or increased by the project. The
development agreement must contain a mechanism to assure the provision of such
facilities in connection with any development approved pursuant to the
development agreement.
      7.   Fire Flow: The applicant must demonstrate the feasibility of
providing fire flow, storage and other facilities relating to public safety as
may be required by generally applicable standards of Kane County and the
development agreement must contain a mechanism to assure the provision of such
facilities in connection with any development approved pursuant to the
development agreement.
      8.   Other Services: Any other services required by state law. (Ord.
2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-9-3: PHASING:
Projects with phased planning must present an overall development plan with the
approval of the first phase, describing open space and other values anticipated
to be included in the project which will qualify the entire project for the
community zone overlay. Each phase to contain at least ten (10) acres (permits
for the final phase will not be issued if the open space and other values
qualifying the project for a community zone overlay will not be met with the
recording of a plat map for the final phase). (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-
27-2013)
9-9-4: PREAPPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Initial Review: An applicant desiring to rezone a parcel of property to
community zone overlay must, as an initial step, comply with the following:
      1.   Preapplication/Prefiling; Review: Prior to the review of a proposed
community zone overlay by the land use authority, the applicant shall prefile
at least fifteen (15) days in advance for review by the development committee.
The committee shall contact interested department personnel of Kane County or
other agencies for review purposes. After review by the development committee,
it shall furnish to the applicant any comments regarding the community zone
overlay change request that may help the applicant in preparing the request for
submission. The development committee may hold as many meetings with the
applicant as may be necessary for proper review. After the completion of the
preapplication process, the applicant may proceed to the application process.
      2.   Documents Required: All requests shall be accompanied by drafts of a
colored concept plan and development agreement for the entire property proposed
for the community zone overlay. The concept plan, with elevations and
perspective drawings, should be prepared to assist the committee to more
completely understand the proposal.
   B.   Subdivision Ordinance Applicability: The concept plan and information
submitted to the land use administrator is not required to contain the detail
required for a preliminary plat, but must clearly depict and describe the type
of development intended, including uses, densities, and general locations of
subdivision infrastructure. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-9-5: APPLICATION PROCESSING AND REVIEWS:
   A.   Application Processing: The applications shall be processed in
accordance with normal procedures for the adoption or amendment of a land use
ordinance and zoning map. Upon approval, the ordinance reclassifying the
property to a community zone overlay, the development agreement and the
conceptual master development plan shall be published as amendments to the Kane
County land use ordinance and shall be included in the zone change files at the
county.
   B.   Planning Commission Review: The planning commission may recommend to
the county commission to approve, approve with conditions or deny the
application for community zone overlay. If a conditional approval or a denial
is recommended, the planning commission shall prepare a report which reviews
all proposed conditions, or in the case of a recommendation of denial of an
application, the reasons for the denial. The planning commission shall forward
recommendations for approval, or approval with conditions of the community zone
overlay to the county commission.
   C.   County Commission Review: The county commission may approve a community
zone overlay change request only after finding that the requirements of this
subsection and other ordinances or restrictions affecting the property have
been satisfied. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-9-6: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
All development within the community zone overlay shall be governed by the
current Kane County land use ordinances, subdivision ordinances, and the "Kane
County Standard Specifications And Drawing Details For Design And
Construction". (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
CHAPTER 10
SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-10-1: Effect Of Chapter
9-10-2: Yard Space For One Building Only
9-10-3: Every Dwelling To Be On A Lot
9-10-4: Separately Owned Lots; Reduced Yards
9-10-5: Wall, Fence, Or Hedge
9-10-6: Clear View Of Intersecting Streets
9-10-7: Sale Or Lease Of Required Space
9-10-8: Easements And Rights-Of-Way
9-10-9: Sale Of Lots Below Minimum Space Requirements
9-10-10: Additional Height Allowed
9-10-11: Exceptions To Height Limitations
9-10-12: Water And Sewage Requirements
9-10-13: Solar Energy Systems
9-10-14: Lighting
9-10-15: Effect Of Official Map
9-10-16: Lot And Parcel Size Requirements
9-10-17: Retail Tobacco Specialty Businesses Prohibited
9-10-17-1: Definitions
9-10-17-2: Prohibition
9-10-18: Cannabis Production Establishment
9-10-19: Industrial Hemp
9-10-20: Large CAFO
9-10-1: EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement the
zone regulations, as the case may be. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-2: YARD SPACE FOR ONE BUILDING ONLY:
No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is
hereafter provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this title, shall be considered as providing a yard or open space
for any other building. No yard or other required open space on an adjoining
lot shall be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon a
building is to be erected or established. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-
2013)
9-10-3: EVERY DWELLING TO BE ON A LOT:
Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a lot as defined in this
title. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-4: SEPARATELY OWNED LOTS; REDUCED YARDS:
Any lot under separate ownership from adjacent lots and of record at the time
of passage of the land use ordinance, and such lot having a smaller width than
required for the zone in which it is located, shall be accepted under the
grandfather clause. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-5: WALL, FENCE, OR HEDGE:
   A.   No fence or wall or other similar structure associated with
residential, commercial or manufacturing uses shall be erected in any required
front, rear or side yard to a height as stated in the Building Code without
first obtaining a building permit. Where there is a difference in the grade of
the properties on either side of a fence or wall, the height of the fence or
wall shall be measured from average elevation of finished grades of the
adjoining properties in question at the fence line, except that no fence need
be less than forty two inches (42") in height. No fence shall be constructed
that in any way obstructs the view of traffic.
   B.   Kane County reaffirms Utah State Code 4-25-205 in as much as the owner
of livestock including dairy animals, poultry, cattle, sheep, swine, horses,
ponies, mules or goats, that trespass upon the premises of another person is
not liable in a civil action to the owner or occupant of the premises for
damage inflicted if the premises that was trespassed is not enclosed by a legal
fence at the time the trespass occurs. (Ord. O-2017-4, 6-26-2017)
9-10-6: CLEAR VIEW OF INTERSECTING STREETS:
In all zones which require a front yard, no obstruction to view in excess of
two feet (2') in height shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular
area formed by the street property lines and a line connecting them at points
forty feet (40') from the intersection of the street lines except a reasonable
number of trees pruned high enough to permit unobstructed vision to automobile
drivers. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-7: SALE OR LEASE OF REQUIRED SPACE:
No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other
requirements of this title for a lot or building may be sold or leased away
from such lot or building. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-8: EASEMENTS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
Uses of easements and/or rights-of-way shall be permitted in or through any
zone for the purpose of serving a permitted or approved conditional use in the
same or any zone. Such easements or rights-of-way may be used for uses similar
to, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Roads, streets, highways.
   B.   Railroads, tramways, cableways, and conveyor systems.
   C.   Pipelines for the transmission of water, wastewater, materials, fuels
or products.
   D.   Overhead and underground transmission or distribution lines, including
poles, towers, and conductors.
   E.   Uses not requiring continuous routes along the ground such as radio,
television or microwave relay stations and towers.
   F.   Structures and facilities incidental to the above. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-
2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-9: SALE OF LOTS BELOW MINIMUM SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area requirements
for the zone in which it is located may be cut off from a larger parcel of land
for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of selling, building or
developing a lot. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-10: ADDITIONAL HEIGHT ALLOWED:
Public or quasi-public utility buildings, when authorized in a zone may be
erected to a height greater than the zone height limit by a conditional use
permit. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-11: EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Height regulations may be increased by a conditional use permit for permitted
public, quasi-public, agriculture, manufacturing or industrial uses if approved
by the Land Use Authority.
Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks,
ventilating fans or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the
building, and fire or parapet walls, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys,
smokestacks, water tanks, windmills, wireless or television masts, theater
lofts, silos or similar structures may be erected above the height limits
herein prescribed subject to a conditional use permit but no space above the
height limit shall be allowed for purposes of providing additional floor space.
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-12: WATER AND SEWAGE REQUIREMENTS:
All sewage systems shall comply with the requirements of the Southwest Utah
Public Health Department and the application for a building permit shall be
accompanied by a certificate of feasibility from said department. (Ord. 2013-5,
8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-13: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
Solar energy systems located on individual parcels/lots, which are used to
supply energy to a principal use or structure on the parcel/lot, shall be
allowed in any zone as an accessory use to a principal use or structure. Solar
energy systems shall meet the setback and height requirements for an accessory
building in the zone in which the system is located. Setbacks shall be measured
to the outermost edge of the system nearest the property line. Solar energy
systems which are attached to a building shall meet the same setbacks that are
required for the building.
Combining many solar panels together is referred to as a "solar array". For
large commercial electric utility or industrial applications, hundreds of solar
arrays are interconnected to form a large utility. This process would require a
conditional use permit as outlined in chapters 15 and 24 of this title. (Ord.
2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-14: LIGHTING:
The concerns of safety, utility, dark sky protection and aesthetic appearance
need not compete. Good modern lighting practices can provide adequate light for
safety and utility without excessive glare or light pollution. Careful
attention to when, where, and how much nighttime lighting is needed results in
better lighting practices, darker skies and reduced energy use and costs. Kane
County encourages lighting practices and systems which will: minimize light
pollution, glare, and excessive glare; conserve energy and resources while
maintaining nighttime safety, utility, security, and productivity; and curtail
the degradation of the nighttime visual environment. Any and all new and major
addition to land uses, developments and buildings or structures are encouraged
to use hooded lighting practices. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-15: EFFECT OF OFFICIAL MAP:
Wherever a front yard is required for a lot facing on a street for which an
official map has been recorded, the depth of such front yard shall be measured
from the mapped property line facing the street as provided by the official
map. (Ord. O-2019-4, 3-25-2019)
9-10-16: LOT AND PARCEL SIZE REQUIREMENTS:
Whenever this title refers to a size requirement for a lot or parcel in a given
zone, a lot or parcel may be smaller than the actual requirements if the lot or
parcel is smaller: a) because it is a conforming aliquot parts parcel resulting
from the curvature of the earth or the convergence of township lines recognized
in the public land survey system; or b) due to previous survey errors. However,
the actual size shall be no smaller than five percent (5%) smaller than the
actual size requirement. If other sections of this title conflict with this
section, the least restrictive section shall apply. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013,
eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-17: RETAIL TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESSES PROHIBITED:
9-10-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
RETAIL TOBACCO SPECIALTY BUSINESS: Has the same meaning as defined in Utah code
section 17-50-333(1)(b), as amended: a commercial establishment in which:
   A.   The sale of tobacco products accounts for more than thirty five percent
(35%) of the total annual gross receipts for the establishment;
   B.   Food and beverage products, excluding gasoline sales, is less than
forty five percent (45%) of the total annual gross receipts for the
establishment; and
   C.   The establishment is not a licensed pharmacy under Utah code.
TOBACCO PARAPHERNALIA: Defined in Utah code section 76-10-104.1(1)(b), as
amended, means any equipment, product, or material of any kind which is used,
intended for use, or designed for use to package, repackage, store, contain,
conceal, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce a cigar, cigarette, or tobacco
in any form into the human body, excluding matches or lighters but including:
   A.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes with or
without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal bowls;
   B.   Water pipes;
   C.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
   D.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
   E.   Roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning material, such as a
cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in the hand;
   F.   Chamber pipes;
   G.   Carburetor pipes;
   H.   Electric pipes;
   I.   Air driven pipes;
   J.   Chillums;
   K.   Bongs; and
   L.   Ice pipes or chillers.
TOBACCO PRODUCT: Is defined in Utah code section 17-50-333(c), as amended, to
mean any cigar, cigarette, or electronic cigarette, as well as any product made
of or containing tobacco, including chewing tobacco or any substitute for a
tobacco product, including flavor or additives to tobacco. "Tobacco product"
also includes tobacco paraphernalia. (Ord. 2013-6, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-17-2: PROHIBITION:
   A.   The establishment and/or operation of a retail tobacco specialty
business is prohibited in all unincorporated areas of Kane County.
   B.   Kane County shall not issue a business license to any retail tobacco
specialty business for use in any zone.
   C.   The use of a properly obtained business license for the operation of a
retail tobacco specialty business in any zone in Kane County is prohibited.
(Ord. 2013-6, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-10-18: CANNABIS PRODUCTION ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   Utah State Code 4-41a-101-4 through 4-41a-802 Cannabis Production
Establishments, is adopted.
   B.   An applicant will operate a cannabis production establishment no less
than twelve and a half (12.5) miles, measured as the crow files, from any
community location, which means a public or private school, a church, a public
library, a public playground, or park.
   C.   The establishment shall have a seven (7) foot high fence topped with
razor wire. (Ord. O-2019-25, 9-24-2019; amd. Ord. O-2020-02, 1-28-2020; Ord.
2020- 22, 10-27-2020)
9-10-19: INDUSTRIAL HEMP:
   A.   The production or manufacturing of cannabis, marijuana, or hemp is not
allowed in any zone without appropriate state licenses in place prior to
beginning production or manufacturing.
   B.   Industrial hemp, medical cannabis, and cannabis production
establishment are not allowed in any zone other than Agricultural.
   C.   Nothing in this title regarding the regulation of hemp or industrial
hemp shall be construed to further limit the otherwise legal use or operation
of a cannabis production establishment.
   D.   Industrial hemp shall not be grown within twelve and a half (12.5)
miles, measured as the crow files, from any community location, which means a
public or private school, a church, a public library, a public playground, or
park. (Ord. O-2020-02, 1-28-2020; Ord. 2020-22, 10-27-2020)
9-10-20: LARGE CAFO:
In accordance with Utah Code § 17-27a-1104, it is not feasible to operate a
Large CAFO-Heavy in the unincorporated areas of Kane County due to the
population density relative to the amount of private land. Large CAFO-Heavy is
not allowed in any zone.
Large CAFO-Light, in addition to any other regulation of Title 9, is only
allowed in areas designated on the approved Large CAFO Overlay Zone Map. (Ord.
O-2021-21, 11-23-2021)
CHAPTER 11
GUEST HOME
SECTION:
9-11-1: Guest Home Defined
9-11-2: Requirements
9-11-1: GUEST HOME DEFINED:
A separate dwelling located on the same lot as the principal dwelling and used
for housing guests. A guest home shall not be recorded under a separate deed
from the principal dwelling. Guest homes shall be considered an accessory
building and subject to the setbacks established in the respective zone for
accessory buildings. A guest home must have legal access. A guest home must
meet the requirements of a "dwelling, single-family" or "manufactured home" as
defined in this title. A guest home meeting the definition of "mobile home" or
"recreational vehicle" is prohibited. (Ord. O-2019-4, 3-25-2019)
9-11-2: REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the required factors set forth in the previous paragraph the
following requirements shall also be met:
   A.   The size of the guest home shall be as follows:
 
Zone Size
R-1  50% of the principal dwelling
R-2  75% of the principal dwelling
R-5  The square footage shall be not greater than the principal dwelling
AG   The square footage shall be not greater than the principal dwelling
 
   B.   The number and size of off street parking spaces shall be sufficient to
serve the guest home.
   C.   There shall be the availability and proper quality of water resources,
including, but not limited to, certification by the appropriate water authority
or public health authority that the water supply and sewage disposal facilities
are adequate for the projected number of residents.
   D.   The distance between the principal dwelling and the guest home shall
not be less than ten feet (10').
   E.   The guest home shall be regulated by the local utility providers hook
up regulations.
   F.   These conditions apply to all guest homes allowed in any zone.
   G.   Guest homes are only allowed in Residential R-1, R-2 and R-5,
Agriculture and Commercial Zones. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd.
Ord. O-2018-2, 4-9-2018; Ord. 2022-34, 6-14-2022)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMING USES AND NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES
SECTION:
9-12-1: Purpose
9-12-2: Noncomplying Structures And Contained Nonconforming Uses
9-12-3: Noncomplying Structure Additions And Enlargements
9-12-4: Noncomplying Structure Repairs And Structural Alterations
9-12-5: Alterations Where Parking Is Insufficient
9-12-6: Restoration Of Damaged Structures
9-12-7: Nonconforming Use Of Land
9-12-8: Presumption Of Existence
9-12-9: Occupation Within One Year
9-12-10: Change Of Use
9-12-11: Expansion Permitted
9-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to govern and regulate the continuance,
abandonment, alteration and repair of nonconforming uses and noncomplying
structures. The general intent of this chapter is to: a) allow for indefinite
continuation of completed structures and legally vested uses that are contained
within a completed structure that become noncompliant or nonconforming due to
subsequent ordinance changes and b) allow for the continuation of legally
vested uses that become nonconforming due to subsequent ordinance changes when
the use is not contained within a structure, only so long as the use is not
abandoned for more than a year. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-12-2: NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES AND CONTAINED NONCONFORMING USES:
Any structure built in accordance with county ordinance and Utah state law in
effect at the time of construction shall be unaffected by future additions or
modifications to county ordinances made effective after the time that the
structure is completed. Said structures shall be referred to as noncomplying
structures. Any use that is contained wholly or substantially within a
structure shall also be unaffected by future additions or modifications to
county ordinances made effective after the time that the structure is completed
so long as the use was allowed, or not prohibited, by county ordinance at the
time the use was initiated. Said uses shall be referred to as contained
nonconforming uses. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-12-3: NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE ADDITIONS AND ENLARGEMENTS:
A noncomplying structure may be added to or enlarged in any manner so long as
the additions and enlargements are made to conform to all current county
ordinances. The land use authority may waive specific building code
requirements if recommended by the building official after application is made
by the landowner. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-12-4: NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE REPAIRS AND STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS:
A noncomplying structure may be repaired so long as the repair does not alter
the safety and structure of the building. A noncomplying structure may be
altered or modified structurally so long as the alterations or modifications
comply with current county building code requirements. The land use authority
may waive specific building code requirements if recommended by the building
official after application is made by the landowner. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013,
eff. 8-27-2013)
9-12-5: ALTERATIONS WHERE PARKING IS INSUFFICIENT:
A building or structure lacking sufficient automobile parking space as required
by this title may not be altered or enlarged unless additional automobile
parking space is supplied to meet the requirements of this title. (Ord. 2013-5,
8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-12-6: RESTORATION OF DAMAGED STRUCTURES:
A noncomplying structure or the structure of a contained nonconforming use
which is damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, wind, earthquake, or other
calamity or act of God or the public enemy, may be restored and the occupancy
or use of such structure or part thereof, which was existing at the time of
such damage or destruction, may be continued or resumed provided that such
restoration is started within a period of one year and is diligently pursued to
completion. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-12-7: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
Any use not contained substantially within a structure, which was allowed, or
not prohibited by county ordinance at the time the use was initiated may
continue so long as the use is not abandoned. Abandonment shall be governed by
Utah state code. Nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged or extended on the
same or adjoining piece of land. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-12-8: PRESUMPTION OF EXISTENCE:
For purposes of this chapter any noncomplying structure is presumed to be in
compliance with the ordinance and law in effect at the time of completion.
Completion may be established by a completed building permit or certificate of
occupancy or any other documentation sufficient to show that the construction
of the structure was complete. For purposes of this chapter any contained
nonconforming use is presumed to exist: a) at the time of completion of the
structure associated with the use if the purpose of the structure was for the
contained nonconforming use and the use was allowed or not prohibited at the
time of completion; or b) at the time the use was initiated. Initiation of a
contained nonconforming use may be established by any evidence sufficient to
show that the use was initiated. The property owner shall have the burden of
establishing other nonconforming uses without the benefit of a presumption.
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-12-9: OCCUPATION WITHIN ONE YEAR:
An existing vacant structure or parcel of land may be occupied by a
nonconforming use for which the structure was designed or intended if so
occupied within a period of one year after the intended use became or becomes
nonconforming. This section shall be considered an additional means of
establishing a nonconforming use. This section shall not be construed as to
further restrict any other section in this chapter. Specifically, this section
does not put a time restriction on the rights afforded under any other section
in this chapter. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-12-10: CHANGE OF USE:
The nonconforming use of a structure or land may be changed to a conforming
use. A contained nonconforming use may be reinitiated at any time after
discontinuation. Other nonconforming uses shall not thereafter be reinstated if
abandoned, intentionally discontinued or changed to a conforming use. (Ord.
2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-12-11: EXPANSION PERMITTED:
A contained nonconforming use may be extended to include the entire floor area
of the existing building in which it is conducted at the time the use became
nonconforming. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
CHAPTER 13
PARKING AND LOADING SPACE
SECTION:
9-13-1: Purpose
9-13-2: Scope
9-13-3: Parking Required
9-13-4: Space Size
9-13-5: Parking Spaces Required For Residential Areas
9-13-6: Commercial Parking Requirements/Uses Table
9-13-7: Location Of Parking Spaces
9-13-8: Shared Parking Facilities
9-13-9: Parking Lot Requirements
9-13-10: Parking Lot Lights
9-13-11: Off Street Loading Space
9-13-12: Accessible Parking
9-13-13: Submittal Of Parking, Loading And Circulation Plans
9-13-14: Uses Not Specifically Identified
9-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to assure the provision and maintenance of
street parking and loading facilities in proportion to the parking and loading
demand of land uses. The requirements of this chapter are intended to assure
useful parking and loading facilities, to protect public safety, and to
mitigate adverse land use impacts. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-13-2: SCOPE:
The requirements of this chapter are applicable to all new development
requiring motor vehicle access under the provisions of this title. The
requirements of this chapter shall not be construed to prohibit or limit other
applicable provisions of this title, this code, and other laws. (Ord. 2013-5,
8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-13-3: PARKING REQUIRED:
At the time of site plan approval of any building or issuance of a building
permit a site plan indicating no less than the minimum of parking spaces as
shown in the uses table with adequate provisions of ingress and egress by
standard sized automobiles shall be required. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-
27-2013)
9-13-4: SPACE SIZE:
The dimensions of each street parking space shall be at least nine feet by
eighteen feet (9' x 18') for diagonal or ninety degree (90°) spaces, or nine
feet by twenty two feet (9' x 22') for parallel spaces, exclusive of access
drives or aisles. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-13-5: PARKING SPACES REQUIRED FOR RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
The number of off street parking spaces required for residential development
shall be as follows:
   A.   Single-Family Dwelling: Two (2) parking spaces per single- family
dwelling.
   B.   All Other Dwellings: All other dwellings, including two- family,
multiple-family and group shall have two (2) parking spaces per unit. (Ord.
2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-13-6: COMMERCIAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS/USES TABLE:
The number of parking spaces required for all nonresidential developments shall
be as follows:
   USES TABLE
 Parking Spaces Required
                                        Parking Spaces Required
Commercial uses:                         
Airports, heliports                     1 space per aircraft tie down or
                                        aircraft storage
                                        2 spaces for each alley, plus 1 space
Bowling alleys and billiard halls       for each billiard table contained
                                        therein
                                        1 space for each 250 sq. ft. of gross
Business or professional offices        floor area (outside building
                                        measurements)
                                        1 space for each 6 seats of total
Churches, sports arenas, auditoriums,   seating capacity, plus 1 space per 35
theaters, assembly halls, lodge halls,  sq. ft. of assembly area within the
or other meeting rooms                  main auditorium where there are no
                                        fixed seats
Furniture stores, appliance stores and  1 space for each 600 sq. ft. of floor
lumberyards                             area
Golf courses                            1 space per hole
Golf driving ranges                     0.5 space per tee
                                        1 space for each 250 sq. ft. of gross
Health studios and spas                 floor area or 10 spaces minimum,
                                        whichever is greater
Hospitals                               1 parking space per each bed
                                        1 space for each living or sleeping
Hotels, motels, motor hotels            unit, plus 2 spaces for resident
                                        manager or owner
Kennel                                  1 space per 600 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                        area plus 1 space per employee
Libraries                               1 space for each 300 sq. ft. of gross
                                        floor area
                                        1 space for each 1,000 sq. ft. of gross
                                        floor area and 1 space for each 250 sq.
Manufacturing plants, warehouses,       ft. of office or sales area or as may
storage buildings or structures         be required by the planning commission.
especially for storage purposes         Adequate parking spaces shall be
                                        provided for all employees and/or
                                        customers at all times regardless of
                                        number of spaces that may be required
Marina, boat and watercraft storage     1 space per employee plus 1 space per
sales and repair                        1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Medical facilities                      1 space per employee plus 1 space per
                                        1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
Mortuaries and funeral homes            5 spaces, plus 1 space for each 35 sq.
                                        ft. of assembly room floor area
Motor vehicle sales, automotive repair  1 space for each 400 sq. ft. of gross
and service commercial                  floor area
Movie theater                           1 space per 10 seats
Nursing homes                           1 space for each 3 beds
Professional residential facility:      1 space per employee on the largest
recovery home, residential treatment    shift; plus 1 space for every 4
facility, life care treatment facility  residents
                                        1 space per 6 seats of total seating
                                        capacity, plus 1 space per 100 sq. ft.
Reception center                        of assembly area within the main
                                        auditorium where there are no fixed
                                        seats
Restaurants, taverns, lounges, drive-   10 spaces minimum or 1 space for each
in, drive-through, takeout restaurants  100 sq. ft. of gross floor area,
and other establishments where food or  whichever is greater
beverages are consumed
Retail stores and shops, commercial     1 space for each 250 sq. ft. of gross
banks, savings and loan offices, other  floor area. For commercial centers
financial institutions, general retail  containing 500 or more spaces, spaces
stores, food stores, supermarkets,      in excess of 500 shall be calculated on
drugstores and other similar commercial the basis of 1 space for each 500 sq.
businesses                              ft. of gross floor area
R.V. parks                              1 space for each R.V. pad
                                        1 space for each 250 sq. ft. of gross
Service commercial businesses -         floor area. For commercial centers
businesses such as electrical,          containing 500 or more spaces, spaces
plumbing, cabinets, printing and other  in excess of 500 shall be calculated on
similar shops                           the basis of 1 space for each 500 sq.
                                        ft. of gross floor area
                                        1 space for each 250 sq. ft. of gross
Skating rinks, ice or roller            floor area or 10 stalls, whichever is
                                        greater
                                        1 space for each 100 sq. ft. of water
Swimming pools (commercial)             surface or 10 stalls, whichever is
                                        greater
Tennis, handball and racquetball courts 6 spaces minimum or 2 spaces per court,
(commercial)                            whichever is greater
                                        1 space per 250 sq. ft. of gross floor
Vehicle and equipment rental or sale    area, plus 1 space for every 10
                                        vehicles displayed
Veterinary hospitals                    1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross
                                        floor area
                                        1 space per employee on largest shift
Warehouse uses                          plus 1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross
                                        floor area
Educational uses:                        
Colleges, universities, trade schools,  1 space for each faculty member, plus 1
etc.                                    space for each 3 students
Day nurseries, including preschool and  1 space for each staff member, plus 1
nursery schools                         space for each 10 children for which
                                        said establishment is licensed
Elementary school                       2 spaces per classroom
Senior high schools and junior high     1 space for each faculty member, plus 1
schools                                 space for each 6 regularly enrolled
                                        students
Schools having an arena or auditorium
shall meet the requirements of this
section for "churches, sports            
arenas..." whichever is greater, but
not combined
Manufacturing uses:                      
Automobile wrecking yard, freight       1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross
terminal, heavy industry, junk or       floor area or 1 space per employee on
salvage yard                            highest shift, whichever is greater
Manufacturing, mineral extraction,      1 space per 1,000 sq. ft. of gross
wholesale and warehousing               floor area or 1 space per employee on
                                        highest shift, whichever is greater
 
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. O-2022-44, 7-26-2022)
9-13-7: LOCATION OF PARKING SPACES:
Parking spaces as required above shall be on the same lot or on a public street
or public parking lot within five hundred feet (500'). The land use authority
may approve community parking plans, or parking garages, or other arrangements,
or agreements with site specific plans with the main building, or, in the case
of buildings, other than dwellings, may be located not farther than five
hundred feet (500') therefrom. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-13-8: SHARED PARKING FACILITIES:
Shared parking facilities may be used jointly with parking facilities for other
uses when operations are not normally conducted during the same hours, or when
peak uses vary. Requests for shared parking are subject to the approval of the
land use authority. Requests shall be subject to the following guidelines:
   A.   Conflict During Peak Demand: Sufficient evidence shall be presented to
show that there will be no substantial conflict in the periods of peak demand
of uses for which the joint use is proposed.
   B.   Distance From Use: Parking facilities should not be located farther
than five hundred feet (500') from any use proposing to use such parking.
   C.   Written Agreement: A written agreement shall be executed by all
concerned parties assuring the continued availability of shared parking
facilities in the event that one of the uses shall be sold or otherwise change
ownership or management. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-13-9: PARKING LOT REQUIREMENTS:
Every parcel of land hereafter used as a parking lot shall be paved with a
surfacing material of asphalt or concrete composition or four inch (4") gravel
road base.
Any parking lot adjacent to a residential zone shall be appropriately screened
by a masonry wall or solid visual barrier fence or by other means not less than
six feet (6') in height. Lights used to illuminate the lot shall be so arranged
as to reflect the light away from the adjoining premises.
Each parking lot shall be permanently maintained. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff.
8-27-2013)
9-13-10: PARKING LOT LIGHTS:
   A.   Requirement: Parking lots used during hours of darkness shall be
lighted by standards, a maximum of sixteen feet (16') in height above grade and
using indirect, hooded light sources.
   B.   Downlighting: To protect the views of the night sky, all outside
lighting shall be "downlighting" so that lighting does not trespass to
adjoining properties.
   C.   Exterior Lighting: All exterior lighting should provide for the
illumination of buildings and grounds for safety purposes, but in an aesthetic
manner. All exterior lighting shall be shielded or hooded so that no light is
allowed to spill onto adjacent properties. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-
2013)
9-13-11: OFF STREET LOADING SPACE:
On the same premises with every building, structure or part thereof, erected
and occupied or increased in capacity after the effective date hereof for
manufacturing, warehouse, grocery, hospital, or other use similarly involved
the receipt or distribution by vehicle of materials or merchandise there shall
be provided at the side or rear of the building and maintained on the lot
adequate space for public use of streets or alleys. All off street loading
spaces or docking areas shall be located at the side or rear of the building or
structure and be appropriately screened from adjacent residential zones. (Ord.
2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-13-12: ACCESSIBLE PARKING:
   A.   Required: Any parking area to be used by the general public shall
provide accessible parking spaces. Accessible parking spaces shall conform to
the standards of the international building code and the "Uniform Federal
Accessibility Standards Manual". (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-13-13: SUBMITTAL OF PARKING, LOADING AND CIRCULATION PLANS:
Detailed plans for off street parking, loading, circulation, and screening
shall be submitted to the land use authority for approval. Said plans shall be
in compliance with all standards and provisions set forth in this title and
shall receive written approval of the land use authority prior to the issuance
of a building permit. Appropriate filing fees shall be determined by the land
use authority and submitted with each plan.
Notwithstanding all provisions of this section, all commercial, industrial and
professional developments and all other nonresidential uses of land shall
provide sufficient parking for all employees, business vehicles and equipment,
customers, clients and patients of such business, industry or professionally
used property, as may be required by the planning commission in addition to
spaces presently required by this title. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-
2013)
9-13-14: USES NOT SPECIFICALLY IDENTIFIED:
For all parking uses not listed in this chapter, the land use authority may
determine the number of spaces required based upon the nearest comparable use
standard available. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
CHAPTER 14
MOTOR VEHICLE ACCESS
SECTION:
9-14-1: Intent And Purpose
9-14-2: Businesses Requiring Access
9-14-3: Improvement Expense
9-14-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
Adequate ingress and egress to and from all uses of land shall be provided as
follows herein. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-14-2: BUSINESSES REQUIRING ACCESS:
Service stations, roadside stands, public parking lots and other businesses
requiring motor vehicle access shall meet the requirements as prescribed in the
Utah State Department of Transportation's manual entitled "Regulations for the
Control and Protection of State Highway Rights-of-Way" where such access is on
a Utah Department of Transportation right-of-way. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff.
8-27-2013)
9-14-3: IMPROVEMENT EXPENSE:
All improvements for commercial motor vehicle access will be at the developer's
expense. Kane County does not improve roads, easements or right-of-ways for
development projects. (Ord. O-2019-4, 3-25-2019)
CHAPTER 15
CONDITIONAL AND TEMPORARY USES
ARTICLE A. CONDITIONAL USES
SECTION:
9-15A-1: Purpose
9-15A-2: Conditional Use Permit Process
9-15A-3: Appeals
9-15A-4: Inspection
9-15A-5: Time Limit
9-15A-6: Expansion
9-15A-7: Revocation
9-15A-1: PURPOSE:
A conditional use, because of its unique characteristics or potential impact on
the County, surrounding neighbors or adjacent land uses, may not be compatible
in some areas of Kane County, Utah, or may be compatible only if certain
conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts.
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-15A-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT PROCESS:
An approved conditional use permit shall be required for each conditional use
listed in this title. No building permit, other permit or license shall be
issued for a conditional use by any officer or employee of Kane County unless a
conditional use permit shall have been approved by the Kane County Land Use
Authority.
   A.   Application: Application for a conditional use permit shall be made at
the Office of the Kane County Land Use Authority on forms provided for that
purpose. Return the completed application to the Land Use Authority
Administrator twenty one (21) calendar days prior to the next scheduled
Planning Commission meeting. The Administrator will schedule the conditional
use permit request on the Planning Commission's agenda. In the event that the
conditional use permit application is for residential CUP, the Land Use
Administrator may process and approve or deny the application internally.
   B.   Development Plan: The applicant for a conditional use permit shall
prepare a site plan of the proposed buildings, fences, landscaping, automobile
parking and loading areas, and any other information the Land Use Authority may
deem necessary.
   C.   Fee: The application for any conditional use permit shall be
accompanied by the appropriate fee as determined by the Board of County
Commissioners. In the event additional engineering costs are accrued by the
County related to a specific project the project applicant will be responsible
for all additional engineering fees.
   D.   Hearing: A public hearing need not be held; however, a hearing may be
held when the Land Use Authority shall deem a hearing to be necessary to serve
the public interest.
   E.   Land Use Authority Action: The Land Use Authority shall approve a
conditional use permit if conditions can be imposed to mitigate the reasonably
anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use in accordance with
applicable standards. In approving any conditional use permit, the Land Use
Authority may impose conditions deemed necessary to protect the public welfare,
ensure compatibility with other uses in the vicinity, and ensure that the
negative impact of the proposed use on the surrounding uses and public
facilities is minimized. These conditions may include the following:
      1.   Assurance that the use will not be detrimental to the health,
safety, comfort, order, or general welfare of persons residing or working in
the vicinity;
      2.   Assurance the use will:
         a.   Comply with the intent, spirit and regulations of this title and
Kane County General Plan;
         b.   Make the use harmonious with other neighboring uses in that zone;
      3.   The site size, dimensions, location, topography and access are
adequate for the needs of the proposed use, considering the proposed building
mass, parking, traffic, noise, vibration, exhaust/emissions, light, glare,
erosion, odor, dust, visibility, safety, and aesthetic considerations;
      4.   Evidence that all required public facilities have adequate capacity
to serve the proposed conditional use;
      5.   Limiting the hours, days, place and/or manner of operation;
      6.   Requiring size or architectural design features which minimize
environmental impacts such as noise, vibration, exhaust/emissions, glare,
erosion, odor and/or dust;
      7.   Requiring larger setback areas, lot area, and/or lot depth or width;
      8.   Limiting the building height size or lot coverage, and/or location
on the site;
      9.   Designating the size, number, location and/or design of vehicle
access points or parking areas;
      10.   Requiring street right-of-way to be dedicated and street(s),
sidewalks, curbs, planting strips, pathways, or trails to be improved provided
that:
         a.   An essential link exists between a legitimate governmental
interest and each exaction; and
         b.   Each exaction is roughly proportionate, both in nature and extent
to the impact of the proposed development;
      11.   Requiring landscaping, screening, drainage, water quality
facilities and/or improvements of parking and loading areas;
      12.   Limiting the number, size, location, height and/or lighting of
signs;
      13.   Limiting or setting standards for the location, design, and/or
intensity of outdoor lighting;
      14.   Requiring berms, screening or landscaping and the establishment of
standards for their installation and maintenance;
      15.   Requiring and designating the size, height, location and/or
materials for fences;
      16.   Encouraging the protection and preservation of natural features
including existing trees, soils, vegetation, watercourses, habitat areas,
drainage areas, historic resources, slopes, cultural resources, and/or
sensitive lands;
      17.   Requiring the protection and preservation of groundwater recharge
areas;
      18.   Limiting noise generation;
      19.   Minimizing environmental impacts to identified wetlands, wildlife
habitat, air and water quality, cultural resources, and scenic qualities;
      20.   Requiring turn lane improvements at street intersections when:
         a.   An unsafe condition would be created by the development without
the improvements; or
         b.   The projected increase in traffic generated by the new or
expanded use will lower the level of service;
      21.   Providing for emergency access;
      22.   Requiring pedestrian, bicycle and transit circulation, including
related facilities, as needed among buildings and related uses on the
development site, as well as to adjacent and nearby residential areas, transit
stops, neighborhood activity centers, office parks, and industrial parks;
      23.   Requiring approval of septic and of water systems;
      24.   Requiring buildings to be built to specific requirements;
      25.   Cell tower fall zone conditions and setbacks: The minimum lot area
for such uses will include all lands within the circumference of the fall zone.
If the fall zone requirements cannot be met, they can be mitigated by a hold
harmless agreement with the surrounding property owners, the radius of which
shall be the height of the tower. All cell towers must adhere to the zone
setback requirements;
      26.   Recreation vehicle parks, campground/glamp-ground: a) business
license required; b) Transient Room Taxes required; c) the use must be
consistent with the environmental, commercial, and economical land use purposes
stated in the General Plan, as amended; d) an official site plan that clearly
demonstrates that the park will not cause unreasonable risks to the safety of
persons or property because of vehicular traffic or parking, or other similar
unreasonable risks; the existence or need for dedicated turn lanes, pedestrian
access, and capacity of the existing streets shall be reviewed; e) RV parks and
campgrounds/glamping sites must have State and/or County approved access off a
State highway, County B or D road, BLM road or, if off a private road, roads
will meet Wild Land Urban Interface Code standards and will require a road
maintenance agreement between property owners and easement holders
memorializing the mutual understanding that an increased use to the road will
result and that proof of easements to property would be required; f) Health
Department permit required if over forty (40) RV sites; the Department of
Environmental Quality permit is also required for water and waste; g) must
comply with Building Department and building permit regulations; h) on-site
manager for RV parks and campgrounds; unless the campground is considered a
primitive campground; i) requirements for the management and maintenance of
facilities is adequate; j) the use shall not result in a situation which will
create a need for essential services which cannot be reasonably met by local
service providers, including roads and access for emergency vehicles and
residents; fire protection; police protection; schools and school busing;
drinkable water; sewer; storm drainage; and garbage removal; k) feasibility
letters required for services extended to the RV parks and campgrounds to
mitigate traffic safety conditions as to not adversely affect the use and
surrounding areas; l) emergency access is adequate; m) a plan for fencing,
screening, and landscaping to separate the use from adjoining uses and mitigate
the potential for conflict in uses is adequate; n) exterior lighting is
adequate and does not unduly disturb the surrounding areas; o) exceptions
include rural unimproved subdivisions that can only be used for agricultural
purposes as defined in Utah State Code 59-2-502;
As part of approving a conditional use permit, Kane County may require that a
Traffic Impact Study (TIS) be completed for any development projects where it
is deemed necessary. The traffic study shall, at a minimum, incorporate traffic
engineering principles and standards as presented in national practices.
Additional requirements and investigation may be imposed upon the applicant as
necessary. The County shall determine the need and requirements for a traffic
impact study. The requirements of the TIS may be expanded, reduced, or altered
by the County based on the proposed project being analyzed.
      27.   The conditions in subsection E.26. of this section apply for glamp-
grounds;
      28.   The conditions in subsection E.26. of this section apply for
campgrounds.
      29.   Private Cemeteries within a subdivision shall have a sealed
concrete vault. A permanent marker will be placed on each individual grave
site. The cemetery shall be 50 feet from any property line. The cemetery’s
legal description shall be recorded in the Recorder’s Office. No green burials
are allowed within platted subdivisions. Green burials will only be allowed on
10-acre or larger parcels. No more than two burial plots will be allowed on
each individual lot within a platted subdivision except in the R-5 zone which
allows a maximum of five plots. No plots will be sold commercially.
   F.   Findings: In approving a conditional use permit, the Land Use Authority
shall find:
      1.   That the proposed use is necessary or desirable and will contribute
to the general well being of the community;
      2.   That the use will not be detrimental to the health, safety or
general welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to
the property or improvements in the vicinity;
      3.   That the proposed use is in harmony with the intent of the General
Plan and the zone in which it is located.  (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-
2013; amd. Ord. O-2016-4, 10-15-2018; Ord. O-2017-16, 1-8-2018; Ord. O-2018-21,
11-26-20182; Ord. O-2019-4, 3-25-2019; Ord. O-2022-01, 1-25-2022; Ord. O-2022-
12, 3-22-2022; Ord. O-2022-25, 5-24-2022; Ord. O-2022-60, 11-22-2022; Ord. O-
2023-31, 9-26-2023)
9-15A-3: APPEALS:
Appeal of any decision of the Land Use Authority shall be to the Appeal
Authority. Appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed at the Office of the
Land Use Authority not more than thirty (30) days after the written decision by
the Land Use Authority. The Appeal Authority may affirm, modify or reverse the
decision of the Land Use Authority. However, the Appeal Authority shall
present, in writing, the reasons for its action. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff.
8-27-2013)
9-15A-4: INSPECTION:
The building official/Land Use Administrator shall inspect the conditional use
during the course of construction to ensure that it complies with the
conditions of the permit. (Ord. O-2018-6, 7-9-2018)
9-15A-5: TIME LIMIT:
Action authorized by a conditional use permit must commence within one year of
the time the permit is issued. If the permit holder has not commenced action
under the permit within this time, the permit shall expire and the holder must
apply for a new permit. The Land Use Authority may grant an extension for good
cause shown which would require amending the original conditional use permit
and going before the Planning Commission for approval. (Ord. O-2016-4, 10-15-
2018)
9-15A-6: EXPANSION:
No use or structure in which a conditional use is located may expand without
the approval of the Kane County Land Use Authority. Before expanding, the
applicant shall present to the Kane County Land Use Authority a development
plan. No public hearing need be held. However, the Kane County Land Use
Authority may deem a hearing necessary. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-
2013)
9-15A-7: REVOCATION:
A conditional use permit may be revoked upon failure to comply with the
conditions imposed with the original approval of the permit and upon failure to
comply with all local, State, and Federal laws, including remaining current on
Property Tax payments. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
ARTICLE B. TEMPORARY USE PERMITS
SECTION:
9-15B-1: Purpose
9-15B-2: Temporary Use Permit Process
9-15B-3: Considerations
9-15B-4: Requirements
9-15B-5: Temporary Asphalt Or Concrete Batch Plant
9-15B-6: Temporary Field Office
9-15B-7: Temporary Sales Office
9-15B-8: Temporary Recreational Vehicles
9-15B-9: Resubmittals; Appeals
9-15B-10: Termination
9-15B-11: Expiration; Extensions
9-15B-12: Allowed Temporary Uses
9-15B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide for a temporary use permit and
standards for the permitting process for nonpermanent uses in order to protect
the health, safety and general welfare of the public and surrounding zones and
to avoid uses which will be detrimental to adjacent properties. (Ord. 2013-5,
8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-15B-2: TEMPORARY USE PERMIT PROCESS:
Unless otherwise stated in this title, temporary activities shall be allowed
upon the issuance of a temporary use permit by the land use authority. The land
use authority may issue a temporary use permit after the applicant has provided
the following information:
   A.   A description of the proposed temporary use, the proposed beginning and
ending dates, and the proposed hours of operation.
   B.   A description of the property to be used for the temporary use,
including the location of the use in relation to other buildings, and the
location of streets to be used for access.
   C.   Sufficient information to determine that adequate provisions for trash
disposal and sanitary facilities shall be provided.
   D.   Additional information required by the land use authority in order to
ensure surrounding land uses are not negatively impacted by the temporary use.
   E.   Any provision set forth in the conditional use permit process that may
be deemed necessary for a temporary use. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-
2013)
9-15B-3: CONSIDERATIONS:
The applicant of a temporary use permit shall demonstrate that the
considerations listed below have been addressed. If an application is denied,
the denial shall specify which of these considerations, if any, were not
addressed to the satisfaction of the land use authority:
   A.   Circulation: The effect on local traffic and the location of access
points to the property.
   B.   Adjacent Property: The effects of the proposed use on nearby property,
including, but not limited to, the effects of noise, glare, odor, and traffic.
   C.   Refuse And Service Areas: The amount of refuse and service areas
(garbage receptacles and bathrooms) necessary for the proposed use, the
location of the refuse and service areas, and a plan for adequate maintenance
of the areas.
   D.   Utilities: Location and availability of utilities.
   E.   Screening And Landscaping: Installation of screening and fencing where
necessary to protect adjacent property.
   F.   Compatibility: The level of general compatibility with nearby
properties and the appropriateness of the use in relationship to other
properties.
   G.   Other Factors: Any other review factors which the land use authority
considers to be appropriate to the property in question. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-
2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-15B-4: REQUIREMENTS:
The land use authority may approve, approve with additional requirements or
deny a temporary use permit application. If additional requirements are deemed
appropriate, the land use authority may place requirements on the temporary use
as part of the approval to assure that adequate mitigation measures are
associated with the use. The requirements shall become part of the temporary
use permit approval. Violations of any of the requirements shall be treated in
the same manner as other violations of this title. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013,
eff. 8-27-2013)
9-15B-5: TEMPORARY ASPHALT OR CONCRETE BATCH PLANT:
Temporary asphalt or concrete batching plants may be approved by the land use
authority subject to the following additional requirements:
   A.   The batch plant shall not be located within six hundred feet (600') of
a residence.
   B.   Hours of operation, defined as any activity that results in producing
an asphalt or concrete product, shall be limited to Monday through Friday,
beginning one-half (1/2) hour before official sunrise and ending one-half (1/2)
hour after official sunset, unless the plant is located more than five thousand
feet (5,000') from a residence or a commercial facility.
   C.   The batch plant permit shall be valid for a maximum six (6) month
period, unless an extension is approved by the land use authority for a second
six (6) month period (maximum of 1 year).
   D.   No portion of the batch plant or its operation shall be located on a
public or private street.
   E.   The batch plant shall only furnish concrete, asphalt, or both, to the
specific project for which the temporary use permit is issued. The placement of
a temporary batching plant for a private project is restricted to the site of
the project.
   F.   The temporary plant shall be operated in a manner that minimizes dust,
noise and odor to meet the requirements of the Utah state department of
environmental quality, including, but not limited to, covering trucks, hoppers,
chutes, loading and unloading devices and mixing operation, and maintaining
driveways and parking areas free of dust.
   G.   The site must be clear of all equipment, material and debris upon
completion of the project.
   H.   All public improvements that are damaged during the operation of the
temporary batching plant must be repaired or replaced within thirty (30)
calendar days of completion of the project.
   I.   A reclamation bond shall be required sufficient to ensure restoration
of the site to original or other substantially beneficial condition consistent
with local plans.
   J.   At termination of the permit and/or removal of plant, permittee shall
notify the land use administrator. The permittee or its agent shall conduct an
inspection with the land use administrator to verify sufficient restoration in
compliance with county standards. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-15B-6: TEMPORARY FIELD OFFICE:
A permit for a temporary field office may be approved by the land use authority
under this article under the following requirements:
   A.   The structure or shelter shall be used in connection with an approved
development or building project and is located on the site of the project.
   B.   The structure shall be used only as an administrative and supervisory
office and/or for sheltering employees and equipment during the construction
phase of a project.
   C.   The structure or shelter shall be promptly removed following the
completion of the development or project. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-
2013)
9-15B-7: TEMPORARY SALES OFFICE:
A temporary sales office may be approved by the land use authority, subject to
the following additional requirements:
   A.   The sales office is used for the sale of property within a subdivision
under construction.
   B.   The sales office is located on land located within the subdivision.
   C.   The sales office is removed within one year of completion of the
subdivision construction. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-15B-8: TEMPORARY RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Upon application of the landowner, the land use authority may approve a
temporary use permit for the occupation of more than two (2) recreational
vehicles on one residential property depending upon the size and contour of the
property.
   B.   Upon application of the landowner, the land use authority may approve a
temporary use permit for the occupation of recreational vehicles on one
residential property for a period exceeding six (6) months but not more than
nine (9) months in any calendar year. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-15B-9: RESUBMITTALS; APPEALS:
An application for a temporary use which has been denied may be resubmitted
only if there has been a substantial change in circumstances as determined by
the land use administrator. Appeals to all final land use administrator and
planning commission decisions shall be made to the appeal authority within
thirty (30) days of denial of the temporary use permit. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-
2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-15B-10: TERMINATION:
   A.   A temporary use permit shall become null and void in the following
cases:
      1.   The use for which the permit was approved is terminated.
      2.   The time granted for the use in the approved permit has expired.
      3.   The land use authority or other county agent as assigned finds that
the terms of the permit have been violated or that there is a hazard to the
public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   The site shall be cleared of all debris at the end of the temporary
use. All temporary structures shall be cleared from the site within five (5)
days after the use is terminated.
   C.   Temporary use permits granted for on site construction must remove the
mobile home or recreational vehicle from the premises and the utilities
disconnected within thirty (30) days after the property owner receives a
certificate of occupancy for the permanent dwelling. Recreational vehicles may
be properly stored on the property. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-15B-11: EXPIRATION; EXTENSIONS:
Temporary use permits shall expire six (6) months from the date of approval or
when the temporary use for which the permit was issued has terminated,
whichever is sooner. The land use authority may grant an extension of up to an
additional six (6) months for each extension. Unless otherwise stated in this
article, no temporary use permit shall extend beyond a maximum of three (3)
years. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-15B-12: ALLOWED TEMPORARY USES:
The temporary uses listed in this section shall not require a permit but shall
be conducted in compliance with the other requirements listed in this article
and shall comply with all other state and local laws and ordinances.
   A.   Temporary commercial sales or special events conducted by the owner of
the property for a period not exceeding thirty (30) days, including, but not
limited to, farmers' markets, Christmas tree sales, garage/yard sales, produce
stands. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
CHAPTER 16
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-16-1: Purpose And Scope
9-16-2: Effect Of The Utah Outdoor Advertising Act
9-16-3: Definitions
9-16-4: General Sign Provisions
9-16-5: Regulations Of Signs By Zone
9-16-6: Construction Specifications
9-16-7: Administration And Enforcement
9-16-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to coordinate the type, placement, and physical
dimensions of signs within the various zones established by this title. Such
coordination is necessary: a) to eliminate excessive and confusing sign
displays that create potential hazards to motorists, pedestrians, and property;
b) to preserve the beauty and the unique character of Kane County; and c) to
maintain a responsible communications system by setting requirements for the
location, size, height, number, lighting, and type of signs that will be
compatible with the landscape of Kane County.
The primary intent of this chapter shall be to regulate signs of a commercial
nature intended to be viewed from any vehicular right of way. The following
signs are not regulated by this chapter:
   A.   Signs not exceeding four (4) square feet normally associated with
residential uses and that are not of a commercial nature, such as: 1) signs
giving property identification names or numbers or names of occupants, 2) signs
on mailboxes or newspaper tubes, and 3) signs posted on private property
relating to private parking or warning the public against trespassing or danger
from animals.
   B.   On premises advertising signs that are attached to windows or walls and
are clearly of a temporary nature, which promote specific sales.
   C.   Official traffic regulation and other government signs.
   D.   Flags, pennants, or insignia of any government or nonprofit
organization when not displayed in connection with a commercial promotion or as
an advertising device.
   E.   Signs which are associated with school or church events and functions,
which are clearly of a temporary nature.
   F.   Signs painted on or otherwise permanently attached to currently
licensed motor vehicles that are not primarily used as signs.
   G.   One nonilluminated real estate sign per lot or premises, not to exceed
six (6) square feet in sign area. Such signs must be removed ten (10) days
following sale, rent or lease. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
   H.   Election signs which are erected prior to the election or referendum
concerned. Such signs shall be removed not later than seven (7) days following
said election or referendum. Election signs may be placed only on private
property, with the permission of the property owner.
   I.   Yard/garage sale signs: Such signs which are erected must be removed
within one week following the event. (Ord. 2014-1, 1-27-2014, eff. 2-11-2014)
9-16-2: EFFECT OF THE UTAH OUTDOOR ADVERTISING ACT:
The Utah state legislature has passed legislation which regulates outdoor
advertising, including eminent domain and outdoor advertising along interstate,
federal aid primary highway, and national highway systems which are zoned
commercial or industrial or other unzoned commercial or industrial areas 1 .
Kane County contains four (4) such roads, including U.S. 89, State Road 9, U.S.
89A, and State Road 14. The Utah department of transportation and the "Manual
Of Uniform Traffic Control Devices For Streets And Highways" maintains a
permitting process for advertising along these roads. Any person or firm
desiring to install a sign adjacent to the above roads shall obtain the
necessary state permit after receiving all Kane County approvals and permits.
Kane County reserves the right to impose more restrictive standards for signs
along the above roads. (Ord. 2014-1, 1-27-2014, eff. 2-11-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. UCA §§ 17-27a-511, 512; § 72-7-501 et seq.
9-16-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms are defined for the purposes of this chapter as follows:
ANIMATED SIGNS: Any sign which uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or to create a special effect or scene.
AWNING SIGN: A sign painted on, printed on, or attached flat against the
surface of an awning.
BALLOON SIGN: Any inflatable or floating sign or advertising device that is
affixed to or displayed at a place of business. Examples are blimps, hot air
balloons and inflatable figures.
BILLBOARD: See definition of Off Premises Sign.
CANOPY: A sign attached to a building extending in whole or part more than
twenty four inches (24") beyond any wall of the building generally provided for
protection from the weather.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (AUTOMATIC): A sign on which the copy changes
automatically on a lamp bank or through mechanical means, such as electrical or
electronic time and temperature units.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A temporary sign identifying an architect, contractor,
subcontractor, and/or material supplier participating in construction on the
property upon which the sign is located.
FLASHING SIGN: A sign which contains an intermittent or sequential flashing
light source used primarily to attract attention.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign supported upon the ground by poles or braces and not
attached to any building.
GROUND SIGN: A sign supported by a fixed, permanent frame, supported in the
ground.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: A sign with an artificial light source incorporated
internally or externally for the purpose of illuminating the sign.
MARQUEE SIGN: Any sign attached to or supported by a permanent canopy of rigid
materials supported by and extending from the facade of a building.
MONUMENT SIGN: A sign which is incorporated into the language or architectural
design scheme which displays the name of uses or buildings. Any premises sign
which is mounted directly to the ground having a foundation or pedestal that is
at least sixty percent (60%) of the width of the actual sign structure and
meeting the standards for height set for monument signs.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: A sign or sign structure or portion thereof lawfully
erected and existing at the effective date of this chapter which does not
comply with all regulations prescribed by this chapter and the zoning district
in which it is located.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: A sign which directs attention to use, product, commodity,
or service not related to or located upon the premises on which the sign is
located such as billboards or outdoor advertising.
ON PREMISES SIGN OR APPURTENANT SIGN: Any sign which advertises products,
services, development projects, or business establishments which are located,
conducted, manufactured or sold upon the same premises on which the sign is
erected.
PORTABLE SIGN: Any sign designed to be moved easily and not permanently affixed
to the ground or to a structure or building.
ROOF SIGN: Any sign erected over or on the roof of a building.
SIGN: Any device, structure, fixture, or placard using graphics, symbols, and/
or written copy designed specifically for the purpose of advertising or
identifying any establishment, product, goods, or services.
SIGN, AREA OF: The area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding
the minimum frame and supports. Only the largest face of any double sided or
multifaced sign shall be considered in calculating the sign area. In relation
to signs that do not have a frame or separate background, sign area shall be
calculated on the basis of the area of the smallest, single, continuous
geometric figure large enough to frame the display.
SIGN, MAINTENANCE OF: The cleaning, painting, repair, or replacement of
defective parts of a sign that does not alter the basic copy, design, or
structure of a sign.
SIGN, SETBACK OF: The minimum distance which any portion of a sign or sign
structure shall be from any street right of way line and yard line contiguous
with a street.
SNIPE SIGN: A temporary sign or poster affixed to a tree, fence, utility pole,
supports for another sign, etc.
SUBDIVISION SIGN: A sign that is placed at the entrance of a subdivision or
other residential or commercial project as part of a distinct architectural or
landscape feature that identifies the project and displays the project name.
TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign that is up for sixty (60) days or less, in a twelve (12)
month period.
WALL SIGN: Any sign posted, or painted upon, suspended from, or otherwise
affixed to a wall, fascia, canopy, or marquee of a building located on the site
to which the sign pertains and is attached to the outside wall of a building
and extending no more than twenty four inches (24") from such wall, with copy
on the face side only.
WINDOW SIGN: A sign installed inside a window and intended to be viewed from
the outside. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-1, 1-27-
2014, eff. 2-11-2014; Ord. O-2016-10, 9-10-2016)
9-16-4: GENERAL SIGN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Signs To Conform: It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person to
erect, raise, move, reconstruct, enlarge, alter, place or maintain a sign in
Kane County except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Nonconforming Signs: A nonconforming sign shall not be reconstructed,
raised, moved, placed, extended, or enlarged unless such sign is changed so as
to conform to the provisions of this chapter. Alterations shall also mean the
changing of the text or message that the sign is conveying from one use of the
premises to another use of the premises and the changing of ownership of the
sign when such ownership necessitates a change in the text or message of the
sign. Alterations shall not be interpreted to include changing the text or copy
of off premises advertising signs, theater signs, outdoor bulletin, or other
similar signs which are designed to accommodate changeable copy.
   C.   Signs Not To Constitute A Traffic Hazard: Signs or other advertising
structures shall not be erected at the intersection of any streets or driveways
in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision. This includes any
location where by reason of the position, shape or color of a sign may
interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign or signal device. Such signs shall not make use of the words
"stop", "danger", or any other words, phrases, symbols, or characters in such a
manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse vehicle operators. (Ord. 2013-
5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
   D.   Clear Vision Of Intersecting Streets: No sign shall be erected in a
manner that will interfere with vehicular or pedestrian traffic or any
intersection, traffic and other public signs.
   E.   Signs On Public Property: No sign regulated by this chapter shall be
located on publicly owned land or inside street rights of way except signs
required and erected by an authorized public agency. This stipulation includes,
but is not limited to, handbills, posters, advertisements, or notices that are
fastened, placed, posted, painted or attached in any way upon any curbstone,
lamppost, utility pole, hydrant, bridge, tree, rock, sidewalk, or street. (Ord.
2014-1, 1-27-2014, eff. 2-11-2014)
   F.   Prohibited Signs: Signs not specifically allowed by this chapter are
prohibited. In addition, the following signs are specifically prohibited:
      1.   Abandoned signs;
      2.   A-frame signs;
      3.   Snipe signs;
      4.   Signs placed on vehicles or trailers which are parked or located for
the primary purpose of displaying said sign;
      5.   Signs containing statements, words, or pictures of an obscene,
indecent or immoral character.
   G.   Maintenance: All signs shall be properly maintained. Exposed surfaces
shall be clean and painted if paint is required. Defective parts shall be
replaced. Signs relating to a product no longer available for purchase, or to a
business which has moved, shall be removed or the advertising copy removed
within thirty (30) days of such unavailability, closure or relocation.
   H.   Ownership: The imprint of the sign owner and sign erector of all signs
shall be in plain and public view.
   I.   Lighting: No illuminated sign shall be installed which permits the
direct or undiffused light to penetrate beyond the sign in such a manner as to
interfere with the use of adjacent properties. Sign illumination shall be by
internal illumination or by attached shielded lighting. Any such lights alleged
to violate the above shall be subject to a public hearing before the land use
authority as to the validity of the alleged violation. Such hearing shall be
conducted in accordance with the procedures outlined in chapter 3 of this
title.
   J.   Indemnification: All persons involved in the maintenance, installation,
alteration, or relocation of signs in Kane County shall agree to hold harmless
and indemnify Kane County, its officers, agents, and employees, against any and
all claims of negligence resulting from such work insofar as this chapter has
not specifically directed the placement of a sign. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013,
eff. 8-27-2013)
9-16-5: REGULATIONS OF SIGNS BY ZONE:
Refer to the following table. Except as detailed otherwise in this section, no
sign may exceed twenty five feet (25') in height. (Ord. 2014-1, 1-27-2014, eff.
2-11-2014)
Zone Sign Size Height Location Other
Zone      Sign          Size          Height        Location      Other
                                                                  Sign must be
                                                                  removed 6
                                                                  months from
                                                                  final
                                                                  building
                        Sign shall                                inspection
          Construction  not exceed 96 12' max.      On private    that allows
                        sq. ft. per                 property      occupancy or
                        lot                                       when 100% of
                                                                  the
                                                                  facilities
All zones                                                         are occupied,
                                                                  whichever
                                                                  occurs first
                                                    Attached to   No lights
          Bed and       No larger                   home or       shall be used
          breakfast     than 6 sq.                 overhanging   in a
          sign          ft.                         sign          residential
                                                                  zone
                                                                  No lights
                        No taller                   Entrance to   shall be used
          Subdivision   than 6'       6' max.       subdivision   in a
                                                                  residential
                                                                  zone
                                                                  Illumination
                                                                  may be built
                                                                  into or
                                                                  attached onto
                                                                  a sign unless
                                                                  exposed to a
                                                                  dwelling.
                                                                  Lighting
                                                                  fixtures used
                                                                  to illuminate
                                                                  any sign
                                                                  shall be
          Off premises  Sign shall                  1 per parcel  mounted on
          sign          not exceed    25' max.      or lot with   the top of
                        128 sq. ft.                 15' setback   the sign
                                                                  structure and
                                                                  shielded to
                                                                  prevent the
                                                                  emission of
                                                                  light beyond
                                                                  the sign and
                                                                  no flashing
                                                                  or
                                                                  intermittent
                                                                  illumination
                                                                  shall be
                                                                  employed
                                                                  Illumination
                                                                  may be built
                                                                  into or
                                                                  attached onto
                                                                  a sign unless
                                                                  exposed to a
                                                                  dwelling.
                                                                  Lighting
                                                                  fixtures used
                                                                  to illuminate
                                                                  any sign
                                                                  shall be
          On premises   Sign shall                  15' setback;  mounted on
          ground or     not exceed 56 25' max.      1 per parcel  the top of
          projecting    sq. ft.                     or lot        the sign
                                                                  structure and
                                                                  shielded to
                                                                  prevent the
                                                                  emission of
                                                                  light beyond
                                                                  the sign and
                                                                  no flashing
                                                                  or
                                                                  intermittent
                                                                  illumination
                                                                  shall be
                                                                  employed
                        Window signs
          Window        shall not                                
                        exceed 12 sq.
                        ft. per use
                                                                  Illumination
                                                                  may be built
                                                                  into or
                                                                  attached onto
                                                                  a sign unless
                                                                  exposed to a
                                                                  dwelling.
                                                                  Lighting
C                                                                 fixtures used
                                                                  to illuminate
                                      Shall not                   any sign
                        Sign shall    exceed 25% of               shall be
                        not exceed    the                         mounted on
          Wall          25% of a wall building's                 the top of
                        area          front or side               the sign
                                      face                        structure and
                                                                  shielded to
                                                                  prevent the
                                                                  emission of
                                                                  light beyond
                                                                  the sign and
                                                                  no flashing
                                                                  or
                                                                  intermittent
                                                                  illumination
                                                                  shall be
                                                                  employed
                                                                  A monument
                                                                  sign can only
                                                                  be utilized
                                                                  if no ground
                                                                  or projecting
                                                                  sign is used.
                                                                  Illumination
                                                                  may be built
                                                                  into or
                                                                  attached onto
                                                                  a sign unless
                                                                  exposed to a
                                                                  dwelling.
                                                                  Lighting
                                                    10' min.      fixtures used
                        Sign shall                  setbacks; 1   to illuminate
          Monument      not exceed 56 10' max.      per parcel or any sign
                        sq. ft.                     lot           shall be
                                                                  mounted on
                                                                  the top of
                                                                  the sign
                                                                  structure and
                                                                  shielded to
                                                                  prevent the
                                                                  emission of
                                                                  light beyond
                                                                  the sign and
                                                                  no flashing
                                                                  or
                                                                  intermittent
                                                                  illumination
                                                                  shall be
                                                                  employed
          Balloon       Balloon signs are subject to conditional use
                                                                  Roof sign may
                                                                  substitute
                        Roof sign                                 for a ground
                        area will be                              or projecting
                        included in                               sign but is
                        the total                                 subject to
          Roof          allowed wall  10' above                  conditional
                        sign area for roof max.                   use review.
                        the wall over                             The land use
                        which the                                 authority may
                        roof sign is                              deny a sign
                        erected                                   or set more
                                                                  restrictive
                                                                  conditions
                        Max. size
                        allowed per   Max. in ft.:  Distance from
                        side (sq.                   state ROW:
                        ft.):                                     Spacing
                        20            10            0             between off
                        30            12            5             premises
                        40            14            10            signs shall
          Off premises1 50            16            15            be 500' when
                        60            18            20            located
                        70            20            25            adjacent to
                        80            22            30            an interstate
                        90            24            35            highway
                        100           24            40
                        110           24            45
                        128           25            50 and more
                                                                  Illumination
                                                                  may be built
                                                                  into or
                                                                  attached onto
                                                                  a sign unless
                                                                  exposed to a
                                                                  dwelling.
                                                                  Lighting
                                                                  fixtures used
                                                                  to illuminate
                                                                  any sign
                        The sign                                  shall be
                        shall not                   1 per parcel  mounted on
          Wall          exceed 25% of 10' max.      or lot        the top of
                        a wall area                               the sign
                                                                  structure and
                                                                  shielded to
                                                                  prevent the
                                                                  emission of
                                                                  light beyond
                                                                  the sign and
                                                                  no flashing
                                                                  or
                                                                  intermittent
                                                                  illumination
                                                                  shall be
                                                                  employed
                                                                  Illumination
                                                                  may be built
                                                                  into or
                                                                  attached onto
M                                                                 a sign unless
                                                                  exposed to a
                                                                  dwelling.
                                                                  Lighting
                                                                  fixtures used
                                                                  to illuminate
                                                    10' min.      any sign
                        128 sq. ft.                 setback and 1 shall be
          On premises   for                         sign per 500' mounted on
          ground or     freestanding  25' max.      of frontage   the top of
          projecting    on premises                 or part       the sign
                        sign                        thereof       structure and
                                                                  shielded to
                                                                  prevent the
                                                                  emission of
                                                                  light beyond
                                                                  the sign and
                                                                  no flashing
                                                                  or
                                                                  intermittent
                                                                  illumination
                                                                  shall be
                                                                  employed
                                                                  Balloon signs
                                                                  are subject
          Balloon                                              to
                                                                  conditional
                                                                  use
                                                                  Roof sign may
                                                                  substitute
                        Roof sign                                 for a ground
                        area will be                              or projecting
                        included in                 1 per roof of sign but is
                        the total                   a commercial  subject to
          Roof          allowed wall  10' max.      or            conditional
                        sign area for above roof    manufacturing use review.
                        the wall over               structure     The land use
                        which the                                 authority may
                        roof sign is                              deny a sign
                        erected                                   or set more
                                                                  restrictive
                                                                  conditions
                                                                  A monument
                        The sign                    10' min.      sign can only
          Monument      shall not     10' max.      setback; 1    be utilized
                        exceed 64 sq.               per lot or    if no ground
                        ft.                         parcel        or projecting
                                                                  sign is used
R         Not permitted
AG        See chart for manufacturing zone
 
Note:
    1.    Signs adjacent to Highways 89, 9, 89A and 14 require UDOT permit.
(Ord. 2014-1, 1-27-2014, eff. 2-11-2014; amd. Ord. O-2016-10, 9-10-2016)
9-16-6: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With Building And Electrical Codes: All signs shall be
constructed in accordance with the requirements of the most current versions of
the federal, state, local, and national electrical code as adopted by Kane
County.
   B.   Anchoring:
      1.   No sign shall be suspended by nonrigid attachments that will allow
the sign to swing in the wind;
      2.   All freestanding signs shall have self-supporting structures erected
on or permanently attached to any form, shape, or in a manner which will
interfere with any opening required for ventilation;
      3.   Signs shall be located in such a way as to maintain horizontal and
vertical clearance of all overhead electrical conductors in accordance with
national electrical code specifications, depending on the voltages concerned.
However, in no case shall a sign be installed closer than thirty six inches
(36") horizontally or vertically from any conductor or guywire. (Ord. 2014-1,
1-27-2014, eff. 2-11-2014)
9-16-7: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Land Use Authority Administrator Or Any Authorized Employee Of Kane
County To Enforce: The duly appointed building officers of Kane County shall be
responsible for the enforcement and administration of this chapter. The
building official or any authorized employee of Kane County shall inspect each
sign and its structural and electrical connections to ensure compliance with
all duly adopted codes and ordinances.
   B.   Permit Applications: All applications to permit a sign shall be made to
the building official upon the standard building permit form used by Kane
County. If it is determined that the proposed sign requires a conditional use
permit under the provisions of this chapter, the applicant shall be directed to
follow the procedures outlined in chapter 15, "Conditional And Temporary Uses",
of this title.
   C.   Permit Fees: All applications for permits filed with the building
official shall be assessed a fee in accordance with the duly adopted building
permit fee schedule of Kane County, which is based on the value of a structure.
The value to be used in computing the permit fee shall be the total value of
all construction work for which the permit is issued as well as all finish
work. If a conditional use permit is also required, the fee required by section
9-15A-2C of this title shall also be assessed. (Ord. 2014-1, 1-27-2014, eff. 2-
11-2014)
CHAPTER 17
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
9-17-1: Purpose
9-17-2: Mobile Home Location And Use
9-17-3: Mobile Home Park Approval
9-17-4: Mobile Home Park Application
9-17-1: PURPOSE:
To permit development of mobile home parks, as defined herein, in appropriate
zones and to require that mobile home accommodations will be of such character
as to promote the objectives and purposes of this chapter, to protect the
integrity and character of the districts contiguous to those in which mobile
home parks are located, and to protect other use values contiguous to or near
mobile home park uses. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-17-2: MOBILE HOME LOCATION AND USE:
   A.   A "mobile home" as herein defined shall be located, placed, used or
occupied only within an approved mobile home park, or by a conditional use
permit in an agricultural zone. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-17-3: MOBILE HOME PARK APPROVAL:
Mobile home parks may not be constructed unless first approved by the Kane
County Land Use Authority and the Kane County Commission, after site plan
review of the said mobile home park by the Kane County Land Use Authority. The
Land Use Authority and the Kane County Commission shall approve a proposed
mobile home park if it will:
   A.   Be in keeping with the general character of the district within which
the development is to be located.
   B.   Be located on a parcel of land containing not less than two (2) acres.
   C.   Have a least ten (10) spaces completed and ready for occupancy before
first occupancy is permitted.
   D.   Shall be connected to the appropriate utilities. Feasibility letters
from each entity will be required prior to approval.
   E.   Be developed according to plans prepared by a professional engineer. It
is the intent of Kane County that the developer solves problems associated with
the development before approval is given and construction begins. The mobile
homes may be clustered, provided that the total number of units does not exceed
the density set forth in Chapter 6 Article B, Multi Residential Zone. The
remaining land not contained in individual lots, roads, or parking, shall be
set aside and developed as parks, playground, and service areas for common use
and enjoyment of occupants of the development and of the visitors thereto.
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 5-24-2022)
9-17-4: MOBILE HOME PARK APPLICATION:
   A.   An overall plan for development of a mobile home park shall be
submitted to the land use authority administrator for review. The plan shall be
drawn to a scale no smaller than one inch to fifty feet (1" = 50'). At least
one digital copy and one twenty-four inches (24") by thirty-six inches (36")
hard copy of the plan shall be submitted. The plan shall show:
      1.   The topography of the site represented by contours, shown at
intervals not greater than two feet (2') when required by the Kane County
engineer;
      2.   A grading and drainage plan detailing geologic and flood hazards
shall be submitted to the land use authority administrator with the
application;
      3.   Any proposed reservations for parks, playgrounds, open space;
      4.   Any proposed street and mobile home space layout;
      5.   Tabulations showing percent of area to be devoted to parks,
playgrounds and open spaces, number of mobile home spaces, and total area to be
developed;
      6.   Any proposed locations of parking spaces;
      7.   Detailed landscaping and utility plan, including locations of sewer,
water, electricity, gas lines, and fire hydrants;
      8.   The location and width or size of roadway and walkways, parking
areas, and access to the public thoroughfares;
      9.   Property ownership, if other than applicant;
      10.   Any proposed locations for recreational vehicles.
   B.   The applicant of approval of plans for a mobile home park or mobile
home subdivision shall pay to the land use authority administrator at the time
of application a plan check fee, in addition to all other required fees. The
plan check fee shall be established by the Kane County commission.
   C.   Upon receipt of the application and all other required materials by the
land use authority administrator and review by the county engineer, the land
use authority administrator will place application on the land use authority
agenda for review and approval. Should approval be denied, the applicant has
thirty (30) days to appeal, in writing, to the appeal authority. (Ord. 2013-5,
8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. 2022-31, 5-24-2022)
CHAPTER 18
RECREATIONAL PARKS
SECTION:
9-18-1: Purpose
9-18-2: Recreational Vehicle Park, Campground, And Glamp-Ground Approval
9-18-3: Recreational Vehicle Park, Campground, And Glamp-Ground Application
9-18-1: PURPOSE:
To permit development of recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds, and glamp-
grounds as defined herein, in appropriate zones and to require that
recreational vehicle, campground, and glamp-ground accommodations will be of
such character as to promote the objectives and purposes of this title, to
protect the integrity and character of the zones contiguous to those in which
recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds, and glamp-grounds are located and to
protect other use values contiguous to or near recreational vehicle park,
campground, and glamp-ground uses. (Ord. O-2018-6, 7-9-2018)
9-18-2: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK, CAMPGROUND, AND GLAMP-GROUND APPROVAL:
A recreational vehicle park, campground, and glamp-ground may not be
constructed unless first approved by the Land Use Authority, after review of
plans, for said park, campground, and glamp- ground, which satisfy the Land Use
Authority the proposed development will: (Ord. O-2018-6, 7-9-2018)
   A.   Be in keeping with the general character of the zone where it is
proposed to be located. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
   B.   If attached to a mobile home park, the recreational vehicle, camping,
and glamping area shall be at least one acre above the minimum area requirement
for a mobile home park.
   C.   Meet all requirements of the State of Utah Code of camp, trailer court,
hotel, motel and resort sanitation regulations which are intended to apply to
trailer court and tent camps, including glamp-grounds as defined in such code.
(Ord. O-2018-6, 7-9-2018)
9-18-3: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK, CAMPGROUND, AND GLAMP-GROUND APPLICATION:
   A.   An overall plan for development of a recreational vehicle park,
campground, and glamp-ground shall be submitted to the Land Use Authority
Administrator for review. The plan shall be drawn to a scale not smaller than
one inch to fifty feet (1" = 50'). At least eight (8) copies of the plan shall
be submitted. The plan shall show: (Ord. O-2018-6, 7-9-2018)
      1.   The topography of the site, when required by the Kane County
Engineer, represented by contours shown at no greater than two foot (2')
intervals;
      2.   A grading and drainage plan detailing geologic and flood hazards
shall be submitted to the Land Use Authority Administrator with the
application; (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
      3.   The proposed street and trailer, vehicle, or site space pad layout;
      4.   Any proposed reservations for parks, sites, playgrounds and open
spaces, and tabulations showing the percent of area to be devoted to parks,
sites, playgrounds and open space, the number of trailer spaces or site
locations and total area to be developed; (Ord. O-2018-6, 7-9-2018)
      5.   Any proposed location, number and design of parking spaces;
      6.   Detailed landscaping and utility plan, including location of sewer,
water, electricity, gas lines and fire hydrants. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff.
8-27-2013)
   B.   Upon receipt of the conditional use permit application and all other
required materials by the Land Use Authority Administrator and review by the
County Engineer, the Land Use Authority Administrator will place the
application on the Land Use Authority agenda for review and approval. Should
approval be denied, the applicant has thirty (30) days to appeal, in writing,
to the Kane County Commission.
      1.   Conditions and compliance requirements can be referenced in chapter
15, article A, "Conditional Uses", of this title.
      2.   Upon approval of conditional use permit application, applicant must
contact the Land Use Administrator to schedule a mandatory development meeting.
The Development Committee along with the Land Use Administrator will provide
information pertaining to required inspections and enforcement of conditions
and Code compliance. (Ord. O-2018-6, 7-9-2018)
CHAPTER 19
CONSTRUCTION SUBJECT TO GEOLOGIC, FLOOD, OR OTHER NATURAL HAZARDS
SECTION:
9-19-1: Requirements
9-19-1: REQUIREMENTS:
When the Kane County land use authority administrator, county engineer or the
building official deems it necessary, any application for a conditional use
permit, a planned unit development, subdivision, MPR, mobile home park, RV park
or a building or use permit shall be accompanied by a geologic and soils survey
report for the land, lot, or parcel for which application approval is sought.
The report shall be prepared at the applicant's expense by a registered or
licensed geologist, soils engineer or civil engineer and shall show the
suitability of soils on the property to accommodate the proposed construction,
and any discernible flood, earthquake, or other natural hazards. Refer to
chapter 21, "Subdivision Regulations", of this title for report and
certification requirements.
Whenever a geologic and soils survey report indicates a parcel subject to an
unusual potential or actual hazard, the applicant shall meet the special
conditions required by the Kane County engineer or building official, to
mitigate such hazard, or the application shall be denied. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-
2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
CHAPTER 20
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
PLEASE NOTE: AS OF FEBRUARY 22, 2022 KANE COUNTY WILL NO LONGER ACCEPT NEW LOTS
DESIGNATED WITH THE R-½ ZONE. THE R-½ ZONE REGULATIONS WILL REMAIN IN VARIOUS
PARTS OF THIS CHAPTER FOR ADMINISTRATIVE PURPOSES ONLY.
SECTION:
9-20-1: Purpose
9-20-2: Planned Unit Development Process
9-20-3: Rezone And Planned Unit Development Application Approval Process
9-20-4: Conceptual Development Plan
9-20-5: Conceptual Development Plan Requirements Checklist
9-20-6: Preliminary Plat Submittal Items
9-20-7: Plan Change Modifications
9-20-8: Residential - Single Lot Development Standards
9-20-9: Multi-Residential Development Standards
9-20-10: Review By Land Use Authority
9-20-11: Scope Of Land Use Authority Action
9-20-12: Construction Limitations
9-20-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   A "planned unit development" means an integrated plan for development
of residential, commercial, multi residential, or combinations of such uses, in
which one or more of the regulations, other than use regulations, is waived or
varied to allow flexibility and initiative, when planned and developed as a
unit. The overlay is to encourage the efficient use of land and resources,
greater efficiency in public and utility services, preservation of open space,
use of alternative transportation and innovation in the planning process for
all types of development. The PUD "overlay" allows variation from standard lot
configuration patterns in order to reduce disturbance of sensitive lands,
promote land use compatibility and facilitate creative site planning.
   B.   Intent: The overlay zone is to provide flexibility in site design in
order to:
      1.   Encourage imaginative design and the creation of permanent open
space.
      2.   Encourage affordable housing to be integrated in new developments.
      3.   Encourage the conservation of natural site features, wildlife
habitat, and sensitive lands.
      4.   Combine and coordinate architectural styles, building forms, and
structural/visual relationship within an environment that allows mixing of
residential types and other land uses in an innovative and functionally
efficient manner.
      5.   Encourage land development that, to the greatest extent possible,
preserves open space areas and respects natural topographic and geologic
conditions.
      6.   Encourage the development of street, pedestrian and bicycle paths
that contribute to a system of fully connected routes, local trails.
      7.   Promote a more efficient utilization of land than what might be
obtained through other development procedures (clustering).
      8.   Facilitate the economical and adequate provision of public services.
      9.   Provide for adequate on and off street parking.
      10.   Provide unique and unusual land uses to be planned for and located
in a manner that ensures harmony with the surrounding community.
      11.   Ensure that development occurs at proper locations, away from
environmentally sensitive areas. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd.
Ord. O-2022-41, 7-26-2022; Ord. O-2022-51, 10-25-2022)
9-20-2: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS:
   A.   Planned unit developments may be approved by the Kane County Land Use
Authority in PUD overlay zones. An application for a PUD overlay zone change to
develop property under the provisions of this article shall be filed for a zone
change on the standard PUD zone change form provided by the County. A Planned
Unit Development application shall be filed in conjunction with the zone change
application. The zones are Planned Unit Development Residential 1, 2, and 5,
Planned Unit Development Light Commercial, Commercial 1 and 2 and Planned Unit
Development Multi-Residential. The overall density shall coincide with the
density of the existing zone. At the time of the zone change application a
conceptual development site plan shall be submitted with the zone change
request. Compliance with the regulations of this title in no way excuses the
developer from the applicable requirements of the subdivision ordinance or the
Kane County Standard Specifications and Drawing Details for Design and
Construction; except as modifications thereof are specifically authorized in
the approval of the application for the planned unit development. No exceptions
shall be approved that are less restrictive than applicable State and local
ordinances or regulations. An applicant shall secure and follow the provisions
outlined in the Land Use Authority's procedures for a planned unit development.
   B.   All conceptual development plans shall go through a development
committee review prior to the review of the conceptual development plan by the
Planning Commission. The planning staff shall contact the Kane County land use
development committee and other affected agencies for review purposes. Staff
shall hold such meetings with the applicant as are deemed necessary for proper
review. (Ord. O-2018-1, 1-12-2018; amd. Ord. O-2022-41, 7-26-2022; Ord. O-2022-
51, 10-25-2022)
9-20-3: REZONE AND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   Application for a PUD Zone Change: Any person desiring to develop
property under the provisions of this article shall first file an application
for a PUD overlay zone change on the standard form provided by the County. A
Planned Unit Development application shall be filed in conjunction with the
zone change application.
   B.   Conceptual Development Plan: The zone change application shall include
a conceptual development plan, and supporting materials which describe the
proposed land uses, density and the proposal's relationship to the County's
general plan, as well as all requirements herein
9-20-4.
   C.   Public Hearing By Planning Commission, With Review And Recommendation:
The Planning Commission will schedule a public hearing to consider the proposed
zone change and shall review the conceptual development plan, supporting
materials and staff comments for compliance with applicable general plan
policies. The Planning Commission shall also make recommendations concerning
the PUD zone change request which will be forwarded to the Commissioners.
   D.   Public Meeting By Commissioner's: The County Commissioners will receive
the recommendations of the Planning Commission and schedule a public meeting
for official action on the zone change request. Published notice must be given
as set forth in this title prior to the meeting.
   E.   Decision Of County Commission: The Commission may approve, modify or
deny the zone change request.
   F.   Overlay Designation: The Planned Unit Development Overlay designation
shall be shown on the Official Zoning Map in parentheses as a prefix to the
zone designation with which it is combined. For example, if the Planned Unit
Development Overlay is being combined with the Residential R-1, R-2 or R-
5 zone, it would be designated on the Official Zoning Map as "PUD R-1, PUD R-
2 or PUD R-5". For commercial or multi-residential it will be "PUD M-R, PUD L-
C, PUD C-1, PUD C-2".
   G.   The assigned PUD zone will allow the permitted uses consistent in the
Residential, Multi- Residential and Commercial zones for the Planned Unit
Development Overlay with the appropriate permitted or conditional uses set
forth therein. Any conditional use shall be subject to the issuance of a
conditional use permit as set forth in this Title.
   H.   Multiple Family Dwellings: Multiple Family dwellings require the PUD MR
zoning, as defined in this Chapter. The overall density in a particular planned
unit development project shall not exceed the density permitted by the
underlying zone in which the project is situated.
   I.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses located in a common main building may be
permitted. Accessory uses may include recreational facilities and structures,
day care centers, personal services, and RV parking.
   J.   Commercial Uses: Any commercial use shown in Chapter 7 of this Title
may be permitted within a planned unit development provided such use is:
      1.   Specifically authorized after receiving a commercial zone change
approval and approved pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter;
      2.   Designed as an integral element of the planned unit development,
including building and landscaping design which is consistent with design
elements of the development.
   K.   Application for the development shall be filed by the sole owner or
jointly filed by all owners of the property.
   L.   Variations from Development Standards of an underlying zone in this
title may be approved as part of a Conceptual Development Plan for the Planned
Unit Development Overlay pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. A
variation from the setback requirements set forth in zones may be approved if
the County Commission, after receiving a recommendation from the Planning
Commission, finds such variation meets the approval criteria set forth. Any
such variation shall be explicitly noted in the Development Agreement.
Variations from the development standards set forth in this Chapter are
intended to be rare and shall be approved by the planning commission. The
applicant shall bear the burden of persuasion with regard to any request for a
variation. Such burden shall include, but not be limited to, demonstrating
that: A proposed project which includes a variation is the result of a
substantial amount of advance planning; Any adverse conditions which may result
from the variation will be mitigated; and the variation will result in a
substantial benefit not only to persons who will live or work within the
project, but also to the County and its residents generally.
   M.   Development Agreement: A Development Agreement shall be prepared and
approved in conjunction with approval of the Planned Unit Development Overlay
zoning and Conceptual Development Plan. The purpose of the Development
Agreement is to describe how the developer and the County will address items
not expressly addressed in this code.
   N.   Approval Criteria: The Planned Unit Development Overlay may only be
approved if the Commission, after receiving a recommendation from the Planning
Commission, finds that the proposed Planned Unit Development Overlay:
      1.   Does not conflict with any applicable policy of the Kane County
General Plan;
      2.   Meets the spirit and intent, as set forth in this Chapter;
      3.   Will allow integrated planning and design of the property;
      4.   Meets the use limitations and other requirements of the zone with
which the Planned Unit Development Overlay is combined;
      5.   The capability to start construction within one (1) year of final
plan approval.
   O.   Imposition of Conditions: In order to make findings necessary to
approve a Planned Unit Development Overlay, conditions of approval may be
imposed on a conceptual development site plan to assure the planned unit
development will:
      1.   Accomplish the purpose of this Chapter;
      2.   Be developed as one integrated land use rather than as an
aggregation of individual and unrelated buildings and uses; and
      3.   Meet the requirements of the zone in which the proposed development
is located except as such requirements are modified by this Chapter.
(Utah State Code 17-27a-503) (Ord. O-2022-41, 7-26-2022; amd. Ord. O-2022-51,
10-25-2022; Ord. O-2023-13, 11-28-2023; Ord. O-2025-13, 6-24-2025)
9-20-4: CONCEPTUAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN:
   A.   All requests shall be accompanied by a colored conceptual development
plan and written text for the entire property proposed to be developed.
   B.   Conceptual Development Plan, to include the following information:
      1.   Show general location of proposed land uses, including residential
areas, commercial areas and open space.
      2.   Include proposed locations for civic spaces such as churches,
schools, fire stations, etc.
      3.   Show adjoining properties and uses.
      4.   Include tables showing the number of acres in the proposed
development and a land use summary.
      5.   Show general locations of proposed interior collector and/or major
arterial streets, and points of connection to existing roads and how the
proposed project roads will integrate with County Ordinances.
      6.   Show typical proposed lot configuration, building clusters,
setbacks, road rights-of-way, and road cross-sections.
      7.   Include a phased development plan if applicable.
      8.   Development Agreement.
      9.   Parcel Map(s), from the County Recorder's office showing the subject
property and all property located within the minimum radius defined by
ordinance.
      10.   Traffic Impact Analysis, as determined by the County Engineer or
UDOT. (Ord. O-2022-41, 7-26-2022)
9-20-5: CONCEPTUAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIREMENTS CHECKLIST:
   A.   Dwelling unit and land use density. The density in terms of dwelling
units per gross acre of land shall be indicated;
   B.   Architectural drawings and sketches outlining the general design and
character of the proposed uses and the physical relationship of the uses. Where
feasible, lowest height and least density of buildings and uses shall be
arranged around the boundaries of the development;
   C.   Width, yard, height, and overall density and coverage regulations shall
be in accordance with the underlying zone;
   D.   Promote a clustering development pattern in the interest of preserving
rural character.
   E.   Twenty percent (20%) of the developable land within the PUD shall be
preserved as open space for the benefit of residents of the development and the
community.
   F.   Preservation, maintenance and ownership of required open spaces within
the development shall be accomplished by:
      1.   Dedication of the land as public park or parkway system in
perpetuity; or
      2.   Granting to the County Commission a permanent, open space easement
on and over the said private open spaces to guarantee that the open spaces
remain perpetually in recreational uses, with ownership and maintenance being
the responsibility of an owners' association established with articles of
association and bylaws which are satisfactory to the commission.
   G.   Complying with the provisions of the condominium ownership act 1, Utah
State Code 57-8, which provides for the payment of common expenses for the
upkeep of the common areas and facilities.
   H.   Landscaping, fencing and screening related to the several uses within
the site and as a means of integrating the proposed development into its
surroundings shall be planned and presented to the land use authority for
approval, together with other required plans for the development.
   I.   The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and the
intensity and direction of area floodlighting shall be detailed in the
application.
   J.   Topography at contour intervals of two feet (2') shall be submitted
unless waived by the planning staff.
   K.   Geotechnical Report: A geotechnical report identifying any possible
flood, slope, faulting, soils or other related hazards on the site shall be
submitted with the application.
   L.   Utilities Underground: All utilities shall be underground unless
otherwise approved by the Planning Commission. Transformer equipment shall be
screened from the streets and from adjacent properties. Contact local utility
companies to determine service requirements to the proposed project. Show
existing utility easements, proposed major utility easement corridors, points
of service to major land use areas, and points to outside service connections.
   M.   Refuse Storage Areas: Refuse storage areas shall be screened so that
materials stored within these areas shall not be visible from access streets,
freeways and adjacent properties. Storage or refuse areas shall not be located
within required building setbacks nor within utility easements.
   N.   Lighting Plan: The plans submitted shall include a general lighting
plan indicating location of lights to be installed on site in compliance with
9-10-14 of this title.
   O.   Turning Spaces: Safe and convenient turning space shall be provided for
cars, sewer vehicles, refuse collection vehicles, fire-fighting equipment,
etc., at the end of private drives and dead end streets.
   P.   Traffic Conditions: The effect of the development on traffic conditions
on abutting streets shall be shown.
   Q.   Layout: The layout of the site with respect to locations and dimensions
of vehicular and pedestrian entrances, exits, driveways and walkways.
   R.   Off Street Parking: The arrangement and adequacy of off street parking
facilities.
   S.   Improvements: Location, grades, widths, and type of all improvements
proposed for all streets.
   T.   Grading and Drainage: Show proposed general grading patterns, and
existing and proposed general drainage corridors. A Grading Permit is required.
   U.   Line Locations: A plan showing the location of all water, sewer and
drainage lines in and through the project.
   V.   Deed Restrictions/ Covenants (CC&Rs): Copies of any deed restrictions,
restrictive covenants, bylaws, architectural controls or other requirements
that may be appurtenant to the proposed development.
   W.   All feasibility letters as stated in 9-21D-2 M 1-8. (Ord. O-2022-41, 7-
26-2022)
9-20-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMITTAL ITEMS:
Preliminary plat shall be submitted after the Planned Unit Development
application is approved. See
9-21D-1  for all preliminary plat requirements and submission items. (Ord. O-
2022-41, 7-26-2022; amd. Ord. O-2022-51, 10-25-2022)
9-20-7: PLAN CHANGE MODIFICATIONS:
Changes Or Modifications: Any changes or modifications to the approved plan for
development during the period of construction shall first be re-submitted to
the planning staff for approval and if deemed significant and at the discretion
of the staff, returned to the Planning Commission for their review and
recommendations and to the County Commissioners. (Ord. O-2022-41, 7-26-2022)
9-20-8: RESIDENTIAL - SINGLE LOT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Building Coverage: The land coverage by all buildings shall not exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the net lot or parcel acreage.
   B.   Density: The density of a PUD residential - single lot development
shall conform to the density limitations of the underlying zone.
   C.   Setbacks: The setbacks for all Planned Unit Developments - Residential
will be as follows, unless an approved setback alternative plan is granted by
the Planning Commission and approved by the Commission:
      1.   Front Yard: Front yard setbacks shall be a minimum of twenty feet
(25'). The street side of corner lots, shall be the same as the front yard
setback.
      2.   Building, Parking Required: The front yard setback area shall not be
used for long term parking of any motor vehicles, or for required additional
visitor parking, except for the driveway directly in front of the garage or
carport of the dwelling unit.
      3.   Side Setbacks: Side yard setbacks on interior lot lines shall be a
minimum of five feet (5') on one side and five feet (5') on the opposite side
for all dwellings, with a minimum of ten feet (10') between homes. Side yard
setbacks on exterior lot lines (boundary lines) shall be a minimum of ten feet
(10').
      4.   Rear Setbacks: Rear yard setbacks shall be a minimum of five feet
(5').
   D.   Parking Requirements: The parking requirements of chapter 13 of this
title shall apply.
   E.   Height Restrictions: No building shall be erected to a height greater
than thirty five feet (35') unless specifically approved as part of the zone
change approval.
   F.   Landscape Requirement: Floodways and slopes that exceed a specific
percentage and/or have unsuitable soil conditions for hillside development, as
identified in
9-21J-3 (A), are not considered developable. Any land within a subdivision
having a slope greater than ten percent (10%) shall be deemed to be land having
a "steep slope". Developer shall not be permitted to grade, excavate, fill or
otherwise modify said land if slope is between ten (10) and forty percent (40%)
without first submitting a geological report for review and staff approval. In
no case may a structure be erected on land with a slope of forty percent (40%)
or greater. The applicant of the requested PUD Zone shall show what areas are
to be landscaped and what areas are to be left in a natural state. All proposed
structures, future structures, roads and parking areas are excluded from the
calculations used to satisfy this requirement.
   G.   Time Limitations: Building permits for construction within Planned Unit
Development Residential Zones must be obtained within eighteen (18) months of
the approval of a zone change to planned unit development - residential. If
eighteen (18) months elapse without the issuance of building permits for the
construction of the approved plans within the Planned Unit Development, all
conceptual and preliminary plan approvals shall be deemed null and void, unless
an extension is granted. The applicant shall request an extension on an
approved development plan prior to the expiration of the eighteen (18) month
time limit. In the case that an approved development plan does expire, the
zoning of the property shall remain planned unit development, but no
construction will be allowed on the property until a new plan is submitted and
approved by the Planning Commission and the Commission. (Ord. O-2022-41, 7-26-
2022)
9-20-9: MULTI-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Building Coverage: The land coverage by all buildings shall not exceed
thirty percent (30%) of the net lot or parcel acreage.
   B.   Minimum Lot Size: The minimum lot size in multi-residential
subdivisions with private individual building pads and associated common area
is one acre; provided, that at least twenty percent (20%) of the total project
is developed and maintained as common open landscape or recreation area.
   C.   Density: The density of a planned unit development multi-residential
shall conform to the density limitations of the general plan, except that the
County upon recommendation of the Planning Commission may approve a density
greater than the multi residential zone designation where the following
findings are made:
      1.   The proposed development is considered an infill development where
the surrounding land is already developed; and
      2.   The proposed dwellings are platted for individual ownership of the
dwelling units; and
      3.   The density and building scale of the proposed units are similar in
scale to an adjoining developed parcel or is considered in scale with the
surrounding area and fits harmoniously into the neighborhood, as determined by
the Planning Commission.
   D.   Setbacks: The setbacks for all planned unit developments - multi-
residential will be as follows, unless an approved setback alternative plan is
granted by the Planning Commission and approved by the County Commission:
      1.   Front Yard: Front yard setbacks shall be a minimum of twenty five
feet (25'). The street side of corner lots, shall be the same as the front yard
setback.
      2.   Building, Parking Required: The front yard setback area shall not be
used for long term parking of any motor vehicles, or for required additional
visitor parking, except for the driveway directly in front of the garage or
carport of the dwelling unit.
      3.   Side And Rear Setbacks: Side and rear setbacks on interior lot lines
shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') for all dwellings.
      4.    Group Dwellings: In group dwellings, no two (2) buildings may be
located closer together than ten feet (10') for one- story buildings, fifteen
feet (15') for two-story buildings, and twenty feet (20') for approved three-
story (or more) buildings.
      5.   Two-Story Buildings: For two-story (or more) buildings, the side and
rear setbacks shall be at least twenty five feet (25') along the boundary of a
Residential Zone, and twenty feet (20') along the boundary of other zones.
   E.   Parking Requirements: The parking requirements of chapter 13 of this
title shall apply.
   F.   Signs And Advertising: The requirements of chapter 16 of this title
shall apply, except that in large residential planned unit developments (those
containing more than two hundred (200) dwelling units), the Planning Commission
may approve an overall sign scheme for the project which may exceed the
restrictions contained in chapter 16 of this title.
   G.   Height Restrictions: No building shall be erected to a height greater
than thirty five feet (35') unless specifically approved as part of the zone
change approval.
   H.   Size Requirement: Each Planned Unit Development Zone shall contain a
minimum of one acre and thirty percent (30%) density.
   I.   Landscape Requirement: Floodways and slopes that exceed a specific
percentage and/or have unsuitable soil conditions for hillside development, as
identified in
9-21J-3 (A), are not considered developable. The applicant of the requested PUD
shall show what areas are to be landscaped and what areas are to be left in a
natural state. All proposed structures, future structures, roads and parking
areas are excluded from the calculations used to satisfy this requirement.
   J.   Time Limitations: Building permits for construction within Planned Unit
Development must be obtained within eighteen (18) months of the approval of a
zone change to planned unit development - multi-residential. If eighteen (18)
months elapse without the issuance of building permits for the construction of
the approved plans within the Planned Unit Development Zone, all conceptual and
preliminary plan approvals shall be deemed null and void, unless an extension
is granted. The applicant shall request an extension on an approved development
plan prior to the expiration of the eighteen (18) month time limit. The County
Commission may approve a six (6) month extension on an approved development
plan. In the case that a second six (6) month extension is needed, the
applicant shall request a second extension on the approved development plan
prior to the expiration of the first six (6) month extension time limit. The
County Commission will approve or deny the requested second extension on the
development plan. In the case that an approved development plan does expire,
the zoning of the property shall remain planned unit development, but no
construction will be allowed on the property until a new plan is submitted and
approved by the Planning Commission and the County Commission. (Ord. O-2022-41,
7-26-2022; amd. Ord. O-2023-13, 11-28-2023)
9-20-10: REVIEW BY LAND USE AUTHORITY:
In order that it may approve a planned unit development, the land use authority
shall have authority to require the following conditions be met by the
applicant:
   A.   All submittal items for a Planned Unit Development are submitted at the
time of the Planned Unit Development Application as required per Chapter 20 and
Chapter 21.
   B.   That the proponents of the planned unit development have demonstrated
to the satisfaction of the land use authority that they are financially able to
carry out the proposed project, as regulated in 9-21-1.
   C.   That the proponents intend to start construction within twelve (12)
months of the approval of the project, and intend to complete the construction,
or approved phase thereof, within two (2) years from the date construction
begins. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. O-2022-41, 7-26-
2022)
9-20-11: SCOPE OF LAND USE AUTHORITY ACTION:
In carrying out the intent of this chapter the land use authority shall
consider the following principles:
   A.   A certified surveyor or engineer licensed in the state shall be used to
survey all properties for the planned unit development.
   B.   The land use authority may approve or disapprove an application for a
planned unit development. In an approval, the land use authority may attach
such conditions as it may deem necessary to secure compliance with this
section. The denial of an application for a planned unit development by the
land use authority may be appealed to the appeal authority. Appeal must be
filed within thirty (30) days of receipt of written reason for denial.
   C.   Filing Of Plan And Materials: The conceptual development plan and
supplementary text materials, after adoption, shall be filed in the offices of
the County Recorder, and all development within the zone shall comply
therewith, unless the development plan and supplementary materials are amended
as prescribed herein.
   D.   Final Subdivision Plat: A final subdivision plat as described in the
Subdivision Ordinance in effect at the time of application shall be submitted
for a recommendation of approval or disapproval to the Planning Commission, who
shall forward their recommendation to the County Commission for final plat
approval as outlined elsewhere in this title. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-
27-2013; amd. Ord. O-2022-41, 7-26-2022)
9-20-12: CONSTRUCTION LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Upon approval of a planned unit development, construction shall proceed
only in accordance with the plans and specifications approved by the land use
authority and in conformity with any conditions attached by the county
commission to its approval.
   B.   Amendments to approved plans and specifications for a planned unit
development shall be obtained only by following procedures for a planned unit
development.
   C.   No permit shall be issued for any proposed building, structure or use
within the project unless such building, structure or use is in accordance with
the approved development plan and with any conditions imposed in conjunction
with its approval. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. O-2022-
41, 7-26-2022)
CHAPTER 21
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-21A-1: Purpose
9-21A-2: Scope
9-21A-3: Effect On Previous Ordinance
9-21A-4: Exceptions
9-21A-5: Definitions
9-21A-6: Penalties
9-21A-7: Validity
9-21A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is:
   A.   To promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of
Kane County.
   B.   To promote the efficient and orderly growth of Kane County.
   C.   To provide policies, procedures, requirements and standards for the
physical development of subdivisions of land, construction of buildings, and
improvements within Kane County including, but not limited to, the construction
and installation of roads, streets, curbs, gutters, drainage systems, water and
sewer systems, design standards for public facilities and utilities, accesses
to public rights of way, dedication of land and streets, the granting of
easements or rights of way, and to establish fees and other charges for the
authorizing of a subdivision. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
9-21A-2: SCOPE:
   A.   This chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a
subdivision created and recorded prior to November 16, 1982, except as provided
in this section.
   B.   No lot within a subdivision created and recorded prior to November 16,
1982, or approved by the Kane County land use authority and the Kane County
commission and recorded in the office of the Kane County recorder under the
provisions of this chapter, shall be further divided, rearranged or reduced in
area, except as provided in this chapter. The boundaries of any lot shall not
be altered in any manner, so as to create more lots than initially recorded, or
any nonconforming lot, without first obtaining the approval of the
administrative land use authority as provided in this chapter.
   C.   No amendment to this chapter that imposes a greater burden or
obligation than existed immediately prior to such amendment shall affect a
subdivision created prior to the effective date of the amendment.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person, builder or developer to receive a
building permit until all improvements, as specified in the development
agreement and construction documents have been installed and accepted in
writing by the Kane County engineer. Improvements shall include, but are not
limited to: roads, water, fire suppression water, power, septic/sewer, drainage
system, and perimeter fencing requirements. Owner and/or owner's agent, prior
to sale of any portion of an approved subdivision, will advise the prospective
buyer/builder that building permits will not be issued until all improvements
have been completed. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-
2015-12, 7-27-2015, eff. 8-11-2015; Ord. O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
9-21A-3: EFFECT ON PREVIOUS ORDINANCE:
The existing subdivision ordinance of Kane County, Utah, is hereby superseded
and amended to read as set forth herein; provided however, that this chapter
shall be deemed a continuation of the previous ordinance, and not a new
enactment, insofar as the substance of revisions of the previous ordinance is
included, whether in the same or in different language. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-
2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
9-21A-4: EXCEPTIONS:
Where unusual topographic or other exceptional conditions exist, the Kane
County Administrative land use authority may allow an applicant to vary from
the requirements of this chapter provided that such variances shall not
substantially impair the intent of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff.
11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
9-21A-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context requires otherwise, the following definitions shall be used
in the interpretation and construction of this chapter. Words used in present
tense include the future; singular numbers shall include the plural, and the
plural the singular; the word "building" shall include the word "structure";
the words "used" or "occupied" shall include arranged, designed, constructed,
altered, converted, rented, leased or intended to be used or occupied; the word
"shall" is mandatory and not directory, and the word "may" is permissive; the
word "person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust,
company or corporation, as well as an individual; the word "lot" includes plot
and parcel. Words used in this chapter but not defined herein shall have the
meaning as defined in any other ordinance adopted by the Kane County
commission.
ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE AUTHORITY: The administrative land use authority in
Kane County, Utah is the land use administrator.
AGRICULTURAL USE, LAND IN AGRICULTURAL USE: Land devoted to the raising of
useful plants and animals with a reasonable expectation of profit.
BEGINNING OF CONSTRUCTION: Grading or removal of any vegetation or earth from a
site for construction of access routes or preparation for excavation of
building pads or footings.
BONA FIDE DIVISION OR PARTITION OF AGRICULTURAL LAND FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES:
Refer to article N of this chapter.
BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: An agreement between adjoining property owners to relocate
a common boundary that results in a conveyance of property between the
adjoining lots, adjoining parcels, or adjoining lots and parcels.
BOUNDARY ESTABLISHMENT: An agreement between adjoining property owners to
clarify the location of an ambiguous, uncertain, or disputed common boundary.
CAMPGROUND: A parcel designated and approved by the county for occupancy by
tents, trailers, motor homes or campers on a temporary basis.
CONVEYANCE DOCUMENT: An instrument that:
   A.   Meets the definition of "document" in Utah Code, Section 57-1-1; and
   B.   Meets the requirements of Utah Code, Section 57-1-45.5.
COVENANTS, CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS: Limits and rules placed on a group of
homes by a builder, developer, neighborhood association or homeowners'
association. These restrictions will be enforced by the homeowners' association
and not the county.
DESIGN STANDARDS OR CONSTRUCTION DESIGN STANDARDS: The regulations, guidelines
and standards that apply to the construction and maintenance of subdivision
improvements including, but not limited to roads, utility infrastructure, and
other improvements.
ESTABLISHMENT DOCUMENT: An instrument that:
   A.   Meets the definition of "document" in Utah Code, Section 57-1-1; and
   B.   Meets the requirements of Utah Code, Section 57-1-45.
FRONTAGE, BLOCK: All property fronting on one side of the street between
intersecting or intercepting streets or between a street and right of way,
waterway, end of dead end street, or political subdivision boundaries, measured
along the street line. An intercepting street shall determine only one boundary
of the frontage on the side of the street which it intersects.
FRONTAGE, LOT: The linear measurement of the front lot line.
FULL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: A boundary adjustment that is not a simple boundary
adjustment.
GENERAL PLAN: A long range policy plan prepared and adopted by the Kane County
commission to guide county growth.
GRADE:
   Commercial: On graded sites, the top of any exterior foundation shall extend
above the elevation of the street gutter at point of discharge or the inlet of
an approved drainage device a minimum of twelve inches (12") plus two percent
(2%). Alternate elevations are permitted subject to the approval of the Kane
County building inspector, provided it can be demonstrated that required
drainage to the point of discharge and away from the structure is provided at
all locations on the site.
   Residential: Surface drainage shall be diverted to a storm sewer conveyance
or other approved point of collection so as to not create a hazard. Lots shall
be graded so as to drain surface water away from foundation walls. The grade
away from foundation walls shall fall a minimum of six inches (6") within the
first ten feet (10').
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION (HOA): A legal organization of property owners within a
subdivision, planned community condominium or other grouping of homes and/or
property that makes and enforces rules for the properties within the
association. The county will not enforce homeowners' association rules. The HOA
will be in charge of enforcing all HOA rules. Kane County will only enforce
applicable state and local laws and ordinances.
IRRIGATED LAND: Parcels that have surface or underground water diverted
continuously or intermittently upon them for the production of crops or
pasture, through the utilization of manmade improvements.
LOT: A tract of land, regardless of any label, that is created by and shown on
a subdivision plat that has been recorded in the office of the county recorder.
OFF SITE FACILITIES: Improvements not on individual lots but generally within
the boundaries of the subdivision which they serve.
OFFICIAL MAP: The official map or maps adopted by Kane County pursuant to the
county zoning and planning enabling legislation.
ON SITE FACILITIES: Construction or placement of the dwelling and its
appurtenant improvements on a lot.
PARCEL OF LAND: Any real property that is not a lot and is contiguous land
owned by and recorded as the property of a person. Land in one ownership but
physically divided by a public highway, road or street is considered contiguous
under this definition.
PERSON: A firm, association, organization, partnership, company, corporation or
any legal entity entitled to own property as well as an individual.
PLAT: An instrument subdividing property into lots as depicted on a map or
other graphical representation of lands that a licensed professional land
surveyor makes and prepares in accordance with Utah Code, Sections 17-27a-603
or 57-8-13.
PLOT PLAN: Plat of a lot, drawn to scale, showing such information as may be
required by the Kane County land use authority.
PROTECTION STRIP: A strip of land between the boundary of a subdivision and
street within the subdivision, for the purpose of controlling the access to the
street by property owners abutting the subdivision.
RECORD OF SURVEY MAP: A map of a survey of land prepared in accordance with
Utah Code, Section 17-23-17.
SHAPE FILES: A GIS shape file is a file format used for storing geographic
information data in GIS computer programs and databases, such as ArcGIS and
ArcCatalog. The file extension for shape files is ".shp".
SIMPLE BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: A boundary adjustment that does not:
   A.   Affect a public right-of-way, municipal utility easement, or other
public property;
   B.   Affect an existing easement, onsite wastewater system, or an internal
lot restriction; or
   C.   Result in a lot or parcel out of conformity with land use regulations.
STREETS:
   A.   Street: A thoroughfare which has been dedicated and accepted by the
county, which the county has acquired by prescriptive right or which the county
owns, or offered for dedication on an approved final plat, or a thoroughfare of
at least twenty eight feet (28') in width which has been abandoned or made
public by right of use and which affords access to abutting property, including
highways, roads, lanes, avenues and boulevards.
   B.   Street, Major: A street, existing or proposed, which serves or is
intended to serve as a major trafficway and is designated on the master street
plan as a controlled access highway, major street, parkway or other equivalent
term to identify those streets comprising the basic structure of the street
plan.
   C.   Street, Collector: A street, existing or proposed, which is the main
means of access to the major street system.
   D.   Street, Minor: A street, existing or proposed, which is supplementary
to a collector street and of limited continuity which serves or is intended to
serve the local needs of a neighborhood.
   E.   Street, Marginal Access: A minor street which is parallel to and
adjacent to a limited access major street and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
   F.   Street, Private: A thoroughfare within a subdivision which has been
reserved by dedication unto the subdivider or lot owners to be used as private
access to serve the lots platted within the subdivision and complying with the
adopted street cross section standards of Kane County and maintained by the
subdivider or other private agency.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person, developer, firm, corporation, partnership or
association who causes land to be divided into a subdivision for himself or
others.
SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be divided
into two (2) or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other divisions of
land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions.
   A.   Subdivision includes the division or development of land whether by
deed, survey, metes and bounds description, devise of testacy, lease, map,
plat, or other recorded instrument.
   B.   Subdivision does not include:
      1.   A bona fide division or partition of land used for agricultural
purposes;
      2.   A recorded conveyance document:
         a.   Consolidating multiple lots or parcels into one legal description
encompassing all lots by reference to a recorded plat and all parcels by metes
and bounds description; or
         b.   Joining a lot to a parcel;
      3.   A boundary adjustment;
      4.   A boundary establishment;
      5.   A road, street, or highway dedication plat;
      6.   A deed or easement for a road, street, or highway purpose; or
      7.   Any other division of land authorized by law.
      8.   A recorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising the
legal description of more than one contiguous parcel of property into one (1)
legal description encompassing all such parcels of property; or
      9.   A bona fide division or partition of land for the purpose of siting,
on one (1) or more of the resulting separate parcels:
         a.   An unmanned facility appurtenant to pipeline owned or operated by
a gas corporation, interstate pipeline company, intrastate pipeline company; or
         b.   An unmanned telecommunication, microwave, fiber optic electrical,
or other utility service regeneration, transformation, retransmission, or
amplification facility.
   C.   The joining of a subdivided parcel of property to another parcel of
property that has not been subdivided, if the joinder does not violate
applicable land use ordinances.
SUBDIVISION AMENDMENT:
   A.   An amendment to a recorded subdivision in accordance with Section 17-
27a-608 that:
      1.   Vacates all or a portion of the subdivision;
      2.   Increases the number of lots within the subdivision;
      3.   Alters a public right-of-way, a public easement, or public
infrastructure within the subdivision; or
      4.   Alters a common area or other common amenity within the subdivision.
   B.   Subdivision Amendment does not include a lot line or simple boundary
adjustment,
VICINITY PLAN: A map or drawing to scale showing the physical relationship of
the proposed development to existing or proposed streets, buildings and
utilities; other relevant information such as special terrain or surface
drainage; and existing zoning classification of all land within three hundred
feet (300') of the property proposed for development.
WATER SYSTEM, NONPUBLIC: Any potable water system that is subject to the rules
of the Southwest Utah public health department, which is any potable water
system that serves less than fifteen (15) lots or less than twenty five (25)
people.
WATER SYSTEM, PUBLIC: Any potable water system that is subject to the rules of
the Utah department of environmental quality, which is any potable water system
that serves fifteen (15) or more lots of an average of twenty five (25) or more
people at least sixty (60) days per year.
ZONE CLEARANCE: Assurance by the land use authority that a proposed activity is
in compliance with existing zoning regulations. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff.
11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2015-12, 7-27-2015, eff. 8-11-2015; Ord. O-2024-14, 11-
12-2024; Ord. O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025; Ord. O-2025-10, 4-22-2025)
9-21A-6: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, organization, corporation, or other entity, whether as
owner, occupant, agent, real estate agent, or employee, who causes, permits or
otherwise participates in any violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a class B misdemeanor upon conviction, punishable by a fine,
imprisonment, or both, as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction. In
addition, the provisions of this chapter may also be enforced by injunction,
mandamus, abatement, merger of title, civil penalty, or any other remedy
provided by law.
   B.   Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful under this title, every
person who causes, solicits, requests, commands, encourages, aids, or abets
such act or omission, which constitutes an offense, shall be criminal and
civilly liable as a party for such act or omission.
   C.   Each day that a violation exists may be charged as a separate
violation.
   D.   Any one, all, or any combination of penalties and remedies set forth
herein may be used to enforce the provisions of the subdivision ordinance.
   E.   Kane County may withhold building permits and all other permits related
to a violation of this chapter, until all violations are resolved.
   F.   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, the civil penalties for any
violation of this chapter shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per day per offense
beginning on the ninetieth day after written notification of the violation from
Kane County is sent, up to a maximum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
   G.   The following are violations of the subdivision ordinance, in addition
to other acts or omissions that would constitute a violation:
      1.   Subdividing or resubdividing any land, parcel, or lot into two (2)
or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or other divisions of land, by
execution of deed to oneself or another person, by recordation of deed, by
gifting, or any other form of subdividing, without complying with the
requirements of the subdivision ordinance.
      2.   Selling, gifting, or transferring a parcel or lot, which parcel or
lot was subdivided without complying with the requirements of the subdivision
ordinance, whether the selling party is the original party responsible for the
subdivision or not. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
   H.   For property owners of any land that is currently divided improperly or
illegally, the owner, their agent or assign shall be authorized to sell, gift
or otherwise transfer the property regardless of any other section or
subsection of this title, and will not be subject to criminal or civil action
under this title, if they first receive a signed "authorization to transfer"
from the land use administrator. Upon application by the landowner(s), the land
use administrator may issue an "authorization to transfer" if the landowner is
not the person or entity that improperly or illegally divided the property
contained within the application, and the improper or illegal subdivision
occurred prior to January 1, 2005. A signed "authorization to transfer" may be
recorded and if recorded shall automatically transfer to any subsequent owner
(s) of the property. However, if after obtaining a signed "authorization to
transfer" any current or subsequent owner of the property further subdivides,
or otherwise alters the size and/or shape of the property in violation of state
or county law or ordinance, the "authorization to transfer" shall become
immediately null and void. (Ord. O-2015-12, 7-27-2015, eff. 8-11-2015)
9-21A-7: VALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be invalid, such holding shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portion of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-
2013)
ARTICLE B. SUBDIVISION CREATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-21B-1: Subdivision Creation
9-21B-2: Enforcement
9-21B-3: Infrastructure Inspections
9-21B-4: Building Permits
9-21B-1: SUBDIVISION CREATION:
   A.   No subdivision shall be created and no lot or parcel shall be
subdivided without:
      1.   Submitting an application to the Administrative Land Use Authority
for the subdivision, and
      2.   Preparing, submitting, and receiving final approval of a plat in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter, and
      3.   Otherwise complying with each article of this chapter, unless a
specific exception exists.
   B.   No subdivision plat may be filed or recorded in the County Recorder's
Office without first complying with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   No lot, parcel, or any division of land may be:
      1.   Sold,
      2.   Offered for sale,
      3.   Deeded, gifted,
      4.   Conveyed, or
      5.   Transferred using any other method; without first complying with the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   No deed of any lot or parcel resulting from a subdivision of land that
is not in compliance with this chapter may be executed or recorded in the
County Recorder's Office without first complying with the provisions of this
chapter.
   E.   Recording alone of any document in the County Recorder's Office does
not constitute compliance with this chapter.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to imply that the County
Recorder is in violation of this chapter by recording any document that is
presented for recording. (Ord. O-2016-4, 10-15-2018; amd. Ord. O-2025-03, 2-25-
2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
9-21B-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The following County officers and officials shall have the authority to enforce
this chapter:
   A.   Subdivision ordinance procedure compliance: Kane County Land Use
Authority Administrator.
   B.   Infrastructure: Kane County Engineer and/or Land Use Authority
Administrator.
   C.   Buildings and structures: Kane County building official.
   D.   Wildland urban interface compliance: Kane County building official and/
or Kane County Fire Marshal.
   E.   Other civil violations: Kane County Land Use Authority Administrator
and/or Kane County Sheriff. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
   F.   Criminal violations: Kane County Sheriff and/or Kane County Attorney.
(Ord. O-2015-12, 7-27-2015, eff. 8-11-2015)
9-21B-3: INFRASTRUCTURE INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Preconstruction Conference: Prior to starting any infrastructure
construction, a preconstruction conference will be held. Attendees shall be:
owner/developer, design engineer, utility companies, underground utility
subcontractors, earthwork subcontractor, paving contractor, County Engineer and
other appropriate parties. Items to be discussed shall include: schedule,
inspection procedure, reports, compliance with “Kane County Construction Design
Standards.”
   B.   Inspection: The Kane County Engineer or his/her designated
representative shall be charged with inspecting, in the course of construction,
installation or repair, all culinary water lines, fire suppression lines, sewer
lines and their excavations. If any such installation is covered before being
inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered, at the contractor's expense, and
inspected. Copies of all water, culinary and fire suppression lines pressure
test reports as well as sewer line pressure test reports will be sent to the
Kane County Land Use Authority Administrator's Office within five (5) working
days of the test(s) being performed.
   C.   Inspection Fees: Inspection fees will be paid at time of
preconstruction conference. Inspection fees will be as shown on subdivision/PUD
application. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2025-03, 2-
25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
9-21B-4: BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   No building permit shall be issued for the construction or alteration
of any building or structure on any parcel of land which has been subdivided in
violation of this chapter.
   B.   No building permit shall be issued for the construction or alteration
of any residential or commercial building or structure within a subdivision or
planned unit development until the infrastructure is completed and approved by
the Kane County Engineer, as outlined in this article, unless the following
conditions are met:
      1.   The property on which the building will be located is owned by the
developer and that it cannot be transferred or reservations taken on the
property until the infrastructure is completed and approved by the Kane County
Engineer.
      2.   The Preliminary Plat and Construction Plans shall be approved by the
Administrative Land Use Authority and Kane County Engineer, respectively.
      3.   The developer shall provide financial assurance, in accordance with
article I of this chapter, prior to issuance of the building permit for two (2)
homes only. The financial assurance shall be maintained until the
infrastructure is completed and approved by the Kane County Engineer. If a home
is constructed prior to final infrastructure approval no amount of the
financial security may be released until all infrastructure has been approved.
      4.   The developer provides a "hold harmless" agreement, acceptable by
Kane County, that the developer takes all liability in connection with the
building of two (2) homes which may not be used or occupied for any reason
prior to the completion and approval of the infrastructure and the developer
shall: a) not seek to obtain a certificate of occupancy until the
infrastructure is completed and approved by the Kane County Engineer; b) not
sell, transfer or take a reservation on the property until the infrastructure
is completed and approved by the Kane County Engineer; and c) will not hold
Kane County liable for any costs or damages resulting in connection with the
developer starting construction on the building regardless of the final outcome
of the overall project. The Kane County Land Use Administrator and County
Engineer have the authority to hold off signing a building permit if they have
concerns for public safety or the safety of Kane County employees or equipment.
If there are safety concerns Kane County staff must release a report to the
developer stating the reasons why the permit cannot be obtained at the time of
the request.
   C.   No building permit shall be granted for the construction or alteration
of any residential or commercial building or structure on any parcel of land
unless:
      1.   The parcel, notwithstanding previous approval for division under the
subdivision ordinance, has a recorded means of access of at least twenty eight
feet (28') in width (this section shall not be interpreted to reduce any right-
of-way width requirement set forth in any other section of the land use or
subdivision ordinance);
      2.   The parcel and proposed improvements comply with all other
provisions of the Kane County land use and subdivision ordinances;
      3.   The applicant acknowledges that the access to the parcel will not be
maintained by Kane County unless the access has been dedicated to, and accepted
by, Kane County;
      4.   The applicant acknowledges that no fire protection is provided or
guaranteed by Kane County. (Ord. O-2017, 7-17-2017; amd. Ord. O-2016-4, 10-15-
2018; Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
ARTICLE C. DEVELOPMENT MEETING
SECTION:
9-21C-1: Purpose
9-21C-2: Presentation Requirements
9-21C-3: Review Committee
9-21C-4: Review Scheduling
9-21C-1: PURPOSE:
Development meetings are designed to provide the developer/subdivider an
informal review of the proposed project prior to filing an application for
preliminary plat. The review is normally conducted by the review committee
comprised of the Kane County land use authority administrator, Kane County
engineer, transportation department, Kane County building official, Kane County
attorney and anyone else deemed necessary. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-
19-2013)
9-21C-2: PRESENTATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Developer/subdivider shall provide the following:
      1.   Plat map showing location of property;
      2.   Proposed layout of the project, including number of lots, roads,
acreage, easements and access;
      3.   Current property zoning;
      4.   Water and power availability;
      5.   Type of sanitary waste system to be used;
      6.   Brief description of area surrounding the proposed project:
         a.   Subdivisions;
         b.   BLM, forest service, private, state;
      7.   Location of existing county and/or state roads in relation to
proposed project. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
9-21C-3: REVIEW COMMITTEE:
   A.   Will respond to developer/subdivider's questions and provide guidance
concerning the project's compliance or noncompliance with current Kane County
general plan, land use and subdivision ordinances.
   B.   Will advise developer/subdivider if project is ready to proceed to
preliminary plat phase. If project is not ready to proceed, additional
development meeting(s) can be scheduled. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-
2013)
9-21C-4: REVIEW SCHEDULING:
Development meeting reviews to be scheduled through the Kane County land use
authority administrator. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
ARTICLE D. PRELIMINARY PLAT
SECTION:
9-21D-1: General Requirements
9-21D-2: Required General Submission Items; Administrative
9-21D-3: Additional Requirements
9-21D-4: Review Procedure
9-21D-5: Administrative Land Use Authority Approval
9-21D-6: Site Construction
9-21D-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Copies of all required materials for preliminary plat review shall be submitted
to the Kane County Land Use Authority Administrator by the developer/subdivider
or their authorized representative. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013;
amd. Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21D-2: REQUIRED GENERAL SUBMISSION ITEMS; ADMINISTRATIVE:
The following must be submitted with the application for a preliminary plat
approval:
   A.   Drawings that comply with Utah Code 17-23-17 and as set forth in
Section
9-21D-3.
   B.   One (1) 24" X 36" and two (2) 11" X 17" Copies of Preliminary Plat.
   C.   Digital copy of Preliminary Plat.
   D.   One (1) copy of on-lot disposal report.
   E.   Kane County/Developer Agreement.
   F.   Application for PUD Subdivision.
   G.   Location and vicinity map.
   H.   Conceptual Site Plat as further described in Section
9-21D-3.
   I.   Draft Development Agreement (as applicable).
   J.   Soils maps and reports.
   K.   Statement of taxes due.
   L.   Lender's Consent.
   M.   Signed proposed deed restrictions.
   N.   Summary statement proposal as further described in Section
9-21D-3.
   O.   Letters of feasibility as further described in Section
9-21D-3.
   P.   Affidavit that applicant is the owner or holds power of attorney, to
make application for the land proposed to be subdivided.
   Q.   Articles of Incorporation (LLC, Partnership or Corp.).
   R.   Title Report.
   S.   Engineer's Cost Estimate.
   T.   Electronic Version of plat (PDF). (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-
2013; amd. Ord. O-2016-4, 10-15-2018; Ord. O-2018-2, 4-9-2018; Ord. O-2024-14,
11-12-2024)
9-21D-3: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Drawing Requirements: Drawings submitted with the preliminary plat
application shall include the following information, data, or features:
      1.   Area map showing area + ½ mile.
      2.   Traverse map of subdivision.
      3.   Lot and street layout.
      4.   Dimensions of all lots.
      5.   Total acreage and legal description.
      6.   Lots numbered consecutively- include PUD zoning label.
      7.   Locations and names of existing and proposed easements.
      8.   Existing and proposed street names.
      9.   Drainage direction for existing and proposed streets.
      10.   Drawn to scale not less than one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50'),
indicate the basis of bearings, true north point, name of subdivision, name of
county, township, range, section and quarter section, block and lot number of
the proposed subdivision, keyed to USGS survey monuments.
      11.   All fence lines.   
      12.   Heavily-wooded areas located.
      13.   Site to be reserved or dedicated for open space.
      14.   Dedicated public space.
      15.   Signature blocks.
   B.   Overall Site Plan Requirements: The site plan submitted with the
preliminary plat application shall contain the following information, data, or
features:
      1.   Future street layout for area not being subdivided.
      2.   Water courses and proposed drainage systems.
      3.   One hundred (100) year flood boundaries.
      4.   Existing buildings, easements or utilities within two hundred (200)
feet.
      5.   Location and size of proposed utilities.
      6.   Any other covenants, easements or restrictions.
      7.   Location and spacing of proposed fire hydrants.
      8.   Location of postal cluster box.
   C.   Summary Statement Proposal: The summary statement proposal submitted
with the preliminary plat application shall contain the following:
      1.   Total development area.
      2.   Number of proposed dwelling units.
      3.   Number of proposed multi-residential units.
      4.   Total number of square feet in non-residential floor space.
      5.   Amount of water per lot.
      6.   Estimated gallons per day of sewage.
      7.   Survey notes of perimeter survey.
   D.   Letters Of Feasibility: As applicable, the preliminary plat application
must include letters of feasibility or will-serve letters from the following
entities or utility providers:
      1.   Water System SWPHD or UDEQ and a water provider.
      2.   Sewage Treatment from SWPHD or UDEQ and a sewage provider.
      3.   Telephone.
      4.   Electrical.
      5.   Solid waste disposal.
      6.   Access requirements from UDOT or Kane County.
      7.   Addressing and Roads - Kane County GIS.
      8.   Postmaster.
      9.   Others (as determined by the Land Use Administrator). (Ord. 2013-10,
11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21D-4: REVIEW PROCEDURE:
The preliminary plat application and all documentation will be reviewed by the
Land Use Authority Administrator to determine if the application is complete.
The Land Use Authority Administrator will then comply with the requirements of
Utah Code 17-27a-509.5 to inform an applicant of an incomplete application or
to process the completed application. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-
2013; amd. Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21D-5: ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE AUTHORITY APPROVAL:
   A.   The Kane County Administrative Land Use Authority shall review all
completed applications for preliminary plat approval in accordance with the
standards and criteria specified in this chapter and all other ordinances and
laws of Kane County and the State of Utah.
   B.   In the event that the Kane County Administrative Land Use Authority
denies a preliminary plat, it shall state, in writing, within thirty (30) days
to the developer/subdivider the reason for disapproval via certified mail,
return receipt requested.
   C.   As applicable, the Administrative Land Use Authority may approve,
approve with conditions, or deny the application. (Ord. O-2016-4, 10-15-2018;
amd. Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21D-6: SITE CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   No infrastructure site work may be started, even with preliminary plat
approval, until construction drawings are submitted and approved by the Kane
County Engineer.
   B.   Failure to comply will be punishable as a Class B misdemeanor with a
one hundred dollar ($100.00) per day fine until situation is rectified. (Ord.
2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
ARTICLE E. FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
9-21E-1: General
9-21E-2: Phased Subdivision And Planned Unit Developments
9-21E-3: Acceptance Of Streets And Other Public Land Dedication
9-21E-4: Required General Submission Items
9-21E-5: Administrative Land Use Authority Review
9-21E-6: County Commission Review
9-21E-7: Final Plat Recording
9-21E-8: Final Plat Distribution
9-21E-9: Vacating Or Amending A Subdivision Or Planned Unit Development Plat
9-21E-10: Final Plat Approval Procedure
9-21E-1: GENERAL:
   A.   A final plat may be submitted once all provisions of article D,
"Preliminary Plat", of this chapter have been met. The final plat of the
subdivision or planned unit development may encompass all or part (see phased
development) of the preliminary plat. The final plat shall be presented to the
Kane County Administrative land use authority for review within one year after
preliminary plat approval, otherwise preliminary plat approval shall be
withdrawn and reapplication will be required.
   B.   The submitted final plat shall conform in all major respects to the
preliminary plat as previously approved and/or modified by the Kane County
Administrative land use authority.
   C.   The developer/subdivider has a maximum of two (2) years from date of
recording of final plat to complete the infrastructure as described in the
development agreement. If the developer/subdivider has not completed the
infrastructure after two (2) years, Kane County may make claim to whichever
form of surety that has been provided in order to complete the infrastructure.
(Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21E-2: PHASED SUBDIVISION AND PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
   A.   The final platting of subdivisions and planned unit developments can be
done in phases.
   B.   When the infrastructure is one hundred percent (100%) complete and
operable and approved by the Kane County engineer within the phase in progress,
the developer/subdivider may submit the next phase of the development in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff.
11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21E-3: ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC LAND DEDICATION:
Acceptance of dedication of proposed public lands or street right of way in an
approved plat can be made only by the Kane County commissioners. Plat approval
will be deemed as acceptance of dedication unless streets and other public
spaces are shown as "not intended for dedication". (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013,
eff. 11-19-2013)
9-21E-4: REQUIRED GENERAL SUBMISSION ITEMS:
   A.   Administrative:
      1.   Mylar copy of approved final plat (for signatures);
      2.   One (1) copy of approved and signed final plat;
      3.   One (1) copy of approved construction drawings and documents;
      4.   Stormwater pollution prevention plan;
      5.   One (1) copy of executed development agreement;
      6.   One copy CC&Rs;
      7.   Payment and performance bond, escrow deposit or letter of credit.
   B.   Drawing requirements:
      1.   Boundary bearings and distances data outside boundary;
      2.   Lots numbered consecutively;
         a.   All lot zones must be marked clearly on each numbered lot;
      3.   Curve data: radius, angle, long chord, bearings and distance,
length;
      4.   Excluded parcels marked as such;
      5.   All streets to be named;
      6.   Bearings and distances of all streets;
      7.   Parcels not included marked NAPOTS;
      8.   Adjacent streets shown and dimensioned;
      9.   Adjacent fences shown;
      10.   All easements to be labeled and dimensioned;
      11.   All land with boundaries to be accounted for;
      12.   All dimensions to be to 0.01' and 0'000'00;
      13.   Location of perc test trenches;
      14.   Name of subdivision;
      15.   North arrow;
      16.   Basis of bearing;
      17.   Name and address of owners of record;
      18.   Total acreage of subdivision;
      19.   Total number of lots;
      20.   Legal description of entire subdivision;
      21.   Township, range, section and quarter section;
      22.   Graphic scale;
      23.   Required monuments;
      24.   County Engineer's signature block;
      25.   County surveyor's signature block;
      26.   County Attorney's signature block;
      27.   Administrative Land Use Authority's signature block;
      28.   Signature(s) of owner(s) (notarized) block;
      29.   County Recorder's recording block;
      30.   Lender's signature block (or "consent to plat" form);
      31.   Surveyor's certificate;
      32.   Culinary water authority signature block;
      33.   Sanitary sewer authority signature block;
      34.   Kane County GIS Administrator signature block;
      35.   An electronic digital version of the subdivision plat (PDF of the
final plat).
      36.   Electronic version of all submitted items.
   C.   Digital data submittal:
      1.   AutoCAD DWG file or GIS SHPE file;
      2.   File to contain all parcel lines and reference monuments;
      3.   Data file to be GEO referenced to Utah State plane south grid
coordinate system or ground coordinate system including ground scale factor.
      4.   Shape files for the County GIS system North American datum (NAD)
1983 Zone 12 format. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-
1, 1-27-2014, eff. 2-11-2014; Ord. O-2015-12, 7-27-2015, eff. 8-11-2015; Ord.
O-2018-2, 4-9-2018; Ord. O-2016-4, 10-15-2018; Ord. 2020-22, 10-27-2020; Ord.
O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21E-5: ADMINISTRATIVE LAND USE AUTHORITY REVIEW:
   A.   The Kane County Administrative Land Use Authority shall review all
completed applications for final plat approval in accordance with the standards
and criteria specified in this chapter and all other ordinances and laws of
Kane County and the State of Utah. In the event that the Kane County
Administrative Land Use Authority denies a preliminary plat, it shall state, in
writing, within thirty (30) days to the developer/subdivider the reason for
disapproval via certified mail, return receipt requested. As applicable, the
Administrative Land Use Authority may approve, approve with conditions, or deny
the application. (Ord. O-2015-12, 7-27-2015, eff. 8-11-2015; amd. Ord. O-2024-
14, 11-12-2024)
9-21E-6: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE- FAMILY, TWO-FAMILY, AND TOWNHOME
SUBDIVISIONS:
Applications for a preliminary plat or final plat that include single-family,
two- family, or townhomes must additionally comply with the process and
procedure set forth in Chapter 21 Article P. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-
19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21E-7: FINAL PLAT RECORDING:
   A.   The developer/subdivider or his agent shall record the approved final
plat within one year of approval. The Kane County land use authority
administrator shall maintain custody of the final plat mylar until all
signatures have been obtained (with exception of the recorder), at which time
he/she will notify the developer/subdivider that the plat is ready to be
recorded. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2015-12, 7-27-
2015, eff. 8-11-2015)
   B.   No building permits will be issued until the infrastructure is
completed and approved by the Kane County engineer in writing, unless otherwise
agreed to in the development agreement. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-
2013; amd. Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21E-8: FINAL PLAT DISTRIBUTION:
   A.   Mylar: Kane County recorder. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013;
amd. Ord. O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
9-21E-9: VACATING OR AMENDING A SUBDIVISION OR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PLAT:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   A subdivision plat or planned unit development plat may be amended
or vacated by complying with the requirements of this section and Utah Code 17-
27a-608 and 609.
      2.   A complete application shall be submitted by the property or person
having power of attorney to act in behalf of the owner.
      3.   If the application for an amended plat includes a request to further
subdivide or to create any additional lots, the application may only be
approved if:
         a.   Eighty percent (80%) of the owners, or persons having legal
authority to act on behalf of the owner, for any portion of property contained
in the plat consents to the proposed amendment; and
         b.   The administrative land use authority makes a finding of good
cause for the amendment.
         c.   If the amended plat is a lot joinder/simple boundary adjustment
it shall remain one lot once joined together.
   B.   Submission Items:
      1.   Application and fees;
      2.   Notarized affidavit that applicant is owner or authorized by the
owner to make application for proposed plat amendment or abandonment;
      3.   Provide names and addresses of all property owners within 500 feet
of the affected property;
      4.   One copy of the plat and electronic submission of plat map:
         a.   Amended plat map requirements (re: subsections 9-21E-4B1 through
B32 of this article);
         b.   Vacated plat map requirement (re: subsections 9-21E-4B1 through
B32 of this article).
   C.   Administrative Land Use Authority Review And Approval:
      1.   After review and approval of the abandonment or amended plat drawing
and receipt of required documents by the land use authority administrator and
county engineer, the Kane County administrative land use authority will review
the application.
      2.   If the application does not propose to amend, abandon or vacate any
county road or public right of way, the administrative land use authority may
give final approval so long as the application meets the requirements of state
code and any applicable county ordinance. If the application includes a
proposal to amend, abandon or vacate any county road or public right of way,
the Kane County administrative land use authority will forward a written
notification of its review and approval to the Kane County commission.
   D.   County Commission Review And Approval Regarding Rights-Of-Way:
      1.   If the application contains a proposal to amend, abandon or vacate
any county road or public right of way, the Kane County commission shall review
within thirty (30) days of notification of review by the Kane County
administrative land use authority at a regularly scheduled public meeting. If
the Kane County commission determines that the amendment, abandonment or
vacation of the county road or public right-of-way is appropriate and in the
interest of the public, they may grant approval.
   E.   Final Plat Recording:
      1.   The owner or his agent shall record the approved vacated or amended
plat within one year of approval by the administrative land use authority. The
Kane County land use authority administrator shall maintain custody of the
amended plat mylar until all signatures have been obtained (with exception of
the recorder), at which time he will notify the owner or agent that the plat is
ready to be recorded.
   F.   Plat Distribution:
      1.   Mylar: Kane County recorder.
      2.   One signed copy: Land use authority administrator. (Ord. 2013-10,
11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2022-05, 1-25-2022; Ord. O-2022-25, 5-
24-2022; Ord. 2022-35, 6-14-2022; Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024; amd. Ord. O-2025-
03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
9-21E-10: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Approval Procedure:
      1.   Submit water system designs for approval to the Southwest Utah
Public Health Department and the Utah Department of Environmental Quality.
      2.   Obtain approval from both departments as stated above.
      3.   Submit sewer treatment construction drawings and design calculations
to Utah Department of Environmental Quality (if applicable).
      4.   Obtain Plan approval.
      5.   Finalize body politic approval for water, sewer, septic systems.
      6.   Submit Construction Design Drawings.
      7.   Finalize any conditions on the Preliminary Plat
      8.   Final Development Agreement.
      9.   Submit letter of credit/bond/financial assurance.
      10.   Review by Administrative Land Use Authority and County Engineer.
      11.   Schedule meeting with the Administrative Land Use Authority and
County Engineer.
      12.   Obtain signature for final plat.
      13.   Allowed to close on reserve lots and sale of all lots.
      14.   Certificate of approval of construction of infrastructure
improvements
      15.   Release of financial security. Retain 10% for one year.
      16.   Issue of Building Permits.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/0bd580fc51f8a9705f5ed1d04d71831cdc2e664a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3423.jpg]
 
   B.   The County Commission retains authority over the acceptance of any
roads or other public improvements as set forth in Section
9-21F-1. This step of the process can occur at any time after approval of the
preliminary plat application. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd.
Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024; Ord. O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
ARTICLE F. DEDICATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-21F-1: Dedication Of Improvements And County Ownership Of Subdivision Roads
9-21F-2: Timeliness For Acting On Acceptance
9-21F-3: Dedication Of Nonsubdivision Rights-Of-Way And Roadways
9-21F-4: Required Right-Of-Way And Roadway Widths
9-21F-5: Roadways Dividing A Parcel
9-21F-6: Right-Of-Way And Roadway Improvements
9-21F-7: Right-Of-Way Improvements For Commercial Developments
9-21F-1: DEDICATION OF IMPROVEMENTS AND COUNTY OWNERSHIP OF SUBDIVISION ROADS:
   A.   Subdividers are put on notice that the majority of roads (if not all)
internal to a subdivision are typically to remain private. At the time the
final plat is approved, the subdivider may dedicate the roads, easements and
other public improvements to Kane County and the Kane County Commission will
determine which improvements to preliminarily accept. All subdivision roads
must adhere to county standards, including a minimum 28 foot width comprised of
24 feet of travel lanes (two twelve foot travel lanes) with two foot shoulders
on each side of the travel lanes.
   B.   In determining which roads to preliminarily accept, the Kane County
Commission may look at the following factors:
      1.   If the road could eventually be a Collector or Arterial Road;
      2.   How the road fits into the overall transportation system of the
County;
      3.   Whether the road is internal to the subdivision, meaning that it
only allows access to residents within the subdivision;
      4.   Whether the road has historically been open to the public, or allows
access to public areas;
      5.   The overall traffic expected by both residents, visitors, and those
just passing through.
   C.   The subdivider shall notify the administrative land use authority
County in writing once all improvements are completed, at which time the Kane
County Engineer will perform a final improvement inspection. Any dedicated
improvements shall be deemed an offer by the subdivider which shall be
irrevocable until one year after all of the improvements are completed. After
one year, a final inspection will take place before officially accepting any
preliminarily accepted improvements, and before releasing any bonds from any
improvements. The County Commission may, at its option, accept the offer of
dedication only if it finds that the subdivider has constructed, installed and
maintained the public improvements required by this chapter and that the
improvements comply with the minimum standards and requirements of this chapter
and the "The Kane County Construction Design Standards" at the time of
acceptance.
(Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2022-15, 3-22-2022; Ord.
O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
9-21F-2: TIMELINESS FOR ACTING ON ACCEPTANCE:
Unless the Kane County Land Use Authority Administrator extends the time for
making a decision as to whether or not Kane County will accept dedicated public
improvements, the dedication may be acted upon within one year following the
completion of the public improvements in accordance with the "Kane County
Construction Design Standards", but in no event shall such approval occur
without the approval of the Kane County Engineer. In the event the Kane County
Engineer does not approve the dedicated public improvements, the subdivider
shall be so advised in writing and of the reason for the nonapproval. (Ord.
2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-
2025)
9-21F-3: DEDICATION OF NONSUBDIVISION RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND ROADWAYS:
The Kane County Commission, on recommendation from the Kane County Land Use
Authority, may accept Master Transportation Plans for areas in Kane County.
Once a Master Transportation Plan is in place for an area the property owner(s)
within the Master Transportation Plan area may dedicate the planned road(s) to
Kane County. Kane County Land Use Authority and Kane County Commission may
accept the dedicated roads by the recording of a road dedication plat. (Ord. O-
2019-2, 1-14-2019)
9-21F-4: REQUIRED RIGHT-OF-WAY AND ROADWAY WIDTHS:
Rights-of-way/roadways that are dedicated will be dedicated to the required
width of the Master Transportation Plan. If the right-of-way/roadway is planned
to be centered on the boundary line between two (2) properties, both property
owners will be required to dedicate their respective half of the right-of- way/
roadway for the right-of-way/roadway to be accepted. If both of the property
owners do not agree to the dedication, one of the property owners may dedicate
the right-of-way/roadway wholly on their property. The rights-of-way/roadway
will be required to be dedicated to provide continuity with adjacent dedicated
rights- of-way/roadway.
Notwithstanding this provision, or any other provisions to the contrary in this
title, upon application for subdivision or any plat amendment, the County may
accept dedication, or may require dedication, of any existing road that is
currently listed as a Class B or D road on the official records of the County
Road or GIS Department, regardless of the condition or width of the road. (Ord.
O-2019-2, 1-14-2019)
9-21F-5: ROADWAYS DIVIDING A PARCEL:
When an action initiated by the County for a dedicated roadway which roadway is
deeded and accepted by the County, extends through a parcel, dividing said
parcel into two (2) or more portions, the owner of the parcel may apply for a
division of the parcel, without having to comply with the requirements of this
chapter; and if the resulting divided parcel is smaller than required by this
title, the parcel shall remain in that zone as a smaller non-conforming parcel.
(Ord. O-2018-1, 1-12-2018)
9-21F-6: RIGHT-OF-WAY AND ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS:
Dedicated rights-of-way/roadways not located within a platted subdivision do
not have to be improved at the time of dedication. A dedicated right-of-way/
roadway will be required to be improved to the standards set forth by the Utah
Wildland Urban Interface Code (current edition) prior to a building permit
being issued to any parcel required to be served by an all weather surface
right- of-way/roadway. The right-of-way/roadway will have to be improved to a
minimum twenty eight feet (28') wide improved all weather travel surface, prior
to a second building permit being issued on a parcel being served by the right-
of-way/roadway. The owner will be required to submit all invoices associated
with the cost of building the road to the County. Any building permits issued
within ten (10) years of the date of completion of improvements of the right-
of-way/roadway will require the property owner to pay a proportionate share of
the road construction cost to the property owner who paid the original cost of
improvements. The road will be required to be asphalted prior to a development
of five (5) acre density, or less, being approved or prior to a building permit
being issued which will cause the average daily traffic (ADT) to be above four
hundred (400) trips per day or then current standard for very low volume local
road as defined by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials (AASHTO) standards. The improvements may be completed with the
development construction. (Ord. O-2019-2, 1-14-2019)
AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC USAGE TABLE
Land Uses Units Daily (Weekday) Average Rate
Land Uses                  Units                     Daily (Weekday) Average
                                                     Rate
Single family dwelling     Dwelling units            9.52
Apartment                  Dwelling units            6.65
Lodging/hotel              Dwelling units            8.92
Retail/shopping center     1,000 square feet         Non-linear rate
General office building    1,000 square feet         11.03
Superstore                 1,000 square feet         50.75
Gasoline/service station   Vehicle fueling positions 168.56
Fast-food restaurant with  1,000 square feet         496.12
drive-thru window
Restaurant (sit-down)      1,000 square feet         127.15
Industrial/general light   1,000 square feet         6.97
Charter schools/private (K Students                  2.48
- 12)
Civic:                                               
Library                    1,000 square feet         56.24
Government office building 1,000 square feet         68.93
State Motor Vehicle        1,000 square feet         166.02
Department
 
(Ord. O-2018-2, 4-9-2018; amd. Ord. O-2019-2, 1-14-2019; Ord. O-2023-13, 11-28-
2023)
9-21F-7: RIGHT-OF-WAY IMPROVEMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENTS:
A commercial development right-of-way will be required to be improved to the
Kane County Standards Construction Design Standards prior to a building permit
being issued to any parcel or development as follows:
   A.   The right-of-way will have to be improved to a sixty six foot (66')
right-of-way with a minimum twenty eight foot (28') road section width improved
area.
   B.   The road shall be improved with a minimum of six inches (6") of
untreated base course, unless pavement design requires greater section. Submit
pavement design based on road traffic loading prepared by engineer licensed in
State of Utah.
   C.   Any building permits issued within ten (10) years of the date of
completion of improvements of the right-of-way will require the property owner
to pay a proportionate share of the road construction cost to the property
owner who paid the original cost of improvements.
   D.   The road will be required to be asphalted prior to a development of
five (5) acre density, or less, being approved or prior to a building permit
being issued which will cause the average daily traffic (ADT) to be above four
hundred (400) trips per day or then current standard for very low volume local
road as defined by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials (AASHTO) standards.
   E.   The improvements may be completed with the development construction.
(Ord. O-2019-4, 3-25-2019; amd. Ord. O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
ARTICLE G. DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-21G-1: General Provisions
9-21G-2: Lots
9-21G-3: Streets
9-21G-4: Curvature And Alignment
9-21G-5: Block And Cul-De-Sac Standards
9-21G-6: Pedestrian Crosswalks
9-21G-7: Easement Standards
9-21G-8: Exterior Perimeters
9-21G-9: Alleys
9-21G-10: Sanitary Sewage Disposal
9-21G-11: Water Supply
9-21G-12: Sanitation Collection Sites
9-21G-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
All subdivisions must comply with the following standards:
   A.   The design and development of subdivisions shall preserve insofar as
possible the natural terrain, natural drainage, existing topsoil and trees.
   B.   Land subject to hazardous conditions such as, but not limited to,
slides, mudflows, rockfalls, snow avalanches, possible mine subsidence, shallow
water table, open quarries, floods, abandoned landfills, and polluted or
nonpotable water supply shall be identified and shall not be subdivided until
the hazards have been eliminated or will be eliminated by the subdivision and
construction plans.
   C.   The "Kane County Construction Design Standards." (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-
2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
9-21G-2: LOTS:
   A.   All lots shown on the subdivision plan shall conform to the minimum
requirements of the Kane County zoning ordinance for the zone in which the
subdivision is located, and to the minimum requirements of the engineer and the
Southwest Utah health department for sewage disposal. The minimum width for any
building lot shall be as required by the Kane County land use ordinance.
   B.   All lots shall abut a dedicated or private street. Streets shall be at
least twenty eight foot (28') travel width. In the event a lot abuts a public
right of way created by use, the subdivider shall improve the right of way to
the standards required by this chapter and the "Kane County Standard
Specifications And Drawing Details For Design And Construction".
   C.   Corner lots shall have extra width to allow for mandatory setbacks on
both streets.
   D.   Side lot lines shall be at substantially right angles or radial to
street lines. Where lot lines are not at right angles to the street lines, this
shall be shown.
   E.   All remnants of lots less than minimum size left over after subdividing
a larger tract shall be added to adjacent lots rather than allowed to remain
lot remnants.
   F.   Where the land in a subdivision includes two (2) or more parcels in
separate ownership and the lot arrangement is such that a property ownership
line divides one or more lots, the land in each lot so divided shall be held in
either single or joint ownership before approval of the final plan and such
ownership shall be recorded in the office of the Kane County recorder.
   G.   No single lot shall be divided by a municipal or county boundary.
   H.   A lot shall not be divided by a road, alley or other lot.
   I.   No wedge shaped lot shall be less than thirty feet (30') in width at
the front property line, or the lot frontage required by the zoning ordinance,
whichever is larger.
   J.   All residential lots in subdivisions shall front on a public street or
on a private street or court approved by the Administrative Kane land use
authority, except as may be approved for planned unit developments or other
special dwellings. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2025-
03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
9-21G-3: STREETS:
   A.   Minor streets shall be laid out to discourage through traffic.
   B.   Stub streets shall be provided where needed to connect to adjacent
undeveloped land and new streets must be provided where needed to connect to
existing stub streets in adjacent subdivision. Not more than three (3) lots
shall front stub streets, except where a temporary cul-de-sac turnaround side
is provided.
   C.   Intersections of minor streets with major streets shall be kept to the
minimum.
   D.   No half streets are permitted.
   E.   Dead end streets, including stub streets, shall be permitted or
required by the Kane County engineer only to provide future access to adjoining
property, except for dead end street systems in cluster subdivisions, planned
unit developments, condominium developments, or similar special projects.
   F.   Permanent cul-de-sac streets serving no more than six (6) lots, and not
more than eight hundred feet (800') long, whichever is more restrictive, may be
permitted and shall be provided with a right of way at the turnaround of fifty
five and one-half feet (551/2') radius or more, and the outside curb or
pavement edge radius shall be forty eight feet (48') or more.
   G.   No more than four (4) streets shall enter an intersection.
   H.   Streets should intersect at ninety degrees (90°). All others may be
designed only with approval of the Kane County engineer.
   I.   Two (2) subordinate streets meeting a through street from opposite
sides shall meet at the same point, or their centerlines shall be offset at
least two hundred feet (200').
   J.   Streets shall have the names of existing streets which are in
alignment. There shall be no duplication of street names within the area. All
street names shall be approved by the Kane County GIS Director. Permanent signs
shall be installed by developer at his expense at time of installation of other
off site improvements with locations approved by Kane County.
   K.   Where a residential subdivision abuts a major highway, frontage roads
may be required. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2022-
07, 2-22-2022)
9-21G-4: CURVATURE AND ALIGNMENT:
Ensure adequate sight distances. When street roadway lines deflect more than
five degrees (5°), connection shall be made by horizontal curves. (Ord. 2013-
10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
9-21G-5: BLOCK AND CUL-DE-SAC STANDARDS:
Block lengths shall be one thousand feet (1,000') or less. Cul- de-sac shall be
no longer than eight hundred feet (800'). (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-
2013)
9-21G-6: PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALKS:
Pedestrian rights of way of not less than ten feet (10') in width may be
required by the Kane County engineer through blocks where needed for adequate
pedestrian circulation. Walk improvements (paving) of not less than five feet
(5') in width shall be placed within the rights of way, as required by the Kane
County engineer. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
9-21G-7: EASEMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Utility easements shall follow front lot lines wherever possible. (See
design standards drawing RD02.)
   B.   Where front line easements are not possible, easements shall follow
rear and side lot lines and shall have a minimum total width of fifteen feet
(15') apportioned equally on abutting properties.
   C.   All easements shall be designed so as to provide efficient installation
of utilities.
   D.   All power lines, telephone lines, and other normally overhead utility
lines shall be placed underground by the subdivider unless the Kane County
engineer determines it is not feasible to do so. This determination would be
based upon application by a subdivider, supported by recommendation of the
county engineer, and approved by the Kane County Administrative Land Use
Authority. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2025-03, 2-
25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
9-21G-8: EXTERIOR PERIMETERS:
Based on the Utah State Open Range Policy, it is a landowner's responsibility
to fence their property as to keep livestock out. If fencing, gates or cattle
guards already exist that keep cattle off the highway or public lands, said
fencing gates or cattle guards must remain in place. However, they may be moved
to conform to new lot lines. (Ord. O-2017-4, 6-26-2017)
9-21G-9: ALLEYS:
The Kane County Engineer may approve service access to the interior of blocks
in certain instances, in which case alleys must be indicated on the plan and
plat. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
9-21G-10: SANITARY SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided below, the subdivider shall provide, or
have provided, an approved piped sanitary sewage system to the property line of
every lot in the subdivision. The sewage system shall meet the minimum
standards and requirements of the State Department of Environmental Quality.
Certification of compliance shall be provided to the Kane County Land Use
Authority by the subdivider.
   B.   Where the Kane County General Plan or other plans indicate that
construction or extension of sanitary sewers may serve the subdivision area
within a reasonable time, the Kane County Administrative Land Use Authority may
require the installation and capping of sanitary sewer mains and house
connections by the subdivider. Whenever individual on-lot sanitary sewage
disposal systems are proposed, they shall be installed at the time the
principal building is constructed, and no building permit shall be issued until
such installation is completed. In all other cases, sanitary sewage disposal
facilities shall be provided for every lot or parcel by a complete community or
public sanitary system.
   C.   All new subdivisions and multiple lot/unit developments within the
wastewater service area of any local or special service district that provides
sewer or wastewater services, shall connect to the relevant district's
wastewater collection system or shall otherwise participate in the wastewater
system. New subdivisions and multiple lot/unit developments shall be required
to connect to the wastewater system when reasonable access is available. In
general, reasonable access shall be considered as the subdivision or
development parcel being located within three hundred feet (300') multiplied by
the number of proposed lots or units, whichever is greater, of any of the
district's wastewater collection facilities, except by written approval of the
District Board in cases of undue hardship.
   D.   No final plat approval for the establishment of a residential,
commercial or industrial subdivision or other multiple unit/lot development in
the wastewater service area shall be granted or given until such time that the
relevant district has reviewed and approved all plans and specifications for
the proposed wastewater system serving said subdivision or development.
   E.   Any person or entity desiring to obtain final plat approval for the
establishment of a residential, commercial or industrial subdivision or
multiple unit/lot development shall be required to submit to the relevant
district the following information and documentation: 1) the name, address,
email address, telephone number and fax number of the owner and developer, 2) a
plat or map showing the location and layout of the proposed subdivision or
development, 3) an accurate legal description of the property to be developed,
4) a description of the development activity for which approval is being
sought, 5) a detailed description, including plans and specifications, of the
proposed wastewater collection and disposal system for such subdivision or
development, 6) an engineering report establishing that approval of the
proposed wastewater system shall not adversely affect the ground or surface
water quality, and 7) any other information deemed necessary or desirable by
the district.
   F.   All wastewater system improvements proposed by subdividers and
developers shall be designed and constructed in compliance with the State of
Utah Department of Environmental Quality rules and the district's design and
construction standards.
   G.   The parcel or lot owner, or developer shall bear all costs of and fees
for connecting the parcel, subdivision, or development to the relevant
district's wastewater system. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd.
Ord. 2020- 22, 10-27-2020; Ord. O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
9-21G-11: WATER SUPPLY:
All culinary water systems and plans, whether public or private, shall conform
to County ordinances, including, but not limited to, this chapter and the “Kane
County Construction Design Standards,” and shall be approved by the appropriate
State and Local authorities. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd.
Ord. O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
9-21G-12: SANITATION COLLECTION SITES:
The subdivider shall provide a sufficient number of sites for the collection
and removal of solid waste. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
ARTICLE H. CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-21H-1: Requirements
9-21H-1: REQUIREMENTS:
Construction standards and building codes, including the “Kane County
Construction Design Standards” adopted by Kane County, shall be followed by the
subdivider, developer and contractor. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-
2013; amd. Ord. O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
ARTICLE I. FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
9-21I-1: Guarantee; Improvement Completion Assurance
9-21I-2: Payment And Performance Bonds
9-21I-3: Escrow Deposit
9-21I-4: Irrevocable Letter Of Credit
9-21I-5: Default
9-21I-6: Improvement Guarantee; Warranty
9-21I-7: Covenant
9-21I-8: Acceptance And Release Of Surety
9-21I-9: Definitions
9-21I-1: GUARANTEE; IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE:
Before approval of the final plat, the developer/subdivider shall provide an
improvement completion assurance, guaranteeing the installation of the required
subdivision improvements, by one of the methods as described in section
9-21I-2,
9-21I-3 or
9-21I-4 of this article, prior to recording a subdivision plat or beginning
development activity. This requirement is applicable to individual phases of a
development. (Ord. 2014-9, 5-19-2014, eff. 6-3-2014; amd. Ord. O-2024-14, 11-
12-2024)
9-21I-2: PAYMENT AND PERFORMANCE BONDS:
The developer/subdivider shall furnish payment and performance bonds in an
amount equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the engineer's estimated cost
of improvements as approved by the Kane County engineer. The additional
inflation percentage shall be determined in the development agreement and added
to the one hundred ten percent (110%) figure. (Ord. 2014-9, 5-19-2014, eff. 6-
3-2014)
9-21I-3: ESCROW DEPOSIT:
The developer/subdivider shall deposit in an interest bearing escrow account an
amount of money equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the engineer's
estimated cost of improvements as approved by the county engineer. The
additional inflation percentage shall be determined in the development
agreement and added to the one hundred ten percent (110%) figure. The escrow
account shall be used solely for securing the subdivisions improvements. The
escrow account holder must be approved by Kane County prior to deposit being
made. The terms of the escrow account shall only require that the county
present the issuer with a signed draft and a certificate signed by an
authorized representative of the county certifying to the county's right to
draw funds on the account to complete the required improvements. (Ord. 2014-9,
5-19-2014, eff. 6-3-2014)
9-21I-4: IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT:
The developer/subdivider shall file with Kane County an irrevocable letter of
credit from a duly chartered state or national bank or savings and loan
institution in an amount equal to one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
engineer's estimated cost of improvements as approved by the Kane County
engineer. The additional inflation percentage shall be determined in the
development agreement and added to the one hundred ten percent (110%) figure.
Said letter of credit shall:
   A.   Be irrevocable;
   B.   Be of a term sufficient to cover the completion, plus sixty (60) days,
and the improvement warranty period; and
   C.   Require only that the county present the issuer with a signed draft and
a certificate signed by an authorized representative of the county certifying
to the county's right to draw funds under the letter of credit. (Ord. 2014-9,
5-19-2014, eff. 6-3-2014)
9-21I-5: DEFAULT:
In the event the developer/subdivider fails to complete the required
improvements as stipulated in the development agreement, within two (2) years
after final plat acceptance, Kane County shall pursue action against whichever
method of guarantee was provided (section
9-21I-2,
9-21I-3, or
9-21I-4 of this article) to complete the improvements as described.
Kane County may assign its right to receive funds under the security to any
third party, including a subsequent owner of the subdivision for which required
development improvements were not constructed, in whole or in part, in exchange
for that subsequent owner's promise to complete the public improvements on the
tract.
Kane County may exercise any other rights available under the law, upon
default. (Ord. 2014-9, 5-19-2014, eff. 6-3-2014)
9-21I-6: IMPROVEMENT GUARANTEE; WARRANTY:
The developer/subdivider shall guarantee that all improvements provided,
installed and as stipulated in the development agreement, shall remain free of
defects for a period of one year from date of acceptance by the county. This
guarantee shall be in the form of an improvement warranty in the amount of ten
percent (10%) of the engineer's estimated cost of improvements as approved by
the Kane County engineer.
Identifying the necessity for repairs and/or maintenance of the installed work
rests with the county engineer, or designee, and whose decision upon the matter
shall be final and binding upon the developer/subdivider. Should the county
engineer find that repairs or maintenance is necessary, and upon written
notice, the developer/subdivider shall have a maximum of thirty (30) days to
affect the required repairs or maintenance work.
Should the developer/subdivider fail or refuse to affect said repairs or
maintenance, the county shall have such work done at the developer/subdivider's
expense. (Ord. 2014-9, 5-19-2014, eff. 6-3-2014)
9-21I-7: COVENANT:
The developer/subdivider shall, as part of the executed development agreement,
not sell, lease or convey any of the subdivided property to anyone unless he/
she/they, as a condition thereto, satisfy at least one of the foregoing
requirements of section
9-21I-2,
9-21I-3, or
9-21I-4 of this article. The agreement shall specifically provide that it shall
be deemed to be a covenant running with the land, binding all successors,
heirs, and assigns of the property owner to secure the installation of the
improvements required together with payment of all costs, including reasonable
attorney fees which may be incurred by Kane County in the enforcement of any of
the terms and provisions of the agreement. The development agreement shall be
recorded in the Kane County recorder's office. All existing lienholders shall
be required to subordinate their liens to the covenants contained in the
development agreement. (Ord. 2014-9, 5-19-2014, eff. 6-3-2014)
9-21I-8: ACCEPTANCE AND RELEASE OF SURETY:
   A.   Request for conditional acceptance of the subdivision improvements and
reduction in surety must be in writing from the developer/subdivider to the
land use authority administrator. When installation of the subdivision
improvements are seventy five percent (75%) complete, fifty percent (50%) of
the estimated cost of the improvements will be released after inspection and
written verification by the county engineer. After final completion of all
work, an additional fifty percent (50%) of the estimated cost will be released
after inspection and written verification by the county engineer. This leaves
ten percent (10%) of the estimated cost to be held as the improvement warranty
for the improvement warranty period, being one year from final completion and
acceptance of the improvements, or a lengthier improvement warranty period as
may be permitted, pursuant to this section, or Utah Code Annotated section 17-
27a-604.5, as amended. The schedule for release of surety may be modified by
the specific development agreement.
In many cases, the improvement warranty will be on the same document as the
improvement completion assurance/performance bond. However, the county may
require a separate document containing the improvement warranty.
   B.   Final inspection by the Kane County engineer shall be made one year
after all improvement work has been completed. Any and all defects must be
repaired and maintenance must be completed prior to final approval.
   C.   Upon written approval by the Kane County engineer, the land use
administrator shall, in writing, accept all improvements and release remaining
improvement warranty. (Ord. 2014-9, 5-19-2014, eff. 6-3-2014)
9-21I-9: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this article:
IMPROVEMENT COMPLETION ASSURANCE: A surety bond, letter of credit, cash, or
other security required by Kane County to guaranty the proper completion of
landscaping or infrastructure that the land use authority has required as a
condition precedent to:
   A.   Recording a subdivision plat; or
   B.   Beginning development activity.
IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY: An applicant's unconditional warranty that the accepted
landscaping or infrastructure:
   A.   Complies with Kane County's written standards for design, materials,
and workmanship; and
   B.   Will not fail in material respect, as a result of poor workmanship or
materials, within the improvement warranty period.
IMPROVEMENT WARRANTY PERIOD: A period:
   A.   No later than one year after Kane County's acceptance of required
infrastructure, unless the county:
      1.   Determines for good cause that the one year period is inadequate to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare; and
      2.   Has substantial evidence, on record:
         a.   Of prior poor performance by the applicant; or
         b.   That the area upon which the infrastructure will be constructed
contains suspect soil and the county has not otherwise required the applicant
to mitigate the suspect soil. (Ord. 2014-9, 5-19-2014, eff. 6-3-2014)
ARTICLE J. RURAL, MOUNTAIN AND DESERT SUBDIVISION
SECTION:
9-21J-1: Scope
9-21J-2: Application
9-21J-3: Additional Provisions
9-21J-1: SCOPE:
The Kane County administrative land use authority may make special requirements
for the regulation of subdivisions in rural, mountainous or desert areas for
prevention or erosion, pollution and excessive costs to the public; protection
of existing social, physical or economic values; and protection from fire and
other hazards. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2024-14,
11-12-2024)
9-21J-2: APPLICATION:
Before applying special requirements to rural, mountain or desert subdivisions
that are more restrictive than those otherwise applicable by this chapter, the
Kane County land use authority administrator shall cause copies of the proposed
subdivision to be issued to the staff (i.e., building official, county
engineer, GIS/transportation department and any other entities deemed
appropriate) for review and comment. The Kane County Administrative Land Use
Authority shall determine what special requirements apply, if any, based on
information supplied by the staff. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013;
amd. Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21J-3: ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions herein or within this chapter, the
following requirements shall apply to all rural, mountain and desert
subdivisions:
   A.   Any land within a subdivision having a slope greater than ten percent
(10%) shall be deemed to be land having a "steep slope". Developer shall not be
permitted to grade, excavate, fill or otherwise modify said land if slope is
between ten (10) and forty percent (40%) without first submitting a geological
report for review and staff approval. In no case may a structure be erected on
land with a slope of forty percent (40%) or greater.
      1.   Geologic Report:
         a.   A geologic report shall include maps and a report containing not
less than the following information:
            (1)   The site location and regional setting of the subject
property;
            (2)   A site specific geologic map which illustrates exposure to
geological and natural hazards. The map shall illustrate the proposed site
modifications relative to geological and natural hazards and/or geotechnical
limitations that may impact the site. Any corrective site modification actions
necessary to mitigate or avoid hazards or limitations shall be clearly
identified on the map;
            (3)   Maps shall use scale of one inch equaling one hundred feet
(1" = 100'), with contour lines at five foot (5') intervals. Existing contours
shall be shown by dashed lines and proposed contours shall be shown as solid
lines. Boring logs, cross sections, test trench logs, soil sample descriptions,
and test results shall be included;
            (4)   The county engineer may require additional maps or additional
detail on existing maps as reasonably necessary to evaluate actual or potential
geologic hazards.
         b.   The report shall include:
            (1)   A description of the proposed grading, filling, excavation,
or structure;
            (2)   An analysis of the effects of the proposed grading, filling,
excavation, or erection of a structure in relation to the geologic conditions
shown in the geologic maps;
            (3)   With regard to a structure, an analysis of the manner in
which the same, as constructed, will be made reasonably safe for human
habitation;
            (4)   Any corrective or remedial action necessary to avoid a
violation shall be described and analyzed in detail;
            (5)   A list, including title, author and date, or all prior
studies or reports which are relied upon to make this report; and
            (6)   The county engineer may require additional information or
analyses which are reasonably necessary to evaluate actual or potential
geologic hazards. This includes submittal of geologic reports to the state
geologist for review and comment.
      2.   Engineer/Geologist Qualifications And Certificate:
         a.   A letter report or a geologic report shall be approved and signed
by one of the following, whose primary area of expertise is required to address
the particular issue:
            (1)   A geotechnical engineer who shall be a registered
professional engineer in the state of Utah, qualified by training and
experience in the application of the principles of soil mechanics to foundation
investigation, slope stability, and site development; or
            (2)   An engineering geologist who shall be a graduate in geology
or engineering geology from an accredited university with at least five (5)
years of professional geologic experience of which at least three (3) full
years shall be in the field of engineering geology.
         b.   A letter report or a geologic report shall contain the following
certificate:
            CERTIFICATE
            I hereby certify that I am a geotechnical engineer or an
engineering geologist, as those terms are defined in Section
9-21J-3 of the Kane County code. I have examined the letter report/geologic
report to which this certificate is attached and the information and
conclusions contained therein are, without any reasonable reservation not
stated therein, accurate and complete. All procedures and tests used in said
letter report/geologic report meet minimum applicable professional standards.
         c.   In addition to any applicable private civil remedies, it shall be
unlawful to knowingly make a false, untrue, or incomplete statement in a letter
report or a geologic report or to sign the certificate described above knowing
the same to be materially false or not true.
         d.   In general, it shall be the responsibility of a qualified
engineering geologist to perform fault studies and landslide investigations,
while it shall be the responsibility of a qualified geotechnical engineer to
prepare soils and foundation studies, particularly addressing such issues as
expansive and collapsible soils, liquefaction evaluations and engineering
aspects of landslide studies.
   B.   Required stormwater runoff collection facilities shall be so designed
as to divert surface water away from cut faces or sloping surfaces of a fill.
   C.   Natural drainage shall be riprapped or otherwise stabilized below
drainage and culvert discharge points to the satisfaction of the Kane County
engineer.
   D.   Sediment catchment ponds shall be constructed downstream from each
subdivision, unless sediment retention facilities are provided within the
subdivision.
   E.   No subdivision design or plan shall be approved which constitutes the
creation of hazardous conditions relating to flooding, pollution, fire,
geologic hazards or damage or danger to environmental values. (Ord. 2013-10,
11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
ARTICLE K. AG RURAL UNIMPROVED SPLIT
SECTION:
9-21K-1: Intent
9-21K-2: Modifying Regulations
9-21K-3: AG Rural Unimproved Split Application
9-21K-4: Approval
9-21K-1: INTENT:
Kane County desires to create a simplified, less restrictive process for the
dividing of land located within the unincorporated areas of Kane County when
the project is small and the main purpose and general intent of the division is
not property development. This simplified process does not require all of the
same improvements and regulations that are required under this chapter when
applying for the division of land and approval of a subdivision plat. Under
Utah State Code and Kane County ordinance almost any division of land is
defined as a subdivision even though the common and ordinary use of the word
subdivision refers to denser residential areas that include roads, utilities,
and other improvements.
Furthermore, for decades many individuals have subdivided their property
without first complying with State law and County ordinance in effect at the
time of the illegal subdivision. Many individuals may desire to use this
article to bring their land into compliance. If an applicant under this article
otherwise complies with the requirements of this article, they may obtain
approval for a AG rural unimproved split if, and only if, the application
includes all portions of the original land (sometimes referred to as parent
parcel) as it legally existed prior to being subdivided illegally, and the
application is joined by all of the current property owners. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-
4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-18, 9-22-2014; Ord. O-2022-43, 8-23-
2022)
9-21K-2: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
Any improvements to be made within a AG rural unimproved split such as, but not
limited to: roads, water, fire suppression water, power, septic/sewer, and
drainage system shall first be approved by the Land Use Authority before any
work can begin. The owner and/or owner's agent will be required to submit a
Developers Subdivision Application and complete the subdivision approval
process. All subdivision requirements and standards can be found in articles A
through I of this chapter. Any owner and/or owner's agent found in violation of
this section shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor upon conviction,
punishable by a fine, injunction, mandamus, abatement, merger of title, civil
penalty, or any other remedy provided by law. (Ord. O-2019-13, 6-11-2019; amd.
Ord. O-2022-43, 8-23-2022)
9-21K-3: AG RURAL UNIMPROVED SPLIT APPLICATION:
Notwithstanding articles A through J of this chapter, the Administrative Land
Use Authority may approve an application for an AG rural unimproved split, if
the following criteria and requirements are met:
   A.   The applicant shall complete, sign, and submit an official application
together with any other required documentation, the form of the application
having been prepared by the Land Use Administrator, and pay the associated fee.
   B.   The proposed split:
      1.   Is for ten (10) lots or less, all of which are at least ten (10)
acres as a conforming aliquot parts parcel or less than ten (10) acres, but not
less than 9.5 acres if necessary to compensate for the curvature of the earth
or the convergence of Township lines as recognized in the public land survey
system, or because of previous survey errors;
      2.   Is not traversed by the mapped lines of a proposed street as shown
in the general plan and does not require the dedication of any land for street
or other public purposes;
      3.   Has been approved by the culinary water authority and the sanitary
sewer authority, if a culinary water system or sewer system is included in the
plans of the subdivision (Note: Under Kane County ordinance and Utah State Code
a building permit will not be issued for lots that do not first contain an
approved culinary water and sewer system.);
      4.   Is located in a zoned area; upon completion and approval of
application, land will then comply with FAA agricultural land use and will be
zoned AG-FAA. The AG-FAA zoning must remain in place for a minimum of five (5)
years from the time of the split.
      5.   Conforms to all applicable Land Use Ordinances or has properly
received a variance from requirements of an otherwise conflicting and
applicable Land Use Ordinance;
      6.   Is graphically illustrated on a record of survey map completed by a
licensed surveyor who certifies that he or she is a licensed surveyor and has
verified all measurements and placed monuments as represented on the map. The
record of survey map must be signed by the applicant and the surveyor, and
shall contain the following notes on the record of survey:
         a.   Roads are not constructed or maintained by Kane County or any
local government entities and are the responsibility of the owner(s) or
developers;
         b.   No utilities (e.g., power, water, sewer, phones) are provided by
Kane County. Kane County does not bear the responsibility now or in the future
for any improvements. Improvements are the responsibility of the owner or
developer;
         c.   If and when the developer/landowner has met County standards and
specifications for infrastructure and they have been formally accepted by the
County these notations should be removed from the plat;
         d.   County acceptance of infrastructure does not infer that the
County will upgrade that accepted infrastructure beyond the standard of its
acceptance;
      7.   Provides each newly created parcel with: a) legal recorded access to
the utility and access easements and other rights of access that the parent
parcel holds at the time of the subdivision application; and b) a recorded
public access and public utility easement(s) with a minimum of a fifty foot
(50') width for the new parcels. Roads that terminate within the development
may be recorded as private easements rather than a public easement at the
discretion of the applicant; c) a recorded utility easement across the parent
parcel necessary to allow each newly created parcel access to the same
utilities currently available to the parent parcel and planned future access
for power, water, and other utilities, to be available to all the parcel(s) in
the future; and d) to provide access and utility easement(s) from the original
point of access of the parent parcel to the newly created parcel(s) to any
public right-of-way. If a recorded access does not exist at the time of the
application, the width of the newly created access across private property
shall be listed in subsection B7c of this section.
         a.   A public right-of-way shall be any right-of-way claimed by UDOT,
the County, or a municipality as a Class B, C, or D road which is established
or claimed through a recorded deed easement, RS-2477 assertion, or title V
easement on BLM lands recorded access across State trust lands, recorded access
across Forest Service lands, or a public prescriptive easement as determined by
the Kane County GIS Department.
         b.   The recorded legal access may be any of the following:
            (1)   On BLM Lands: Access across public lands shall be accepted in
the form of any valid, private, public or County title V or RS-2477 rights-of-
way. RS-2477 right-of-way or title V access across land managed by the Bureau
of Land Management (BLM) with any width approved by the BLM deemed acceptable.
            (2)   On Private Lands: Existing recorded legal access easement
with a minimum of twenty eight feet (28'). Prescriptive easements do not
satisfy the access requirements of this section. The subservient land owner
must sign a recordable document acknowledging the easement and allow use for
all of the new lots in the proposed subdivision as a public or private easement
as outlined in this subsection B7.
         c.   Width of a newly created easement may be any of the following:
            (1)   Any new recorded easement across private land, with a minimum
width of sixty six feet (66') or fifty feet (50') as outlined in this
subsection B8; and
      8.   Has a name for each existing and newly created access road or
easement distinct from other road or easement names located in Kane County for
address purposes, designated on the record of survey.
   C.   The applicant shall submit an agreement of understanding with the Kane
County Commission that in unincorporated areas of the County, dedicated roads
will not be accepted, paved or maintained by the County, until the subdivision
complies with articles A through J of this chapter.
   D.   The proposed split does not include land previously divided under this
article.
   E.   If the applicant so desires a plat may be submitted instead of the
record of survey map. The form of the plat must conform with all the
requirements of this chapter.
   F.   The application is signed and submitted by each and every property
owner of the land included in the application.
   G.   If any land contained in the application is the result of land that was
previously divided without first complying with State law and County
ordinances, the application must include all of the lots or parcels that
together represent the entire original parent parcel before it was subdivided
illegally.
   H.   If the proposed split contains agricultural land that qualifies as land
in agricultural use as defined by Utah State Code section 59-2-502 (FAA) the
applicant must also submit:
      1.   A signed statement that the land is not used and will not be used
for any nonagricultural purpose;
      2.   A signed notice that the County shall require the parcel to comply
with articles A through J of this chapter if it is later used for a
nonagricultural purpose.
   I.   If fencing, gates or cattle guards exist they must remain in place.
However they may be moved to conform to new lot lines.
   J.   If any roads exist at the time of applying for the rural unimproved
split they must continue to remain at the existing or improved condition.
   K.   It is not necessary to improve any existing roads to the full width of
the dedicated easement at the time of application.
   L.   If any proposed lot has access to any major highway system, the
applicant shall give notice to the Utah Department of Transportation for the
newly created lots or parcels.
(Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2013-11, 11-25-2013, eff.
12-10-2013; Ord. 2014-18, 9-22-2014; Ord. O-2015-12, 7-27-2015, eff. 8-11-2015;
Ord. O-2016-4, 10-15-2018; Ord. O-2018-6, 7-9-2018; Ord. O-2019-4, 3-25-2019;
Ord. O-2019-13, 6-11-2019; Ord. O-2022-43, 8-23-2022; Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-
2024; Ord. O-2025-19, 6-24-2025)
9-21K-4: APPROVAL:
   A.   If an applicant meets the requirements of section
9-21K-3 of this article, the Administrative Land Use Authority shall approve
the application or deny the application.
   B.   Upon final approval the Administrative Land Use Authority shall sign
the plat or issue a letter of written approval in the case of a record of
survey or the record of survey may have all the signature blocks required for a
plat in place of a written letter.
   C.   A rural unimproved split with a recorded approved plat or a letter of
written approval recorded with a record of survey shall be considered in
compliance with this chapter as of the date of recording.
   D.   A building permit shall not be denied on the basis that a lot or parcel
is part of a rural unimproved split, approved under this article.
   E.   A lot or parcel approved under this article shall not be restricted
from being sold or offered for sale under sections
9-21A-6 and
9-21B-4 of this chapter.
   F.   A plat may not be recorded without all the appropriate signatures and a
record of survey map may not be recorded without the letter of written approval
or signature. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2019-4, 3-
25-2019; Ord. O-2019-13, 6-11-2019; Ord. O-2022-43, 8-23-2022; Ord. O-2024-14,
11-12-2024)
ARTICLE L. MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
9-21L-1: Minor Subdivision Exemption
9-21L-1: MINOR SUBDIVISION EXEMPTION:
Kane County adopts Utah state code section 17-27a-605(4). A subdivision of land
that qualifies as a minor subdivision under section 4 does not have to meet the
requirements of articles A through J of this chapter. An applicant that desires
to create a minor subdivision lot must file application with the Kane County
land use authority certifying that the requirements of Utah state code section
17-27a-605(4) have been completed. If the applicant meets all the requirements
of said subsection, the land use authority administrator will approve the
subdivision after an administrative review. After the land use authority
administrator's review, a letter of compliance will be issued to be recorded at
the recorder's office for future verification of compliance with state code.
(Ord. 2014-1, 1-27-2014, eff. 2-11-2014; amd. Ord. O-2015-12, 7-27-2015, eff.
8-11-2015)
ARTICLE M. PLATTED UNIMPROVED SUBDIVISION
SECTION:
9-21M-1: Intent
9-21M-2: Modifying Regulations
9-21M-3: Platted Unimproved Subdivision Application
9-21M-4: Approval; Effect Of Approval
9-21M-1: INTENT:
Hundreds of lots or parcels located in the County have been subdivided without
first complying with the provisions of this chapter. Often, individuals have
divided their property illegally at the direction of private professionals.
Others have misinterpreted previous County ordinances and thought they were
acting in conformity with applicable laws. Many of these unapproved
subdivisions exist undetected for years and often are sold and then resold from
the subdivider to a third party purchaser before the error is detected by the
County. Beginning in 2009, Kane County created a Subdivision Ordinance that
required greater improvements and strictly enforced the Subdivision Ordinance
wherever possible. Since that time, although there is no legal duty to do so,
Kane County has acted diligently to inform its residents that no property can
be divided without first complying with State Code and the County Subdivision
Ordinance. The purpose of this article is to provide a plausible option for
purchasers of property illegally subdivided prior to 2009 to bring their
property into compliance while still maintaining a minimal level of appropriate
land use development practices.
In 2012, Kane County adopted the Rural Unimproved Subdivision Ordinance
(article K of this chapter) to allow a less restrictive means for dividing
property. Although some of the requirements of the rural unimproved subdivision
are the same and the end result is similar to this article, the "Platted
Unimproved Subdivision", many landowners who own previously illegally
subdivided land do not qualify for a rural unimproved subdivision because the
application does not include all of the land as it existed prior to the illegal
subdivision (sometimes referred to as the parent parcel). In order for
illegally subdivided land to qualify for a rural unimproved subdivision the
application must contain all of the land that was illegally subdivided from the
original parent parcel and the application must be joined by all of the
landowners if there is more than one. Under this article the applicant does not
have to present all of the land that was divided illegally. The applicant must
however present all of the land that they own contained within the parent
parcel which existed legally before the illegal subdivision. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-
4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
9-21M-2: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
Any improvements to be made within a platted unimproved subdivision such as,
but not limited to: roads, water, fire suppression water, power, septic/sewer,
and drainage system shall first be approved by the Land Use Authority before
any work can begin. The owner and/or owner's agent will be required to submit a
Developers Subdivision Application and complete the subdivision approval
process. All subdivision requirements and standards can be found in articles A
through I of this chapter. Any owner and/or owner's agent found in violation of
this section shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor upon conviction,
punishable by a fine, injunction, mandamus, abatement, merger of title, civil
penalty, or any other remedy provided by law. (Ord. O-2019-13, 6-11-2019)
9-21M-3: PLATTED UNIMPROVED SUBDIVISION APPLICATION:
Notwithstanding articles A through J of this chapter, the Land Use Authority
may approve an application for a platted unimproved subdivision, if the
following criteria and requirements have been met:
   A.   The applicant shall complete, sign, and submit an official application
together with any other required documentation, the form of the application
having been prepared by the Land Use Administrator, and pay the associated fee.
   B.   The applicant shall submit proof by a preponderance of evidence that:
1) all of the land contained in the application was subdivided prior to January
1, 2009; 2) the act of subdivision was done by a person who is not the
applicant or among the applicants, or by persons, none of whom are the
applicant or among the applicants; and 3) the act of subdividing was done in
any manner that did not fully comply with State Code and County ordinance in
effect at the time of the act.
   C.   The application shall contain each and every lot or parcel of land
owned by the applicant or applicants which resulted from the illegal
subdivision of the same original piece of land. The original piece of land
shall have been in compliance with all applicable State and County subdivision
regulations before the illegal subdivision. This subsection shall not prohibit
the approval of an application solely because there were multiple acts of
illegal subdivision on the same original piece of land that occurred at
different times.
   D.   The application shall not include any portion of land previously
approved under this article, article K or L of this chapter, or that is or was
already part of an approved platted subdivision as shown by the records in the
County Recorder's Office.
   E.   Each lot or parcel in the application shall be:
      1.   Graphically illustrated on a subdivision plat, the form of which,
notwithstanding the infrastructure and improvements required under this
chapter, otherwise complies with the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Located in a zoned area; upon completion and approval of
application, land will then comply with FAA agricultural land use and will be
zoned AG-FAA.
      3.   Each newly created parcel shall be provided with: a) legal recorded
access to the utility and access easements and other rights of access that the
parent parcel holds at the time of the subdivision application; b) a recorded
public access and public utility easement(s) with a minimum of sixty six foot
(66') width across the parent parcel for any roads that provide access beyond
the development or are planned to provide access beyond the development or a
minimum of fifty foot (50') width for roads that terminate within the
development to provide access and utility easement(s) from the original point
of access of the parent parcel to the newly created parcels. Roads that
terminate within the development may be recorded as private easements rather
than a public easement at the discretion of the applicant; c) a recorded
utility easement across the parent parcel necessary to allow each newly created
parcel access to the same utilities currently available to the parent parcel
and planned future access for power, water, and other utilities, to be
available to all the new parcel(s) in the future; and d) access and utility
easement(s) from the original point of access of the parent parcel to the newly
created parcel(s) to any public right-of-way.
      4.   Approved by the culinary water authority and the sanitary sewer
authority, if a culinary water system or sewer system is included in the plans
of the subdivision. (Note: Under Kane County ordinance and Utah State Code a
building permit will not be issued for lots that do not first contain an
approved culinary water and sewer system.)
   F.   The plat shall have a name for the subdivision that includes the words
“Platted Unimproved Subdivision” which is distinct from all other recorded
subdivisions in the County Recorder’s Office.
   G.   The size, shape and location of the proposed lots as shown on the
proposed plat may be different than the size, shape and location of the land as
it was illegally subdivided prior to January 1, 2009, except that no lot shall
be reduced in size if it is already smaller than ten (10) acres and no lot
shall be reduced to a size smaller than ten (10) acres. Furthermore, the total
number of proposed lots on the plat may be the same or less but shall not be
greater than the number of lots created by the act of illegal subdivision prior
to January 1, 2009.
   H.   The application shall not be inconsistent with the County General Plan.
   I.   Each existing easement (either by dedication or by prescriptive use)
providing access to surrounding subservient properties shall be preserved and
dedicated on the plat. Upon permission from the owner of the subservient lot,
these existing easements may be realigned.
   J.   Any public right-of-way or utility easement (either by dedication or by
prescriptive use) existing on the land contained in the application shall be
preserved and dedicated on the plat.
   K.   Each existing and newly created access road or easement shall have a
name for address purposes that is distinct from other road or easement names
located in Kane County as approved by the Address Administrator.
   L.   The applicant shall submit an agreement of understanding with the Kane
County Commission that in unincorporated areas of the County, dedicated roads
will not be accepted, improved or maintained by the County, until the
subdivision complies with articles A through J of this chapter, specifically
including the width of the easement and the condition of the road.
   M.   If the application contains agricultural land in agricultural use as
defined in Utah State Code section 59-2-502 (FAA) (as amended) the applicant is
not required but is encouraged to meet with the County Assessor to review how
this application may affect the tax status of the land in the application.
(Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-1, 1-27-2014, eff. 2-
11-2014 Ord. O-2018-1, 1-12-2018; Ord. O-2019-13, 6-11-2019; Ord. O-2022-23, 4-
26-2022)
9-21M-4: APPROVAL; EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
   A.   If an applicant meets the requirements of section
9-21M-3 of this article the Administrative Land Use Authority shall approve or
deny the application.
   B.   If recommended for approval the plat shall be recorded.
   C.   A platted unimproved subdivision with a recorded approved plat shall be
considered in compliance with this chapter as of the date of recording.
   D.   A building permit shall not be denied on the basis that a lot or parcel
is part of a platted unimproved subdivision, approved under this article.
   E.   A lot or parcel approved under this article shall not be restricted
from being sold or offered for sale under sections
9-21A-6 and
9-21B-4 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2019-13, 6-11-2019; Ord.
O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
ARTICLE N. BONA FIDE AGRICULTURAL DIVISION
SECTION:
9-21N-1: Intent
9-21N-2: Definitions
9-21N-3: Bona Fide Agricultural Division Application
9-21N-4: Approval; Effect Of Approval
9-21N-1: INTENT:
Under Utah code section 17-27a-103(60) a subdivision is essentially defined as
any and all divisions of land. There are several exclusions including (60)(c)
(i) "a bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for agricultural
purposes". This chapter contains the same definition. This exclusion is
referred to in this chapter as a bona fide agricultural division. If a division
of land qualifies under this exclusion, the division of land is not subject to
the general requirements of the subdivision ordinance. This article first sets
forth a mandatory application process so that individuals who desire to use the
exclusion along with present and future county officials can be assured that
the act of division is or was done in compliance with applicable laws. Second,
this article sets forth the present and future restrictions on land that is
divided as a bona fide agricultural division. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff.
11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2015-12, 7-27-2015, eff. 8-11-2015)
9-21N-2: DEFINITIONS:
AGRICULTURAL LAND, LAND IN AGRICULTURAL USE: Land devoted to the raising of
useful plants and animals with a reasonable expectation of profit that also has
a recorded approved application under the farmland assessment act, Utah code
section 59-2-501 et al., as amended.
AGRICULTURAL PURPOSE: A result or effect that is intended or desired to
substantially promote, support or encourage a legitimate existing agricultural
use.
AGRICULTURAL USE: The raising of useful plants and/or animals with a reasonable
expectation of profit.
BONA FIDE DIVISION OR PARTITION OF AGRICULTURAL LAND FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES:
Any division of agricultural land, as defined herein, which is actively devoted
to "agricultural use", as defined herein, for a specific "agricultural
purpose", as defined herein, provided that the following criteria are also
established:
   A.   Each subsequent lot is at least ten (10) acres in size;
   B.   The land at the time of the division is zoned agricultural;
   C.   The purpose for the division is a legitimate agricultural purpose which
is common practice among landowners actively engaged in agricultural use. (Ord.
2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
9-21N-3: BONA FIDE AGRICULTURAL DIVISION APPLICATION:
No land shall be divided under the definition set forth in Utah code section
17-27a-103(60)(c)(i) without first submitting an application that complies with
this article. Notwithstanding articles A through J of this chapter, the
administrative land use authority may approve an application for a bona fide
agricultural division, if the following criteria and requirements are met:
   A.   The applicant shall complete, sign, and submit an official application
together with any other required documentation, the form of the application
having been prepared by the land use administrator, and pay the associated fee,
if any.
   B.   The administrative land use authority finds that the proposed division
is a "bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for agricultural
purposes" as defined in section
9-21N-2 of this article.
   C.   The administrative land use authority shall presume that the proposed
division is not a bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for
agricultural purposes unless the applicant overcomes the presumption by a
preponderance of the evidence.
   D.   The applicant has the burden to specifically prove that the land
contained in the application is agricultural land and that the subsequent lots
or parcels will continue to be agricultural land.
   E.   The applicant shall present the specific agricultural purpose for the
division.
   F.   The application shall not include any portion of land previously
approved under article K, L or M of this chapter or that is or was already part
of an approved platted subdivision as shown by the records in the county
recorder's office.
   G.   Each lot or parcel contained in the application shall conform to the
size and shape requirements of the agricultural zone.
   H.   The application shall contain the proposed legal description of each
resulting lot or parcel and shall contain a drawing that generally indicates
the size, shape, and location of the proposed division.
   I.   The applicant shall not be required to submit a plat or record of
survey but is encouraged to do so.
   J.   The application shall not be inconsistent with the county general plan.
   K.   The applicant shall submit an agreement of understanding with the Kane
County administrative land use authority that in unincorporated areas of the
county, dedicated roads will not be accepted, improved or maintained by the
county, until the subdivision complies with articles A through J of this
chapter, specifically including the width of the easement and the condition of
the road.
   L.   Each lot or parcel contained in the application shall have: 1) a
vesting of the utility and access easements and other rights of access that the
parent parcel holds at the time of the application; 2) a minimum twenty eight
foot (28') wide recorded access and utility easement across the parent parcel
that is necessary to connect the new parcel to any public right of way to which
the parent parcel has access; and 3) a recorded utility easement across the
parent parcel necessary to allow each newly created lot access to the same
utilities currently available to the parent parcel or planned, at the time of
the proposed subdivision, to be available to the parent parcel in the future.
(Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. O-2015-12, 7-27-2015, eff.
8-11-2015; Ord. O-2025-03, 2-25-2025, eff. 3-12-2025)
9-21N-4: APPROVAL; EFFECT OF APPROVAL:
   A.   If an applicant meets the requirements of section
9-21N-3 of this article the land use authority administrator may approve the
application and issue a letter of written approval. If deemed necessary the
application can be recommended for approval to the land use authority. (Ord. O-
2015-12, 7-27-2015, eff. 8-11-2015)
   B.   The applicant shall record the letter of written approval with each
newly created lot or parcel of land. Any land resulting from an approved bona
fide agricultural division with a recorded letter of written approval shall be
considered in compliance with this chapter as of the date of recording.
   C.   No building permit shall be issued for any habitable structure but may
be issued for nondwelling structures for agricultural purposes.
   D.   If one or more lots or parcels resulting from a division approved under
this article are withdrawn from assessment under the farmland assessment act,
the owner of the lot or parcel shall immediately comply with any and all
subdivision requirements under this chapter as if the original division was a
subdivision at the time of the division. If one or more lots or parcels
approved under this article are withdrawn from assessment under the farmland
assessment act, the lots or parcels shall be considered an illegal subdivision
until they comply with the requirements of the subdivision ordinance.
   E.   Nothing in this article shall prohibit the owner of a lot or parcel
resulting from a bona fide agricultural division from applying for a rural
unimproved subdivision. (Ord. 2013-10, 11-4-2013, eff. 11-19-2013)
ARTICLE O. DUCK CREEK TOWNSITE SUBDIVISION
SECTION:
9-21O-1: Duck Creek Area
9-21O-1: DUCK CREEK AREA:
In order to support public health and safety services for the local Duck Creek
area community, to provide a regional wastewater treatment system, and to
provide land for other community based health and safety services including
water, wastewater, fire protection, solid waste management, and other future
qualifying needs (schools, medical, and utilities), the Duck Creek Townsite
Subdivision shall be exempt from complying with the rules and regulations set
forth and established by this chapter in its entirety. Furthermore, in order to
fully utilize the sixty nine (69) acre Townsite Subdivision to accomplish the
purposes of providing public health and safety services, the Duck Creek
Townsite Subdivision shall be zoned C-2 in accordance with chapter 7, article B
of this title. (Ord. O-2018-28, 12-17-2018)
ARTICLE P. SINGLE-FAMILY, TWO-FAMILY, AND TOWNHOME SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-21P-1: Purpose And Authority
9-21P-2: Definitions
9-21P-3: Designation Of Administrative Authority
9-21P-4: Pre-Application Process
9-21P-5: Preliminary Subdivision Application Process
9-21P-6: Final Subdivision Application Process
9-21P-7: Review Cycle Process
9-21P-8: Appeals After Final Review Cycle
9-21P-9: Approval Of Final Subdivision Application
9-21P-10: Standards And Specifications For Public Improvements
9-21P-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this article is to ensure compliance with Utah
Code for subdivisions involving single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings,
and townhomes.
   B.   Applicability: The provisions of this article apply only to
subdivisions for single-family, two-family, and townhome developments. Where
conflicts arise between this article and other sections of the Kane County
Subdivision Ordinance, the provisions of this article shall control for such
applications. (Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21P-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
 
                               The occurrence of: (i) the applicant's
                               submission of a complete subdivision
                               application; (ii) the county's review of that
REVIEW CYCLE:                  application; (iii) the county's response to that
                               application; and (iv) the applicant's reply to
                               the county's response that addresses each
                               required modification or request for additional
                               information.
                               A land use application for the subdivision of
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION:       land within the unincorporated area of the
                               county.
                               The civil engineering plans associated with
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT PLANS: required infrastructure improvements and county-
                               controlled utilities for a subdivision.
                               Review by the county to verify that a
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE REVIEW:  subdivision application meets the criteria of
                               the county's ordinances.
                               Review of the applicant's subdivision
                               improvement plans and other aspects of the
SUBDIVISION PLAN REVIEW:       subdivision application to verify compliance
                               with county ordinances and standards. (Ord. O-
                               2024-14, 11-12-2024)
 
9-21P-3: DESIGNATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
The Kane County Land Use Authority Administrator is designated as the
Administrative Land Use Authority with the authority to review and approve
preliminary and final subdivision applications for single-family dwellings,
two-family dwellings, and townhomes. (Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21P-4: PRE-APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   If an applicant requests a pre-application meeting, the Land Use
Authority Administrator shall, within fifteen (15) business days, schedule the
meeting to review the concept plan and provide initial feedback.
   B.   At the pre-application meeting, county staff shall provide:
      1.   Copies of applicable land use regulations;
      2.   A complete list of standards required for the project;
      3.   Preliminary and final application checklists; and
      4.   Feedback on the concept plan. (Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21P-5: PRELIMINARY SUBDIVISION APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Application Submission: Applications for preliminary subdivision
approval shall be submitted to the Kane County Land Use Administrator and
include: (1) an owner's affidavit; (2) an electronic copy of all plans in PDF
format; (3) preliminary subdivision plat drawings; and (4) a breakdown of fees.
   B.   Review Period: The Land Use Authority Administrator shall complete a
review within fifteen (15) business days after receipt of a complete
application.
   C.   Request For Additional Information: The Land Use Authority
Administrator may request specific additional information or modifications,
including applicable ordinance citations, and such requests shall be logged.
(Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21P-6: FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Application Requirements: The final application must include
subdivision improvement plans and be submitted to the Kane County Land Use
Administrator.
   B.   Review Period: The Land Use Authority Administrator shall complete a
review of the final application within twenty (20) business days after receipt
of a complete application.
   C.   Modifications And Additional Information: In reviewing the final
application, the Land Use Authority Administrator may require specific
modifications, which shall include citations to relevant ordinances and be
logged in an index. (Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21P-7: REVIEW CYCLE PROCESS:
   A.   Review Cycle Definition: Each review cycle shall consist of the
applicant's submission, county review, county response, and applicant reply.
   B.   Timeline: Each review cycle shall be completed within twenty (20)
business days. There shall be no more than four (4) review cycles per
application.
   C.   Waiver Of Unaddressed Modifications: Modifications not addressed during
the review process are waived unless necessary for health and safety. (Ord. O-
2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21P-8: APPEALS AFTER FINAL REVIEW CYCLE:
   A.   Appeal Process: If the County fails to respond within twenty (20)
business days after the final review cycle, the applicant may initiate an
appeal process.
   B.   Appeal Request: The applicant must submit a written request for an
appeal to the County within ten (10) business days after the County's failure
to respond.
   C.   Appeal Panel: The County shall, within ten (10) business days after
receiving the appeal request, assemble an appeal panel in accordance with Utah
Code 17-27a-507(5)(d). The panel shall consist of three (3) licensed engineers:
      1.   One designated by the County;
      2.   One designated by the applicant; and
      3.   One mutually agreed upon by the two (2) designated engineers.
   D.   Panel Qualifications: Members of the panel may not have a personal or
financial interest in the application that is the subject of the appeal.
   E.   Costs: The applicant shall pay fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the
appeal panel, along with the County's published appeal fee.
   F.   Review And Determination: The appeal panel shall review the final
revised set of plans and make a determination to approve or deny the
application within fifteen (15) business days of being assembled. The panel's
determination shall be final and binding.
   G.   Notification: The County shall notify the applicant in writing of the
panel's decision, including any reasons for denial, and provide information
regarding further appeal options if available. (Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21P-9: APPROVAL OF FINAL SUBDIVISION APPLICATION:
Administrative Approval: Approval of the final subdivision application shall
not require Planning Commission or County Commission approval if the
application complies with all applicable ordinances. If the applicant desires
to have any exemptions from any applicable ordinance, the may pursue the
exemption through a development agreement that is approved by the county
commission after having a public hearing and receiving a recommendation from
the planning commission.
(Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
9-21P-10: STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Public Improvement Standards: Existing county standards and specifications for
construction of public improvements shall apply to all subdivisions governed by
this article. However, the review process shall follow the requirements
specified in this article. (Ord. O-2024-14, 11-12-2024)
CHAPTER 22
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-22-1: Purpose
9-22-2: General Provisions
9-22-3: Performance Standards Procedure
9-22-4: Commercial Performance Standards And Procedures
9-22-1: PURPOSE:
To permit potential nuisances from industrial or other uses to be measured
factually and objectively in terms of the potential nuisance itself; to ensure
that all uses will provide necessary control methods for protection from
hazards and nuisances which can be prevented by modern processes of control and
nuisance elimination; to protect any use from arbitrary exclusion based solely
on the characteristics of uncontrolled production in this type of use in the
past. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-22-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   No land or building in any zone shall be used or occupied in any manner
so as to create dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable fire,
explosive, or other hazard; noise or vibration, smoke, dust, odor, or other
form of air pollution; heat, cold, dampness, glare, electrical or other
disturbance; liquid or solid refuse or wastes; or other substance, condition or
element in such a manner or in such an amount as to affect adversely the
surrounding area or adjoining premises. The foregoing is hereinafter referred
to as "dangerous or objectionable elements". No use shall be undertaken or
maintained unless it conforms to the regulations of this chapter in addition to
the regulations set forth for the district in which such use is situated. (Ord.
2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. O-2019-13, 6-11-2019)
   B.   Any improvements to be made within a subdivision such as, but not
limited to: roads, water, fire suppression water, power, septic/sewer, and
drainage system shall first be approved by the Land Use Authority before any
work can begin. The owner and/or owner's agent will be required to submit a
Developers Subdivision Application and complete the subdivision approval
process. All subdivision requirements and standards can be found in chapter 21,
articles A through I of this title. Any owner and/or owner's agent found in
violation of this section shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor upon
conviction, punishable by a fine, injunction, mandamus, abatement, merger of
title, civil penalty, or any other remedy provided by law. (Ord. O-2019-13, 6-
11-2019)
9-22-3: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS PROCEDURE:
The Zoning and/or Land Use Administrator or County Engineer may require
performance standards review for compliance of any use in any zone when there
is reason to believe that such use or the manner of its operation will not or
may not conform to the performance standards adopted by Kane County, to
include, but not limited to, "Kane County Standard Specifications and Drawing
Details for Design and Construction", Federal, State and local EPA standards,
ICC Codes, etc. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013; amd. Ord. O-2022-07,
2-22-2022)
9-22-4: COMMERCIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   All commercial developments shall comply with the Kane County Standard
Specifications and Drawing Details for Design and Construction of Roads.
   B.   Service stations, roadside stands, public parking lots and other
businesses requiring motor vehicle access shall meet the requirements as
prescribed in the Utah State Department of Transportation's manual entitled
"Regulations for the Control and Protection of State Highway Rights-of-Way"
where such access is on a Utah Department of Transportation right-of-way. (Ord.
O-2019-4, 3-25-2019)
CHAPTER 23
RESERVED
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
CHAPTER 24
SOLAR POWER PLANTS
SECTION:
9-24-1: Purpose
9-24-2: Definitions
9-24-3: Regulations And Design Standards; Solar Power Plant
9-24-4: Provisions For Conditional Use Permit Review
9-24-5: Submission Of Application
9-24-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum requirements and
regulations for the placement, construction and modification of solar power
plants, as defined herein, while promoting the safe, effective and efficient
use of such energy systems. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-24-2: DEFINITIONS:
CONCENTRATING SOLAR THERMAL DEVICES: Systems that use lenses or mirrors and
tracking systems to focus a large area of sunlight into a small beam. The
concentrated light is then used as a heat source for a conventional power
plant. Although, wide ranges of concentrating technologies exist, the most
developed are the solar trough, parabolic dish and solar power tower.
PHOTOVOLTAICS OR PV: A technology that converts light directly into
electricity.
SOLAR POWER PLANT: A utility scale commercial facility that uses solar energy,
specifically for the conversion of sunlight into electricity by photovoltaic,
concentrating solar thermal devices or various experimental technologies, for
the primary purpose of wholesale or retail sales of generated electricity.
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-24-3: REGULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS; SOLAR POWER PLANT:
A solar power plant shall comply with the regulations and design standards set
forth below:
   A.   Permitted Locations: A solar power plant is not allowed in any
residential zone.
   B.   Height: Height will be established through the conditional use permit
process.
   C.   Setbacks:
      1.   Property Lines: Any facility of a solar power plant shall be set
back from the nearest property line, public road right of way and tanks
containing combustible/flammable liquids not less than 1.5 times the total
height of its tallest structure; (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
      2.   Inhabitable Or Public Structures/Other Uses: No solar power plant
shall be located within two thousand six hundred forty feet (2,640') equivalent
to one-half (1/2) mile from the nearest inhabitable structure (residence,
platted subdivision, or public building or gathering place), park, church,
hospital, library, school, playground, etc. (Ord. 2016-16, 12-12-2016)
   D.   Safety/Access:
      1.   An appropriate security fence (height and material to be established
through the conditional use permit process) shall be placed around the
perimeter of the solar power plant and electrical equipment shall be locked;
      2.   Appropriate warning signage shall be placed on towers, electrical
equipment and solar power plant entrances.
   E.   Noise: No solar power plant shall exceed sixty five (65) dBA as
measured at the property line or fifty (50) dBA as measured at the nearest
neighboring habitable building.
   F.   Visual Appearance:
      1.   Solar power plants shall be finished and maintained as manufactured;
      2.   The design of any buildings or related structures shall, to the
extent reasonably possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and
landscaping that will blend the facility into the natural setting and existing
environment;
      3.   Appropriate landscaping shall be provided to minimize the visual
impact of the commercial solar power plant and accessory structures from roads
and adjacent residences. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
      4.   For aesthetic purposes a solar power plant cannot be sited within
frontage of no less than half of a mile from Highways 89, SR-14 and SR-9. If
the natural landscape is such that the scenic values are shielded the distance
can be closer.
      5.   The applicant shall work with the County to develop a visual
screening program that will fund the one-time planting of trees or shrubs,
construction of screening fencing, or other mutually acceptable provisions that
will screen views of the project from occupied residences (as of the date of
County approval of the project) that are within the one (1) mile boundary of
the solar generation facility site or within the area bounded by highways. The
height of the screening shall be sufficient to obstruct the view of the solar
generation facility as seen from two (2) corners of the residential structure
or another agreed upon point on the landscaped area or permanent outbuilding.
(Ord. O-2017-5, 6-26-2017)
   G.   Local, State And Federal Permits: A solar power plant shall be required
to obtain all necessary permits from the Utah Department of Environmental
Quality, including the Utah Division of Air Quality and the Utah Division of
Water Quality, and Federal permits along with applicable permits required by
Kane County and local utility companies affecting the power grid.
   H.   Electrical Interconnections: All electrical interconnection or
distribution lines shall comply with all applicable codes and standard
commercial large scale utility requirements. "PV" systems must be approved for
interconnection by the serving utility before operations can begin if so
connected. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-24-4: PROVISIONS FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REVIEW:
Following the provisions of chapter 15 of this title, additional or more
thorough consideration shall be given to the following:
   A.   Site and development plans (drawn to scale; locating all structures
existing and proposed, setbacks, access, project boundary, existing structures
outside project boundary within 1/2 mile of project boundary, existing
utilities/pipelines/transmission lines, proposed utility lines/structures,
existing topography);
   B.   Transportation plan for construction and operation phases (showing
proposed project service road ingress and egress access onto the State or
County road system, layout of the solar power plant service road system and
degree of upgrade plan to new and existing roads, anticipated volume and route
for traffic, including oversized and heavy equipment needed for construction,
maintenance and repairs, methodology of repairs and maintenance of roads and
bridges used for the project, and related public pedestrian and vehicular
access and associated fencing);
   C.   Public safety (potential hazards to adjacent properties, public
roadways, communities, aviation, etc., that may be created);
   D.   Telecommunications interference (electromagnetic fields and
communications interference generated by the project); (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013,
eff. 8-27-2013)
   E.   Life of the project and final reclamation (describing the
decommissioning and final land reclamation plan after anticipated useful life
or abandonment or termination of the project, including evidence of an
agreement with the property owner that ensures proper final reclamation of the
solar power plant project);
      1.   Performance Bond/Decommission Fund: In order to adequately protect
Kane County and its citizens in the event the applicant, or its successors or
assigns, cannot complete the expected twenty five (25) year project lifespan,
cease ongoing business operations, or abandon the project and/or the property
for whatever reason, the agreement shall provide for the establishment and
maintenance of a Decommission Fund, with sufficient financial assurances to
fully restore the property to pre-project conditions. The agreement shall allow
the County to use the Decommission Fund to restore the property to pre-project
conditions in the event that the applicant, or its successors or assigns, do
not properly decommission the project or restore the property to its original
conditions within a reasonable time following the cessation of business
operations or the abandonment of the project of property for whatever reason.
The agreement shall provide that the amount of the decommissioning funds shall
be calculated to fully implement the decommissioning activities. The agreement
shall also provide that, in the event that the Decommission Fund is inadequate
to fully decommission the project or restore the property, the applicant, its
successors or assigns, shall be liable for any amount expended by the County
over the Decommission Fund balance and shall provide for termination of the
Decommission Fund upon the completion of implementation of the decommissioning.
      2.   Financial Assurances: Financial assurances may take the form of
letter of credit, or a bond using a preliminary cost estimate for building the
facilities. (Ord. O-2017-5, 6-26-2017)
   F.   Visual impacts, appearance, and scenic viewsheds. Potential visual
impacts may be caused by components of the project such as mirrors, solar
towers, cooling towers, steam plumes, aboveground electrical lines, accessory
structures, access roads, utility trenches and installations, and alteration of
vegetation. Those projects that are within a sensitive viewshed, utilize
reflective components (e.g., exposed mirrors), or that propose structures
taller than thirty feet (30') must provide a viewshed analysis of the project,
including visual simulations of the planned structures and analysis of
potential glare impacts. The number of visual simulations shall be sufficient
to provide adequate analysis of the visual impacts of the proposal, which shall
be from no less than four (4) vantage points that together provide a view from
all sides of the project. More visually sensitive proposals (e.g., solar power
towers or exposed mirrors in sensitive viewsheds) may require analysis from
significantly more vantage points, such as different distances and sensitive
locations. The Planning Commission may also require a zone of theoretical
visibility/zone of visual impact (ZVI) analysis, which is a three hundred sixty
degree (360°) computer analysis to map the lands within a defined radius of a
location that would likely be able to see an object. Significant visual impacts
that cannot be adequately mitigated are grounds for denial. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-
2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
   G.   Environmental analysis. In the absence of a required State or Federal
agency environmental review for the project (e.g., NEPA), the Planning
Commission may require an analysis of impacts to historic, cultural and
archaeological resources, soil erosion (water and wind), flora, and water
quality and water supply in the area, when there is reason to believe that
adverse impacts to such may occur.
      1.   All conditional use permits shall comply with the Kane County
Resource Management Plan for soil restoration, vegetation, water sheds and
views pertaining to an environmental analysis review. (Ord. O-2017-5, 6-26-
2017)
   H.   Solid waste or hazardous waste. As applicable, the application must
include plans for the spill prevention, cleanup, and disposal of fuels, oils,
and hazardous wastes, as well as collection methods for solid waste generated
by the project.
   I.   Height restrictions and FAA hazard review. Compliance with any
applicable airport overlay zoning requirements and the ability to comply with
FAA regulations pertaining to hazards to air navigation must be demonstrated.
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
   J.   Transportation plan for construction and operation phases. Indicate by
description and map what roads the project will utilize during the construction
and operation/maintenance phases of the project, along with their existing
surfacing and condition. Specify any new roads and proposed upgrades or
improvements needed to the existing road system to serve the project (both the
construction and O&M periods) - remember to identify needed bridges, culverts,
livestock fence crossings (gates and cattle guards), etc. Also identify all
areas where modification of the topography is anticipated (cutting/filling) to
construct or improve the roadways. Address road improvement, restoration or
maintenance needs associated with the construction, ongoing maintenance/repair,
and potential dismantling of the project. Provide projected traffic counts for
the construction period, broken down by the general type/size of vehicles, and
identify approximately how many trips will have oversized or overweight loads.
If significant impacts to the transportation system are anticipated, the County
may require financial guarantees to ensure proper repair/restoration of
roadways or other infrastructure damaged or degraded during construction or
dismantling of the project. In such case, the "before" conditions of the
roadways and other infrastructure must be documented through appropriate
methods such as videos, photos, and written records, to provide a proper
reference for restoration.
      1.   Utah Department of Transportation shall sign off on projects using
Highway 89. All solar power plants shall be sited a mile off of Highway 89, due
to Kane County's scenic values. Kane County's Road Department shall be notified
of development meetings and sign off for any road plans for access of ingress/
egress and County road use. The applicant shall submit a road maintenance
agreement to the Kane County Road Department for review and approval as
determined necessary. If any reconstruction or damage is done the necessary
amounts shall be agreed upon between the applicant and Kane County Road
Department.
   K.   The applicant shall develop and implement an exterior lighting plan for
both permanent and temporary facilities. The plan shall define the height,
location, and intensity of all exterior lighting. All lighting fixtures shall
be positioned "down and into" the development, and shielded so that neither the
lamp nor the related reflector interior surface is visible from surrounding
properties and key viewing areas. When nighttime lighting is required for
construction, temporary lighting shall be hooded to the extent consistent with
safety. Lighting fixtures shall be directed away from the highway to avoid
glare and, when near a residence, shall be pointed away from the residence. The
lighting plan shall focus on keeping the lumen/light intensity level to the
lowest possible while still meeting minimum safety and security requirements.
Unless determined necessary by the County for safety or security reasons, the
entry sign shall not be lit (reflective coating is acceptable). These measures
shall be shown on applicable plans prior to issuance of a building permit and
permanent lighting shall be installed prior to final inspection.
   L.   The applicant shall enter into an agreement with the County Land Use
Administrator, on a form approved by Kane County, to provide for the defense
and indemnity of the County for any claims, injury, liability, loss, costs,
attorneys fees, expenses, or damages sought by third parties from the County
alleged to have arisen directly or indirectly out of, or in any way associated
with, any of the approvals, environments review, or other actions taken in
connection with the project.
   M.   The applicant shall submit evidence that there is adequate water to
serve the project on the site including all septic systems, adequate fire
control, dust control and maintenance for washing the panels throughout the
lifespan of the project. Local water districts must sign off on any additional
watering needs.
   N.   All affected County staff such as the Building Department, County
Engineer, Roads Department, UDOT, Fire Marshal, Sheriff's Office, Resource
Planner and the Land Use Administrator shall be notified for a development
meeting to discuss the local requirements and compliance to Kane County's laws
and ordinances and the Resource Management Plan.
   O.   Other probable and significant impacts, as identified through the
review process. (Ord. O-2017-5, 6-26-2017)
9-24-5: SUBMISSION OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Permit Application: Application for a solar power plant shall include
the following information:
      1.   Site plan to scale showing location of the proposed solar power
plant and the locations of all existing buildings, structures and property
lines along with distances, including a drawing depicting the area;
      2.   Elevations of the site to scale showing the height, design and
configuration of the solar power plant and the height and distance to all
existing structures, buildings, electrical lines and property lines;
      3.   Standard drawings and engineering analysis of the solar power plant
feasibility;
      4.   Specific information on the type, size, rated power output,
performance, safety and noise characteristics of the system, including the name
and address of the manufacturer, model;
      5.   Emergency and normal shutdown procedures. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013,
eff. 8-27-2013)
CHAPTER 25
NUCLEAR WASTE
SECTION:
9-25-1: Purpose
9-25-2: Authority
9-25-3: Definitions
9-25-4: Nuclear And Radioactive Waste
9-25-5: Municipal Type Services Regarding Waste
9-25-1: PURPOSE:
To provide specific provisions related to any areas within, or partially
within, the exterior boundaries of the county, or contiguous to the boundaries
of the county, which are proposed for the siting of a storage facility or
transfer facility for the placement of high level nuclear waste or greater than
class C radioactive nuclear waste, including provisions that address the
effects of the proposed site upon the health and general welfare of citizens of
the state. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-25-2: AUTHORITY:
Utah state code section 17-34-1(3), prohibits a county from providing municipal
type services to any area under consideration for a storage facility or
transfer facility for the placement of high level nuclear waste, or greater
than class C radioactive waste; or seek to fund services for these facilities.
Also in Utah state code section 17-27a-409, the state of Utah will indemnify
the county in a challenge in a court of law regarding its decision to deny
siting of a storage or transfer facility for the placement of high level
nuclear waste or greater than class C radioactive waste or its refusal to
provide municipal type services regarding such a facility if the county
complies with Utah state code sections 17-27a-401(3)(b) and 17-34-1(3). (Ord.
2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-25-3: DEFINITIONS:
GREATER THAN CLASS C RADIOACTIVE WASTE: Low level radioactive waste that has
higher concentrations of specific radionuclides than allowed for class C waste.
HIGH LEVEL NUCLEAR WASTE: Spent reactor fuel assemblies, dismantled nuclear
reactor components, and solid and liquid wastes from fuel reprocessing and
defense related wastes.
MUNICIPAL TYPE SERVICES: Includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   Fire protection service;
   B.   Waste and garbage collection and disposal;
   C.   Planning and zoning;
   D.   Street lighting;
   E.   Life support and paramedic services;
   F.   Water;
   G.   Sewer;
   H.   Electricity;
   I.   Natural gas or other fuel; or
   J.   Law enforcement.
PLACEMENT: Transportation, transfer, storage, decay in storage, treatment, or
disposal.
STORAGE FACILITY: Any facility which stores, holds, or otherwise provides for
the emplacement of waste regardless of the intent to recover that waste for
subsequent use, processing, or disposal.
TRANSFER FACILITY: Any facility which transfers waste from and between
transportation modes, vehicles, cars, or other units, and includes rail
terminals and intermodal transfer points.
WASTE: High level nuclear waste and greater than class C radioactive waste.
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-25-4: NUCLEAR AND RADIOACTIVE WASTE:
All proposals for the siting of a storage facility or transfer facility for the
placement of high level nuclear waste or greater than class C radioactive
waste, wholly or partially within the county, are rejected. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-
2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-25-5: MUNICIPAL TYPE SERVICES REGARDING WASTE:
The county refuses to provide, contract to provide, or agree in any manner to
provide municipal type services to any area under consideration for a storage
facility or transfer facility for the placement of high level nuclear waste, or
greater than class C radioactive waste. The county refuses to seek to fund
services for these facilities by levying a tax or charging a service charge or
fee to persons benefiting from the municipal type services. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-
2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
CHAPTER 26
WATER SOURCE PROTECTION AREAS
SECTION:
9-26-1: Statutory Authority
9-26-2: Short Title And Purpose
9-26-3: Definitions
9-26-4: Filing, Recording And Notice Of Maps Showing Source Protection Zones
9-26-5: Establishment Of Drinking Water Source Protection Zones
9-26-6: Prohibited Uses
9-26-7: Substances Not Subject To Provisions
9-26-8: Overly Protective Management Areas And Protection Zones
9-26-9: Preexisting Uses
9-26-10: Administration
9-26-11: Enforcement
9-26-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
The statutory authority for enacting this chapter is Utah state code sections
17-27a-102 and 17-53-223, as amended. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-26-2: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the DRINKING WATER SOURCE
PROTECTION ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to comply with Utah state code
section 19-4-113, as amended, requiring counties to adopt a water source
protection ordinance to protect groundwater sources of public drinking water.
This chapter is to ensure the provision of a safe and sanitary drinking water
supply for the county by the establishment of drinking water source protection
zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells which are the supply sources for
any public water supply agency (PWSA) water system and by the designation and
regulation of property uses and conditions which may be maintained within such
zones and to meet the requirements of a preliminary evaluation report according
to the state drinking water source protection rule (R309-600 Utah
administrative code).
   C.   Conflict: This chapter is designed to supplement, but not replace,
other ordinances and regulations governing the use of property within the
county, such as other regulations in this title. In case of conflict between
this chapter and any other applicable ordinance or regulation, the more
restrictive requirement shall prevail.
   D.   Degree Of Protection; Limitation Of Liability: The degree of protection
afforded by this chapter is considered adequate for regulatory purposes. This
chapter does not ensure that public drinking water sources will not be subject
to accidental or intentional contamination, nor does it create liability on the
part of the county, or an officer or employee thereof, for any damages to the
public water supplies from reliance on this chapter, nor any administrative
order lawfully made hereunder.
   E.   Owner Liability: A notice to cease or an exemption issued under this
chapter shall not relieve the owner of the obligation to comply with any other
applicable federal, state, regional or local regulations, rules, ordinances or
requirements, nor shall said notice or exemption relieve any owner of any
liability for violation of such regulations, rules, ordinances or requirements.
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-26-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following shall have the following meanings:
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): A practice or combination of practices that
reduces the potential for spills and leaks at a site to occur and enter
groundwater. "BMPs" shall be construed within the context of this chapter to
include, but not be limited to, structural and nonstructural practices,
conservation practices, and operation and maintenance procedures identified by
the state department of environmental quality and the U.S. environmental
protection agency. "BMPs" should be the most effective practicable (including
technological, economic and institutional considerations) means of preventing
pollution sources from entering groundwater. "BMPs" may include, but not be
limited to, those practices outlined in the state department of environmental
quality pollution prevention fact sheets.
DESIGN STANDARD: A standard applied to the design, construction and ongoing
operation of various land use activities that imposes specific physical
requirements and that is implemented by a potential contamination source to
prevent discharges to the groundwater. Examples of design standards include,
but are not limited to, facilities for segregating wastes for recovery and
separating hazardous and nonhazardous wastes to prevent cross contamination;
eliminating sources of leaks and spills; physical barriers, such as a berm or
dike, which will hold spills or leaks; use of double walled tanks to store
chemicals; locating storage and mixing areas away from floor drains, and waste
disposal procedures.
POLLUTION SOURCE: Point source discharges of contaminants to groundwater or
potential discharges of the liquid forms of "extremely hazardous substances"
which are stored in containers in excess of "applicable threshold planning
quantities" as specified in SARA title III (42 USC 11002). Examples of possible
pollution sources include, but are not limited to, the following: storage
facilities that store the liquid forms of extremely hazardous substances,
septic tanks, drainfields, class V underground injection wells, landfills, open
dumps, land filling of sludge and septage, manure piles, salt piles, pit
privies, and animal feeding operations with more than ten (10) animal units.
The following clarify the definition of "pollution source":
   A.   Animal Feeding Operation: A lot or facility where the following
conditions are met: 1) animals have been or will be stabled or confined and fed
or maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in any twelve (12)
month period; and 2) crops, vegetation forage growth, or postharvest residues
are not sustained in the normal growing season over any portion of the lot or
facility. Two (2) or more animal feeding operations under common ownership are
considered to be a single feeding operation: 1) if they adjoin each other; 2)
if they use a common area; or 3) if they use a common system for the disposal
of wastes.
   B.   Animal Unit: A unit of measurement for any animal feeding operation
calculated by adding the following numbers: the number of slaughter and feeder
cattle multiplied by 1.0, plus the number of mature dairy cattle multiplied by
1.4, plus the number of swine weighing over fifty five (55) pounds multiplied
by 0.4, plus the number of sheep multiplied by 0.1, plus the number of horses
multiplied by 2.0.
   C.   Extremely Hazardous Substances: Those substances which are identified
in the section 302(EHS) column of the "Title III List Of Lists - Consolidated
List Of Chemicals Subject To Reporting Under SARA Title III" (EPA 560/4-91-
011).
POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE: Any facility or site which employs an activity
or procedure which may potentially contaminate groundwater as listed on exhibit
A of the EPA potential sources of drinking water contamination index. A
pollution source is also a potential contamination source.
REGULATORY AGENCY: Any governmental agency with jurisdiction over hazardous
waste as defined herein.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing an earth cover
thereon.
SEPTIC TANK/DRAINFIELD SYSTEMS: A system that is comprised of a septic tank and
a drainfield which accepts domestic wastewater from buildings or facilities for
subsurface treatment and disposal. By their design, "septic tank/drainfield
system discharges" cannot be controlled with design standards.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-26-4: FILING, RECORDING AND NOTICE OF MAPS SHOWING SOURCE PROTECTION ZONES:
Each water source protection area covered by this chapter shall be shown on a
map which shall include the boundaries of all zones. The PWSA shall pay for and
cause a map to be prepared by a licensed civil engineer or a licensed
professional geologist, which map shall be filed with the planning office and
recorded by the county at the county recorder's office. The map may be revised
from time to time. Notice of the filing of the map shall be given to each
property owner within the boundaries of the zones by deposit in the United
States mail, certified or registered, postage prepaid, addressed to the owner
shown on the records of the county recorder, which cost shall be paid by the
PWSA. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-26-5: ESTABLISHMENT OF DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION ZONES:
There are hereby established use districts to be known as zone one and zone two
of the drinking water source protection area identified and described as
follows:
   A.   Zone One: Zone one is the area within a one hundred foot (100') radius
from the wellhead.
   B.   Zone Two: Zone two is the area within a two hundred fifty (250) day
groundwater time of travel to the wellhead, the boundary of the aquifer which
supplies water to the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever
is closer.
   C.   Zone Three: Zone three (waiver criteria zone) is the area within a
three (3) year groundwater time of travel to a wellhead or margin of the
collection area, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water to the
groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is closer.
   D.   Zone Four: Zone four is the area within a fifteen (15) year groundwater
time travel to a wellhead, the boundary of the aquifer(s) which supplies water
to the groundwater source, or the groundwater divide, whichever is closer.
(Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-26-6: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses or conditions shall be and are hereby prohibited within
drinking water source protection zones, whether or not such use or condition
may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part of a use permitted under section
9-26-7 of this chapter:
   A.   Zone One: The location of "potential contamination sources", as defined
in section
9-26-3 of this chapter, unless they are controlled with design standards.
   B.   Zone Two: The location of "pollution sources", as defined in section
9-26-3 of this chapter, unless their contaminated discharges are controlled
with design standards; provided, however, that a person may use or store a
pollution source or potential contamination source within zone two under the
following conditions:
      1.   No Reportable Quantities: If the pollution source or potential
contamination source is a hazardous substance, the amount of the pollution
source or potential contamination source does not exceed the reportable
quantity for that substance listed in 40 CFR 302.4, as amended; and
      2.   Management Plan: The person implements a management plan that
incorporates best management practices approved by the PWSA that is designed to
ensure that the pollution source and/or potential contamination source will not
be spilled or released in a manner that may potentially contaminate
groundwater. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-26-7: SUBSTANCES NOT SUBJECT TO PROVISIONS:
The following substances are not subject to the zone prohibitions and
restrictions set forth herein; provided, that these substances are handled,
stored and disposed of in a manner that does not result in an unauthorized
release or cause contamination of the groundwater:
   A.   Normal Household Storage: Regulated substances stored at residences
that do not exceed ten (10) pounds or five (5) gallons and are used for
personal, family or household purposes.
   B.   Janitorial Products For Commercial Sites: Products intended for use at
a commercial site and solely for office or janitorial purposes. Such products
must be stored in total quantities of less than twenty (20) pounds or ten (10)
gallons.
   C.   Prepackaged Consumer Products: Prepackaged consumer products available
through retail sale to individuals for personal, family or household use that
are properly stored.
   D.   Latex Paint: Water based latex paint.
   E.   Fertilizers And Treated Seed: Fertilizers and treated seed, when stored
and applied in accordance with manufacturer's instructions, label directions
and nationally recognized standards.
   F.   Pesticides: Pesticide products and materials intended for use in weed
abatement, pest control, erosion control, soil amendment or similar
applications, when applied in accordance with manufacturer's instructions,
label directions and nationally recognized standards.
   G.   Compressed Gases: Compressed gases.
   H.   Commercial Products: Substances or mixtures which may pose a hazard but
are labeled pursuant to the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act.
   I.   Fuel And Lubricant Use: The use of any petroleum product solely as an
operational fuel in a vehicle, or as an operational fuel in a landscaping or
garden tool or device, or as a lubricant in any such vehicle, tool or device;
provided, however, that these spent products shall be properly disposed of in
compliance with applicable federal, state and local regulations. (Ord. 2013-5,
8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-26-8: OVERLY PROTECTIVE MANAGEMENT AREAS AND PROTECTION ZONES:
If protection zones appear to be excessively large, changes to the protection
zones may be considered according to the following procedure:
   A.   Written Comments For Reconsideration: Submit written comments to the
PWSA stating the reasons that the delineated protection zones should be
reconsidered.
   B.   Investigation; Appeal: If the PWSA concurs, it may conduct a new
hydrogeologic investigation to address the issues raised by the entity
requesting changes to the delineated protection zones. If the PWSA does not
agree to conduct a new investigation, the entity requesting changes may appeal
to the county pursuant to the requirements set forth in this title. In the
event the county orders a new investigation, it shall be paid for by the entity
requesting the changes.
   C.   Findings; New Map: Based upon the results of the new investigation, the
planning department may make a determination that the new hydrogeologic
investigation is or is not protective. In the alternative, the new
hydrogeologic investigation may, in the county's discretion, be submitted to
the state division of drinking water for its review. If either the planning
department or the division of drinking water finds that the new hydrogeologic
investigation is protective, a new map shall be filed showing the smaller
protection zones. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-26-9: PREEXISTING USES:
Uses or conditions in place prior to September 9, 1996, are not subject to the
zone prohibitions and restrictions set forth herein. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013,
eff. 8-27-2013)
9-26-10: ADMINISTRATION:
The policies and procedures for administration of any source protection zone
established under this chapter, including, without limitation, those applicable
to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement, penalties and appeals, shall be
the same as provided in this title. (Ord. 2013-5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
9-26-11: ENFORCEMENT:
A retail or wholesale water supplier may seek enforcement of this chapter in
district court as per Utah state code section 19-4-113, as amended. (Ord. 2013-
5, 8-12-2013, eff. 8-27-2013)
CHAPTER 27
ESCALANTE REGION MULTIPLE USE/MULTIPLE FUNCTIONS GRAZING ZONE
ARTICLE A. ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
9-27A-1: Purpose
9-27A-2: Definitions
9-27A-3: Modifying Regulations
9-27A-4: Permitted And Conditional Uses
9-27A-5: Grazing Management Plans
9-27A-1: PURPOSE:
To provide a multiple use/multiple functions zone which promotes local, state
and federal coordination to restore, repair, redevelop and develop under Utah
state code section 17-27a-102, which designates counties to provide for the
health, safety, and welfare, and promote the prosperity, improve the morals,
peace and good order, comfort, convenience, and aesthetics for its present and
future inhabitants and businesses, to protect the tax base, to secure economy
and foster the county's agricultural and other industries and provide fairness
in land use regulation, and to protect and enhance property values.
The purposes of providing a multiple use/multiple functions zone are to
establish areas which are open and generally undeveloped lands where human
habitation would be limited. The zone is designed to enhance and protect land
and associated open space resources. The zone is established to encourage the
use of land, where appropriate, for forest products, livestock grazing,
agriculture, mining, wildlife habitat, and recreation. This zone is established
to protect all valid private property rights and the continued use and full
access to these rights. This zone is intended to promote the health, safety,
convenience, order, prosperity and general welfare and economy of the
inhabitants of Kane County, tourists and future generations. (Ord. 2014-6, 4-
28-2014, eff. 5-13-2014)
9-27A-2: DEFINITIONS:
GRANDFATHERED USES: Grazing, mining, and mineral leasing uses and facilities
that are allowed on the date of approval of FLPMA (October 21, 1976) or the
designation date for section 202 WSAs not reported to congress are
grandfathered (i.e., allowed and permitted) as a preexisting use. As provided
for in FLPMA section 603(c), these uses and facilities may continue in the same
manner and degree as on that date, even if this impairs wilderness suitability.
As described in FLPMA, grandfathered uses only include grazing, mining and
mineral leases, and do not include other uses such as recreational activities.
Grandfathered uses may be acquired by a new operator, but cannot be transferred
to a new location. The benchmark for the "manner and degree of an existing use
is the physical and visual impact that use was having on the area on October
21, 1976".
MULTIPLE USE: In addition to other defining provisions in this chapter, the
term "multiple use" means the management of the public lands and their various
resource values so that they are utilized in the combination that will best
meet the present and future needs of the residents of Kane County; making the
most judicious use of the land for some or all of these resources or related
services over areas large enough to provide sufficient latitude for periodic
adjustments in use to conform to changing needs and conditions; the use of some
land for less than all of the resources; a combination of balanced and diverse
resource uses that takes into account the long term needs of future generations
for renewable and nonrenewable resources, including, but not limited to,
recreation, range, timber, minerals, watershed, wildlife and fish, and natural
scenic, scientific and historical values; and harmonious and coordinated
management of the various resources without permanent impairment of the
productivity of the land and the quality of the environment with consideration
being given to the relative values of the resources and not necessarily to the
combination of uses that will give the greatest economic return or the greatest
unit output. See section 103(c) of FLPMA, 43 USC section 1702(c), 1976.
VALID EXISTING RIGHTS: Existing rights are defined in section 701 of FLPMA as
any "valid lease, permit, patent, right of way, or other land use right or
authorization" and must be in existence at the time of designation. (BLM manual
6220-national monuments, national conservation areas, and similar
designations.) (Ord. 2014-17, 9-22-2014)
9-27A-3: MODIFYING REGULATIONS:
   A.   No livestock grazing restrictions or amendments should change as stated
by President Clinton's declaration in September 18, 1996: "Nothing in this
proclamation shall be deemed to affect existing permits or leases for, or
levels of, livestock grazing on Federal Lands within the monument...".
   B.   The Escalante region multiple use/multiple functions grazing zone
("Escalante region grazing zone") includes the following lands situated in the
following townships, as outlined in Utah code section 63J-8-102, including any
amendments thereto, if any: (Ord. 2014-17, 9-22-2014)
Township 38S Range 1W, Township 38S Range 2W, Township 38S Range 3W, Township
38S Range 4W, Township 38S Range 1E, Township 38S Range 2E, Township 38S Range
3E, Township 38S Range 4E, Township 38S Range 5E, Township 38S Range 6E,
Township 38S Range 7E, Township 38S Range 8E, Township 38S Range 9E, Township
39S Range 1W, Township 39S Range 2W, Township 39S Range 3W, Township 39S Range
4W, Township 39S Range 1E, Township 39S Range 2E, Township 39S Range 3E,
Township 39S Range 4E, Township 39S Range 5E, Township 39S Range 6E, Township
39S Range 7E, Township 39S Range 8E, Township 39S Range 9E, Township 40S Range
1W, Township 40S Range 2W, Township 40S Range 3W, Township 40S Range 4W,
Township 40S Range 4.5W, Township 40S Range 5W, Township 40S Range 1E, Township
40S Range 2E, Township 40S Range 3E, Township 40S Range 4E, Township 40S Range
5E, Township 40S Range 6E, Township 40S Range 7E, Township 40S Range 8E,
Township 40S Range 9E, Township 40.5S Range 9E, Township 41S Range 1W, Township
41S Range 2W, Township 41S Range 3W, Township 41S Range 4W, Township 41S Range
4.5W, Township 41S Range 5W, Township 41S Range 1E, Township 41S Range 2E,
Township 41S Range 3E, Township 41S Range 4E, Township 41S Range 5E, Township
41S Range 6E, Township 41S Range 7E, Township 41S Range 8E, Township 41S Range
9E, Township 42S Range 1W, Township 42S Range 2W, Township 42S Range 3W,
Township 42S Range 4W, Township 42S Range 4.5W, Township 42S Range 5W, Township
42S Range 1E, Township 42S Range 2E, Township 42S Range 3E, Township 42S Range
4E, Township 42S Range 5E, Township 42S Range 6E, Township 42S Range 7E,
Township 42S Range 8E, Township 42S Range 9E, Township 43S Range 1W, Township
43S Range 2W, Township 43S Range 3W, Township 43S Range 4W, Township 43S Range
4.5W, Township 43S Range 5W, Township 43S Range 1E, Township 43S Range 2E,
Township 43S Range 3E, Township 43S Range 4E, Township 43S Range 5E, Township
43S Range 6E, Township 44S Range 1W, Township 44S Range 2W, Township 44S Range
3W, Township 44S Range 4W, Township 44S Range 4.5W, Township 44S Range 5W,
Township 44S Range 1E, Township 44S Range 2E, Township 44S Range 3E, Township
44S Range 4E, and Township 44S Range 5E.
   C.   The highest management priorities for lands within the Escalante region
grazing zone are responsible management, enhancement, and restoration of
historic sagebrush steppe landscapes and development of existing and future
livestock grazing resources, in order to provide protection for resources,
customs, culture, and values of Kane County.
   D.   Responsible development of locatable, leasable, and sellable mineral
resources in the Escalante region grazing zone. (Ord. 2014-6, 4-28-2014, eff.
5-13-2014)
   E.   Responsible development of abundant recreation resources, including
wildlife, roads, campgrounds, water resources, trails, OHV use, sightseeing,
canyoneering, hunting, hiking and public safety in emergency search and rescue
missions is compatible with livestock grazing activities in the Escalante
region grazing zone. (Ord. 2014-17, 9-22-2014)
   F.   Access for disabled persons needs to be a high priority as required by
federal law. Persons with disabilities should not be discriminated against and
should have the same opportunities to access these lands as an able bodied
person. This includes, but is not limited to, the elderly, retired and disabled
veterans who have been severely restricted in their ability to access these
lands since the restrictions for the Grand Staircase Escalante National
Monument have been put into place. Examples of appropriate access for disabled
persons may include, but are not limited to, OHV, vehicular, and wheelchair
access to areas disabled persons may be incapable of hiking to, walking to, or
otherwise accessing.
   G.   Kane County supports efficient and responsible full restoration,
repair, redevelopment and development within the Escalante region grazing zone,
of:
      1.   All permitted existing and future livestock grazing resources;
      2.   Other uses compatible with livestock grazing; and
      3.   Coordination management approach by federal agencies, the state of
Utah, and local governments to achieve broadly supported management plans for
the full development of resources and goals, within the Escalante region
grazing zone.
   H.   Federal agencies that administer land within the Escalante region
grazing zone shall coordinate with Kane County to develop, amend, and implement
land and resource management plans and implement management decisions that are
consistent with the purposes, goals, policies, and provisions described in this
chapter to the maximum extent allowed under federal law.
   I.   The national environmental policy act, federal land policy and
management act, national forest management act, etc., and their implementing
regulations and policies contain reciprocal requirements concerning
cooperation, consultation and coordination by federal agencies with state and
local governments and such cooperation needs to be fully implemented by Kane
County and the relevant federal agencies.
   J.   Kane County is sustained by a small population whose livelihoods have
maintained the vast openness and natural beauty of the land treasured by
visitors. All sources of economic support must be maintained at their highest
possible level in order to sustain the economic stability of the county. To
ensure this, the board of commissioners and the planning commission have
dedicated themselves to a coordinated land use planning effort, which can hold
the federal management agencies to standards set by congress regarding
continuation of multiple uses of the federal lands.
   K.   The county recognizes that federal law mandates multiple uses of
federally managed lands and the county positively supports multiple use.
Maintenance of such multiple uses necessarily includes continued maintenance of
the historic and traditional economic uses of federally managed and state
managed lands in the county.
   L.   Kane County has depended on the livestock grazing industry throughout
its history to provide economic stability to the county; therefore, livestock
grazing must be protected to ensure the health, welfare and safety of the
citizens.
   M.   The American legend of the "cowboy" is found throughout the Escalante
region grazing zone and is part of the culture and history of Kane County's
"western legends". This cultural legend is what brings the tourism and movie
industries to the county, and helps to fuel the local economy. With livestock
grazing being pushed out of the county by federal policies, this cultural icon,
so identifiable with the persona of Kane County, is becoming endangered.
   N.   Kane County's ranching and livestock grazing are protected uses under
this zone due to multiple generational use of the land. A loss of livestock
grazing rights would impact family economics and dynamics that cannot be
replaced.
   O.   Kane County recognizes the impact and value of livestock grazing and
the recreational use of our public lands. These should continue to provide Kane
County residents, tourists and future generations the opportunity to enjoy this
rich heritage. Our families depend on these uses of the federal lands to stay
in the area and continue this long tradition of responsible use of the lands.
   P.   Access rights of way and water rights have historically been critical
to the early pioneers in the county and they remain critical today. In 1866,
congress enacted laws to provide and protect access across federal lands for
people reliant upon water to earn their livelihood. The act of July 26, 1866,
revised statute 2477, provided: "The right of way for the construction of
highways over public land, not reserved for public uses, is hereby granted".
Kane County ranchers developed such rights of way in the forms of roads and
trails, which continue to be used today. The federal lands policy and
management act (FLPMA) of 1976 repealed the 1866 revised statute 2477, subject
to valid existing rights. Section 8 of the act states: "Nothing in this act, or
in any amendment made by this act, shall be construed as terminating any valid
lease, permit, patent, right of way, or other land use right or authorization
existing on the date of approval of this act". The Utah legislature passed a
statute establishing a procedure by which counties could provide for recording
of such rights of way established under the 1866 law, and recognized by FLPMA.
Kane County's board of commissioners established such a procedure and Kane
County residents have recorded their rights of way.
   Q.   Early ranchers established water rights through the doctrine of prior
appropriation. The earliest adjudicated rights in Kane County date back to the
1800s. Today, holders of water rights are still struggling to preserve their
rights against encroachment. This zone protects water rights and uses for
ranchers and grazers alike.
   R.   Some of the customs and aspects of the culture of Kane County have
never altered from their historic beginnings. Mining, ranching, farming, timber
production, and wood products have been productive industries that have
supported county's residents for generations. Those activities continue today,
except where federal encroachment has limited such activities. Federal agencies
shall coordinate with Kane County to restore these historic uses and functions
in the Escalante region grazing zone.
   S.   The custom and culture of the county also include the determination of
the people. Promoting harmony of man in his environment is a proper function of
government and this zone. (Ord. 2014-6, 4-28-2014, eff. 5-13-2014)
   T.   The BLM shall coordinate with Kane County for consistency with this
article, the federal land policy and management act, and the Taylor grazing act
(43 USC section 315 et seq., 1934, the act which created the agency that became
known as the grazing service). The courts have recognized that the purpose of
the act "is to stabilize the livestock industry and to permit the use of public
range according to needs and qualifications of livestock operators with base
holdings". See Chournos v. United States, 193 F.2d 321 (1951).
   U.   Nothing in this article shall be construed as restricting the
respective states from enforcing any and all statutes enacted for police
regulation, nor shall the police power of the respective states be, by this
article, impaired or restricted, and all laws heretofore enacted by the
respective states or any amendments thereof, or that may hereafter be enacted
as regards to public health or public welfare, shall at all times be in full
force and effect; provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be
construed as limiting or restricting the power and authority of the United
States. 43 CFR 3155n. state police power not abridged (June 28, 1934, chapter
865, section 16, 48 statute 1275).
   V.   The state of Utah shall continue to have the responsibility and
authority to manage fish and wildlife, including regulation of hunting and
fishing, on federal lands within the monument. See proclamation.
   W.   Planned livestock grazing in this zone will be managed so as to
maintain and enhance desired diverse plant communities for the benefit of
watersheds, diverse wildlife populations, water quality, recreation and
livestock grazing as required by the public rangelands improvement act of 1978,
through effective principles of planning and management. All necessary grazing
management improvements, including water development, juniper, pinyon pine and
sagebrush control, reseeding, fencing, salting plans, herding plans, and
grazing systems will be included in any allotment management plans, of the U.S.
forest service, or related plans of the BLM. All decisions regarding
improvements should be made on an allotment basis since they are integral with
use of state leases, private leases, private lands, other allotments, and in
overall operation of each ranch enterprise. All planning efforts for this zone
will adhere to the careful and considered consultation, coordination and
cooperation requirements established by federal statutes. See 43 USC sections
1701(a)(2), 1712(c)(9), and 1752(d).
   X.   This zone shall comply with the Kane County general plan and the Kane
County resource management plan provisions related to restoration and
vegetation management including: juniper, pinyon pine and sagebrush control;
fire management; livestock grazing; noxious weed control; water quality;
riparian areas and wetlands; recreational use; wilderness; national wild and
scenic river systems; threatened and endangered species; wildlife/wildlife
habitat; area of critical environmental concern; water rights; land tenure;
energy and mineral resources; cultural, geological and paleontological
resources; rights of way; air quality; law enforcement/search and rescue. (Ord.
2014-17, 9-22-2014)
   Y.   Search and rescue vehicles need access to areas where helicopter access
is not possible in emergency situations. Attempting to obtain permission during
a crisis to access areas prohibited by federal agencies in matters of life and
death can endanger human life. This has caused considerable conflict between
the Kane County search and rescue agencies and the federal government. Human
safety will be given the highest priority during the development of federal,
state and local policies within this zone. As a part of the county's charge to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens, the county will
continue to protect the citizens and visitors and expect the federal agencies
to respect this charge by exempting the county from any procedures or closures
which may impair the county's ability to respond to an emergency situation.
   Z.   Creation of the Grand Staircase Escalante National Monument supersedes
wilderness study area designations within the monument. Therefore, wilderness
study areas shall be managed as other nonwilderness areas within the monument.
At times certain areas may need to be designated as wilderness study areas;
however, those areas will not be designated as wilderness study areas for
longer than one year. Any lands not designated as wilderness within the one
year period shall revert to its previous zone. Lands to be designated as
wilderness must be zoned through the Kane County zoning process.
Current designated wilderness study areas shall terminate within one year of
adoption of this article. (Ord. 2014-6, 4-28-2014, eff. 5-13-2014; amd. Ord.
2014-17, 9-22-2014)
9-27A-4: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES:
In addition to the desired uses specified herein, refer to chapter 5,
"Agricultural Zone (AG)", of this title for a list of permitted or conditional
uses as found in section
9-5-3, "Uses Table", of this title.
The uses in this zone shall be further governed by the Kane County resource
management plan ("KCRMP") and the Kane County general plan ("KCGP"). These uses
include, but are not limited to, the following: hunting, fishing, livestock
grazing, mining and mineral exploration and extraction, recreation, wildlife
habitat management, telecommunications, water resource use, protection and
development of timber/woodland products, utility corridors, and county
transportation and circulation roads and corridors.
As referenced in the vegetation section of the KCRMP, "the private use of
timber products from federal and state lands in the county for posts, poles,
woodcutting to provide fuel for those in the county needing fuel for winter
heating and Christmas trees, etc., shall be continued as an allowable use".
(Ord. 2014-17, 9-22-2014)
9-27A-5: GRAZING MANAGEMENT PLANS:
The following requirements shall be followed in all grazing management plans,
for ranches and on allotments on federal lands and state trust lands. Every
plan shall be based on and address how these requirements are to be followed
and accommodated.
   A.   Adaptive Management: Every grazing management plan shall be based on
and incorporate aspects of adaptive management, consisting of planning,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation designed to allow flexibility in
management, in response to changing conditions or objectives. Adaptive
management portions of the plan shall be based on the application of science,
professional expertise, and monitoring of results on the ground to allow for
management adjustments as needed to reach objectives, namely sustainable
grazing management.
   B.   Monitoring: Every grazing management plan shall be based on and
incorporate monitoring, in order to provide a factual basis for decisions as to
whether management changes are needed or not. Monitoring shall include data for
short term decision making (e.g., utilization, precipitation, actual use) and
long term trends (e.g., plant species, ground cover). Monitoring shall follow
established procedures and be done by qualified observers, preferably in a
cooperative effort.
   C.   Assessment Of Rangeland Health And Proper Functioning Condition: Every
grazing management plan shall be based upon and incorporate point in time
assessments of rangeland health and proper functioning, designed to identify
problems of ecosystem function/conditions. Such assessments shall not be for
monitoring, nor establishment of cause and effect, nor be the sole basis for
decision making. Assessments shall only be completed by qualified people, with
local experience, preferably in an interdisciplinary team.
   D.   Utilization: Every grazing management plan shall be based and focused
on utilization. Utilization is a measure of the percentage of the current
year's forage that has been used by grazing animals. Utilization can only be
measured after growth for the year is complete; use measured during the growing
season is "seasonal utilization". Guidelines for "proper use" should not be
used as strict objectives to be met each and every year but as averages to be
met over a period of years. Proper use guidelines for utilization shall not be
applied to "seasonal utilization".
   E.   Flexibility In Grazing Management Plans: Every grazing management plan
shall be based upon and provide for flexibility in management. Flexibility in
grazing management plans shall allow ranchers to reasonably adjust grazing to
accommodate changing conditions and unforeseen events. Weather is highly
variable in both time and space on semiarid rangelands resulting in variability
in plant growth, water availability and other factors. Planned pasture
rotations and "on-off" dates shall be flexible to accommodate this variability.
   F.   Water Developments And Fencing: Every grazing management plan shall
provide for reasonable water development and fencing, which are the principal
means of controlling the distribution and timing of livestock grazing.
Construction and maintenance of water and fences shall not be discouraged by
unreasonable restrictions on use of equipment or on access to perform these
functions.
   G.   Brush Control And Reseeding: Every grazing management plan shall allow
and provide for brush control and reseeding, pursuant to accepted practices,
where shrub increases, drought, or other factors have resulted in inadequate
cover of herbaceous vegetation, to provide suitable soil protection, forage
production, and/or wildlife habitat values. Desirable methods (including use of
nonnative species) shall be decided on a case by case basis in consideration of
effectiveness, cost, and environmental effects.
   H.   Allotment Closures: Every grazing management plan shall address
specific grounds for allotment closures. The plan shall only allow for
allotment closures when there is well documented scientific evidence that
grazing at a reasonable level cannot be sustained. Vacant or minimally stocked
allotments, including "grass banks" have adverse economic impacts to the local
economy and therefore shall be avoided.
   I.   Coordinated Resource Management Plans (CRMP): Coordinated resource
management plans are plans developed for a ranch unit, including all private
and leased land, and signed by all landowners and other parties with pertinent
regulatory or economic interests. Agencies responsible for developing grazing
management plans, issuing, reviewing or maintaining grazing permits shall
utilize CRMPs in the permit or leasing process, where reasonably suitable.
(Ord. 2014-17, 9-22-2014)
TITLE 10
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
SECTION:
10-1-1: Statutory Authorization
10-1-2: Findings Of Fact
10-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
10-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
10-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The state legislature has, in Utah Code Annotated section 17-53-223, delegated
the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. (Ord.
64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989; amd. 2011 Code)
10-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the county are subject to periodic
inundation, which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazard, which increase flood heights and velocities,
and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss. (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989)
10-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions to specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard; and
   H.   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989)
10-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this title includes methods and provisions
for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Definitions Of Words And Phrases
10-2-1: DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this title its most reasonable application.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated areas of special flood
hazard designated as zone A.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. This term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a
site for greater than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally aboveground.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either:
      1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
      2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred.
   B.   For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   C.   The term does not, however, include either:
      1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the national register of
historic places or a state inventory of historic places. (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-
1989, eff. 5-3-1989)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Lands Applicable
10-3-2: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
10-3-3: Compliance
10-3-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-3-5: Interpretation
10-3-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
10-3-1: LANDS APPLICABLE:
This title shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the county. (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989)
10-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency
management agency in its flood insurance rate map (FIRM), dated July 1, 1986,
is adopted by reference and declared to be part of this title. The FIRM is on
file at the office of the building inspector. (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff.
5-3-1989)
10-3-3: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended or
altered without full compliance with the terms of this title and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989)
10-3-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions; however, where this title and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 64/1989-
2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989)
10-3-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation of this title, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989)
10-3-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall not create
liability on the part of the county, any officer or employee thereof, or the
federal emergency management agency for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this title or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Establishment Of Development Permit
10-4-2: Designation Of Building Inspector
10-4-3: Duties And Responsibilities
10-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard established in section
10-3-2 of this title. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the building inspector and may include, but not be limited
to:
Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials and drainage facilities; and the location of the
foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
   A.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all structures;
   B.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has been
floodproofed;
   C.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection 10-5-2B of this title; and
   D.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development. (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff.
5-3-1989)
10-4-2: DESIGNATION OF BUILDING INSPECTOR:
The building inspector is hereby appointed to administer and implement this
title by granting or denying development permit applications in accordance with
its provisions. (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989)
10-4-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
Duties of the building inspector shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Permit Review:
      1.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this title have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
      3.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the area of
special flood hazard. For the purposes of this title, "adversely affects" means
damage to adjacent properties because of rises in flood stages attributed to
physical changes of the channel and the adjacent overbank areas.
         a.   If it is determined that there is no adverse effect and the
development is not a building, then the permit shall be granted without further
consideration.
         b.   If it is determined that there is an adverse effect, then
technical justification (i.e., a registered professional engineer
certification) for the proposed development shall be required.
         c.   If the proposed development is a building, then the provisions of
this title shall apply.
   B.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with section
10-3-2 of this title, the building inspector shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source as criteria for requiring that new construction,
substantial improvements or other development in zone A are administered in
accordance with section
10-5-2 of this title.
   C.   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained:
      1.   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement.
      2.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures:
         a.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure has been floodproofed.
         b.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in subsection
10-4-1C of this chapter.
      3.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this title.
   D.   Alteration Of Watercourses:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the division of emergency prior to
any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the federal emergency management agency.
      2.   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
   E.   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard
(for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary
and actual field conditions). (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
10-5-1: General Standards
10-5-2: Specific Standards
10-5-1: GENERAL STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard, the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and capable
of resisting the hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads.
      2.   All manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse or lateral movement and capable of resisting the
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads. Methods of anchoring may include, but are
not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces. Specific requirements may be:
         a.   Over the top ties be provided at each of the four (4) corners of
the manufactured home, with two (2) additional ties per side at intermediate
locations, with manufactured homes less than fifty feet (50') long requiring
one additional tie per side;
         b.   Frame ties be provided at each corner of the home with five (5)
additional ties per side at intermediate points, with manufactured homes less
than fifty feet (50') long requiring four (4) additional ties per side;
         c.   All components of the anchoring system be capable of carrying a
force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds; and
         d.   Any additions to the manufactured home be similarly anchored.
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   C.   Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
      3.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   D.   Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
      2.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
      4.   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development which contain at least fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres (whichever is less).
   E.   Encroachments: Encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development shall be prohibited in any
floodway unless a technical evaluation demonstrates that the encroachments will
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge. (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989)
10-5-2: SPECIFIC STANDARDS:
In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data has been
provided as set forth in subsection 10-4-3B of this title, the following
standards are required:
   A.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement)
elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
   B.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
      1.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood elevation the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting the provisions of this subsection. Such
certifications shall be provided to the official as set forth in subsection 10-
4-3C2 of this title. (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989)
CHAPTER 6
PENALTY
SECTION:
10-6-1: Penalty; Violation
10-6-1: PENALTY; VIOLATION:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this title shall be deemed guilty
of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 64/1989-2, 4-17-1989, eff. 5-3-1989; amd. 2011 Code)
